
    
      This is an open label, phase I study of norovirus-specific T-cell immunotherapy for treatment
      of participants with primary immunodeficiency disorders (PID) and chronic norovirus. This
      study is designed to assess the safety of norovirus-specific T-cell (NST) infusion in this
      population. There are two arms in this study:

        1. Arm A: Participants who receive donor derived NST therapy after HSCT

        2. Arm B: Participants who receive partially HLA matched NSTs. The following participants
           apply:

             -  Participants with PID who have not undergone HSCT

             -  Participants who undergo HSCT but do not have available donor derived NSTs

             -  Participants who have donors from whom NSTs cannot be generated due to norovirus
                seronegativity Participants will be monitored for infusion-related reactions and
                GVHD for 1 year following first infusion. During this time, participants will be
                accessed with regard to the length and quantity of norovirus shedding in stool, and
                gastrointestinal and constitutional symptoms will be scored by clinicians and
                participants. Correlative studies of T-cell immune reconstitution against
                norovirus, norovirus genomic sequences, and composition of the fecal microbiome
                will also be accessed.

      The primary purpose of this phase I study is to assess the safety of administering
      donor-derived or partially HLA-matched NSTs in immunocompromised participants with chronic
      norovirus infections. Related and unrelated donors of participants who have chronic norovirus
      infection after HSCT will be enrolled for screening and production of NSTs from peripheral
      blood. Following product manufacturing, participants who have undergone HSCT (Arm A) will
      receive donor-derived NSTs. For participants with PID who have not undergone HSCT (Arm B),
      high-resolution HLA typing of the participant will be utilized for an inquiry of the NST bank
      to determine if a partially HLA-matched NST product exists that has antiviral activity
      mediated through one or more shared HLA alleles. Participants who have undergone HSCT but
      either do not have available donors for NST generation, or who have donors from whom NSTs
      cannot be generated due to norovirus seronegativity will also be eligible for inquiry for
      treatment with partially HLA-matched NSTs if available under study Arm B.

      This will be a dose escalation study with two arms. Participants who have undergone HSCT will
      be enrolled on Arm A and receive NSTs derived from their HSCT donor. Participants with a
      diagnosis of PID who have not undergone HSCT, or participants who have undergone HSCT but do
      not have available donor-derived NSTs will be enrolled on Arm B and receive partially-HLA
      matched NSTs. Investigators will test three doses: 1 x 10^7 /m^2, 2 x 10^7 /m^2, and 4 x 10^7
      /m^2. Investigators will have a 45-day safety monitoring period for immediate toxicities
      following infusion.
    
  