
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the survival of patients with liver-dominant metastatic colorectal
           adenocarcinoma treated with irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium with or
           without hepatic chemoembolization.

        -  Compare response in the liver, time to hepatic tumor progression, and time to
           extrahepatic tumor progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the possible treatment differences with respect to morbidity, toxic effects of
           chemoembolization, toxic effects of chemotherapy, and death from cancer-related
           complications in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase III randomized,
      multicenter study. (Phase I closed as of 10/14/02.)

        -  Phase I: Patients in phase I are sequentially enrolled to 1 of 3 treatment regimens.
           (Phase I closed as of 10/14/02.)

             -  Regimen A: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 60-90 minutes, leucovorin calcium
                IV, and fluorouracil IV over 10 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients undergo
                hepatic embolization with embolic suspension only on day 36.

             -  Regimen B: Patients receive chemotherapy as in regimen A. Patients undergo hepatic
                chemoembolization with lower-dose cisplatin, doxorubicin, and mitomycin on day 36.

             -  Regimen C: Patients receive chemotherapy as in regimen A. Patients undergo hepatic
                chemoembolization with higher-dose cisplatin, doxorubicin, and mitomycin on day 36.

      After 1 week of rest, patients in all regimens receive a second 4-week course of systemic
      chemotherapy.

      Cohorts of 3-10 patients are sequentially enrolled until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      chemotherapy and chemoembolization is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding
      that at which at least 4 of 10 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase III: Patients are stratified according to liver volume involvement (less than 25%
           vs 25-50% vs more than 50% to less than 75%) and participating center. Patients are
           randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 60-90 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV,
                and fluorouracil IV over 10 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every
                6 weeks in the absence of disease progression.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I. Patients undergo hepatic
                chemoembolization with cisplatin, doxorubicin, and mitomycin on day 36.
                Chemotherapy repeats every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression.
                Chemoembolization may repeat every 6 weeks for 2-4 courses as necessary.

      Patients in phase III are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years,
      and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 9-18 patients will be accrued for phase I of this study. (Phase
      I closed to accrual as of 10/14/02.) Approximately 315 patients will be accrued for phase III
      of this study within 2.5 years.
    
  