
    
      The investigators will perform a 3-arm prospective, blinded, randomized, controlled trial
      with a cross-over design to determine if HCP who wear antiseptic-impregnated clothing (i.e.,
      surgical scrubs) will acquire and transmit fewer pathogens than HCP wearing standard
      clothing.

      A total of 40 intensive care unit (ICU) nurses (from the Medical and Surgical ICUs in the
      Duke Medical Pavilion) will be enrolled and sign a consent form to participate in the study.
      Their main task will be to wear control (non- antiseptic) scrubs (Arm 1) and two different
      types of antiseptic-impregnated scrubs (Arms 2 and 3). Subjects will be randomized to one of
      6 strategies. Each nurse typically cares for two patients each day and will be enrolled for
      three consecutive days (or shifts, if they do not work for 3 days in a row). Once the nurses
      have consented to participate in this project, the study coordinator will provide the 3 sets
      of scrubs and will label them with numbers, thus blinding the nurses to which scrubs they
      will wear on which day. The nurse will wear the scrubs on the 3 pre-arranged shifts.

      Data will be summarized using standard statistical methods. The investigators will utilize
      linear mixed models to compare relative differences in the amount of contamination between
      arms at the end of the shift to adjust for our crossover study design. Mixed effects logistic
      regression models will be used to compare proportions. All calculations will be adjusted for
      the amount of environmental contamination observed during the shift and contamination on HCP
      clothing in the beginning of the shift. Statistical significance for two primary comparisons
      (each antiseptic scrub versus control) will be corrected for multiple comparisons.

      This is a minimal risk study and the investigators have no safety concerns from the patients
      or nurses as relates to obtaining swabs and room cultures, nor with wearing the scrubs and
      having them cultured. Data will be stored on encrypted Duke Medicine servers (participant log
      & study IDs) and/or in our REDCap database (all other data collected for the study).
    
  