
    
      Mild gastrointestinal disorders in infants belong to the category of functional
      gastrointestinal disorders. It refers that the infants fed with formula have mild digestive
      dysfunction that can not be explained by organic lesions or biochemical abnormalities, mainly
      including intestinal colic, spitting milk, diarrhea, constipation, etc. Mild gastrointestinal
      disorders are common in infants aged 0 to 1 year old. A study across 15 cities in China on
      the prevalence of common gastrointestinal disorders in infants shows that about 1/3 of the
      infants have one or more types of gastrointestinal disorders, among of which diarrhea and
      spitting milk are most common, and most of them occur within the age of 6 months. To solve
      this problem, a special kind of formulas for infants containing moderately hydrolyzed protein
      and low lactose has been developed, and our study formula is one of them. The study formula
      has been already marketed in China and passed the test hosted by the comprehensive testing
      center of the Chinese academy of inspection and quarantine, but whether it can significantly
      improve the mild gastrointestinal disorders in Chinese infants remains to be evaluated.

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate whether the study formula containing moderately
      hydrolyzed protein and low lactose will be able to improve mild gastrointestinal disorders
      (MGDs) in infants. After informed consent, 90 infants between 7 days and 6 months old with
      mild gastrointestinal disorders are included and asked to drink the study formula for 14
      consecutive days as intervention. On Day 0 (the time of enrolling group, but the intervention
      begins on Day 1), Day 7, Day 14, the information on gastrointestinal comfort and related
      behaviors is collected through the Infant Gastrointestinal Symptoms Questionnaire-13
      (IGSQ-13). Information on feeding, family background, anthropometric measurements and
      defecation is also collected. The primary endpoint of this study is gastrointestinal comfort
      calculated by IGSQ-13. The secondary endpoints include crying frequency, spitting milk
      frequency, flatulence frequency, stool frequency and consistency score, formula acceptability
      and satisfaction, adverse event, etc.
    
  