
    
      Twelve patients were included to this study who required a bilateral sinus floor augmentation
      for implant-prosthetic rehabilitation. Nine patients were bilaterally free-end partial
      edentulous and three patients were totally edentulous with residual alveolar height between
      3-6 mm. All patients required bilateral sinus augmentation with simultaneous implant
      placement.

      Patients who have maxillary sinus pathology, previous history of chronic sinus infection,
      smoking more than ten cigarettes per day, any systemic disease interfere with the surgical
      procedure were excluded from study.

      The study protocol was conducted by Ankara University Dentistry Faculty Research Ethics
      Committee. All patients were informed about the treatment procedure and all patients gave
      written consent for participation.

      Surgical Protocol Bilateral sinus augmentation and simultaneous implant placement were
      performed in one appointment with same surgical protocol. All surgical procedures performed
      under local anesthesia (Ultracain D-S Forte; Sanofi-Aventis, Istanbul, Turkey). After
      elevation of mucoperiosteal flap a hinge door osteotomy was performed on the lateral wall of
      the maxillary sinus with a round diamond bur under saline solution irrigation. Schneiderian
      membrane was carefully detached from inferior and lateral walls of the sinus until creating
      enough space for placement of bone grafts. Implant osteotomies were performed and DBM putty
      bone graft (DynaGraft bone putty, Keystone Dental, Burlington, Mass) were placed medial,
      posterior and anterior side of implant sockets. Implants (Touareg S, Adin, Afula, Israel)
      were inserted into the osteotomy site after sufficient grafting. Access window filled with
      bone graft after implant placement. Membrane was not used over access window. 3/0 silk suture
      were used for closure of the flap. Antibiotic (amoxicillin thrice per day), analgesic
      (naproxen sodium, 2 twice per day) and mouthwash (isotonic saline twice per day) were
      prescribed for postoperative management. The patients were advised to have a soft diet and to
      avoid sneezing until two weeks. Sutures were removed one-week after surgery. No complications
      occurred during surgery. All surgical wounds healed uneventfully.

      Low Level Laser Therapy Protocol In this study, an 630-660 nm aluminum gallium indium
      phosphide (AlGalnP) laser device (Scorpion Dental Optima Model 405-7A; Optica Laser, Sofia,
      Bulgaria) was used immediately after surgery, third day, fifth day and seventh day only for
      one operation side. Treatment side were randomly selected by another surgeon who applied
      LLLT. Tissue was irradiated at 25mW power for total six minutes, two minutes for each point
      (buccal, palatal, crestal). 72J /cm2 energy density was deposited in one session.

      Radiological Evaluation Aluminum Step-Wedge and Radiographic Assessment Aluminum step-wedge
      was used as the reference material in densitometric evaluation of the conventional
      radiographs. The aluminum wedges were prepared using 99,7% pure aluminum plates, the
      dimensions of the plates were 1 mm in width and 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 mm in length. Prepared six
      aluminum plates were sticked in a row and a stair-like aluminum wedge had acquired.

      Prepared aluminum step-wedges were located in a fixed place (lower left corner) in the film
      cassettes in order to maintain the calibration and standardization of the radiographs.
      Special care was taken to avoid the superposition of the hyoid bone and other bony structures
      with the step-wedge.

      In this research, all radiographic assessments were made using panoramic radiographs. The
      radiographic assessments were done by the same radiology technician from the Oral Diagnosis
      and Radiology department of Ankara University. Mediphot X-O/RP, sens: green, 15x30 panoramic
      radiographs were used in this research.

      All radiographs were taken with 80 kVp, 12 mA, 2.5 mm Al total filtrated "PM 2002 CC Proline"
      panoramic radiography device using the same kV and mA values. Radiographic film processing
      was made in automatic radiograph processing devices, Velopex and Extra-XE.

      Four panoramic radiographs were taken from each patient, which were preoperative and
      postoperative on first., third and sixth months.

      Densitometric Assessment Densitometrical analysis was performed on forty-eight radiographs
      which were taken preoperatively and on postoperative first, third and sixth. Months in this
      research. Densitometric assessments of the radiographs were made in Medical Physics
      department of the Ankara University Nuclear Sciences Institute. Cardinal Health Digital
      Densitometer (Fluke Biomedical 07-443) with 1 mm diameter used in optic density measurement.
      Results were read and recorded immediately from the devices screen.

      Densitometric measurement was repeated three times in each radiograph and an average was
      acquired, the used spots were every step of the step-wedge and the augmented sinus areas.

      Aluminum equivalent thickness of the augmented sinus areas were identified. With this
      information, the mineralization levels of the graft materials on the radiographs were
      identified and acquired results were assessed statistically.

      Statistical Assessment The Shapiro-Wilk test was used to determine whether the data were
      normally distributed. The Friedman test was used for four time points in two groups. In cases
      of significant differences among measurements, the Bonferroni-adjusted Wilcoxon signed-rank
      test was used as post hoc analysis. Additionally, the Bonferroni-adjusted Wilcoxon
      signed-rank test (paired observations) was used to compare the two groups in the same time
      points. All tests were performed using statistical software (SPSS Inc., version 19.0,
      Chicago, IL, USA). The median with min-max values were calculated for each parameter as the
      statistical unit. P < 0.05 was statistically significant.
    
  