
    
      This study addresses a disparity in services related to the rare but serious condition of
      HBOC. In a randomized delayed intervention control trial, the investigators were able to
      identify high-risk but predominantly unaffected women among callers seeking referrals to free
      cancer screening. The investigators compared an immediate offer of a genetic counseling
      appointment to information on hereditary breast and ovarian cancer sent by mail. Our study
      demonstrated that when a diverse population of low-income women calls a trusted information
      and referral source, it is possible to both engage them on a topic that is different from the
      purpose for their call and to recruit them for participation in research.

      Our intervention was designed to fit as seamlessly as possible with two end user
      organizations. Existing staff (Information Specialists) of the state's phone service
      administered a simple family history screener similar to their usual procedure for assessing
      eligibility for free mammography. Cancer Risk Program Genetic Counseling Assistants followed
      up with an outcall, just as they do normally in response to family history screeners filled
      out in the hospital's mammography clinic. Our results not only showed a significantly larger
      effect on use of genetic counseling with the call and appointment offer compared with a
      mailed brochure, it was clear from calls made to women in both arms after the intervention
      period that calling is not only effective but essential to encourage use of genetic
      counseling in this population. The number of women counseled in the intervention group was
      initially much higher than the control group, and additional intervention group members
      obtained counseling when called again after the two month intervention period. The addition
      of genetic counseling by phone enabled a substantial number of women to obtain counseling who
      would not have done so otherwise. Our study demonstrated that, for the complex and highly
      personal issue of HBOC, multiple attempts over a period of months are needed and justified.
    
  