
    
      Overview Problem: Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) is the second most common nosocomial
      infection and is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. In the surgical population,
      HAP is associated with a 55% increase in length of stay and increased costs of approximately
      $31,000.00 per case. Neurologically impaired patients (those with brain injury causing
      alterations in mental status, immobility, impaired swallowing and cough, and increased risk
      of aspiration) are particularly vulnerable to HAP. HAP negatively impacts patient comfort and
      satisfaction, increases costs associated with diagnostic tests and treatments, increases risk
      for sepsis, and potential for higher level of care. It is estimated 95% of care-dependent
      patients on the Royal Columbian Hospital (RCH) neuroscience unit acquire HAP during their
      stay.

      Gap: Research studies have shown improving oral hygiene in critical care, neuroscience
      intensive care units and cardiac surgery reduces the incidence of HAP. However, in the
      acutely ill neuroscience population outside critical care areas, this relationship has not
      been determined. Current oral care protocols, products and practitioner practice on
      medical/surgical units such as the RCH neuroscience unit do not consider recent evidence or
      recent increases in patient acuity and complexity.

      Goal: The goal of this study is to test the efficacy of an improved, evidence-based oral care
      protocol in reducing HAP in this population on the medical/surgical neuroscience unit at RCH.

      Research question: Does implementing an enhanced oral care protocol reduce rates of HAP in
      the acute, non-intubated, care-dependent, neurologically impaired, adult patient on a
      neuroscience unit?

      Objective: To measure and compare the incidence of HAP among medical/surgical patients who
      had the current standard of oral care with those receiving an improved, preventative-based,
      oral hygiene protocol including regular teeth brushing, mouth and tongue inspection, swabbing
      and moisturizing, elevation of head of the bed (HOB), changing of suction equipment, and
      universal precautions.

      Relevance: This study may identify the importance of standardizing oral hygiene protocols to
      the evidence, and heighten awareness among care providers in the prevention of HAP. If proven
      successful, the oral care protocol could be considered for implementation on acute units
      outside the RCH neuro unit.
    
  