
    
      Panic disorder SSRI medication and long-term effects of the combined treatment on the
      Hamilton Rating Scale more effective treatment compared with the Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A),
      Clinical Psychology, I try to find the law. Drug and combination therapy of panic disorder
      from affecting the long-term effects on clinical (demographic and economic Factors), and to
      check for navigation and biological factors. - Improved quality of life to some extent due to
      the long-term treatment of patients with panic disorder, if you want to check

      2.3 Expected Effects Panic disorder in a comparative study of the long-term effects of the
      combined treatment with SSRI medication until now very rare, and most of the research to
      target Westerners, Asians to study is almost wholly lacking. Also to investigate the nature
      of the clinical course of panic disorder, long-term study also little or no sleep. Elapsed
      for the treatment of long-term treatment of panic disorder and its impact on various clinical
      variables to be able to figure out if, through the analysis of the results of this study, the
      future could be a very useful background material, used in the development of clinical care
      guidelines is expected. Leading researchers in various studies for panic disorder at home and
      abroad, and also, therefore, the results obtained in this research is very useful in the
      pathogenesis and in the treatment of panic disorder is expected. The results of this study
      will be introduced in the Domestic Society and International Society, will finally be
      published in major journals of SCI related.

      3 Research plan 3.1 Research information and how to

      - The selection of subjects Diagnosis by the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for major panic
      attacks in patients with disabilities will be conducted by a clinical psychologist or
      psychiatrist: Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview Plus (MINI-plus) of structured
      skilled diagnostic tool.

      In the case of patients who were taking medication Airlines sulfur existing at least 2 weeks
      (hydrochloric acid flu Jade Satin scheduled to participate in a study of the existing 4
      weeks) and stop taking the drug. All other prescription non-drug (herbal medicine), forbids
      smoking within 24 hours before the test, caffeine drink, drinking is prohibited in the state
      to proceed with a test is scheduled.

      Treatment conditions Randomization Randomization table belonging goes: medication alone group
      and the combined treatment group on either side Will be determined by the SSRIs Tx group ->
      Korean panic disorder treatment algorithm (Korean Medication Algorithm for Panic Disorder
      2008: Initial Treatment Strategies. J. C. Yang et al., 2008) according to the treatment by
      applying Standardized treatment is expected to be performed. Single use only, benzodiazepine
      (alprazolam) and tapering zolpidem use, but only occasionally, within 3 months of treatment,
      so that Should, in principle, (using the PRN as alprazolam available).

        -  Combined Tx group SSRIs Tx group, and the same drug treatment to be carried out once a
           week underwent 10 sessions of CBT, and, after 3 Once a month booster session is
           scheduled to be performed.

           - Therapists

        -  Treatment conducted by a psychiatrist skilled in both groups, but CBT case of a
           qualified clinical psychology Scholars will participate as an adjunct therapy in the
           treatment session.

             -  Assessment Is scheduled to visit (24 months) to assess the clinical manifestations:
                a total of 11 times.

      Visit 1: Screening & Baseline Visit 2,3,4: every visit per month. / CBT once a week about 3
      months, 10 sessions of treatment Visit 5-11: every 3 months to visit / CBT Booster session in
      three months, once implemented

        -  Visit 1 (Screening & Baseline)

             -  MINI-plus diagnostic tool

             -  Obtaining research consent

             -  Determine whether severe medical or psychiatric diseases

             -  Demographic data survey (In the future, when compared to the quality of life,
                according to the therapeutic, marital status, educational And income levels
                yuksujun compensation, and demographic and economic variables according to the
                comparison of the response to treatment in order) Age of onset (early onset and
                late-onset separated) survey

             -  Clinical data (Baseline severity and panic frequency) survey

                  -  Duration of disease survey A comorbidity (need to MINI-plus disease confirmed)
                     Whether other drugs: Prescription

                  -  Alcohol and substance combination presence Past medication or CBT, such as
                     whether to perform

                  -  Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A), Hamilton Rating Scale for
                     Depression (HAM-D), Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S), PDSS (Panic
                     Disorder Severity Scale), Evaluate the PSR (Psychiatric status ratings)

                  -  As a self-assessment item MMPI-II, Anxiety Sensitivity Index-Revised (ASI-R),
                     Albany Panic and Phobic Questionnaire (APPQ), WHOQOL-BREF, Stress Response
                     Inventory (SRI) measurement

             -  Clinical Response Remission rate Response rate and survey (No panic attack and PDSS
                scores <5 on standards)

             -  Pharmacological Tx Drug administration and dosage, drug side effects, Compliance
                Survey

             -  Anxiety-related biomarkers measured

                  -  CBC and lipid battery tests blood samples

                  -  Heart rate variability (HRV), Biofeedback (EMG, EDR, measuring peripheral skin
                     temperature)

                  -  Cytokine (IL-1b, 2,6, TNF-alpha, IFN-r, IL-12 / IL-4, 10) measurements → blood
                     samples

             -  Genetic factor survey → blood samples

                  -  Serotonin related genes (5-HTTLPR & serotonin 2A receptor genetic polymorphism
                     gene)

                  -  COMT, BDNF, DRD2, MAOA genetic polymorphism gene

             -  Personality factor Psychiatrist skilled clinical interview of DSM-IV Axis II
                diagnosis enforcing

        -  Visit 2, 3, 4 (every 1 month, after 1, 2, and 3 Month)

             -  Clinicians additional item (Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) rating)

             -  Item self-assessment (MMPI-II)

             -  Clinical Response

             -  Pharmacological Tx History

             -  Anxiety-related biomarkers measured (Visit 4, 3-month period)

        -  Visit 5-11 (every 3 months, after 6, 9 12, 15, 18, 21, 24 Month)

             -  visit 2,3,4 same as the one measuring anxiety-related biomarker for 6 months, 12
                months, 18 months, 24 months, and only at the point

                  -  Statistical analyses Methods of treatment: comparison between the two
                     treatment groups for baseline anxiety severity, and status as a covariate Will
                     be analyzed under analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model using For comparison:
                     two treatments according to the degree of improvement between the groups
                     (remitters) the Cochran- It is planned to use the Mantel-Haenszel test.
                     Personality or reaction and make a difference, according to the genetic factor
                     gene to gene on gene interaction, and gene to environment interaction multiple
                     regression or MDR (multidimensional reduction) using the statistical program
                     is expected to be analyzed.

                  -  Plan for the subject's right to privacy and information protection Effect from
                     September 30, 2011, in accordance with the Privacy Act, personal information
                     collected purposes, the subject's right to privacy and information protection
                     for subject identification is not possible to encrypt your name and personal
                     number of participants in the study, and you want to collect personal items of
                     information, the right description of the subjects for the duration of the
                     protection of personal information and use, and is expected to obtain this
                     consent. Information obtained from the study to the Clinical Trials Committee
                     of the Food and Drug Administration to be used only for the purpose of
                     analysis and clinical research information to connect to, and comply with the
                     relevant provisions. The results of this trial will be published if the
                     subject's identity will remain secret, and all relevant data will be managed
                     under the supervision of the Principal Investigator.

      3.2 Subjects plan Panic disorder patients 20 years of age or older to visit the Samsung Seoul
      Hospital, and the Department of Mental Health, a foreign patients, patients who agreed to
      participate in this study will be of. Plan the patient-specific total of 110 patients on each
      drug treatment group and combined treatment group, 55 patients recruited by the first year of
      study commences 2 years F / U to enforce the number of subjects. Which G * Power 3.0.10
      version program (Erdfelder, E., Faul, F., & Buchner, A. (1996)), using the power 80%,
      significance level of 5%, effect size 0.6, and the case and control groups equal number
      allocation to treatment in panic disorder seems common rate, the percentage of Asian American
      about 20% and Samsung Seoul Hospital, Department of Mental Health, panic disorder patients
      for many years to visit when you consider that approximately 2,300 (initial 200 patients, at
      least), the appropriate is suggested by the number of subjects.

      Subject selection criteria>

        -  Outpatients with panic disorder at the SMC

        -  PD patients who agree to participate in the clinical study

        -  PD patients who are over 20 years old

      Subject exclusion criteria>

        -  PD patients who have either severe medical illnesses or other psychiatric illnesses

        -  PD patients who are pregnant, or lactating PD patients who have suicidal idea

      3.3 Subjects for Risk / Benefit Risk: every 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after treatment with
      at the time, be conducted sampling method is typically performed venous blood 60 ml (6
      times). Accordingly, the subcutaneous blood or mild pain on the puncture site hematoma and
      bruising and discomfort of the byeolun.

      In addition, the possible side effects be used to study aviation sulfur drugs, selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors, such as nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, dizziness, diarrhea,
      insomnia, somnolence, ejaculation delay or erectile impairment sexual interference and can
      be.

      Suspended for the duration of existing drugs, on recurrence gonghwangjeung and cause a
      worsening of the subjects were taking the existing air sulfur drugs, if may be.

      Interests: while participating in a clinical trial for two years, the state of mental health,
      and balance the autonomic nervous system, the degree and temperament / personality traits in
      the individual subjects to learn. Blood through the analysis of the primary results of a
      blood test before and after treatment may also be associated with various psychological
      tests, can receive free of charge.

      4 Annual Research Plan (3-year study performed)

        -  1st year (2012): Patient recruitment and conduct research

        -  2nd year (2013): Studies performed

        -  3rd year (2014): conduct research and data analysis
    
  