
    
      There is a critical gap in knowledge regarding the attitudes, beliefs, and expectations of
      parents around clinical research trials involving genomic sequencing of children with sickle
      cell disease (SCD). SCD primarily affects children of African American (Black) race;
      institutionally we have found differences in enrollment on genomic sequencing trials (G4K
      (NCT02530658), PG4KDS) with patients identifying as black more likely to decline enrollment.
      Enrollment on SCCRIP (NCT02098863), a biobank study for children with SCD is high (92.3%),
      indicating that potential genomic research does not appear to concern many families with SCD.
      Given the rising prevalence of clinical research involving genomic sequencing in pediatric
      SCD, coupled with the increasing likelihood that sequencing will be required for enrollment
      on therapeutic drug or gene therapy trials, there is a clear need for research to better
      understand stakeholder concerns and expectations around genomic sequencing in this
      population.

      Parents of children with SCD and adolescent patients will be approached to complete a short
      survey during a routine clinic visit. Survey questions will be administered at the time of
      the informed consent conversation. Those who agree will be given an ipad to complete survey
      items which focus on genetic/genomic knowledge, trust in health care provider, and
      literacy/numeracy ability in parents of children with SCD and adolescents with SCD.
      Participants also have the option to have questions read to them or they can take the survey
      on paper. Completion of the survey is expected to take < 30 minutes. Patient and parent can
      complete surveys simultaneously. Due to Covid-19, some survey or interview study visits may
      occur using established St. Jude telehealth. Visits will be scheduled via telehealth research
      visit and participant will complete the encounter in private area of the hospital such as a
      consult or exam room. Visits may also occur remotely if the participant prefers and will use
      a secure email link and the institutionally approved research telehealth platform.

      Of parents completing surveys, a subset will be approached for a private (in person or
      virtual) semi-structured interview. Participants willing to be interviewed will be
      interviewed at either the same study visit or at a future visit if this is more convenient
      for the participant. The interview guide (member of the study team) will ask questions
      designed to first assess parental perceptions about clinical research then begin to focus on
      parental attitudes, beliefs, and expectations around research involving clinical genomics.
      Interviews will be conducted on-site at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in a private,
      quiet area. The interview should last 30-60 minutes and will be audio recorded.
    
  