
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Correlate intratumoral expression level of ribonucleotide reductase subunit 1 (RRM1)
           with response to gemcitabine hydrochloride therapy in patients with locally advanced
           unresectable or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate intratumoral expression levels of other genes (e.g., deoxycytidine kinase
           [dCK], equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 [ENT1], and concentrative nucleoside
           transporters 1 and 3 [CNT1 and CNT3]) with response in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the median survival of these patients, using a therapeutic
           strategy entailing sequential addition of agents and decision making based on early CA
           19-9 biomarker response.

        -  Determine the safety of this approach.

        -  Determine the percentage of patients classified as potential biomarker responders.

        -  Determine the time to progression with each successive line of treatment.

        -  Determine the proportion of patients with ≥ 25% decline in CA 19-9 biomarker (i.e.,
           biomarker response) with each successive line of treatment.

      Tertiary

        -  Identify other genes that may mediate sensitivity to gemcitabine hydrochloride, S-1, and
           other agents with activity in pancreatic cancer.

        -  Determine the frequency of host genetic polymorphisms in various nucleoside
           transporters.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter.

        -  Initial treatment (gemcitabine hydrochloride alone): Patients receive gemcitabine
           hydrochloride IV over 100 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. CA 19-9 levels are assessed in
           weeks 1 and 3 of each course. Patients who are biomarker responders continue to receive
           treatment with gemcitabine hydrochloride alone. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who are no longer
           biomarker responders or show other evidence of disease progression proceed to therapy
           comprised of gemcitabine hydrochloride and S1.

        -  Gemcitabine hydrochloride and S-1 treatment: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride
           IV over 100 minutes on days 1 and 15 and oral S-1 twice daily on days 1-7 and 15-21.
           Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Patients undergo core needle tumor biopsy and fine-needle aspiration at baseline. Tissue
      samples are analyzed for correlation between transcript and protein expression by
      immunohistochemistry and for expression of genes and gene products that may mediate
      sensitivity to gemcitabine hydrochloride (RRM1, ENT1, CNT1 and 3, dCK); S-1, thymidine
      phosphorylase [TP], TS, DPD, and ORPT; and other anticancer treatments (ERCC-1, epidermal
      growth factor receptor, GSK-3β) by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Tissue
      samples are also analyzed by microarray and comparative genomic hybridization to identify new
      genes that may predict chemotherapeutic response or mediate sensitivity to anticancer
      therapy. Mutational status of KRAS and p53 gene are also assessed.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and are analyzed by genotyping assays to identify
      polymorphic variants of select genes.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed monthly.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  