
    
      Snake envenoming is a common medical emergency encountered in the tropical countries, and an
      estimated 35,000 to 50,000 people die of snake bite every year in India. The bites of Elapid
      snakes cause predominantly neurotoxicity, which manifests as paralysis of the muscles of the
      eyes, tongue, throat and respiration, leading to respiratory failure, and if untreated death.
      The management of these patients includes ventilatory support and administration of snake
      anti-venom (SAV). Respiratory failure, requiring mechanical ventilatory support, is a
      frequent cause for admission to the intensive care unit (ICU).

      Mechanical ventilation is a life-saving intervention and once there is improvement of the
      underlying indication for mechanical ventilation, it can be withdrawn abruptly in the
      majority. However, approximately 20-30% of patients still require gradual discontinuation
      i.e. weaning. This process is not only difficult in patients with chronic respiratory
      diseases and neuromuscular disorders like neurotoxic snake bite, but is also associated with
      significant complications like pneumonia, prolonged ICU stay and even mortality, especially
      in those with persistent weaning failure.

      In the mechanically ventilated patient, it has long been recognized that the single greatest
      cause of imposed work of breathing (WOB) is the resistance caused by the endotracheal tube
      (ETT). Commonly used maneuvers to overcome the ETT resistance include the use of continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP) or pressure support (PS). However, a new mode of ventilatory
      support called automatic tube compensation (ATC) delivers exactly the amount of pressure
      necessary to overcome the resistive load imposed by the endotracheal tube for the flow
      measured at the time (so called variable pressure support). This mode theoretically can
      decrease weaning duration and increase the probability of successful extubation by decreasing
      the WOB.

      Recently, we have reported our ICU data of 55 patients of severe neurotoxic snake envenoming
      in which we evaluated if usage of a higher dosage of SAV offered any significant clinical
      advantage over a lower dose, and found no difference between the high-dose and low-dose
      groups. The aim of this study is to evaluate whether a combination of PS with ATC is superior
      to PS alone in weaning patients with severe neurotoxic snake envenoming.
    
  