
    
      Primary objective: Identify the predictors of quality of life impairment and costs of
      management of patients with Sjögren's syndrome and small fiber neuropathy (SFN).

      Secondary objectives :

        1. Hospital, drug and city-care costs

        2. Distribution of cost items

        3. Part of costs attributable to pSS-associated SFN

        4. Loss of quality of life attributable to pSS-associated SFN

        5. Relationship between the domains of the EQ 5D questionnaire and the other specific
           quality of life questionnaires

        6. Association of the EQ 5D and other questionnaires with the costs (part of the costs
           variance that might be explained by the quality of life).

      PATIENTS AND METHODS / Study population

      Monocentric study in the Department of Internal Medicine of Lariboisière Fernand Widal
      Hospital.

      All included patients fulfilled 2002-criteria of primary Sjogren syndrome.

      Patients are classified into 2 arms:

      Arm1: patients with Sjögren's syndrome and definite SFN

      Arm2 ( Control Group) : patients with Sjögren's syndrome and WITHOUT clinical and
      paraclinical arguments for peripheral neuropathy

      RESARCH PROCESS

      This study will be based on the delivery and analysis of validated questionnaires (collection
      sheet) in chronic diseases, pains or Sjögren's syndrome:

        -  SF-36 for quality of life,

        -  DN4 questionnaire to estimate the probability of neuropathic pain

        -  EQ5D Health questionnaire

        -  ESSPRI (4 questions): Sjogren-patient questionnaire

        -  PROFAD-SSI (19 questions), to assess tiredness, discomfort, pain and dryness symptoms
           associated with Sjögren's syndrome.

        -  The economic evaluation will be done after the inclusion visit and will be based on the
           collection of care resources consumed by the patients during a period of 6 months
    
  