
    
      Developing effective tobacco cessation interventions during pregnancy for American Indian and
      Alaska Native people is a national priority and will contribute to the U.S. public health
      objective of reducing tobacco-related cancer health disparities. The proposed project builds
      on our successful partnership with the Alaska Native community and previous work with Alaska
      Native pregnant women. We propose to develop and test a novel biomarker feedback intervention
      relating cotinine levels in the urine of pregnant women with the woman and infant's likely
      exposure to the tobacco specific nitrosamine and carcinogen
      4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone) (NNK). This 5-year project will be conducted
      in three phases. In Phase 1 we utilized a non-randomized, clinical observational trial to
      examine biomarkers of nicotine and carcinogen exposure (urine cotinine and total NNAL [a
      metabolite of NNK], respectively) among maternal-infant pairs with assessments conducted
      during pregnancy and at delivery. In Phase 2, we will obtain qualitative feedback on the
      findings from Phase 1 through individual interviews conducted with women who use tobacco and
      a confidant (partner/friend/relative) they have identified to develop the biomarker feedback
      intervention messages. Phase 3 will consist of a formative evaluation of the biomarker
      feedback intervention with pregnant women using a two-group randomized design to assess the
      intervention's feasibility and acceptability, and the biochemically confirmed abstinence rate
      at the end of pregnancy. All phases of the project will be guided by a Community Advisory
      Committee. Each phase is an important step to advance our understanding of the potential for
      biomarker feedback as a strategy to help Alaska Native pregnant women quit tobacco use. The
      potential reach of the intervention is significant from a public health perspective as over
      600 tobacco users deliver each year at the Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage where
      the proposed project will take place. Developing effective interventions for tobacco
      cessation during pregnancy is important to reduce adverse health consequences for the mother
      and neonate and future risk of tobacco-caused cancers.
    
  