
    
      The use of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) between two study solutions: albumin solution with
      the final concentration of 4% and Ringer's acetate solution. The trial consists of two phases
      as follows. For each patient, one and the same study solution will used in both phases of the
      trial according to randomization.

      In the first phase of the trial, the study solution will be used for priming of the CPB
      tubing. The CPB priming volume comprises only of the study solution. See the Blinding section
      below for more details.

        -  Albumin group (trial group): A mixture of 20% (200 mg/mL) albumin solution (Albuman® 200
           g/L, Sanquin, the Netherlands) with Ringer's acetate solution (see below) in the final
           albumin concentration of 4%.

        -  Ringer group (conventional group): Ringer's acetate solution (Ringer-acetate®, Baxter;
           pH 6.0, contents Na+ 131 mmol/L, Cl- 112 mmol/L, acetate 30 mmol/L) alone.

      In the second phase of the trial, during surgery and the first 24 hours of ICU treatment,
      study solution will be used up to 3200 mL for volume replacement therapy. Ringer's acetate
      solution is used thereafter, i.e. if more than 3200 mL are needed for volume replacement
      therapy during the second study phase. The volume replacement therapy is not protocolled but
      will be based on the clinical decision.

      Albumin group (trial group):4% (40 mg/mL) albumin(Albuman®, Sanquin, the Netherlands)

      •Ringer group (conventional group): Ringer's acetate solution (Ringer-acetate®, Baxter; pH
      6.0, contents Na+ 131 mmol/L, Cl- 112 mmol/L, acetate 30 mmol/L) The trial will end after the
      first 24 hours of ICU treatment or when the patient leaves the ICU if the latter occurs
      within the first postoperative 24 hours. After the study period, fluids are administered
      according to the local clinical practice.

      The use of blood products, excluding albumin, is not protocolled, but will be based on the
      clinical decision.

      For physiological basic need of fluid, Ringer's acetate solution will be given throughout the
      study period, i.e. during surgery and postoperatively, as a background infusion of 0.5
      ml/kg/h, rounded to the nearest multible of 10 ml.
    
  