
    
      Eligible participants with appropriately signed informed consent will be randomized to either
      the perindopril+amlodipin or perindopril+amlodipin+atorvastatin combinations.

      Patients will be preliminary screened before 7-10 days for clinical and laboratory
      examination to meet eligibility criteria for inclusion in study.

      Perindopril+amlodipine combination doses will be up titrated over two weeks in case of need
      to control adequate arterial blood pressure < 140/90. The 4 doses combinations and their
      adjustments will be made by investigating physician according to guideline based treatment of
      arterial hypertension and dyslipidemia.

      Subjects should not previously be on statin therapy and subjects who needs to be will start
      atorvastatin in combination treatment pill . The investigators will study the effects of
      6-month treatment with perindopril +amlodipin+atorvastatin combination on plasma
      concentrations of total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. Liver enzyme markers will be
      assessed in patients on additional statin treatment on day 90 for safety assessment. All
      participants will be followed-up for 6 months.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Patients aged between 45 and 85 years

        -  blood pressure ≥ 140/90 mmHg with one antihypertensive drug or 150/100 mHg for untreated
           patients

        -  plasma LDL-cholesterol concentrations > 2,5mm/L (without concomitant hypolipidemic
           drugs)

        -  at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor apart of arterial hypertension

        -  minimal thickness of intima media complex at least 0,8 mm.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  premenopausal females with potential for pregnancy

        -  angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker therapy in
           the previous 3 months,

        -  initiation or change in dose of statin therapy within previous 3 months

        -  anticipated change in lipid lowering therapy

        -  acute coronary or cerebrovascular event within 2 months

        -  glomerular filtration rate < 30 ml/min

        -  previous history of side effects to RAAS inhibitors and Ca channel blocking agents

        -  inability to give informed consent

        -  inability to undergo carotid ultrasound examination.

      Adverse events (AE)

      Based on the intention-to-treat the patient population, safety will be checked by recording
      adverse effects throughout the study: severe AEs regardless as to whether or not there is
      causal relationship between the AEs and the study; and relevant AEs such as myalgia, cough ,
      palpitations, peripheric edemas, diziness symptoms. When the investigators confirm these AEs,
      the grade of severity, procedures, outcomes, and relationship to the study drug will be
      assessed and recorded.

      Serious adverse event (SAE)

      A serious adverse event is an AE occurring during any study phase and at any dose of the
      investigational product that fulfills one or more of the following criteria: results in
      death, is immediately life-threatening, requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation
      of existing hospitalization, is an important medical event that may jeopardize the subject or
      may require medical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above.

      The Investigator must inform the Sponsor of any SAE that occurs in the course of the study
      within 48 hours of when he or she becomes aware of it.

      Carotid Ultrasound An ultrasound linear probe with 5-10 MHz linear transducer will be used
      for measuring the carotid artery intima media thickness ( IMT ). The carotid artery will be
      scanned by 3 trained in vascular ultrasound and echocardiography physicians. All study
      subjects will be examined in the supine position with the head tilted backward. Measurements
      of the left and right IMT of the posterior wall of the common carotid, 1 cm distal to the
      bulb bifurcation, by ultrasound 2D exam will be performed

      Blood pressure (BP) will be measured at the University Cardiology Clinic by a trained nurse
      or physician using a calibrated and validated digital sphygmomanometer. BP measurements will
      be taken with the patient in a seated position with the arm supported at heart level, after a
      5 min rest and after abstaining from food, beverages containing caffeine, and smoking for at
      least 2 h prior to BP measurement. BP will be recorded as three serial measurements at
      intervals of 30 sec on both arms.
    
  