
    
      Main purpose of the study is to estimate the efficiency of the zonal acupuncture method
      compared to control group and the balance acupuncture method.

      This study includes random completion of 3 groups of participants : zonal acupuncture,
      control group, balance acupuncture approximately 20 participants each.

      The zonal acupuncture group will receive a treatment according to a zonal method and a pain
      level will be estimated by the investigator according to a visual analog pain scale (VAS)
      before and 10 minutes and 15 minutes after the beginning of the treatment and the change of
      the pain level will be recorded. If possible the pain level will be measured again
      approximately 24 hours after the treatment and the change of the pain level will be again
      recorded.

      The control group will provide only the estimation of the the pain level according to a
      visual analog pain scale (VAS) but receive no acupuncture treatment. Then if possible the
      pain level will be measured again approximately 24 hours after the first measurement and the
      change of the pain level will be recorded for a control group too.

      The balance acupuncture group will receive a treatment according to a balance method, and a
      pain level will be estimated according to a visual analog pain scale (VAS) before and 10
      minutes and 15 minutes after the beginning of the treatment and the change of the pain level
      will be recorded. If possible the pain level will be measured again approximately 24 hours
      after the treatment and the change of the pain level will be again recorded.

      These measurements are primary outcome of the experiment. Provided statistically consistent
      they will be treated to extract method efficiency estimation.

      The participants from all tree groups may receive drug analgesia at some recorded moment of
      time before the procedure, however the investigators want to investigate the effect of
      acupuncture analgesia at the time when no other analgesia effect is present, so the
      investigators can exclude possible interference.
    
  