
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating, often-chronic psychiatric condition
      emerging following a severe traumatic event. Trauma-focused therapy techniques, and primarily
      Prolonged Exposure, constitute the primary first-line treatment. While effective to some
      degree, these methods have several substantial shortcomings, including limited patient
      compliance (long process) and responsiveness, sustained therapeutic effect, and
      susceptibility to spontaneous symptom relapse. Thus, there is a considerable need for
      enhancing the efficacy of PTSD treatment.

      Dominant theories in the field of PTSD emphasize a key role for threat-related learning and
      memory processes in the underlying etiology and maintenance of PTSD symptoms, such as absent
      or insufficient extinction of learned fear associations. Indeed, trauma-focused therapy
      protocols typically involve repeated imaginal or in vivo recall of traumatic memories in a
      systematic, controlled manner, while employing anxiety-reducing techniques, and without
      experiencing additional external trauma. Thus, these therapies parallel cue-extinction
      training within a model of learning and unlearning of conditioned responses, with the
      patient's diminished fear response over successive extinction trials reflecting the weakening
      of trauma-induced associations between the fear-provoking stimuli and the conditioned fear
      response. Extinction of fear responses is thus generally assumed to be one the most important
      underlying mechanisms of exposure therapy. Noting the limited efficacy of trauma-focused
      treatment (and in particular the spontaneous relapse), there is much room for improving the
      effectiveness of this cue-extinction process in a manner that is not dangerous to the patient
      (cf. extinction-enhancing pharmacological agents that are also toxic).

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a safe method to induce weak transcranial
      currents (up to 1-2 milliampere). Using 2 rubber electrodes positioned on the scalp, tDCS can
      be used to manipulate localized brain excitability via membrane polarisation: cathodal
      stimulation hyperpolarises, while anodal stimulation depolarises the resting membrane
      potential, whereby the induced after-effects depend on polarity, duration and intensity of
      the stimulation.

      The investigators believe that the therapeutic efficacy of PTSD treatment can be enhanced by
      employing tDCS during the therapeutic process. That is, tDCS's modulatory effects on existing
      brain activity may enable us to render the therapeutic mechanisms operating during
      trauma-focused therapy more effective, leading to a more efficient and efficacious
      therapeutic process in terms of greater symptom reduction, greater long-term sustainability,
      a shorter treatment course, and broader compliance.
    
  