
    
      This is a prospective randomized, non-blinded, controlled study. Patients with a diagnosis of
      degenerative disc disease and/or up to grade I spondylolisthesis and planning to undergo a
      one or two-level instrumented posterolateral lumbar fusion surgery between L1-S1 will be
      screened. If eligible and the subject meets all the inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion criteria, the subject will be approached about study participation by the surgeon.
      If the subject agrees to participate, the consent process will be initiated by the study
      coordinator. Once the patient has been consented; data including medical history,
      neurological exam, patient questionnaires (visual analogue pain score (VAS), Oswestry
      low-back disability questionnaire (ODI), short form health survey (SF-36)) will be collected.
      Randomization will occur once a surgery date has been scheduled so the appropriate
      instrumentation can be boarded accordingly. A randomization envelope will reveal
      randomization treatment group. The envelopes will be generated in a 1:1 fashion and be
      randomly allocated to an assigned study identification number.

      Subjects will be randomized to either: 1) treatment arm where the investigator will use an
      FDA approved/cleared DePuy Synthes spinal pedicle screw system with ViviGen® Cellular Bone
      Matrix mixed with cortical/cancellous allograft or the 2) control arm where the investigator
      use the same DePuy Synthes spinal pedicle screw system with local autologous bone graft mixed
      with cortical/cancellous allograft. Both treatment groups represent standard of care lumbar
      fusion surgeries using two types of bone graft options to create the arthrodesis as
      comparators.

      Once the lumbar fusion surgery has taken place as planned; data will be collected regarding
      the surgery performed, including operative time, amount of bone graft used, spinal system
      used, length of hospital stay, and adverse events/complications.

      Study subjects will be followed up at 6-weeks, 3-months, 6-months, and 12-months
      postoperatively at the private practice or clinic. During these routine (standard of care)
      postoperative visits, subjects will complete questionnaires (VAS, ODI, SF-36, patient
      satisfaction) and have neurological exam (lumbar spine exam, see appendix 1) completed by the
      investigator. Adverse events related to device and/or procedure will be evaluated as each
      postoperative visit. Anteroposterior (AP) and lateral x-rays will be performed at all visits
      with flexion and extension x-rays added at baseline, 3-months, 6-months, and 12-months. A CT
      scan of the lumbar spine will be performed during the 12-month postoperative time frame at
      the Beaumont-Royal Oak Imaging Center. Radiographic analysis will be performed and evaluated
      for fusion status as evidenced by bony bridging, presence of radiolucency, and development of
      pseudoarthrosis at each follow-up visit.

      This study design reflects the current standard of care for lumbar spinal stenosis,
      degenerative disc disease and lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis. Lumbar fusion surgery
      using pedicle screw fixation with autograft and allograft bone grafting options is treatment
      of choice after conservative (non-surgical) therapies have been implemented and failed.

      Addendum:

        1. In order to protect the well-being of patients and in compliance with the current state
           mandated shelter in place order, follow-up visits will be completed via telephone visit
           by the study coordinator when possible. This includes patient reported outcomes and
           adverse event reporting. Some parts of the study visit may not be completed over the
           phone such as lumbar x-rays, neuro exam, and CT scan (at 12-months postop); these
           missing (or scheduled at a later date) protocol specific items will be noted as a
           protocol deviation with the reason being due to COVID-19.

        2. If a televisit is not possible, the visit may be rescheduled at a later date. Therefore,
           out of window and missing visits will be recorded as protocol deviations with the reason
           being due to COVID-19.

        3. Subject follow-up visits will be rescheduled in the office once the acute phase of the
           pandemic has subsided if the study visit is not substantially out of window.

        4. Subject enrollment is on hold until the acute phase of the pandemic has subsided but
           screening will continue.
    
  