
    
      Frailty has a significant impact on surgical outcomes. It is an independent risk factor for
      adverse outcomes following surgery including complications, length of stay, inability to
      return home and mortality. Frailty is a physiological decline across multiple body systems
      accumulating in loss of reserves and increased vulnerability to stressors.

      Sarcopenia, loss of muscle mass or progressive reduction in muscle mass, is one of the
      central physiological manifestations of frailty resulting in weight loss, weakness and
      exhaustion. Frailty has both a strong correlation with age as well as significant overlap
      with disability and co-morbidity. Further factors strongly influencing outcome, 30 day and
      mortality have been described including polypharmacy, Charlson co-morbidity index, age, not
      independently mobile, emergency admission and falls. It has been recognised that poor
      outcomes are multimodal relating to the interplay of co-morbidities, physical functioning and
      nutrition.

      Assessing frailty can be completed using simple questionnaire tools, as well as more complex
      assessment of co-morbidity, functional status, and disability. There is good evidence the
      simple tools can be as accurate as formal geriatric assessments.

      As sarcopenia relates directly to many manifestations of frailty it can be used as a
      surrogate marker. One of the favoured ways for diagnosing sarcopenia is using CT morphometric
      biological markers. This uses an axial image at the level of the 3rd lumbar vertebra (L3) to
      assess the total or cross-sectional volume of the psoas muscle, giving rise to indices
      measuring muscle mass, visceral adipose tissue and subcutaneous adipose tissue.

      Major abdominal emergency surgery is a high-risk procedure with ongoing audit and outcome
      monitoring. Currently data collection for UK National Emergency Laparotomy Audit (NELA) is in
      its fourth year with annual reports into the management and outcomes of emergency
      laparotomies. Observation and audit of these outcomes remain central to improving service and
      healthcare both regionally and nationally. Furthermore, this group of patients is not well
      represented in research and is one of the most understudied surgical cohorts that exist. This
      is especially the case for patients presenting with an acute surgical diagnosis and are
      deemed unable to withstand the stress of surgery, and hence pursue a conservative or
      radiological treatment option. With our ageing, co-morbid population this is becoming
      increasing common. The diagnosis of frailty and sarcopenia are a significant measurable and
      modifiable risk factor that impacts on perioperative surgical care, healthcare provider and
      patient decision-making and most importantly long and short term outcomes. This urgently
      requires further audit and study.

      Work package one (WP1): Retrospective scoping cohort study in acute general surgery

      Patient identification The number of patients recruited from each participating hospital will
      be proportionate to the total number of cases, in accordance with relative annual case
      volumes (as reported by NELA - in the case of less than 100% case capture, the theoretical
      100% case number will be used). This will provide a representative sample of the recruiting
      region's population.

      The most recent laparotomy cases with 1-year follow-up mortality data available will be
      included at the time of study activation. Data collection over a predicted six week period
      will be undertaken or until the sample size is reached. Retrospective collection of routinely
      recorded clinical data will be performed (See appendix data collection tool). This includes,
      but is not restricted to [a] routine clinical variables: patient characteristics,
      demographic, pathological and physiological variables will be captured in line with NELA
      data, alongside confounding factors associated with frailty and sarcopenia.

      Protocol for measuring muscle radiation attenuation Inclusion: Retrievable CT abdomen/pelvis
      on an electronic NHS PACS system. CT can be non-contrast or with contrast, supine or prone
      but must be of sufficient quality for the sarcopenia CT analyses software to handle
      (Slico-matic™, TomoVision, Magog, Canada ).

      Exclusion: CT-scans with large radiation artefacts or with missing parts of muscle tissue on
      the ventral, dorsal, or both lateral edges of the scan preventing sarcopenia assessment.

      Patients meeting inclusion criteria will have their CT extracted and reviewed by a trained
      independent party. This may through an allocated representative at the base hospital or the
      CT can be extracted and sent in a fully anonymised format to the central unit for sarcopenia
      assessment. CT scans obtained via a PACS system can up transferred through secure
      inter-hospital PACS transfer. Those with non-compatible systems can either be uploaded via CD
      or analysed at the data collection site. The outcome of the assessment for sarcopenia will
      define whether a patient is considered to have sarcopenia.

      Participants can be identified primarily from the NELA database with confirmation of GI
      pathology on the radiological report. This can be cross reference against admission logs,
      acute surgery admission databases, theatre logs for emergency surgery and NELA databases to
      maximise case capture. Once patients are confirmed to meet the inclusion criteria their data
      can be gathered into a data collection tool. The CT scan will be extracted and sent for
      analysis.

      All patients meeting inclusion criteria will be identified by the lead researcher in each
      centre. Frailty scores are already part of standard acute admission clerking proformas in
      many of the hospitals across the region; as such the researcher's role will be ensure
      appropriate and complete data capture from existing clinical information sources, but no
      additional intervention or questioning of patients beyond current standard of care will be
      required. Patients will be collected across a set time scale as listed above. Baseline
      demographics and disease factors will be collected as per collection proforma attached as
      supplementary material.

      The Reported Edmonton Frail Scale (REFS) is collected at time of admission as part of routine
      clinical assessment for surgical admissions. This is a validated, self-reported patient
      questionnaire that can categorise the degree of frailty. This information is routinely
      collected in many acute unit or care of the elderly departments. The REFS will enable a
      consistent method of collecting this data utilising a rapid and well validated tool.

      For patients presenting in extremis or unable to complete the score due to an acute state or
      requirement for prompt treatment, this will be gathered at the next appropriate pre-operative
      opportunity. Patients unable to complete a REFS given the best opportunity will be excluded,
      however reasons for exclusion will be recorded.
    
  