
    
      Case control study Clinical symptoms, speech behavior test, EEG data, and near-infrared brain
      imaging data are collected from three groups of subjects (consolidation/maintenance
      depression patient group, acute episode depression patient group and healthy alternatives),
      In terms of magnetic resonance data and other aspects, compare the similarities and
      differences of the data of the three groups of subjects.

      Follow up research The acute-onset patient group will receive follow-up every two weeks for
      three months, and then continue in June, September, December, 18 and 24 months.
      Consolidation/maintenance patients and healthy patients will receive follow-up evaluations in
      March, June, September, December, 18 and 24 months after enrollment. The content includes
      clinical symptom assessment, behavioral testing, EEG testing, near infrared testing, etc. The
      time points of cranial imaging detection are 0, March, December and 24 months. In the
      laboratory, if the subject agrees to collect language information in the patient's real life
      environment.

      Evaluation and inspection items

        1. Clinical scale evaluation

        2. Speech Behavior Test Using speech production paradigm, semantic feature task, emotional
           prosody perception paradigm and emotional vocabulary paradigm to comprehensively detect
           the language perception, comprehension and output of patients with depression to find
           objective indicators of speech mutation. Voice detection includes short-term energy
           (Max, Min, Mean), pitch (Max, Min, Mean), voice speed, number of voice interruptions,
           short-term zero-crossing rate (Max, Min, Mean), first formant, first Two formants,
           12-order MFCC (12 coefficients) and other parameters. The experiment is carried out in a
           well-lit and quiet room. Before the experiment, the subject will explain the experiment
           process to the subjects. After the experiment, in order to avoid interference, the
           subject should leave the room. The whole process of the experiment was in the same
           computer program, and the subjects responded according to the task requirements on the
           screen.

           2.1 Speech production paradigm The speech output paradigm used in this study includes
           four tasks: interview, short text reading, recitation, and picture description. The
           experiment is written and run using E-prime 2.0 software. Participants completed four
           speech production tasks accordingly, and recorded their voices throughout the experiment
           to obtain speech data.

           2.2 Semantic processing tasks The semantic processing task is used to compare the
           abilities of depressed patients and healthy subjects in speech processing, semantic
           coding and extraction, and speech fluency, and explore more comprehensively the early
           warning indicators of the recurrence of depression.

        3. Magnetic resonance examination The Siemens 3.0T magnetic resonance scanner is used,
           which is a 32-channel head coil. Before scanning, use a foam cushion to fix the head to
           avoid head movement during scanning. The scanning sequence is: first routine scan to
           obtain the T1-weighted positioning image of the whole brain 3D structure, then use the
           fast gradient echo imaging sequence to perform sagittal scan of the whole brain for
           three-dimensional reconstruction and spatial registration, and finally use plane echo (
           EPI) sequence for blood oxygen dependent BOLD-fMRI imaging (resting state and task
           state).

        4. Functional near infrared spectroscopy Using Shimadzu lighnirs portable near-infrared
           brain imager, the sampling rate was set to 0.1s, and the oxygenated hemoglobin
           concentration (HbO), deoxyhemoglobin concentration (HbR) and total oxygen content (HbT)
           were used as measurement indicators. Since language processing is mainly in the frontal
           and temporal lobes, the probe layout covers the lateral fronto-temporal complex area.
           After the fNIRS test, a 3D locator is used to locate the brain area. The positions of
           the transmitter and the detector will be referenced to the Brodmann partition, and the
           fNIRS channel position will be registered with the probability of the MNI space. The
           subjects in the fNIRS examination need to complete the speech output paradigm and
           semantic feature tasks. The experiment adopts a block design, the stimulation sequence
           is written by E-prime software, and the stimulation program programmed by the computer
           is presented on the computer display screen (approximately 55cm from the subject).
           Before the start of the experiment, the subjects should wear an optode cap to ensure
           that the signals of each channel are received normally. At the beginning of the
           experiment, the screen showed "+", and the subjects only need to watch the screen and
           try to stay calm as much as possible; then complete the relevant behavioral tests, and
           the subjects can complete according to the instructions. The entire experiment lasted
           about 25 minutes. The subjects collected near-infrared brain signals and voice data
           online while completing the task.

        5. EEG examination Use Brainproducts liveamp portable EEG equipment to conduct EEG
           examination in two stages: resting state and voice task state. In the resting state EEG
           collection stage, after the subjects put on the EEG collection equipment, sit on a
           comfortable chair, close their eyes and stay awake, and collect the resting EEG for 5
           minutes. In the voice task stage, the subject wears an EEG device and sits in front of
           the computer screen. According to the instructions displayed on the screen, the voice
           production paradigm and semantic feature tasks are performed accordingly. The microphone
           will simultaneously record the subject's voice. The experimental program is written
           using e-prime2.0.

        6. Other physiological tests Physiological indicators (including heart rate, blood
           pressure, weight, height, etc.), environmental indicators (including weather,
           temperature, environmental noise, ultraviolet intensity, human comfort, etc.), Cambridge
           Neuropsychological Test Automatic Battery (CANTAB) The gait test during natural walking,
           the eye movement during task and facial expression information will be performed once in
           baseline, March, June, September, December, 18 and 24 respectively.

        7. Feasibility and specificity analysis of multiple detection methods This study uses
           multiple detection methods, including clinical scale evaluation, language testing, and
           neurophysiological examination. The purpose is to comprehensively and systematically
           collect subjects' linguistic related information to better develop and develop voice
           intelligent detection technology. application.

      Multiple detection methods are feasible. Clinical scales are implemented by trained
      researchers, language-related paradigms are implemented by computer programs, and
      neurophysiological testing techniques are operated by experimenters. All detection methods
      and methods are widely used in clinical research and are feasible.

      Statistical analysis plan, definition and selection of statistical analysis data set

        1. Statistical analysis data set Full analysis set (FAS, Full analysis set): People who
           have undergone at least one clinical scale evaluation, voice collection,
           neurophysiological data, and major index evaluation data after enrollment. Cases with
           missing baseline data for the main evaluation indicators will be excluded.

           Per Protocol Set (PPS, Per Protocol Set): On the basis of FAS, cases that meet the
           inclusion and exclusion criteria, have a valid baseline value, have good compliance, and
           do not violate the clinical research protocol.

           The curative effect analysis uses both the full analysis set and the conforming plan
           set, and the FAS result is the main one.

        2. Data description Observe whether the data conforms to the normal distribution, if not,
           modify the statistical method or perform data conversion. Observe whether there are
           outliers and missing values, and perform statistical and professional analysis to
           determine the choice and the way of filling the missing values. Descriptive statistics
           indicate the mean, standard deviation, maximum, minimum, credible interval, frequency,
           composition ratio, etc.

        3. Statistical inference methods Measurement data adopt t test, paired t test, rank sum
           test, paired rank sum test, median test and other methods. Counting data: Chi-square
           test, Fisher's exact test, etc.; grade data using Ridit analysis, CMH method. Use
           machine learning algorithms such as Support Vector Machine (SVM), Dynamic Bayesian
           Network (DBN) and Deep Neural Networks (DNN) for speech data.

        4. Statistical expression The report is mainly expressed in tables, with table titles,
           table notes, and number of cases. In addition to the statistical results of the
           comparison between the groups, the statistical parameter diagrams and other icons are
           attached to increase the readability.

        5. Statistical software Use SPSS22.0, Matlab software (v2014a) and NIRS-SPM (Statistical
           Parametric Mapping for Near-infrared Spectroscopy) software for parameter statistics
           (t-test, analysis of variance, etc.) and non-parametric statistics (rank sum test,
           chi-square test) Etc.), using two-sided tests, P less than or equal to 0.05 is
           considered statistically significant.
    
  