
    
      Corneal ectasia as a complication from refractive (LASIK) surgery as well as keratoconus is a
      slowly progressive condition that results in high patient morbidity. Treatment options aim to
      stabilize the shape of the cornea using rigid contact lenses, surgical insertion of stiff
      plastic intrastromal rings, corneal cross linking, and ultimately corneal transplant in
      severe patients. The recently FDA approved "Dresden Protocol" involves painful cornea
      scraping followed by application of concentrated Riboflavin, followed by immediate collagen
      cross linking with UV light exposure which results in shortening and thickening of the
      collagen fibrils, and therefore a stronger, stiffer cornea. Avedro has demonstrated an
      average cornea flattening (K max reduction) of 1.4 diopters and 1.7diopters in two different
      studies. The current cost of Avedro therapy is between $2500 -$3500 per treatment. This is
      considered experimental at this time and therefore is not covered by any insurance.To spare
      the patient the severe pain involved in the current procedure, and to avoid the high cost
      (Avedro is not covered by any medical insurance), the investigator started 7 patients with
      keratoconus from 2011-2015 in his private practice in Seattle on a trial of oral riboflavin
      (100 mg or 400 mg daily) and 15 minutes of sunlight exposure daily. No adverse effects have
      ever been reported with high-dose dietary riboflavin supplements. The results of this
      preliminary trial are remarkable. During follow-up from 6 months to 5 years, all 7 patients
      have had corneal stabilization and/or corneal flattening. One patient experienced flattening
      of the cornea by 1.5 Diopters, comparable to the best results of the Avedro system. A limited
      animal study is currently underway to document that corneal cross-linking occurs in response
      to dietary riboflavin and UV exposure from the sun. This clinical study would expand the
      promising preliminary findings to a larger sample size. This has the potential to save
      millions of dollars in health care costs and ease the burden of treatment in patients who
      require therapy to induce corneal cross-linking to stabilize the cornea's shape.
    
  