
    
      1. Pre-treatment planning:

           The detailed plan of radio frequency ablation (RFA) will be implemented in accordance
           with the routine procedure of image evaluation prior to RFA. That is, after confirming
           the location of the tumor in the Multiphasic CT or MRI and evaluating the volume of the
           tumor and the relationship with adjacent blood vessels before RFA procedure, planning
           the insertion path and the number of ablation of the electrode for RFA, the recently
           used US- The CT-MR fusion tool is used to fuse the pre-treatment image and the
           ultrasound image to evaluate whether the tumor location on the ultrasound image matches
           the tumor found on the pre-treatment image. The location will be evaluated in real time.
           The end of the procedure is when an echo bubble of 5 mm to 10 mm or more is generated
           around the treated tumor, and it is confirmed that the enhancement of HCC disappears
           completely after RFA in immediate post procedure CT. In addition, if the boundary of the
           tumor is not well drawn on ultrasound, CEUS will be additionally used to confirm the
           location of the tumor. At this time, the ultrasonic fusion device to be used will be one
           of Phillips, GE, Samsung or Siemens' navigation systems available herein. The fused
           image guides the location of the electrodes to be installed in the tumor, the number of
           electrodes, and a safe access route.

        2. RFA procedure As a device for RFA, a multi-viva generator and a separable clustered
           electrode (product name: Octopus electrode, Starmed Ltd), which are used herein, will be
           used.

           The procedure is to place the octopus high-frequency electrode in the periphery of the
           tumor (5 ± 2mm) using no touch technique under fusion ultrasound guidance, and then
           simultaneously apply high frequency to two electrodes up to 200W using the combined
           monopolar-bipolar mode with keeping the temperature at 90-100 degrees Celsius for about
           5 to 30 minutes until the tumor and 5-10 mm echo band form around the tumor. During the
           RFA procedure, the US-CT-MR fusion tool (Navigator- GE & Siemens, Samsung) is used to
           fuse the pre-treatment image and the ultrasound image to match the echo bubble
           distribution and tumor location. It will be evaluated in real time.

           If the boundary of the tumor is unclear, it is difficult to grasp the boundary of the
           tumor 360 degrees as a whole, or if there is little normal tissue to install electrodes
           around the tumor, it is difficult to apply the No-touch technique. Therefore, in this
           study, the application rate of the No-touch technique will be evaluated among all
           recruited patients, and when evaluating the presence or absence of recurrence after the
           procedure, it is analyzed (intention to treat analysis) including puncture of the tumor,
           and treated with actual No-touch. It will be analyzed further.

        3. Follow-up

             -  CT (MRI if CT is contraindicated) will be performed immediately after RFA therapy
                as previously performed as a clinical routine, and it will be evaluated whether
                complete necrosis of the treated tumor has been achieved. If residual masses are
                identified or insufficient safety margins are not secured, additional procedures
                are performed and evaluated.

             -  Alternatively, AFP or CEA, CBC, LFT and CT or MRI are performed 1 to 3 months after
                RFA procedure.

             -  The follow up method is the same as the existing method, and blood tests and CT or
                MRI tests are performed every 3 to 4 months for 3 to 4 times during 12 months. This
                is due to the fact that most local recurrence occurs within 12 months, and the
                local recurrence rate will be evaluated based on this.

             -  The final point of time for this study is based on the follow-up findings obtained
                at 12 ± 1 month after the procedure (short-term relapse rate evaluation).

             -  However, after that, the patient will continue to perform CT or MR follow-up every
                3 to 6 months until 2 years according to the routine follow-up protocol of the
                patient who has undergone existing RFA therapy.

        4. Control group Of the patients who underwent RFA therapy for the treatment of HCC for a
           period of 2 years from 2018 to 2020, the patient group had been treated with
           conventional RFA and microwave ablation were enrolled. After performing the propensity
           score matching analysis using variables of age, gender, tumor size, tumor location, and
           liver function values, the same number of controls are selected and set.
    
  