
    
      Self-change interventions have great potential to aid the many problem drinkers who do not
      seek formal treatment. Because self-change interventions circumvent some of the barriers
      associated with traditional treatment services, they may help reduce the harm associated with
      alcohol abuse among untreated individuals, whose number far exceeds that of the minority who
      ever access formal alcohol treatment programs. Self-change/self-help materials have the added
      advantage of being relatively inexpensive, increasing their potential for wide distribution
      and attendant public health impact. The Internet is one promising route for distributing such
      materials to a large segment of the population. Three-quarters of Canadians and Americans use
      the Internet, including a large number who seek health-related information on line. Drinking
      self-change websites abound on the Internet, but because none has been scientifically
      evaluated it is unknown whether such sites do more good than harm.

      By being the first large scale, controlled evaluation, this project intends to advance the
      science of Internet-mediated intervention as well as provide valuable public health
      information on the effectiveness of Internet-delivered self-change materials. Specifically,
      the major objective of this project is to conduct a randomized controlled evaluation of the
      impact of an Internet-based self-help intervention for problem drinkers in the general
      population.

      Participants will be recruited through the ongoing general population survey - the CAMH
      Monitor (N = 170 after attrition), and will be randomly assigned to be sent a World Wide Web
      page Internet address and password for the personalized alcohol feedback program or to a no
      intervention control group. Three and six-month drinking outcomes will be compared between
      experimental conditions using structural equation modeling.

      The primary hypothesis is that respondents in the Internet personalized alcohol feedback
      condition will display significantly improved drinking outcomes at three and six-month
      follow-ups as compared to respondents in the no intervention control condition. Secondary
      hypotheses will address the mediating or moderating role of perceived drinking norms,
      perceived risk and the problem drinker's social reasons for drinking.
    
  