
    
      The velopharyngeal mechanism is constituted by the muscles of the soft palate, posterior and
      lateral pharyngeal walls (1), separating the oropharynx from the nasopharynx. Such
      structures, particularly the soft palate, play a key role in the velopharyngeal closure
      physiology (2). Velopharyngeal closure patterns may be classified as follows: coronal, where
      there is predominant soft palate movement toward the posterior pharyngeal wall; sagittal,
      where there is predominant movement of the lateral pharyngeal walls toward the pharynx
      midline; circular, where balanced movements of lateral pharyngeal walls and soft palate are
      observed; circular with Passavant's ridge, where the circular closure is associated with the
      development of a mucosal fold named Passavant's ridge on the posterior pharyngeal wall(3).
      The velopharyngeal closure allows the separation between the nasal and oral cavities during
      activities such as oral sounds emission, blowing, whistling, swallowing, sucking and vomiting
      reflex, respecting the level of closure demanded by each activity (4,5).

      In cases where the structures of the velopharyngeal mechanism do not work properly, the
      presence of a space called velopharyngeal aperture is observed between them, characterizing a
      velopharyngeal dysfunction. One of the reasons for the occurrence of such an aperture is the
      shortage of soft palate tissue. This dysfunction is called velopharyngeal insufficiency and
      may be corrected either surgically or by prosthetic management followed by speech therapy. In
      cases where such dysfunction occurs because of a failure in the velopharyngeal structures
      movement, physiological or neuromotor deficiency, it is called velopharyngeal incompetence
      that may be eliminated by means of speech therapy (2,6). On the other hand, if such condition
      is a result of the presence of compensatory articulations or other speech learning errors, it
      does not reflect physical or neuromuscular alterations, constituting indication for speech
      therapy(7). Individuals with velopharyngeal dysfunction present hypernasality, nasal air
      emission, poor intraoral pressure, and may present associated nasal/facial movements and
      compensatory articulations during the emission of oral consonants (8,9).

      Assessment of the velopharyngeal function can be done by the following procedures:

        1. Flexible fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy (FFN) allows direct transnasal observation of the
           anatomy and dynamic activity of the velopharyngeal sphincter. Such observations can be
           recorded for permanent documentation by coupling FFN to a video camera with simultaneous
           audio recording. Numerous published reports discuss the advantages of FFN as a clinical
           method for evaluating velopharyngeal function during speech (10).

           Flexible fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy (FFN) is a valuable tool for direct visualization
           because it allows observation of the velopharyngeal valve during dynamic activity for a
           prolonged period with (1) Minimal interference of the structures involved and (2) No
           radiation exposure. Whereas most clinicians acknowledge the theoretic advantages of FFN
           and accept it as a valid technique for assessing velopharyngeal function, there are few
           published studies that have addressed the validity and reliability of endoscopic
           procedures (10). Endoscopic evaluation has high face validity, and several reports have
           indicated that FFN has good construct validity when compared with radiologic assessments
           (11).

        2. Cephalometric analysis, is the clinical application of cephalometry. It is analysis of
           the dental and skeletal relationships of a human skull and is frequently used by
           dentists, orthodontists, and oral and maxillofacial surgeons as a treatment planning
           tool.

      Cephalometric analysis can also be applied for assessing the velopharyngeal structure and
      function. More specifically, velopharyngeal function in terms of its shape and mobility was
      analyzed quantitatively on the basis of cephalometric principle (12,13).

      Border line cases of velopharyngeal incompetence of insufficiency are known to be problematic
      and usually causes confusion for phoniatricians especially in patients who will undergo
      adenotonsillectomy. For this purpose, objective assessment is necessary to support or reject
      the clinical findings of VPI cases.
    
  