
    
      Rationale of the study:

      There are 3.5 million people in the United Kingdom diagnosed with diabetes. Their life
      expectancy is significantly reduced when compared to non-diabetic population. The long
      standing poor metabolic control causes a cluster of complications such as metabolic
      instability, cardiovascular disease, nephropathy, retinopathy and neuropathy which have a
      major impact on the clinical and social wellbeing of these individuals.

      Solid organ pancreatic transplantation restores endocrine pancreatic function, but it is
      still burdened by significant perioperative morbidity and mortality.

      There are other less invasive transplant options we can offer to this cohort of patients. The
      most common are Kidney Transplant Alone (KTA) from deceased or living donor in the diabetic
      and uremic patients and Islets Transplant (IT) for those with hypoglycemia unawareness and
      preserved renal function.

      Although current literature suggests that the less invasive approaches may be less effective
      in the long term, potentially they could resolve the most compelling clinical needs at a
      lower surgical risk.

      There is now a general consensus that the surgical risks of pancreatic solid organ
      transplantation must be weighed against clinical outcomes as well as QOL gain

      Aims of the study:

      This study aims to quantify QOL trajectory pre- and post- pancreas transplantation and
      identify correlations between QOL and clinical outcomes. The data collected will be utilized
      to understand which forms of solid organ pancreas transplantation are associated with
      greater/ lesser QOL gain and to compute a cost effectiveness analysis of this intervention.

      Methods:

      The core of the study will be a prospective quasi-experimental design focusing on QOL
      outcomes for patients on the pancreas transplant waiting-list at Oxford University Transplant
      Centre.

      Patients active on the Oxford Transplant Centre Pancreas Transplant Waiting list will be
      invited to take part to this study.

      Participants will be requested to complete one set of validated generic and disease specific
      (diabetes and kidney failure where applicable) QOL questionnaires pre-transplantation and at
      three time points post-transplantation: 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year. The research team will
      collect clinical and hospital usage data at the same time points.

      At the end of data collection, statistical analysis will aim to discern overall QOL changes
      in terms of Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY), but also whether different cohorts of
      pancreas transplant recipients (SPK, PAK, and PTA) have different QOL outcomes and in which
      domains of QOL they differ.

      A cohort of patients who receive a PT will be matched to a cohort of patients who remain on
      the PT waiting-list. Matching estimators, including Propensity Score and Coarsened Exact
      Matching, will be used to achieve covariate balance between the synthetic treated and control
      groups in order to estimate the causal effect of QoL changes post-transplantation.

      Cumulative hospital costs of care by treatment group will be analysed using appropriate
      regression methods for non-normal, continuous outcomes. Continuous QOL outcomes will be
      analysed using generalised linear models.
    
  