
    
      Poorly controlled anger is a common problem with often devastating effects in Veterans who
      have served in a warzone. Adverse consequences include increased risk for divorce, domestic
      violence, job loss and instability, and other serious impairments in family, social, and
      occupational functioning. Recent evidence indicates that anger and aggression are likely to
      be problems for a significant proportion of Veterans of Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom, OIF;
      Operation New Dawn, OND) and Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom, OEF). A survey of
      reintegration problems among 754 OEF/OIF combat Veterans receiving VA Medical care showed
      that anger was the most commonly reported problem, with 57% reporting increased problems in
      controlling anger. Despite encouraging evidence for efficacy of cognitive behavioral
      interventions in treating anger in civilian samples, much less is known about the efficacy of
      such treatments for anger problems in military personnel following exposure to war zone
      trauma. Promising preliminary findings for individually based cognitive behavioral treatment
      have been reported, and there is evidence that a group anger management treatment delivered
      by teleconferencing is as effective as the same treatment delivered in person, but to date
      there is not a single adequately powered randomized trial designed to test the efficacy of an
      anger treatment compared to an active control condition in Veterans. Building on findings
      from the investigators' randomized pilot study, the objective of the current proposal is to
      conduct a randomized clinical trial with sufficient statistical power to test the
      effectiveness of a manualized cognitive behavioral intervention (CBI) that has been adapted
      from an existing treatment (Anger Control Therapy; Novaco, 1994, 2001) for the treatment of
      anger problems in OEF/OIF/OND Veterans, compared to a manualized supportive therapy
      intervention (SI) control condition. Ninety OEF/OIF/OND Veterans reporting significant
      problems with anger will be randomized to receive 12 individual sessions of one of the two
      study conditions. Outcomes including measures of anger and aggression; interpersonal, social
      and occupational functioning; and quality of life will be assessed during and at the end of
      treatment and at 3 and 6 month follow-ups. Exploratory analyses will examine 1) whether a
      diagnosis of PTSD impacts treatment effectiveness and 2) potential mediators of treatment
      outcome with CBI.
    
  