
    
      This study is being conducted in the context of a nationwide implementation of SafeCare, an
      evidence-based parent training program. The primary goal of the research is to examine
      methods of coaching newly trained providers to implement a specific evidence-based practice.
      Thus, in this study, we are examining how two different coaching models affect provider
      fidelity and competence and parent's acquisition of the skills being trained. The primary
      participants in this study are the local coaches that will provide coaching to home visitors,
      the home visitors that will provide SafeCare to parents and the parents who will receive the
      SafeCare model. A total of 20 coaches, 90 home visitors and 270 parents have been proposed to
      participate in the study (n=380). The nature of participation in the study is similar for
      coaches and home visitors, but somewhat different for parents. Both groups will be asked to
      complete a variety of questionnaires at different time points, and allow observation of their
      performance with SafeCare delivery (for home visitors) and fidelity monitoring and coaching
      (for coaches). Observations may be done live or via audio recording. Parent participants will
      already be enrolled in SafeCare services, a voluntary parent-training program for parents,
      and will be invited to participate in this study by their home visitor. Parents'
      participation will involve completing a baseline and post-treatment in-home assessment before
      and after the SafeCare program, respectively. Each assessment will include an audio-computer
      assisted self-interview (ACASi), and an assessment of SafeCare skills. Parents will also
      complete 4 brief telephone interviews to assess their satisfaction and engagement with
      SafeCare services and provider competence. A more detailed list of data collection for
      coaches, home visitors, and trainers is as follows: Coaches: (1) prior to
      training/implementation, complete survey of individual and organizational variables that
      relate to implementation (2) allow observations of fidelity monitoring and coaching (3)
      report on home visitor competence, perceived self-competence, and support received from
      trainer (once per month for 6 months) (4) complete weekly time diaries reporting on time
      spent coaching (weekly for 6 months); Home visitors (1) prior to training/implementation,
      complete survey of individual and organizational variables that relate to implementation (2)
      allow and submit observations of SafeCare implementation (3) report on coach competence and
      support received from coach and perceived self-competence (once per month for 6 months);
      Families (1) complete baseline and post-treatment assessment involving behavioral
      observations and survey completed via ACASI (2) complete four short telephone interview
      reporting on home visitor competence and satisfaction with services.
    
  