
    
      Study Objectives: Chronic inflammation underpins the development of numerous chronic diseases
      that contribute significantly to disability and mortality in the United States (US). Of
      particular interest, as it relates to inflammation, is diet which is a strong moderator of
      systemic inflammation. Diets high in fruit and vegetable intake, fish, and whole grains
      (e.g., Mediterranean and vegetarian diets) have been associated with lower levels of
      inflammation. On the other hand, diets rich in red meat, high-fat dairy products, and refined
      grains (Western diet) are typically associated with higher levels of inflammation. Up until
      2014, no dietary index has been designed specifically to determine the inflammatory potential
      of individual's diet. However, researchers in the Cancer Prevention and Control Program,
      University of South Carolina developed the Dietary Inflammatory IndexTM (DII). The DII
      quantifies the level of dietary inflammatory potential on a scale from maximally anti- to
      pro-inflammatory. Watermelon is one of the fruits whose components have been shown to have
      anti-inflammatory effects. The overall objective of this proposal is to determine if a
      refined and modified watermelon-focused DII counselling system can reduce levels of chronic
      inflammation. The DII is a validated measure that has been shown to predict a range of
      outcomes including inflammation, cancer, CVD, and mortality, among others.

      Specifically, the aims of this proposal are to:

        1. Refine and modify the DII-based intervention by developing and incorporating numerous
           watermelon recipes which will score low (anti-inflammatory) on the DII scale.

        2. Design and implement a two-arm intervention trial based on the refined
           watermelon-focused DII-based program for reducing levels of chronic inflammation. Each
           arm will have 15 participants (plus an additional 15 partners recruited by the
           intervention-arm participants). The intervention arm will receive the modified DII
           intervention whereas the control arm will receive general health education.

      Justification: Include summary of prior work and expertise related to the topic and
      references cited: Until 2014 there had been no scientifically valid way to relate what
      individuals ate to the capacity of foods consumed to modulate inflammation. In response to
      the absence of an instrument that could summarize diets' ability to influence inflammatory
      processes, investigators developed the DII which is based on literature (nearly 2,000
      peer-reviewed journal articles) on diet and inflammation through 2010.20 The DII categorizes
      individuals' diets according to their inflammatory potential. Additionally, it was found to
      predict changes in hs-CRP in the Seasonal Variation in Blood Cholesterol (SEASONS) Study.
      Subsequently, investigators have used the DII in about 100 datasets from around the world to
      test the effect of diet-associated inflammation on: 1) Inflammation markers such as CRP,
      IL-6, and TNF-alpha-R2; 2) CVD, 3) cancers of the breast, colon, prostate, ovary,
      endometrium, liver and pancreas; 3) all-cause, CVD and cancer-specific mortality; 4)
      respiratory conditions such as asthma; and 6) cognitive disorders. To date investigators have
      published more than 80 peer-reviewed DII publications.

      Study Design Overview: Investigators have extensive experience with diet interventions
      spanning over two decades and involving a variety of endpoints including cancer, body weight,
      and those related to CVD, inflammation, and immune response. Intervention venues have ranged
      from the community (including worksites) and churches, research institute-based,to clinical
      practice sites. This study will include two study arms (i.e., intervention and control).
      Participants will be recruited from the community. Our goal is to recruit 15 participants per
      arm, in addition to enrolling partners (e.g., spouse, child, sibling) of intervention
      participants (n total = 45, n intervention = 30, n control = 15). Participants will undergo a
      baseline clinic, followed by twelve weeks of intervention classes, and then another clinic.
      The main intervention classes will take place at a state-of the-art demonstration kitchen
      located in the Cancer Prevention and Control Program at the University of South Carolina's
      Arnold School of Public Health.

      Study Participants, Recruitment, and Randomization: Participants will be recruited from
      greater Columbia, South Carolina via websites, fliers, newspaper ads, and listserv messages.
      Eligible participants will: 1) be ≥18 years of age; 2) have no serious, unstable co-morbidity
      that would make participation in a diet and PA intervention difficult or risky; 3) be willing
      and able to participate fully in the study for a period of three months, 4) have Columbia, SC
      area residence and be able to travel to and from the clinic and intervention sites; 5) have
      access to the Internet; and 6) not be currently enrolled in a weight loss study or actively
      taking weight loss medications. However, it should be noted that to see a reduction in
      inflammation levels individuals need to have "room from improvement". Because it is costly to
      screen all participants for inflammation (the primary outcome of this study) prior to
      enrollment, a body mass index (BMI, kg/m2) of 25.0-49.9 will be used as an eligibility
      criterion, as BMI is strongly associated with inflammation.

      Anyone with one or more of the following criteria will be ineligible to participate in this
      study: 1) taking any medications that are known to influence CRP levels such as systemic
      steroids (e.g., prednisone); 2) diagnoses of congestive heart failure, chronic renal failure,
      chronic liver disease (including alcoholic cirrhosis), cancer within the past year (except
      for non-melanoma skin cancer); 3) have had any major surgery in the past 3 months; 4) life
      expectancy <3 years, on hospice, nursing home or other institutionalized care; or 6)
      currently pregnant or planning on becoming pregnant in the next year.

      Recent attention to behavioral interventions has pointed out limitations in traditional
      randomization schemes among these types of randomized controlled trials (e.g., inability to
      truly blind participants, lack of decision making by participants). Other methods of
      allocation, which take into account perceived ability to comply with intervention
      requirements, are much more appropriate for this kind of intervention. Therefore,
      investigators propose that only individuals who are motivated to make a healthy diet change
      will receive the intervention.

      Intervention Design: It should be noted that the cognitive and behavioral skills that will be
      incorporated into the intervention are based largely on social cognitive theory and the
      transtheoretical model. These include self-regulation (self-monitoring, setting goals,
      problem solving, and reinforcement), enhancing behavioral competence, increasing
      self-efficacy (through performance accomplishment, persuasion or encouragement, role
      modeling, and making the experience pleasant), enhancing social support, stress management,
      time management, relapse prevention, and incorporating changes into everyday life.

      The two arms of this intervention study will be the DII-Based Counseling System, including
      access to our Imagine Healthy Online Portal, and a general health education control.
      Group-based behavior change programs provide a way for members to share successes and obtain
      and provide support to one another. Both arms will be composed of 1 wave of 15 individuals.
      Participants will be required to invite a partner of their choosing to join them in the
      intervention activities to improve social support for behavioral change. Investigators have
      experience conducting studies where participants invite partners to participate. Both arms
      will undergo clinics for data collection at baseline and immediate post-intervention (i.e.,
      at 12 weeks in both groups). Measurements include lipids (very low density lipoprotein
      [VLDL], low density lipoprotein [LDL], high density lipoprotein [HDL], total cholesterol, and
      triglycerides), insulin, and high-sensitivity c-reactive protein (hs-CRP). Anthropometric
      measurements that will be obtained including height and weight (from which investigators can
      compute BMI), and waist and hip circumferences.

      The standard of care arm will receive general health information (e.g., general guidelines of
      healthy eating and physical activity, stress management, cancer screening, etc.). This
      information will be provided through email, which will include a weekly newsletter, healthy
      recipes that are not focused on reducing the DII scores, links to online content, and
      health-related event announcements in and around Columbia, SC. Any participants in the
      standard of care arm who does not use email regularly may request for items to be mailed to
      their mailing address.

      The DII-based counseling group will utilize our 12-week IMAGINE Counseling System curriculum
      that was developed as part of our previous SBIR award (R44DK103377).The DII-based counseling
      group will meet once a week for 12 weeks to cook, and to engage in exercise and
      stress-reduction activities. Along with the initial clinic, participants will meet one-on-one
      for a nutrition counseling session with a registered dietitian. Participants will have access
      to online material through our Imagine Healthy Online Portal and will be given take-home
      activities, referred to as IMAGINE actions. These homework assignments will focus on goal
      setting for nutrition, physical activity, and stress reduction. The nutrition components of
      this intervention will be based on the DII and will focus on anti-inflammatory foods and
      components. Some more specific aspects of the diet include increasing consumption of whole
      foods (fruits and vegetables generally, legumes, and whole grain intake) and decreasing fat
      (especially saturated and trans fats) that are known to influence inflammation. Examples of
      strongly anti-inflammatory foods include dark green leafy vegetables, berries, spices and
      herbs, and sweet potatoes, among others. Watermelon is an anti-inflammatory food (i.e., has a
      low DII score) and will be incorporated into our nutrition component.

      Weakly meal plans will be designed to provide participants with 2 meals per day that
      incorporate watermelon. In each weekly class session, a recipe with watermelon as an
      ingredient, will be demonstrated and prepared. These hands-on cooking demonstrations will
      take place so that individuals learn how to prepare healthy, yet tasty, dishes. As is our
      practice with our other dietary interventions, investigators will focus the experiential part
      on sensations of taste and smell as well as tactile sensations, including things such as
      cutting and washing vegetables. Investigators will rely on foods that are familiar to South
      Carolinians and are available in local markets while exploring different methods of cooking
      that incorporate spices from other parts of the world. Investigators have had extensive
      experience with this type of design of dietary intervention. At the end of each session
      participants will receive 1 whole Watermelon and 1-gallon bag of precut watermelon per week
      during class. For continued reinforcement, participants in the DII-based counseling group
      will have access to our Imagine Healthy Online Portal. The online portal will provide weekly
      blog posts, a recipe database of 84 recipes that will incorporate watermelon into their meal
      plans, interactive modules, and short vignettes of cooking tutorials. Information will
      pertain to nutrition, physical activity, stress reduction, and making meaningful behavior
      change. Some information will remain on the website from the beginning of the intervention
      and additional information will be added weekly. Notifications will be sent out to
      participants when new information is added. Additionally, intervention arm participants will
      receive a weekly newsletter to their email.

      The physical activity targets for this intervention will be consistent with physical activity
      recommendations for adults. Participants will be encouraged to obtain at least 150 minutes of
      moderate-intensity physical activity (equivalent to brisk walking) per week and to engage in
      at least two sessions of strength training each week. To ensure safety, participants will be
      encouraged to progress very gradually in increasing the intensity and duration of physical
      activity from their baseline. For stress reduction, several techniques will be employed
      including breathing exercises and mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR)-like activities.

      Measurements: The primary exposure of interest will be the intervention arm status. However,
      a focus of IMAGINE is to reduce sources of dietary inflammation. The DII is comprised of
      various micro and macronutrients, as well as several individual food items, collectively
      known as food parameters (more negative scores represent more anti-inflammatory diets and
      more positive scores represent more pro-inflammatory diets). Participants will report their
      diet using the Automated Self-administered 24-hour Dietary Recall (ASA24™).The ASA24TM was
      created by the National Cancer Institute and includes a web-site for participant reporting
      and a corresponding web-site for researchers to obtain the dietary information
      (http://epi.grants.cancer.gov/asa24/). The DII will be calculated from ASA24TM data.
      Previously, investigators have calculated the DII from this tool and found associations with
      CRP.These self-assessments will take place at each data collection time point (i.e., baseline
      and 12 weeks) where participants will report their dietary intake for two days on the weekend
      and two during the week. The entire process of developing the DII is described elsewhere.9 In
      short, nearly 2,000 research articles, published between 1950 and 2010, examining the
      relationship between 45 different food parameters (mostly micro and macronutrients) and
      inflammation were reviewed to derive inflammatory effect scores. Additionally, DII
      calculation is linked to a regionally representative world database. The world database
      contains standard means and deviations for the 45 food parameters from 11 populations around
      the world.9 A z-score is created for each food parameter by subtracting the world standard
      mean from the participants estimated intake, then dividing this by its standard deviation.
      This is then converted to a percentile and centered by doubling the value and subtracting 1.
      The product of the literature-derived inflammatory effect score and the centered percentile
      for each food parameter is summed across all food parameters to create the overall DII score.
      Higher (i.e., more positive) scores indicate more pro-inflammatory diets and negative values
      are more anti-inflammatory.9 To control for the effect of total energy intake, the DII was
      calculated per 1,000 calories of food consumed.

      The primary outcome of interest will include the inflammatory marker hs-CRP. All blood
      samples will be drawn from an antecubital vein or dorsal hand vein by a trained phlebotomist
      while subjects are in the seated position. Blood will be collected using two serum separator
      tubes (SSTs) at a capacity of 8 milliliters and one whole blood EDTA tube. The SSTs will be
      processed and as many one milliliter aliquots (about 5) as possible of serum will be stored
      for CRP, lipid, and insulin characterization. The whole blood will be for HbA1c%. All blood
      samples will be collected in the morning after an overnight fast and information on fasting
      and exact time of blood draw will be obtained. An acute-phase protein, CRP is a serological
      marker of inflammation that is produced primarily by the liver in response to stimulation by
      IL-6. CRP correlates with the magnitude and severity of inflammation. CRP has been associated
      with the pathogenesis of several chronic diseases, including type 2 diabetes, cancer, and
      CVD. It is one of the most commonly utilized markers of inflammation because of its chemical
      stability, long half-life, and relative lack of diurnal variation.Total plasma concentrations
      of inflammatory cytokines will be determined using quantitative sandwich ELISA kits provided
      by R&D Systems, Inc. (Minneapolis, MN) for c-reactive protein (Catalog #DCRP00); sensitivity
      = 0.022ng/mL. Samples and provided standards will be analyzed in duplicate, according to
      manufacturer's instructions. Inter-assay and intra-assay variability will be assessed.

      Secondary outcomes will include HbA1c%, insulin, and lipids. HbA1c will be measured in whole
      blood collected in the EDTA tube using a Siemens/Bayer DCA 2000+ Analyzer and Test Kit DCA™
      (SEMDIA-10311134), which efficiently performs hemoglobin A1c tests in minutes. Lipid analysis
      will include very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL), high density
      lipoprotein (HDL), total cholesterol, and triglycerides using a standardized protocol.
      Lastly, insulin concentrations will be determined using quantitative sandwich ELISA kits
      provided by Mercodia, INC (Winston Salem, NC, Catalog #10-1113-01); sensitivity = 1.0 mU/L.

      Actigraph GT3X-BT based PA and sleep: The GT3x-BT produced by Actigraph is lightweight (i.e.,
      slightly less than 1 ounce) and is about the size of a wristwatch. Participants will be asked
      to wear the GT3X-BT for 24 hours on their wrist, except during water-based activities, for 10
      days around the clinic dates. Minimum wear time requirements will be 7 days (including
      Saturday and Sunday) with at least 20 hours/day. During periods the GT3x-BT is not worn,
      participants will report their activities in a log. Energy expenditure during non-wear time
      will be estimated based on the Compendium of Physical Activities.168 The following PA
      parameters are provided using propriety algorithms by the ActiLife 6 software for physical
      activity: activity counts, energy expenditure, metabolic equivalents (METs), steps, physical
      activity intensity, activity bouts, and sedentary bouts. The Actigraph GT3X products have
      been validated in numerous studies. Sleep also will be characterized by the GT3X and has been
      shown to be valid for sleep when worn on the wrist. Specifically, sleep duration, efficiency,
      onset (i.e., bedtime), and offset (i.e., wake time) will be used.

      Anthropometric measurements taken during each of the two clinic visits will include height
      (cm), body weight (kg), and body fat percentage will be assessed according to standard
      procedures using a wall-mounted stadiometer (Model S100, Ayerton Corp., Prior lake, MN) and
      electronic scale (Healthometer® model 500 KL, McCook, IL) in bare feet. BMI (kg/m2) will be
      calculated from measured weight and height. Waist circumference (cm) and hip circumference
      (cm) will be measured with a calibrated, spring-loaded tape measure by trained technicians.
      Blood pressure will be measured according to standard procedures using a stethoscope and
      manual sphygmomanometer after the participant has been sitting for 5 minutes.

      Covariates measured will include data on basic demographics, income, education, smoking,
      other health behaviors and current medications. Investigators also will measure biases known
      as social desirability and social approval using the 33-item Marlowe-Crowne Social
      Desirability (MCSD) Scale and the 20-item Martin-Larson Approval Motivation (MLAM) scale.
      Investigators will measure the effect of self-efficacy (confidence in the ability to change
      across problem situations) beliefs about diet and PA using adaptations of previously
      validated questionnaires. Depression and stress also will be measured using the Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Depression (scale) and the Perceived Stress Scale, respectively.

      Statistical Analyses: All analyses will be performed using SAS® version 9.4 (Cary, NC).
      Differences in descriptive covariates between study arms will be tested using chi-square
      tests for categorical covariates and t-test (normally distributed) or Wilcoxon rank sums
      tests (non-normal) for continuous measures. Investigators will employ linear mixed models
      (LMM) to determine whether the intervention arms are associated with the primary outcome
      (i.e., CRP). Specifically, outcome values (e.g., CRP) at time point 2 (i.e., 12 weeks) will
      be modelled as the outcome. Intervention status, additional covariates, and the outcome
      measure at baseline will be on the right side of the equation. Confounder selections will
      begin with a series of multivariable analyses (i.e., time point two outcome = exposure +
      covariate + baseline outcome). If a covariate has a p-value of ≤0.20, it will be added to a
      full model. Confounders will include those that lead to a 10% change in the beta coefficient
      of intervention status when the confounder is removed; significant covariates (p≤0.05) also
      will be included in final models. The residuals for all final models will be examined for
      their adherence to the assumptions of linear regression. If the assumptions are not met,
      other analytical approaches can be taken. For example, quantile regression is an analytic
      technique that allows for an assessment of associations throughout the distribution of the
      outcome of interest.Additionally, CRP has a standard cut-point of 3.0mg/L for clinical
      reference. Therefore logistic regression can be used to obtain odds ratios [OR] and 95%CIs
      for the different intervention arms based on this cut-point.
    
  