
    
      The LFA-1/ICAM-1 interaction is important in migration of lymphocytes to inflammatory sites,
      T-lymphocyte activation, antigen presentation, and maintaining the integrity of the
      immunologic synapse. In both murine and human Sjogren's Syndrome, increased expression of
      LFA-1 was found on activated lymphocytes, and increased expression of ICAM-1 was present on
      the activated endothelial cells in the diseased salivary and lacrimal glands. In animal
      models, blockade of the LFA-1/ICAM-1 interaction resulted in reduction of glandular
      inflammation.

      Raptiva (efalizumab) is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to human
      CD11a, the alpha-subunit of Leukocyte Function Antigen-1 (LFA-1) and inhibits the
      LFA-1/ICAM-1 interaction. Raptiva is an FDA-approved medication for treatment of
      mild-to-moderate psoriasis.

      In this pilot, proof of concept, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, up to 25
      patients with Sjogren's syndrome may be enrolled. In the first, double-blind phase of the
      study, patients will be randomized and treated with weekly subcutaneous (SC) injections of
      either Raptiva (1mg/kg) or placebo for 12 weeks. In the second open label phase, all patients
      will be treated with weekly SC injections of Raptiva (1mg/kg) for another 12 weeks and then
      followed for an additional 8 weeks. Safety will be evaluated using standard clinical and
      laboratory parameters. To assess the potential effect of Raptiva on Sjogren's syndrome, minor
      salivary gland biopsy, oral and ocular evaluations, and measurements of surrogate markers of
      inflammation will be compared between the Raptiva and placebo treated groups before and after
      the treatment. Patients who either do not tolerate the drug or have worsening in their
      disease activity will be withdrawn from the protocol.

      If Raptiva is well tolerated in this study and the treatment is associated with improvement
      in clinical parameters of Sjogren's Syndrome, further large studies of efficacy are planned.
    
  