
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in Western
      civilized countries. Early detection of CAD allows optimal therapeutic management in order to
      decrease morbidity and mortality. In the Netherlands 80,000 invasive coronary angiographies
      are performed each year. Invasive coronary angiography (ICA), particularly in conjunction
      with fractional flow reserve (FFR) measurements, is considered the gold standard in
      diagnosing and evaluating the severity of CAD in the current era. FFR measurements during ICA
      are useful in determining whether a coronary stenosis is functionally important. An FFR <
      0.80 is considered abnormal, reflecting a hemodynamic significant coronary stenosis. ICA has
      superior spatial and temporal resolution compared with non-invasive imaging techniques.
      However, ICA is an invasive procedure which is associated with a low, though significant,
      complication rate including bleeding, coronary artery dissections, cerebral embolism, cardiac
      arrhythmias, myocardial infarction and death. Moreover, ICA provides only limited information
      on the presence of atherosclerotic plaques not associated with luminal stenosis. Furthermore,
      conventional catheter angiography without the advent of FFR measurements, is not able to
      provide information about the hemodynamic significance of a significant luminal stenosis (≥
      70%), i.e. whether a coronary artery stenosis is leading to myocardial perfusion
      abnormalities. Therefore, there is a need for non-invasive imaging techniques for diagnosing
      and evaluating the hemodynamic significance of CAD. Non-invasive techniques can serve as a
      gatekeeper for invasive coronary angiographies in order to decrease the number of purely
      diagnostic invasive angiographies and associated morbidity and mortality. The detection and
      management of cardiovascular disease increasingly utilize non-invasive cardiac imaging in
      patients with suspected or known CAD. By more accurately identifying patients who are
      eligible for coronary revascularization with the use of non-invasive cardiac imaging, the
      number of unnecessary invasive diagnostic coronary angiographies can be decreased.

      Study design

      Positron emission tomography:

      PET images will be acquired using a Gemini Time-of-Flight (TF) 64 scanner (Philips
      Healthcare, Best, The Netherlands). Quantitative myocardial perfusion at rest and during
      hyperemia in ml -1. min -1. g -1 of myocardial tissue will be measured using
      oxygen-15-labelled water (H215O). Pharmacological stress is induced by infusion of adenosine
      intravenously at a rate of 140 µg/kg/min. Two minutes after the start of adenosine
      vasodilation reaches a steady state and H215O will be given intravenously as a bolus followed
      with the start of a 6-minutes emission scan. Directly after the PET sequence, a low dose CT
      attenuation scan (CTAC) is acquired after which the infusion of adenosine is terminated.
      Technetium-99m sestamibi is injected intravenously after the second CTAC scan. A stress
      SPECT-scan is performed 45 minutes after the stress PET scan.

      Single photon emission computed tomography:

      SPECT imaging will be performed according to standard clinical protocols for myocardial
      perfusion imaging. All patients will undergo SPECT-imaging(Symbia T2, Siemens, The Hague, The
      Netherlands) on a during hyperaemia induced by infusion of adenosine at a rate of
      140mcg/kg/min, using a dose of 400 megabecquerel (MBq) of Technetium (99mTc) tetrofosmin.
      Tetrofosmin will be administered during adenosine induced stress during the time of the PET
      stress perfusion scan. Directly after the stress SPECT-sequence, a low dose CT-attenuation
      scan (CTAC) will be performed. A SPECT- rest imaging scan will be performed 72 hours after
      the stress SPECT scan on the day of the catheterization.

      Computed tomography:

      Patients will undergo a coronary calcium score (CTCAC) and CT coronary angiography scan on a
      256-slice CT scanner (Philips Brilliance iCT, Philips Healthcare, Best, the Netherlands).
      Prospective ECG-gating (Step & Shoot Cardiac, Philips Healthcare, Best, The Netherlands) at
      75 % of the R-R interval will be performed in order to minimize radiation burden.

      Invasive coronary angiography:

      ICA will be performed via a transfemoral of transradial approach according to the standard
      procedure. Iodized contrast will be given intracoronary during the procedure to evaluate the
      coronary artery lumen. The operator and an interventional cardiologist blinded to the
      findings obtained with non-invasive imaging will evaluate the ICA images. ICA imaging will be
      performed with a biplane or monoplane cardiovascular X-ray system (Allura Xper FD 10/10,
      Philips Healthcare, Best, The Netherlands) in at least two orthogonal directions. After
      primary coronary angiography, FFR will be measured in all coronary arteries, using a
      0.014-inch sensor tipped guide wire. A stenosis with a FFR < 0.80 will be considered as a
      hemodynamic significant stenosis. Clinical decision making will be based on the findings
      obtained with ICA and FFR measurements and will be made by the interventional cardiologist.
    
  