
    
      Investigators will conduct a small pilot of the adapted social network intervention to assess
      its acceptability and feasibility. The study team will pilot the intervention with a total of
      50 people: 25 HIV-positive patients enrolled in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) and 25
      community support persons (CSPs) identified by participating MMT patients. MMT patients and
      his/her CSP will complete a baseline survey on demographics, relationship to the patient/CSP,
      social network members, social support, engagement in social and/or recovery-oriented
      activities, and knowledge of and attitudes towards addiction/people with addiction, MMT and
      HIV. Participants will then attend one 2-hour group session each week for four weeks.
      Attendance will be documented for each group session. Group sessions will be facilitated by a
      community outreach worker or social worker affiliated with the study team using a manual
      adapted in a previous stage of the overall study.

      Eligible MMT patients will identify a drug-free family member or friend (CSP) to attend
      weekly group sessions together. The CSP will learn methods to support and reinforce MMT
      retention and ART adherence. Through weekly "homework assignments," the CSP helps the patient
      engage in social, drug-free activities and connect to existing community resources (e.g.
      mutual-help groups, religious groups, sports groups, etc.) in efforts to expand the patient's
      recovery and treatment network.

      At the end of the pilot, the study team will conduct a follow-up survey with MMT patient and
      CSP participants. The post- pilot survey will include similar questions to the baseline
      survey, but will also include questions to assess acceptability and satisfaction with group
      sessions, experiences attending social activities in the community with the MMT patient/CSP
      as part of "homework assignments," and suggestions for changes to the intervention.
    
  