
    
      Pregnant women will be identified from the antenatal clinics of 4 governmental and 2 other
      health centres. A total of 1400 women meeting set criteria will be randomised into receiving
      one of the following interventions: 1) Iron and folic acid supplementation to the mother
      during pregnancy only (IFA group), 2). Multiple micronutrient supplementation to the mother
      during pregnancy and six months thereafter (MMN group), 3) Lipid-based nutrient supplements
      to the mother during pregnancy and six months thereafter and to the child from 6 to 18 months
      of age (LNS group).

      The mothers will receive LNS or the multiple micronutrients at 2-weekly intervals at their
      homes during pregnancy and weekly during first six months of lactation. Children in the LNS
      group will receive LNS weekly, starting at 6 months. Mothers will be medically examined and
      tested for defined laboratory parameters at enrolment, at 36 gestation weeks, at birth or
      soon thereafter, and at 6 months after delivery. Child size will be assessed at birth or soon
      thereafter and at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months of age. The mothers will undergo a morbidity
      evaluation fortnightly and the children weekly.

      864 mother-infant pairs will undergo the complete intervention and follow-up, as described
      above. The remaining 536 participants will undergo a simplified intervention and follow-up,
      in which there are no interventions after birth and the child follow-up consists only of 4 3
      health centre and one home visits; first at 1 week, then at six weeks (at home) and at 6 and
      18 months of age.

      A sub-study on the the development of intestinal microbiome was added in August 2011. This
      entails the collection of stool samples from the mother at 1 month after delivery, breast
      milk samples from the mothers at 1, 3, and 6 months after delivery and stool and urine
      samples from the children repeated during the a8 months of intervention. The aim of this
      subproject is to study the development of the infants' intestinal microbiota, its predictors
      and its association to child growth and other health outcomes. At the same time point, the
      sample size was reduced from 2400 to 1400 participants (due to constraints in funding).

      A one year post-intervention follow-up for participants in the complete follow-up was added
      to the study protocol in August 2013. The intervention will be stopped when the participants
      are 18 months old. Thereafter, there will be an anthropometrirc assessment and blood and
      urine draw at the study clinic at 24 and 30 months of age. Stool samples will be collected
      from the participants at the age of 21, 24, 27 and 30 months, to study the development of
      intestinal microbiome.

      In a follow-up study, when the children are 10 years old, we will assess:

        1. child growth using standard anthropometric measures,

        2. cardiometabolic health by measuring body composition, blood pressure and plasma lipids,

        3. neurodevelopment by measuring neural function, cognitive skills and education attainment
           using EE and EGMA and Raven's questionnaires,

        4. lung function with spirometry and allergy symptoms and asthma using ISAAC questionnaire.
    
  