
    
      The study population consisted of 2 groups; (1) the hyperemesis gravidarum group, consist of
      25 pregnant women who developed dehydration due to HG between 6 and 13 gestational weeks and
      between 18 and 35 years (2) the normal pregnancy group, consisting of 25 pregnant women.

      HG was defined according to the fallowing American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
      (ACOG) criteria; severe nausea and vomiting resulted in 5% weight loss with regard to
      pre-gestation or vomiting more than 3 times and 3-5 % weight loss with ketonuria. The
      diagnosis of dehydration was clinically defined and patients with moderate and severe
      dehydration were included in the study. As clinical findings; Weight loss, capillary recall
      time, dry mucous membranes, dry eye, pulse rate, systolic blood pressure, respiration, skin
      turgor deterioration and urine output were evaluated.

      Other pathologies causing nausea and vomiting like; gastroenteritis, gastroparesis, gall duct
      diseases, hepatitis, peptic ulcers, appendicitis, pyelonephritis, ovarian torsion, urinary
      tract stones, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, migraine, pseudo
      tumor cerebra, vestibular diseases were excluded from the study.Patients were excluded from
      the study in the presence of pregestational diabetes chronic hypertension, chronic liver and
      renal failure, preeclampsia history, multiple pregnancy, hyperlipidemia,
      hypercholesterolemia, obesity, tobacco use, NSAID drug use, infection within the last three
      months and surgery within the last month that could cause endothelial dysfunction.

      Blood and urine specimens were collected from the patients with HG during hospitalization and
      during regular clinic visits in control group. The 2mL of blood samples were withdrawn into
      serum-separating tubes for the measurements of serum biochemical parameters and 2 mL blood
      samples were withdrawn into EDTA containing tubes for measurement serum hemoglobin and
      hematocrit levels. Early-morning urine samples were collected from study population. These
      blood and urine samples were analyzed in same day for Kayseri Education and Research hospital
      biochemical clinics. In addition 2mL of blood samples were withdrawn into serum-separating
      tubes for analyzing serum sVEGFR-1, sVCAM-1, sE-selectin and sICAM-1 levels. All of the serum
      were stored at -80°C in nonadsorbable tubes. After three months for stored first blood
      sample, serum sVEGFR-1, sVCAM-1, sE-selectin and sICAM-1 levels were determined by an enzyme
      linked immunosorbent assay.
    
  