
    
      Acute respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome is a life-threatening
      occurrence. The annual incidence of ARDS is 141,500 patients, with 59,000 deaths, and a cost
      of 1,642,000 hospital days/year. Within this population, special care needs of obese patients
      are becoming a clinically important entity within the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). ICU
      literature on body positioning for obese mechanically ventilated patients is limited.
      Currently, intubated obese patients are placed in the supine position with the head of bed
      elevated at 30 degrees. The 30 degree head up position has been adopted for all patients as a
      reflection of the Ventilator Associated Pneumonia prevention literature. In all critically
      ill patients on mechanical ventilation, a cephalic shift of the diaphragm along with dorsal
      atelectasis of the lung occurs. In obese patients this alteration may be associated with
      greater degree of impairment in lung compliance and gas exchange as compared to non-obese
      ventilated patients. It is possible that current ICU body positioning recommendations for
      obese mechanically ventilated patients may be detrimental due to the obese abdominal
      compartment hampering normal diaphragm function and position.

      In supine, intubated, mechanically ventilated patients it has long been noted that lower lung
      lobes become atelectatic soon after intubation due to several factors such as accumulation of
      fluids, air closure, and a cephalic shift of the diaphragm. Obese patients develop more
      atelectasis during anesthesia than non-obese patients. There have been attempts to correct
      this iatrogenic complication in critically ill patients such as placement of patients in the
      prone position. Prone positioning does resolve the dorsal atelectasis and shows improvement
      in hypoxia. However there is no mortality benefit with prone positioning. Also, continuous
      lateral rotational patient positioning on mechanical ventilation has shown similar effects7.
      Specific literature with regards to obese patients and their unique susceptibility towards
      this phenomenon is limited.

      As BMI increases there is an associated reduction of lung volumes, expiatory reserve volume,
      and functional reserve capacity. It is also known that in the reverse trendelenburg position,
      there is a gravitational pull allowing abdominal contents to descent toward the pelvis. This
      position of the abdominal contents allows for a more functional diaphragm position. One
      observational study 10 conducted a 12 hour intervention which examined upright position with
      patients' body in a straight line at 40-45 degrees (i.e., reverse trendelenburg-no bend at
      the waist). This study demonstrated a significant increase in the PaO2/FiO2 ratio (ie,
      oxygenation) during upright position.
    
  