
    
      The aims of this pilot study are to (1) evaluate whether preteens who receive the video game
      have better self-reported outcomes related to knowledge of HPV and HPV vaccine, vaccination
      self-efficacy and decisional balance compared with preteens who do not receive the game; and
      (2) evaluate outcomes related to immersion in the video game and game play experiences of
      preteens who played the game. HPV vaccination initiation and completion data are collected
      from practices for both preteens who receive the game and a comparison group who do not
      receive the game.

      This is a multiple baseline study based in primary care practices in North Carolina and
      conducted over 3 waves of 16 practices each wave. The goal is to recruit 160 boys and girls
      ages 11-12 and not vaccinated against HPV for each wave. Participants are recruited by their
      primary care providers to enroll in the study. Parents give consent and preteens give assent.

      An original video game, Land of Secret Gardens, is created for the study. The game is a
      metaphor for protecting seedlings (body) with a potion (vaccine). Points to buy seeds and
      create the potion are earned by playing minigames. The minigames include several versions of
      finding secret objects in a garden shed and another involves playing a shield game with blue
      spikey balls (i.e., HPV) before they land on budding plants. Throughout the play, players are
      exposed to messaging about HPV and the benefits of the HPV vaccine.

      Preteens are randomly assigned to an intervention group to play the video game or to a
      comparison group that will not play the game. Participants are asked to complete baseline and
      postintervention surveys. Measures included are scales for knowledge of HPV and HPV vaccine,
      vaccination self-efficacy and decisional balance about deciding to pursue HPV vaccination.
      Participants in the intervention group are also asked about story immersion and game play.
    
  