
    
      The overall goal of this research is to identify dietary and physiological factors
      contributing to elevated levels of trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), a choline-derived
      gut-microbiome-dependent metabolite that has been identified to increase cardiovascular
      disease risk. Our recent findings indicate that the gut microbiome may account for variations
      in TMAO levels, whereby those with a greater enrichment of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes had
      elevated TMAO response to dietary precursor intake. However, the interaction between choline
      intake and gut microbiota composition as a determinant of interindividual variations in TMAO
      response has not been investigated. This study sought to i) compare plasma and urinary TMAO
      response after acute challenge containing different forms of choline; and ii) to determine
      the association between differences in TMAO response with differences in gut microbiota
      composition. To accomplish these objectives, a randomized, controlled cross-over study was
      conducted in healthy participants (n=41). The study incorporated three arms comprised of
      study meals containing (i) 600 mg choline as choline bitartrate; (ii) 600 mg choline as
      phosphatidylcholine; or (iii) no choline. Each meal was served with a bagel with
      margarine-butter spread and one cup of water, administered in a single day and separated by a
      1-week washout period. Baseline blood sample was obtained by a phlebotomist using a standard
      venipuncture procedure, and participants collected their baseline urine sample. They also
      turned in a one-time self-collected baseline stool sample. Following the consumption of the
      study meal, serial blood samples were collected at 30 min and 1, 2, 4 and 6 h, and urine
      samples collected throughout the 6 h study period. At 4.5 h, participants were provided a
      fixed fruit snack (i.e., 2 single serving prepackaged applesauce) and water.
    
  