
    
      Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA) is a heritable bone marrow failure (BMF) syndrome characterized
      by selective erythroid defects typically presenting within the first year of life as a
      normochromic, macrocytic anemia with reticulocytopenia. More than half of all DBA cases are
      associated with either inherited or spontaneous mutations in ribosomal proteins, making DBA a
      prototypic ribosomopathy . Furthermore, although the primary presentation is isolated anemia,
      as life expectancy has improved, progressive defects in other lineages have now been
      identified, consistent with a long-term stem cell defect. Current standard of care for DBA is
      the use of systemic corticosteroids, the mechanism of which is unclear, although only half
      show an initial response. Even when a response to steroids is observed, long-term steroid
      therapy carries significant morbidity, especially in children or in combination with
      transfusion-associated iron overload, and thus most cannot tolerate high-dose steroids
      long-term. Responses are rare with second-line immunomodulatory agents. Yet other than
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in those patients with healthy matched
      donors, there are no alternative therapies.

      In one model for DBA pathogenesis, the defects lead to an overabundance of the iron-carrying
      moiety heme in primitive erythroid cells, unbound by protein. Free heme is toxic to cells,
      likely exacerbated over time by iron overload due to transfusions. Ongoing work with
      eltrombopag (EPAG) has shown that it is capable of acting as a potent iron chelator,
      including intracellular iron, with evidence that this effect of EPAG can reverse the impact
      of excess heme and elevated reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, in a recent trial of EPAG
      for moderate aplastic anemia or hypoproliferative unilineage cytopenias, we identified a
      robust response to EPAG in the one DBA patient enrolled in this clinical trial. This response
      has been durable over more than three years since study entry but requires continuous EPAG to
      maintain transfusion independence. From these data, we hypothesize that EPAG may be able to
      improve production of red blood cells in DBA patients via chelation of iron and subsequent
      reduction in heme synthesis, resulting in decreased toxicity to bone marrow stem cells and
      developing erythroid cells.

      We will conduct a single-arm, pilot trial in patients with steroid-refractory or
      steroid-intolerant DBA, treating with a fixed dose of EPAG for 6 months to assess safety and
      efficacy at improving hematological manifestations of DBA. Responders at 6 months will be
      able to continue EPAG on the extension part of this protocol for an additional 3 years. We
      will examine the hematologic, molecular, cytogenetic and clonal responses to EPAG in
      responders and non-responders alike. Translational studies will examine the mechanism of
      activity of EPAG in DBA through its effects on iron metabolism, erythroid differentiation,
      apoptosis, global transcriptome and TPO signaling pathways in patient s hematopoietic stem
      and progenitor cells (HSPCs).
    
  