
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is chronic inflammatory neurodegenerative disease. About two-thirds
      of persons with MS (PwMS) report MS-related fatigue. It is a most disabling impairment and is
      associated with activity limitations, participation restrictions and reduced health-related
      quality of life (HRQL). MS fatigue may be related directly to the disease, e.g. inflammation.
      Resistance training can have direct effects on the MS disease by modulating cytokine levels,
      where a higher intensity is thought to have a more profound effect. Thus, there are reasons
      to hypothesise that high-intensity resistance training might reduce fatigue in PwMS. There
      are, however, no randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on resistance training in PwMS with
      fatigue. Although the recommendation of resistance training for adults with chronic diseases
      is twice a week, most primary health-care providers in Sweden only offer supervised training
      once a week for a limited period, e.g. 8-12 weeks. Thus, our aims are to evaluate the effects
      of 12 weeks high-intensity resistance training on functioning (fatigue, mood, activities and
      participation), wellbeing/HRQL and on inflammatory biological markers (e.g. cytokines) in
      blood. In this two-armed single-blinded RCT, 90 PwMS with fatigue will be recruited and
      randomly assigned to receive high-intensity resistance training under the supervision from a
      physiotherapist twice a week (group A) or once a week (group B). Primary outcome is fatigue
      measured with a patient reported outcome, i.e. the Fatigue Scale for Motor and Cognitive
      Functions (FSMC), and a change-score of ten points is considered clinically meaningful.
      Secondary outcomes include measures of mood, participation, self-perceived impact of MS,
      wellbeing/HRQL and inflammatory biological markers in blood. Data will be collected at
      baseline and within a week after the last training session of the 12-week intervention.
    
  