
    
      Bacterial urinary tract infections (UTI) are common in young children. The presence of fever
      is considered to be a marker of renal parenchymal involvement. Renal damage during the acute
      phase of infection may lead to scarring, yet the role that scarring plays in the appearance
      of chronic kidney failure is unknown. It is also unclear what influence scars have on the
      natural course of kidney function, especially in children with renal hypodysplasia, with or
      without vesicoureteral reflux (VUR). Renal hypodysplasia is the most common cause for
      dialysis and transplantation in the pediatric population.

      Patients suffering from recurrent UTIs and VUR have often undergone corrective surgery. For
      many years, it was also thought necessary to prescribe long-term antibiotic prophylaxis to
      all children with VUR. These treatment strategies were based on the ideas and opinions of the
      experts, rather than on hard scientific evidence. As regards the prevention of recurrent UTIs
      and the subsequent development of renal scarring, a long-term international study on Reflux
      was not able to demonstrate that surgical correction is more effective than antibiotic
      prophylaxis. Very little data is available regarding the use of long-term antibiotic
      prophylaxis in children with high grade reflux with or without renal hypodysplasia.

      The use of antibiotics during the first few months of life has been associated with a
      significant increase in body mass index (BMI). Even though this effect is probably limited,
      it could have a significant impact on public health given the widespread use of antibiotics
      and due to the considerable increase in cases of pediatric and adult obesity seen over the
      last few years.

      In spite of the lack of evidence, the use of prophylaxis is largely routine practice in most
      centres. Therefore, a randomized study is necessary in order to evaluate whether prophylaxis
      reduces the risk of symptomatic infections and subsequent renal damage.

      To assess the role of prophylaxis in patient with high grade vesicoureteral reflux we will
      perform a multicentre, prospective, randomized, controlled, open-label, study.

      Patients enrolled will be randomized in two groups:

      Group A: no antibiotic prophylaxis. Group B: antibiotic prophylaxis for 24 months. The choice
      of which antibiotic to prescribe from the list below is left to the discretion of each
      investigator, on the basis of local antibiotic resistance patterns.

        -  nitrofurantoin 1.5-2 mg/kg per day

        -  amoxicilline/clavulanic acid 15 mg/kg per day (dose expressed in units equivalent to
           amoxicillin)

        -  cefixime 2 mg/kg per day

        -  trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 2.5 mg/kg per day (dose expressed in units equivalent to
           trimethoprim)

      The study is comprised of:

        -  Phase 1: Pre-randomization - screening tests to determine eligibility for the trial.

        -  Phase 2: Active treatment - this phase follows randomization and foresees 24 months of
           antibiotic prophylaxis for Group B and clinical surveillance for Group A.

        -  Phase 3: Follow-up - a further 36 months of clinical, laboratory and instrumental
           evaluation of renal function and the progression of renal damage for a total follow-up
           period of 5 years
    
  