
    
      Background: Arginase competes with nitric oxide synthase for their common substrate
      L-arginine. Up-regulation of arginase in coronary artery disease (CAD) and diabetes mellitus
      may reduce nitric oxide bioavailability contributing to endothelial dysfunction and
      ischemia-reperfusion injury. Arginase inhibition reduces infarct size in animal models.
      Therefore the aim of the current study was to investigate if arginase inhibition protects
      from endothelial dysfunction induced by ischemia-reperfusion in patients with CAD with or
      without type 2 diabetes.

      Methods: Male patients with CAD (n=12) or CAD + type 2 diabetes (n=12), were included in this
      cross-over study with blinded evaluation. Endothelium-dependent vasodilatation was assessed
      by flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) of the radial artery before and after 20 min
      ischemia-reperfusion during intra-arterial infusion of the arginase inhibitor
      (N-hydroxy-nor-L-arginine, 0.1 mg/min) or saline.

      Results: The forearm ischemia-reperfusion was well tolerated. Endothelium-independent
      vasodilatation was assessed by sublingual nitroglycerin. Ischemia-reperfusion decreased FMD
      in patients with CAD from 12.7±5.2% to 7.9±4.0% during saline administration (P<0.05).
      N-hydroxy-nor-L-arginine administration prevented the decrease in FMD in the CAD group
      (10.3±4.3% at baseline vs. 11.5±3.6% at reperfusion). Ischemia-reperfusion did not
      significantly reduce FMD in patients with CAD + type 2 diabetes. However, FMD at reperfusion
      was higher following nor-NOHA than following saline administration in both groups (P<0.01).
      Endothelium-independent vasodilatation did not differ between the occasions.

      Conclusions: Inhibition of arginase protects against endothelial dysfunction caused by
      ischemia-reperfusion in patients with CAD. Arginase inhibition may thereby be a promising
      therapeutic strategy in the treatment of ischemia-reperfusion injury.
    
  