
    
      Male pattern hair loss (MPHL) is a common, frustrating, and difficult to manage scalp disease
      with few treatment options available. Though the mechanism remains unclear, minoxidil is a
      well-established treatment for MPHL. With the advent of laser assisted drug delivery, the
      investigators seek to investigate the use of laser assisted minoxidil delivery to improve
      bioavailability, and subsequent hair growth for subjects MPHL. With an improved clinical
      outcome and increased treatment efficiency, patient quality of life would be enhanced and
      fewer at home topical treatments with minoxidil may be required. Additionally, this study
      will assist in understanding the effects of stand-alone laser therapy on hair growth and may
      also be used as a background or framework for a growing number of studies investigating this
      technology as a drug delivery system.

      MPHL, also known as androgenetic alopecia, is a non-scarring alopecia resulting in gradual
      hair loss localized to the scalp. In men, this progressive hair loss disorder results in
      characteristic thinning of hair over the vertex and frontal regions.1 The Hamilton-Norwood
      scale categorizes this typical clinical progression.2 While the pathogenesis of MPHL is not
      entirely elucidated, it has been proposed to be an age and hormone dependent process with
      dihydrotestosterone playing a significant role.2,3 Genetic factors may also contribute to the
      disease.4

      Topical minoxidil is an FDA approved treatment for MPHL. Minoxidil 2 and 5% solution are
      known to increase hair regrowth in men with androgenetic alopecia.7 While the mechanism
      remains unknown, it has been proposed minoxidil increases the duration of anagen and vascular
      supply to the follicular structure.8

      Topical treatments for MPHL such as minoxidil have limited efficacy, as topical delivery of
      medication has low bioavailability.9 With the advent of fractionated ablative and
      non-ablative laser technologies, more efficient drug delivery to the level of the superficial
      epidermis and dermis is now possible.

      The outermost layer of skin, the stratum corneum, impedes the diffusion of topical
      medications to follicular structures in the dermis and hypodermis. 9 Ablative fractionated
      laser devices create vertical channels, permitting topical medication to breach the skin's
      top layer, the stratum corneum, and reach deep skin layers where hair follicles reside.9

      Both ablative and non-ablative fractionated laser treatments augment collagen deposition and
      cause growth factor mediated changes to skin ultrastructure.10 Non-ablative fractionated
      laser therapy in MPHL patients improves hair density with and without topical administration
      of growth factor.10 Our proposed study confers an additional mode of treatment beyond
      laser-only therapy by using an ablative fractionated laser to deliver minoxidil 2% solution
      percutaneously.

      Herein, the investigators seek to further optimize patient treatment by investigating a
      combination of these treatment modalities for management of MPHL. The investigators
      hypothesize that fractionated ablative 10,600nm CO2 laser treatment and laser assisted drug
      delivery of minoxidil 2% solution will result in increased hair growth. With this improved
      clinical outcome and increased treatment efficiency, patient quality of life will be enhanced
      and fewer at home topical treatments may be required.
    
  