
    
      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three arms: MNT, IP, or TCC. Participants
      will be enrolled in the study for a total of three years. During those three years,
      participants will have 5 research visits, at baseline, where randomization occurs, 6 months,
      12 months, 24 months, and 36 months. At each research visit, participants will have a lipid
      panel and HbA1c sample drawn, their blood pressure, weight, and height, baseline only, taken.
      Participants will also answer questionnaires that will address health behaviors,
      self-efficacy, measures of self-determination, depression, literacy and numeracy, food
      insecurity, health-related quality-of-life and patient satisfaction with quality of care.

      For the group-based interventions, dietitians will deliver the adapted Look AHEAD lifestyle
      intervention. The first 14 sessions will be delivered weekly and the next 5 sessions
      biweekly. In the subsequent 18 months, group sessions will be delivered monthly from 6-24
      months. In addition, participants will be offered up to 5 individual MNT sessions over the 2
      year intervention period. At these individual visits, dietitians will address
      diabetes-related issues and discuss tailored goals and behaviors, based on the Look AHEAD
      model. Dietitians will provide ongoing feedback to participants' own PCPs about patient
      progress toward goals and will encourage PCPs to reinforce weight loss strategies with their
      patients. Each group will contain up to 12 participants with type 2 diabetes and will last
      1-1.5 hours. The program curriculum focuses on nutrition, activity, and behavioral topics and
      incorporates the use of meal replacements for the first 4-16 weeks to enhance weight loss
      success.

      In addition to the teaching component, participants who are taking insulin or medications
      that can cause hypoglycemia will self-monitor blood glucose levels at least 2 times per day
      and submit self-monitoring records for review each week, either by delivering them at the
      in-person sessions or by mailing, faxing, or emailing them to the study team. Patients on
      oral hypoglycemics who are not adjusting medications based on blood sugar will be instructed
      to do targeted monitoring to determine the effects of exercise and meals on blood glucose.
      The study provider at each health center will review BG records and make any needed
      adjustments to insulin or medication doses according to an algorithm to maintain glycemic
      control and prevent hypoglycemia as participants lose weight.

      A trained member of the study staff will provide MNT referral participants with an
      educational handout emphasizing that modest weight loss (5 - 10%) via caloric restriction and
      gradual adoption of moderate increases in daily physical activity (equivalent to brisk
      walking for 30 minutes daily) is safe and effective in managing diabetes and schedule them
      for an appointment with a dietitian from Nutrition Services for follow up.
    
  