
    
      The novel, human-infecting corona-virus, provisionally named 2019 novel corona virus
      (2019-nCoV) is a single-strand, positive-sense RNA virus and has a similar receptor-binding
      domain structure to that of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. The virus is transmitted via airborne
      droplets to the nasal mucosa. Replication occurs locally in the nasal mucosa, in ciliated
      epithelial cells, over a 3-day incubation period. The mucosal cells are damaged with a
      resultant inflammatory response similar to the common cold. During this time the virus is
      shed in nasal secretions causing disease in the lower respiratory tract, potentially causing
      fatal viral pneumonia.

      The literature supports that NO or its derivatives have inhibitory effects on a variety of
      viral infections. This inhibitory effect was shown to be marked in Interferon (IFN) mediated
      inhibition manifested by activated macrophage. It was also shown to be correlated with
      s-nitrosylation of viral proteins such as reductases and proteases.

      Based on the genetic similarities between SARS and corona viruses, similar viricidal effects
      of NO on COVID-19 can be hypothesized.

      SaNOtize has developed an innovative approach to provide nitric oxide gas using a formulation
      called Nitric Oxide Releasing Solution (NORS). This patented solution releases virucidal
      doses of NO for a sustained period and is effective at rapidly inactivating Influenza A and
      SARS-CoV-2.

      NORS delivered as a gargle (AM), nasal spray (PRN) or as a nasopharyngeal flush (PM) has the
      potential to decontaminate the upper respiratory tract that could preventing transmission and
      progression of COVID-19 in Healthcare Workers & Individuals at Risk of Infection.

      The randomized Prevention study will investigate the ability of NORS to prevent COVID-19
      infection when used prophylactically. The open-label Treatment Sub-Study is expected to be
      small and will provide pilot data on the possibility of NORS as a treatment for Mild/Moderate
      COVID-19 infection.
    
  