
    
      Low exercise capacity is an early clinical marker of metabolic impairment that predicts type
      2 diabetes (T2D) risk, as well as future co-morbidities and complications. Aerobic exercise
      training is the only effective treatment to increase exercise capacity and reduce metabolic
      risk. However, despite maintaining similar levels of physical activity, exercise capacity
      remains lower in people with impaired glucose tolerance and T2D, compared to those with
      normal glucose tolerance, suggesting "exercise resistance". The mechanisms of exercise
      resistance in metabolic disease are unknown. In preclinical studies, exercise-induced
      increases in circulating angiogenic markers and skeletal muscle capillary density predict
      improved exercise capacity with training. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that impaired
      glucose tolerance precedes exercise resistance and impaired exercise-induce angiogenesis in
      muscle. Based on these data, it was hypothesized that exercise resistance in human T2D is
      caused by an impaired angiogenic response to exercise, secondary to impaired glycemic
      control. This study will determine whether the angiogenic response to a single bout of
      exercise in human subjects is blunted in patients with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT),
      compared to those with normal glucose tolerance (NGT). Angiogenic potential will be measured
      using a novel in vitro assay developed to assess endothelial tube-formation induced by
      circulating serum angiogenic regulators following exercise. In addition, a novel
      exercise-activated signaling pathway in skeletal muscle that is predictive of exercise
      resistance in animal models was identified. A second aim of the proposed investigation is to
      determine the effect of impaired glucose tolerance on molecular signaling in response to
      exercise in skeletal muscle. This investigation represents a critical step in determining the
      mechanisms that contribute to low exercise capacity in individuals at risk for diabetes.
    
  