
    
      Occlusion training is the restriction of venous outflow from an extremity with the use of a
      tourniquet during weight-training or resistance exercises. The technique is a safe and
      effective method of improving strength through muscle hypertrophy in healthy, active
      individuals (1-7). The technique has also been shown to be safe and effective in patient
      populations with various comorbidities (8).These strength gains can be achieved while
      training with loads as low as 20% of an individual's one repetition maximum (1RM). This is
      contrary to the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) weight-training guidelines that
      state muscle hypertrophy can only be achieved when an individual lifts loads close to 80% of
      the 1RM (9).

      The purpose of this project is to compare occlusion resistance training to traditional
      resistance training methods for rehabilitation patients. This will include both an acute
      post-operative ACL reconstruction cohort and a chronic thigh weakness cohort. Post-operative
      lower extremity weakness as well as chronic muscle weakness after trauma correlate with lower
      functional performance.(10,11) We will treat the patients and follow these two cohorts
      simultaneously.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine if occlusion training will accelerate the recovery of thigh
      muscle function and strength in post-operative anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)
      reconstruction as compared to a standard post-operative rehabilitation protocol.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine if occlusion training will increase quadricep and hamstring
      muscle function for battlefield wounded warriors with severe thigh weakness as a result of
      trauma or volumetric muscle loss as compared to standard ACSM resistance training guidelines.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine if occlusion training will accelerate the recovery of thigh
      muscle function and strength in post-operative soft tissue knee arthroscopy as compared to a
      standard post-operative rehabilitation protocol.
    
  