
    
      Results from clinical studies suggest that approximately 73% of patients with Rheumatoid
      Arthritis present evidences of erosions within 2 years of the diagnosis. Early interventions
      with Disease Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drug (DMARD) therapies have been shown to reduce the
      progression of the disease. Significant differences in mean Sharp scores were observed two
      years after the initiation of such treatment regimens. These data support the existence of a
      "therapeutic window", during which the rheumatoid process should be stopped or retarded in
      order to prevent further articular damages. Importantly, these observations constituted the
      premise of subsequent researches aiming at evaluating the benefits of TNF inhibitors in
      patients with early and aggressive rheumatoid arthritis.

      The detection of soluble biomarkers indicates the occurrence of active changes in the
      underlying disease processes. Recently, the OMERACT group has undertaken the task of
      developing validation criteria for biomarkers. Validated biomarkers will be considered
      reliable surrogate measures of radiological endpoints. C Reactive Protein (CRP) has recently
      been validated using those newly developed criteria (ACR 2006). Noteworthy, the association
      of CRP with damage endpoints appears to vary based on the use of different anti-rheumatic
      medications. Other soluble biomarkers, which are being used in routine care, will be soon
      evaluated against those same criteria.

      Several other biomarkers of interest, including serum MMP-3, urinary CTX-II, serum OPG/RANKL,
      serum CEC, and the CPII/C2C ratio, are being extensively evaluated in various clinical
      studies. A recent study evaluated antibodies against modified citrullinated vimentin
      (anti-MCV).

      Predictors/prognostic markers indicate the presence of a change in the underlying disease
      processes. However, their value is mainly related to their reliability at predicting future
      changes, such as the clinical onset of the disease, the severity of the disease or associated
      complications. In this respect, they are early indicators of future events.

      Rheumatoid factors (RFs) are autoantibodies directed towards the Fc portions of IgG. RFs are
      found in multiple immunoglobulin isotypes (IgE, IgM, IgA and IgG), however, IgM is the
      isotype that is preferentially measured in clinical assays. RFs have long been associated
      with the development and the severity of RA. The sensitivity and the specificity of RF in the
      diagnosis of RA have been shown to be close to 60% and 79%, respectively. This is rather low
      comparatively to other prognostic markers. This is mainly because RF is also detected in
      normal healthy individuals as well as in various infections and other rheumatological
      illnesses. As a result, its individual diagnostic value appears to be unsatisfactory. This
      may be an issue in patients with early and undifferentiated arthritis. In this regard, IgM
      RFs has been shown to be positive in 19.3% of RA patients prior to the onset of their
      symptoms.

      Antibodies targeting determinants resulting from the deamination of peptidylarginine to
      peptidyl citrulline residues have recently received a great deal of attention. These include
      antibodies directed against cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) and antibodies targeting
      in vivo citrullinated proteins, such as anti-keratin antibodies, antiperinuclear factor,
      anti-citrullinated (pro)filaggrin and anti-Sa/citrullinated vimentin. The prognostic and
      predictive values of anti-CCP antibodies have been extensively reviewed elsewhere. These
      results indicate that anti-CCP antibodies are highly predictive of the future development of
      RA in both healthy individuals and patients with undifferentiated arthritis. A more recent
      study evaluated the sensitivity, specificity, and prognostic value of determination of levels
      of anti-MCV as compared with anti-CCP in an inception cohort of patients with early RA The
      findings showed that analysis of anti-MCV yields greater sensitivity and unchanged
      specificity as compared with analysis of anti-CCP. And also appears to perform better than
      anti-CCP in identifying poor radiographic prognosis in patients with early RA.

      These observations suggest that different antibodies targeted against citrullinated agents
      may differ in their ability to predict poor outcomes. Collectively, these observations
      indicate that the predictive values of various predictors may be enhanced when combined with
      other predictors/prognostic markers of the disease.

      Primary Objectives

        -  To describe the prevalence of anti-MCV in an Irish RA population

        -  To assess the association of anti-MCV with RF and anti-CCP in this population.

        -  To assess the impact of known anti-CCP status (positive or negative) and anti-MCV on
           clinical decision-making and the management of patients recently diagnosed with RA.
    
  