
    
      Macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) is a disorder whereby the immune system generates very
      high levels of substances (cytokines) that promote inflammation to the extent dysfunction
      occurs in multiple organ systems which if unchecked, is frequently fatal to the affected
      individual. This can occur in the setting of a number of different immune system disorders
      including, systemic lupus, systemic-onset juvenile arthritis, and adult-onset Still's
      disease. MAS can also occur in response to infection with certain viruses such as
      Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and malignancies involving lymphocytes.

      Because of the high fatality of MAS (>50%), a number of different treatments have been tried
      to manage this disorder, including use of high-dose steroids, immune suppressants such as
      cyclosporine, and cytotoxic chemotherapy treatments (etoposide) with variable success and/or
      severe complications of immune suppression (as may occur with etoposide). A number of recent
      case reports and case series have reported success using cytokine-blocking therapies such as
      anakinra in the treatment of MAS that is associated with systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic
      arthritis and adult Still's disease. Anakinra is a bio-engineered form of the naturally
      occurring interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), that blocks the action of
      interleukin-1, one of the cytokines that is expressed and present in very high amounts in
      patients who have MAS. Anakinra/Il-1ra is an attractive treatment for patients presenting
      with clinical features of MAS because it has a relatively short half-life and is easy to
      administer by subcutaneous injection. In previous trials of its use in patients with clinical
      features of bacterial sepsis (fever, elevated heart rate, low/falling blood pressure) , it
      was shown that anakinra does not have a harmful effect but also did not appear to have any
      benefit with repect to the defined primary outcome of improved survival. However, a recent
      re-analysis of the data accumulated in these same previous sepsis trials (for which the
      primary defined outcome was survival) indicates that survival was actually increased in the
      subgroup of sepsis patients with features of MAS (ferritin elevations in excess of 2,000
      ng/ml, signs of coagulopathy, and liver enzyme elevations) who were randomized to receive
      anakinra compared to the subgroup of sepsis patients with features of MAS who were randomized
      to receive placebo.

      Previous doses of anakinra up to 3500 mg/day over 72 hours that were employed in the trials
      of adult patients with sepsis were noted to be well tolerated without increased adverse
      outcomes compared to patients randomized to placebo. Recent case reports have shown that
      doses up to 100 mg every 6 hours were efficacious and well tolerated in children with
      systemic onset juvenile arthritis complicated by refractory macrophage activation syndrome.

      This study will be the first controlled study to confirm whether anakinra at dose of 10
      mg/kg/day to a maximum of dose of 200 mg/day divided every 12 hours (for children ≤40 kg) or
      5 mg/kg/day up to a maximum dose of 400 mg/day divided every 6 hours (children > 40 kg and
      adults) does not result in increased mortality or infection complications when administered
      in addition to current UAB standard of care treatment (corticosteroids) to children and
      adults hospitalized with suspected macrophage activation syndrome.
    
  