
    
      Acute compartment syndrome (ACS) is caused by elevated pressure within a closed osseofascial
      compartment, leading to microvascular compromise and cell death. Without urgent decompression
      of the compartment, significant functional impairment and loss of limb may result.
      Compartment syndrome can be difficult to diagnose as there are a wide variety of causes,
      clinical manifestations, and no reliable objective test. The diagnosis in a pediatric
      population is further complicated when the patient has a decreased ability to communicate
      verbally, and/or is non-compliant with physical examination. CS pathophysiology indicates
      that such an increase in compartmental pressure leads to the loss of microvascular perfusion
      (ischemia), restricting oxygen and nutrient delivery to vital tissues, ultimately causing the
      permanent functional and physical loss of the limb. The basic principle of fasciotomy is the
      full and adequate decompression of the compartment of interest and is performed secondary to
      compartment syndrome. This can be achieved via a single or double incision approach with both
      methods appearing to be equally effective in reducing intercompartment pressure (ICP).
      Subsequent skin closure and/or coverage is performed only when all muscle groups are deemed
      viable. However, there are a number of coverage techniques described without a clear
      systematic approach based on objective outcomes. Currently, the only available treatment
      consists of restoration of blood flow by releasing the pressure by slicing open the skin and
      connective tissue overlying the muscle in a procedure called fasciotomy. This crude method
      may result in long-term muscle weakness and disfigurement, and does not treat the ischemic
      damage already caused by the trauma. Pressure release can be achieved via a single or double
      incision approach with both methods appearing to be equally effective in reducing ICP.
      Subsequent skin closure and/or coverage is performed only when all muscle groups are deemed
      viable. However, there are a number of coverage techniques described without a clear
      systematic approach based on objective outcomes.
    
  