
    
      Delirium is an acute, serious syndrome involving abnormalities in attention, arousal and
      cognition. Delirium affects 1 in 8 hospital patients. Delirium is linked to a higher risk of
      death, increased length of stay, and substantial patient and carer distress. Despite its
      massive medical importance, delirium is grossly underdetected, with rates of formal detection
      of 20% or less.

      Investigators previously developed a new neuropsychological test for the objective
      measurement of inattention in delirium, implemented on a computerised device (Delbox). A
      prototype software application for smartphones (DelApp) has been developed based on the
      'Delbox' tests. Findings from two pilot studies suggest that the DelApp performs well as a
      method for objectively measuring attention in delirium.

      As part of a new programme of work on attentional tests for delirium, formally funded by the
      Medical Research Council (grant value £1.01M), investigators plan further studies to refine
      the DelApp before conducting larger scale formal studies. The reasons for doing these
      additional studies are to: (1) shorten the duration of the DelApp assessment; (2) ask end
      users (i.e. clinicians) to evaluate the user interface; (3) gather feedback from end users
      regarding the ease of use of the test; and any other feedback from clinicians and patients;
      and finally (4) develop the DelApp software application further based on user feedback.

      Here investigators propose a preliminary qualitative study to evaluate feasibility of the
      optimised DelApp test (points 2 and 3). Investigators will assess usability and acceptability
      by asking 40 clinical staff to administer the DelApp test to consented patients (N=10) and
      colleagues (approximately N=30). Feedback will be collected from clinicians and patients
      through semi-structured interviews. The outcomes of this feasibility study will make further
      optimisation of the app possible, in preparation for formal validation studies.
    
  