
    
      The study will be conducted in the simulation laboratory at Miami Children's Hospital. Chest
      compressions will be performed on a compression pediatric simulator. It will consist of two
      main groups randomly assigned to chest compressions without an audible metronome and chest
      compressions with audible metronomic tones that beep 100 times per minute for chest
      compressions. The metronome will be used to coach the correct rate. The same people will
      complete both arms of the study at one visit. Specifically, the participants will do 2
      minutes of chest compressions followed by a 15-minute break then another 2 minutes of chest
      compressions (to avoid fatigue) with an acceptable range for rate 90-110 BPM and depth of
      38-51mm. The subjects will be informed about the metronome, but will not be informed about
      the measured variables, such as rate and depth of chest compressions. However, the
      participants will be reminded at the beginning of their visit about the PALS card, i.e.
      appropriate rate and depth. The use of "talking people noise" from YouTube will be played in
      the background to fully model a cardiac arrest scenario (to see if participants ignore the
      metronome) and will be used during each group session. A noise dosimeter will be used to
      ensure this noise level is the same for each scenario. The manikin's airway will be secured
      with an endotracheal tube with continuous ventilations so chest compressions can be continued
      without interruption. Recommendations for chest compression rate and depth are per Pediatric
      Advanced Life Support (PALS) according to the 2010 American Heart Association (AHA)
      guidelines.

      Data will be collected via the manikin which will wirelessly transmit the data (chest
      compression rate and depth) to a computer. The manikin has CPR sensing and recording
      technology software built in. This software records sternum movement depth and rate of chest
      compressions. Criteria for adequate CPR quality are defined as compression rate between
      90-110 per minute and compression depth between 38-51mm.
    
  