
    
      About 1 in 8 U.S. women (around 12%) will develop invasive Breast Cancer (BC) over the course
      of his/her lifetime. In 2015 there were 231,840 new cases of Breast Cancer (BC) in the United
      States and it is this type of cancer with more new cases from all the rest. In 2017, an
      estimated 252,710 new cases of invasive BC are expected to be diagnosed in women in the U.S.,
      along with 63,410 new cases of non-invasive (in situ) BC. In Spain, there are around 21,000
      new cases of BC every year. Among the different types of cancer, this is the one that shows
      higher incidence, mortality, and prevalence to 5 years (29%, 15.5%, and 40.8%, respectively).

      Common to all organic illnesses, BC has a number of associated physical, social and
      psychological impairments, like problems of adaptation, difficulties in communication, or
      depressive and anxious symptoms. Psychological and emotional stress in patients increases the
      experience of pain, reduces the overall performance and is a fundamental factor of suicidal
      ideation and suicide attempts.

      In addition to having to deal with intrusive medical procedures and treatment (chemotherapy
      and/or radiotherapy) side effects, BC patients treatment requires a significant psychological
      adaptation. Furthermore, once treatment is finished, the fear of cancer recurrence occurs in
      around 70% of the patients, which is associated with long-term functional impairments. In
      addition, in nearly half of the survivors, intrusive thoughts about the disease and its
      treatment (unwanted thoughts, images and memories) occur years after successful treatment. In
      such patients, it has been observed that even when the rates of depression decreased, overall
      well-being does not improve. Fatigue and sleep problems are also clinically significant in
      60% of these kinds of patients, which creates imbalances both functional and in quality of
      life.

      Nowadays there are many psychological interventions that have been shown to be beneficial for
      patients with BC. The most used and with a bigger body of evidence are those interventions of
      cognitive-behavioral nature. There are three areas where cognitive-behavioral interventions
      have had a greater impact on breast cancer patients' care: (1) treatment for pain relief; (2)
      control of the aversive reactions of chemotherapy; and (3) improvement of emotional
      well-being.

      In recent years, interest in Mindfulness-Based Interventions (MBI) research for breast cancer
      patients has increased, especially for those who have passed the initial malignancy and its
      treatment, but often have to deal with functional, behavioral and persistent emotional
      difficulties, such as depression, fatigue, fear of illness recurrence and cognitive
      impairments. A Systematic review has shown positive results as an effective coping strategy
      that diminishes anxiety, stress, fatigue, general mood, sleep disturbances, and enhances
      quality of life.

      Like Mindfulness, compassion can be trained using specific techniques and protocols
      (Compassion-Based Intervention, CBI) designed specifically for this purpose. As a matter of
      fact, for some authors CBIs may provide useful tools and resources to treat and prevent
      various types of psychological difficulties (resources for interpersonal relationships,
      reduction of depressive symptomatology, reduction of social anxiety, marital conflict, anger
      management and dealing with the difficulties of being a caregiver).

      In one study authors found how a CBI was associated with decreasing innate immune responses
      to a psychosocial stressor. One research showed how loving-kindness (an ability often trained
      in CBIs) practice was associated with less pain during that whole day and lower anger during
      the next. Another study observed study observed how a CBI could significantly reduce the
      feeling of loneliness and increase positive emotions. Some authors found an increase in
      positive emotions in everyday experiences after training in compassion, which, in turn,
      enhanced personal resources (purpose in life, social connection, and decrease in disease
      symptoms). Although there are numerous studies on compassion and self-compassion in different
      types of healthy populations and in clinical settings, there are hardly any data on the
      benefits of CBIs in cancer patients.

      Cognitively-Based Compassion Training (CBCT) is a secular protocol to teach compassion. The
      foundational technique that CBCT uses to bring about a shift in perspective is to ground the
      individual in a non-judgmental attentiveness to the present moment, followed by cognitive
      exercises or analytical meditations. CBCT Program has shown to be effective in reducing
      hormone levels related to psychoimmunological stress systems, as well as regulation of
      inflammatory processes in adolescent population with early life adverse events. Recently, a
      study found that CBCT program was a potentially effective and beneficial intervention and
      highly satisfactory for the psychological well-being of breast cancer survivors.
      Nevertheless, effects of CBCT on health-related quality of life, general well-being,
      mindfulness facets, self-compassion and compassion traits have not yet been shown.

      The goal of this study was to analyze the efficacy of CBCT Protocol in a Randomized Clinical
      Trial (RCT) on a sample of breast cancer survivors over physical and psychological well-being
      (somatic, depressive, anxious symptomatology); health-related quality of life (physical,
      social, emotional and functional quality of life); psychological dimensions linked to fear of
      cancer recurrence, levels of Mindfulness facets, Self-Compassion and Compassion.
    
  