
    
      Severe sepsis continues to be a leading cause of admission and death in the pediatric
      critical care population. Mortality benefit has been proven with early antibiotic
      administration. Optimal antimicrobial therapy should be based on early achievement of
      effective drug concentrations by optimizing the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics of
      individual drugs. Ceftazidime is the preferred beta-lactam for empiric treatment of sepsis at
      Lurie Children's Hospital because of its anti-pseudomonal and anti-enteric bacilli coverage,
      however, the majority of pharmacokinetic data currently published in pediatrics does not
      include ICU patients. For beta-lactams like ceftazidime, the time that free (nonprotein
      bound) drug concentration remains above the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the
      bacteria (t>MIC) best defines the bacteriostatic and bactericidal activity. Based on previous
      animal studies and subsequent clinical studies, beta-lactams require about 50% t>MIC. Adult
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics data suggest that critically ill adults with high level of
      illness severity may benefit from continuous or extended infusion beta lactam therapy to
      optimize time above MIC particularly for pathogens that are relatively resistant to
      beta-lactams. Positive outcome results using extended infusion have been found with respect
      to mortality benefit, clinical cure, reduced length of stay, and increased ventilator free
      days. It is likely that because children experience changes in physiology with critical
      illness likely leading to alteration in antibiotic clearance, additional data are needed to
      determine if our current dosing strategies are achieving optimal antimicrobial exposure.
      Understanding the changing pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics of ceftazidime with the
      progression of illness in the ICU may help determine if current dosing regimens are adequate
      to maintain appropriate t>MIC. In this study all patients between the ages of 2 months and 18
      years admitted to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit/ Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (PICU/CICU)
      who will receive ceftazidime for empiric or definitive antimicrobial therapy with an expected
      duration of greater than or equal to 48 hours who meet inclusion criteria will be enrolled in
      this prospective, non-interventional, pharmacokinetic study. Sampling of serum to determine
      concentrations will occur around ceftazidime doses during the first 48 hours after admission
      or onset of hospital associated illness, with additional sampling up to 7 days if antibiotic
      use continues. Using a traditional FDA-approved dosing regimen (50 mg q 8hr with maximum
      dosing of 6g/d), samples will be drawn following the 2nd or 3rd dose of Ceftazidime received
      by the patient at times: 0 min (predose), 30 min, 1 hour, and 4 hours following dose. During
      the second 24 hours of therapy, one sample will be drawn between hours 2 and 4 post dose and
      if therapy continues additional samples will be drawn daily between hours 2 and 4 post dose
      up to 7 days. Additional information will be collected to better assess volumes of
      distribution, drug clearance, kidney function, and cardiac output to determine patient
      covariates that may help delineate which patient populations associated with altered
      ceftazidime exposure. Population pharmacokinetic modeling will be performed and various
      regimens will be simulated to identify optimal dosing.
    
  