
    
      Intestinal Failure (IF) occurs when a person's gut cannot work well enough to absorb enough
      nutrients and fluids. In these cases, life-saving nutrition called Parenteral Nutrition (PN)
      is given through their veins for months or years. Unfortunately, tubes of certain nutrients
      that are added to PN solutions have contaminants such as chromium (Cr). While the body needs
      a very small amount of Cr to function properly, too much is unsafe. Patients on PN may
      therefore get too much Cr in the PN fluids. Too much Cr can affect kidndy function. In
      addition to chromium, it is also possible that other trace elements are present as
      contaminants. While optimal nutrition if important for growth in children, too much of any
      nutriteint is potenially harmful. The goals of the current study therefore are

        1. Measure and compare the amount of chromium, cobalt, copper, manganese, molybdenum,
           selenium, vanadium and zinc in a sample of discarded PN bags versus the amount of each
           actually ordered in those PN bags to determine the level of contamination for each of
           those trace elements.

        2. Compare the total delivered amounts of the above elements to the current recommended
           amounts for age.

        3. To determine if in fact patients are receiving greater than recommended amounts of
           chromium and other trace elements so that decisions can be made regarding current
           practice at SickKids.

        4. To obtain small volumePN solutions from a PN supplier for analysis of each of the above
           mentioned trac elements for comparios what the information listed on the label of each
           of those products.

        5. To retrospecitvely review the charts of patients who consented to have their PN analyzed
           from goal #1 and record blood chromium levels done over the last 5 yrs (Jan 1/2013 - Nov
           30/2018) as well as Cr content of their PN solutions at the time blood Cr levels were
           recorded.

      All patients on PN at Sickkids were eligible to participate. Data will be collected on
      patients weight, age, date of birth, and PN order as well as blood levels of Cr of home PN
      patients for the retrspective portion of the study.

      Samples will be analyzed at London Health Science Centre in their Trace Elements laboratory
      using a Thermo Fisher ELEMENT 2 "High Resolution Sector Field Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass
      Spectrometer" (HR-SF-ICP-MS). This analyzer is considered the Gold Standard of
      Instrumentation. Samples are assessed against NIST Traceable Standards accompanying
      Commercial Controls to maintain as high a degree of accuracy as possible. The report of
      analysis will be sent to the Principal Investigator of the study.

      Statistics:

      Statistical analysis will be performed on primary and derived variables using SAS. Student's
      t-test will be used to compare the amount of teh trace elements in the PN compared to what
      has been ordered. Trace elements recieved pre kg/body weight will abls be compared to the
      recommended amount by ASPEN.
    
  