
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mental disorder, with up to 10.3% of the
      population experiencing the disorder in a given 12-month period. The relationship between
      depression and anxiety has been well documented. Depression is a significant predictor of
      future anxiety, and anxiety is a significant predictor of future onset of depression. Indeed,
      studies find that more than 50% of all individuals with MDD also have a current anxiety
      disorder. Although effective treatments have been developed over the years to address
      depression and anxiety, the lack of personalization and inability to adapt to patient needs
      or preferences contributes to poor treatment adherence and outcomes.

      We are developing an intelligent treatment system that uses state of the art machine learning
      approaches within a mobile intervention application to treat MDD and anxiety. Machine
      learning, a branch of artificial intelligence, focuses on the development of algorithms that
      automatically improve and evolve based on collected data. The intervention, called
      IntelliCare, uses a mobile application to continuously collect patient data and adapt
      intervention content and motivational messaging to create a highly tailored and
      user-responsive treatment system.

      During the pilot study, 200 participants with Major Depression and/or Anxiety will use
      Intellicare apps for up to 8 weeks and may be invited to provide feedback about their
      experience at two follow-up time points: weeks 4 and 8. All participants will first undergo
      initial assessments that will include a telephone interview and a series of online
      questionnaires about their mood. Eligible participants will receive up to 8 weeks of access
      to the IntelliCare system, which consists of apps with lessons and tools designed to teach
      skills for mood management. It is suggested that participants utilize the mobile phone tools
      every day. Each week, participants will receive a brief motivational intervention from a
      coach. This coach will also be available to participants via email throughout the 8 week
      study. We will use data from the pilot study to examine whether IntelliCare is a feasible and
      effective intervention. Data collected will also be used to develop and evaluate machine
      learning methods which will be used in the subsequent AIM trials.
    
  