
    
      Study Goals and Objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to access the feasibility of TOCC program and to
      determine if the use of a TOCC will decrease length of stay (LOS) in patients admitted to
      MedStar Georgetown University Hospital (MGU) for primary diagnosis of acute ischemic stroke
      and discharged to an acute rehabilitation facility. Secondary objectives for this study
      include determining if utilization of a TOCC will improve patient and family satisfaction.

      Study Design/Setting

      This will be a single-center, prospective, randomized pilot study. It will involve patients
      admitted to the MGUH Department of Neurology stroke service for primary diagnosis of acute
      ischemic stroke and discharged to an acute rehabilitation facility or home. The study will
      start after IRB approval. It will end once all required data has been obtained and analyzed.
      It is estimated that this pilot study will be finished over a three-month period.

      Transition of Care Coordinator (TOCC) Program and Usual Care Group

      The TOCC will be a registered nurse who will help facilitate the process of care transition
      from the day of admission. The TOCC's intervention will include meeting the patient and
      family within 48 hours of admission, identifying their home location and insurance status,
      following up the echocardiogram results, following up with physical, occupational, and speech
      therapy recommendations for rehabilitation after acute care hospitalization, attending daily
      multi-disciplinary rounds, attending bedside rounds with the physician team, facilitating
      referrals to rehab facilities, providing tailored discharge education to patients, and
      arranging stroke clinic follow-up assignments. The usual care group will receive care
      coordination by the primary stroke service of the Georgetown Neurology Department, which is
      the current method.

      Both groups will receive the same content of care, which includes initial and supportive
      diagnostic studies as well as evidenced-based treatment of ischemic stroke, physical,
      occupational, and speech therapy, and case management for referral and transportation to an
      acute rehabilitation facility. The major difference between the two groups will be the method
      of care delivery.

      Patient Population and Procedure

      Participants in this study will be derived from the pool of patients admitted for ischemic
      stroke to MGUH. Patients admitted for a primary diagnosis of ischemic stroke with discharge
      plan for acute rehab or home will be included in this study.

      Upon admission, patients will be randomized to receive the standard diagnostic studies and
      treatment for ischemic stroke under the care of either a TOCC (TOCC group) or the usual
      care/standard evidenced-based protocol of transitioning from acute care hospital to acute
      rehab setting (Control group). Due to the prospective nature of the study protocol,
      randomization will be performed based on the order in which the patients are enrolled in the
      trial. Every other patient admitted to the stroke service (i.e. those enrolled first, third,
      fifth, seventh, etc.) will be allocated to receive the intervention whereas patients falling
      between those admissions will be allocated to the usual care group (control) Length of stay
      for patients in TOCC group and control group will be recorded for comparison at the end of
      the study period. Patient and family satisfaction in each group will also be measured using
      HCAHPS scores for comparison at the end of the study period.

      Study Sample Size

      Based on the volumes of patients admitted for ischemic stroke to MGUH, it is estimated that
      at least 20 patients can be enrolled for each group, and at least 40 patients in total can be
      enrolled over a three-month period.

      Data Analysis Plan

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the baseline characteristics of all enrolled
      patients; mean and standard deviation will be reported for continuous variables; frequency
      and percentage will be reported for categorical variables.

      The data analysis for this pilot study will be descriptive due to the small sample size. The
      proportion of patients who are in the TOCC group receive the complete transition of care
      intervention will be the primary feasibility metric. We will calculate the mean (SD) of the
      LOS at the end of study for patients of TOCC group and control group, respectively.
      Difference in mean of LOS between two groups will be calculated. Student's T-test or Wilcoxon
      Rank Sum test will be performed to test the difference in mean of LOS between TOCC group and
      control group, where appropriate. One-day decrease in hospital LOS is considered of clinical
      relevance. Generalized linear model will be utilized for the correlative analysis of LOS and
      TOCC program, adjusted for age, NHISS and other possible confounders.

      For the patients and family satisfaction, measured by HCAHPS score, the percentage of
      satisfaction for each question will be reported, and the difference in percentage of
      satisfaction between TOCC group and control group will be summarized.

      Safety Considerations

      The treatment of patients with acute ischemic stroke will not be altered by this study
      protocol. Participants will receive the current evidenced-supported standard treatment for
      ischemic stroke and post-discharge recommendations will be made by the physical,
      occupational, and speech therapists of MGUH based on the patient's capabilities. As a quality
      improvement study, the intervention proposed would only serve improve the efficacy in
      transitioning patients back to living in the community.

      The only possible perceived risk to participants is loss of confidentiality since personal
      health information (PHI) from the Electronic Medical Record (EMR) system will be used for
      eventual data analyses. To decrease this risk, this information will be distributed only
      amongst study investigators with the use of limited patient identifiers. In addition, any
      stored information will be in a password-secured database only accessible by the study
      investigators.
    
  