
    
      MATERIAL AND METHODS Study population Studied population will be derived from the Hospital
      Naval Marcilio Dias (HNMD), the sample consisting of active military personnel, reserve
      personnel and members of the naval family who seek the otorhinolaryngology service of the
      hospital.

      Participants will be instructed about the objectives and methods of the present study and, in
      order to participate in the study, will be consulted to give their written consent for
      inclusion, according to the Informed Consent Term.

      Study Design Study will be conducted through a prospective, controlled, randomized, and
      masked clinical trial for the participants and the investigator who will perform the data
      analysis.

      Sample Characterization Reference Population It will consist of patients in medical care at
      the otorhinolaryngology clinic of Naval Hospital Marcílio Dias (HNMS), referred for
      polysomnography with a view to diagnosing OSAHS, obeying inclusion and exclusion criteria.
      All patients referred will be receiving the standard treatment for OSAHS, which consists of
      the nocturnal use of CPAP.

      The stratified random probabilistic sample will consist of 2 (two) groups, control (sham) and
      intervention. Participants will be consecutively allocated in the intervention or control
      group by order of entry into the study and by level of severity of OSAHS to ensure fairness
      between groups regarding OSAHS severity.

      Sample size The sample size was estimated through calculations to be able to evaluate
      differences of the order of 20% between the groups, with a power of 80% and an alpha error of
      5%, with a quantitative of 35 patients per group, totaling 70 (Seventy) patients.

      Characterization of groups and IMT protocol All patients will receive standard medical
      treatment, which usually includes use of nocturnal CPAP. The intervention group will receive
      inspiratory muscle training, through 30 respiratory cycles in the POWERbreathe classic, with
      an initial load of 40% of PImax, once a day, during the 7 days of the week, for 02 weeks. An
      increase of 01 level in the resistance of the POWERbreathe classic, equivalent to an increase
      of 10 cmH2O, will be carried out at the beginning of the third, fourth and fifth weeks.

      From the sixth to twelfth week, the resistance will not be increased further, remaining at
      the value of the last adjustment. The sham control group will be submitted to exercises with
      the same apparatus, but without load. The IMT program will begin with a (01) supervised care,
      in which the research protocol will be presented to the patient, explaining the steps of the
      research, when supervised orientation of the IMT will be performed and awareness about the
      importance of adherence to the treatment. If the patient persists, before starting the
      research protocol, the patient will be heard and given the pertinent guidelines until all
      their doubts are resolved so that they can be selected for the intervention group.

      In the initial stage of the protocol, the patient will receive guidance containing
      information to assist in the correct implementation of the MRI and a record sheet of daily
      MRI achievement, allowing uniformity and documentation of its achievement, respectively.

      At the end of every 04 weeks, patients will attend the HNMD physical therapy service for
      follow-up and clinical reassessment. At the end of 12 weeks, they will attend the last
      clinical and polysomnographic evaluation. Throughout the period the patients in the study
      will be performing IMT.

      To promote adherence to research, patients will receive guidance on how the equipment works,
      how it is used, frequency and duration of exercise; As well as follow-up through scheduled
      appointments. Phone calls will be made bi-weekly to certify that protocols, motivational
      messages, follow-up phone calls and confirmation of appointments marked for protocol
      reassessment are still in progress.

      Instrumental Methods of Measurement

      Polysomnography With polysomnography, it will be possible to know the stages of sleep, the
      total number of apneas and hypopneas, the type of apnea, the total number of micro-awakenings
      and the level of oxygen desaturation during sleep that, when above 4% , demonstrates
      important impairment during REM sleep, making patients susceptible to clinical complications.

      Measurement of inspiratory muscle strength (MIP) By vacuometry In order to measure MIP, the
      MVD 300 digital manovacuometer (Globalmed, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil), with a scale of 300
      cmH2O, an scale increment of 1 cmH2O, and a scheduled time interval registering of at least 1
      second will be used.

      During the test, the patient will assume the seated position and use a nasal clip. The MIP
      will be measured from the residual volume (RV) until total lung capacity (CPT) is reached and
      three MIP measures will be performed, with a 1-min rest interval. The highest MIP values will
      be recorded. The values used as reference of normality, according to sex and age, will be
      those proposed by Neder et al (1999). After the examination, each patient's data will be
      digitally stored.

      By POWERbreathe K-5 This electronic device aims to evaluate initial inspiratory muscle
      strength (S. Index) and its changes along training. Connected to a computer, it will allow
      graphic analysis of the measurement and data storage (LOMAX e MCCONNELL, 2009). The technical
      procedures to perform the measurement are the same adopted for vacuometry. There is no
      difference in the posture adopted, the inspiratory effort, the number of measurements
      performed, and the criteria of selection and acceptance of the best value. The use of this
      equipment will help patients to become familiarized with the inspiratory muscle training
      strategy that will be employed as the intervention since it is very similar to the
      POWERbreathe classic.

      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Scale (PSQI) The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Scale (PSQI) is a sleep
      quality questionnaire that analyzes multiple sleep-related variables during the previous
      month. Respondents answer 19 items about themselves, of which 18 are used to calculate the
      score. Five additional items are completed by a bed partner or roommate, but are not used to
      calculate the score (Buysse et al., 1989).

      The PSQI measures seven components, which evaluate subjective sleep quality (C1), sleep
      latency (C2), sleep duration (C3), habitual sleep efficiency (C4), sleep disturbances (C5),
      sleeping pills use (C6) and daytime dysfunction (C7). Scores of the subscales range from 0 to
      3 and are summed to get a total score, which can range from 0 to 21. Total score greater than
      five suggests a significant sleep disturbance.

      Berlin Snoring Questionnaire The questionnaire is composed of nine closed questions and
      divided into three categories (NETZER et al., 1999). Category one (01) is composed of five
      questions and is considered positive when two or more questions get a positive answer.
      Category two (02) is composed of three questions and is considered positive when two or more
      questions are answered positively. Category three (03) is considered positive if the
      individual has associated SAH or BMI ≥ 30 kg / m².

      It is classified as no risk for OSAHS when the result does not present any positive category
      or low risk when presenting a single positive category and high risk for obstructive apnea
      when two or more categories are positive.

      Epworth Sleepiness Scale The Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) was advocated based on the
      observations related to the occurrence of daytime hypersomnia (HSD), through a
      self-administered questionnaire that evaluates the probability of falling asleep in eight
      situations involving daily activities.

      The overall score ranges from 0 to 24, with scores above 10 suggesting the diagnosis of HSD
      (JOHNS, 1991).

      Short Form Questionnaire - 36 (SF-36) The "Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health
      Survey" (SF-36) is a generic questionnaire that assesses quality of life aspects that are
      directly related to the health of the individual. The questionnaire consists of 36 questions
      that assess the perception of the disease from the point of view of the patient. He evaluates
      eight dimensions of health: functional capacity, physical appearance, pain, general health,
      vitality, social aspects, emotional aspects and mental health.

      Focusing on the impact of the disease on the quality of life, without focus on disease or
      clinical signs, becomes the great differential of this instrument. The SF-36 can be applied
      in several ways: patient-filled, performed by an interviewer, and even in telephone
      interviews.

      SF-36 is a practical instrument, easy to apply, has good reliability and validity, and can be
      used in our population (SOÁREZ PC, 2007).

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Data analysis will be performed by a blind investigator for the identity
      of the groups. The results will be expressed as mean and standard deviation for the
      continuous variables with Gaussian distribution, and median and internal quartiles, as an
      alternative. Categorical variables will be expressed as frequencies. Differences between
      groups will be assessed by the t student test for paired samples or by their non-parametric
      equivalent; between frequencies, by the chi-square test. Association between variables will
      be analyzed by linear regression. Values of P <0.05 will be considered significant.
      Statistical analysis will be performed using the statistical program SPSS, version 18.0
      (Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  