
    
      Pulmonary Hypertension (PH) is a syndrome characterized by vasoconstriction and abnormal
      growth and function of endothelial and smooth muscle cells and other components within the
      pulmonary vessels, which leads to elevation of the pulmonary artery pressure. PH may be
      idiopathic (primary) without any known cause. Some cases of PH are familial. PH may also be
      secondary to a specific disease process such as portal hypertension, congenital heart
      disease, chronic lung disease, thromboembolic disease, connective tissue disease, human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and use of anorexigens. Left untreated, PH is often progressive
      and fatal. There is no cure for PH. Therapy focuses upon treatment of secondary causes if
      present, and reduction of the pulmonary artery pressure through medical therapy. There have
      been many new developments within the past few years in the management of patients with PH.
      While there is no cure for PH early detection and treatment are important for survival of
      patients. Limited data is available that describes the etiologies, clinical course and
      prognosis of pediatric pulmonary hypertension.

      Objectives

      Aim 1: Clinical Research

        1. To provide a mechanism to store information about newborns, infants and children with
           PH;

        2. To determine the incidence and natural history of the various etiologies of pediatric
           PH;

        3. To define the investigator current diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to the diverse
           conditions associated with pediatric PH;

        4. To determine the response of children with PH to chronic therapies.

      Aim 2: Research Infrastructure To create a robust scalable data architecture, to combine
      traditional registry data, electronic Health Record (EHR), and PRO (Patient Reported Outcome)
      data in a single resource.

      Aim 3: Informatics Address three classes of unanswered questions crucial for the
      characterization and management of PH, comparing the information value of registry vs. EHR
      vs. fused data across registry/EHR/PROs, in the domains of spectrum of PH comorbidities, PH
      indicators and endpoints of morbidity and mortality, and response to therapies in PH.
    
  