
    
      Severely ill patients admitted to the intensive care unit may develop an acute failure of
      kidney function. Renal function generally recovers if the acute illness improves. To bridge
      this period, renal function is temporarily replaced by continuous hemofiltration, so called
      continuous venovenous hemofiltration (CVVH). To remove toxic substances and fluids, the
      patient's blood flows through a circuit, containing a filter. Flow in the filter is regulated
      by the CVVH-device.

      Normally blood starts to clot as soon as it leaves the body. To prevent clotting of the blood
      in the filter, the blood has to be 'anticoagulated'. For this purpose, heparins are generally
      used. Heparins make the blood less likely to clot. Drawback of the use of heparins is that
      they not only prevent clotting of blood in the circuit and the filter, but also in the
      patient. Heparins thereby increase the risk of bleeding. Intensive care patients are at
      higher risk of bleeding due to a recent operation or trauma, ulcers in the mouth or the
      stomach, or abnormalities in their blood to the acute illness. Due to the continuous
      application of CVVH for days, anticoagulation is administered without interruption over
      prolonged periods of time. Studies report bleeding complications in 5 to 50% of the patients.
      As a result of bleeding, patients need blood transfusion and sometimes surgery. Control of
      bleeding is sometimes extremely difficult.

      An alternative to heparin is citrate, which allows regional anticoagulation of the circuit
      and the filter without an effect increasing the risk of bleeding for the patient.
      Anticoagulation with citrate is more complex, nurses need to follow a strict protocol..
      Several small studies have shown that regional anticoagulation with citrate is associated
      with less bleeding and a longer filter survival. The use if citrate is however associated
      with a greater risk of metabolic complications, if the protocol is not strictly followed.
      Primary aim of the present study is to show in a larger group of intensive care patients
      whether the use of regional anticoagulation with citrate is safe compared to systemic
      anticoagulation with the low molecular weight heparin nadroparin.
    
  