
    
      Electroporation of cancer cells allows for a greater concentration of chemotherapy drugs to
      enter the tumor cells. The uptake of the chemotherapeutic drug is aided through the
      application of short electric pulses to the tumor mass (referred to as - Electrochemotherapy
      or ECT). The pulses make the tumor cells more porous which allows the drug easier access into
      the cancer cells, whereas other tissues and organs in the body remain relatively poor at
      absorbing the drug, thereby reducing the potential side effects on healthy tissues.
      Procedures with electrochemotherapy have previously been applied to human patients in other
      countries of the EU, the US and Japan.

      The drug concentration used is significantly reduced due to the more targeted absorption by
      the tumor and this significantly reduces side effects normally associated with chemotherapy.

      A large number of preclinical and clinical Phase I and I/II studies have demonstrated the
      efficiency and safety of ECT. These studies have included patients with melanoma, head and
      neck squamous cell carcinoma, merkel cell carcinomas, basal cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma
      nodules.

      An endoscopic system (EndoVE ) for delivering the electric pulses to gastrointestinal tumors
      has recently been developed. The treatment procedure is similar to standard endoscopic
      colorectal examination (therapeutic colonoscopy) with the added element of an intravenous
      injection of bleomycin followed by the delivery of electric pulses (each one less than 1msec
      in duration). The pulses are endoscopically delivered directly to the tumor mass. The entire
      procedure is minimally invasive and completely ambulatory. A successful treatment will cause
      the tumor to shrink in size in the weeks following the procedure.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of this approach in
      downsizing locally advanced rectal tumors prior to intended curative surgery.

      Time frame:

        1. All patients will be treated with standard neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy prior to
           enrollment in this trial.

        2. Alle patients will have PET/MRI scans performed twice to evaluate treatment response
           (before and after ECT)

        3. ECT treatment will be performed 4 weeks prior to surgery outlined by MDT.

        4. Alle patients will be followed up for 3 months.
    
  