
    
      Hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation, using human HLA-matched sibling or unrelated
      bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell donor, has been used successfully to treat patients
      with high-risk or relapsed hematologic malignancies. However, use of this therapy has been
      limited by availability of fully HLA-matched donors, despite the increasing size of unrelated
      donor registries. For those transplanted with unrelated donor marrow stem cells, increased
      HLA disparity adversely affects survival due to increased risks of severe acute and chronic
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and opportunistic infection. Only young recipients are able
      to tolerate a single HLA-A, B, DRB1 mismatch in this setting (1-3). To potentially extend the
      donor pool, UCB has been used as an alternative source of HSC. Since the first unrelated
      donor UCB transplant in 1993, UCB transplants have been performed worldwide. It has been
      found to produce outcome comparable to those from matched unrelated HSC in patients with
      hematologic malignancies (4). It has been shown that cryopreserved unrelated UCB from 0 to 3
      HLA-A, B, DRB1-mismatched donors contains sufficient HSC to engraft most pediatrics and some
      adult patients (5-10). Unfortunately, the use of UCB transplant is limited by the small
      number of HSC in each of the cord blood unit. This is particularly a problem for adult
      patients. It is now possible to pool UBC so that adequate cell numbers are available for
      adult transplant (11). UBC is rapidly availability and has very low rate of contamination
      with herpes group viruses. UCB transplant results in a low incidence of both severe acute
      GVHD and extensive chronic GVHD, despite the use of grafts with substantial donor-recipient
      HLA disparity (5-10).

      The following conditioning regimens will be used, depending on the underlying hematologic
      malignancies. Conditioning regimens with Busulfan/clofarabine and with fludarabine/melphalan
      will be used for all patients except those with Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma when the conditioning
      regimen of BCNU, Etoposide, ARA-C and Melphalan will be used. GVHD prophylaxis of oral
      tacrolimus will be used, depending on the development of GVHD and the clinical conditions of
      the patients, tacrolimus may be tapered and discontinued by six months after transplant. The
      hematopoietic stem cells from the donors will be infused within 48-72 hours of completing the
      chemotherapy. The patients will receive supportive care as indicated including antibiotics,
      antivirals, antifungals, anti-seizure, anti-emetic medications and other medications as
      necessary. In addition patients will receive irradiated blood products for support as
      necessary.CMV negative recipient transplant will receive only CMV- blood products. Neutrophil
      engraftment will be defined as the day on which the ANC rises to > 500 cells/ml for two
      consecutive days. Platelet engraftment will be defined as the first day on which the platelet
      count rises to > 20,000/ml over a 7-day interval without transfusion support.
    
  