
    
      Spina bifida can be a devastating neurological congenital anomaly. It results from incomplete
      closure of the neural tube between 22 and 28 embryological days. Its incidence is
      approximately 1-2 per 1,000 births. It is considered the most common congenital anomaly of
      the central nervous system compatible with life.

        1. The most frequent form is myelomeningocele (MMC), characterized by the extrusion of the
           spinal cord into a sac filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and is associated with
           lower limb paralysis and bowel and bladder dysfunction.

        2. The majority of MMCs can be diagnosed between 14 and 20 weeks of gestation. MMC is
           associated with Chiari II malformation, which includes a constellation of anomalies such
           as hindbrain herniation, brainstem abnormalities, low-lying venous sinuses and a small
           posterior fossa.The Chiari II malformation can have deleterious effects on motor,
           cranial nerve and cognitive functions. Postnatally most MMC patients develop
           hydrocephalus and require a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Shunts require lifelong
           monitoring and have a high failure rate due to infection, obstruction, and fracture.

      Experimental studies using animal models have shown that prenatal coverage of a spina
      bifida-like lesion can preserve neurological function and reduce or reverse hindbrain
      herniation.These studies suggest a "two-hit" hypothesis in which the ultimate neurologic
      deficit results from a combination of the failure of normal neural-tube closure (first hit)
      with secondary spinal cord injury resulting from prolonged exposure of sensitive neural
      elements to the amniotic fluid (second hit mechanism).

      Based on this hypothesis, open fetal surgical repair of MMC was proposed, and the 2011
      publication of the NICHD sponsored randomized controlled trial demonstrated clear neonatal
      benefit of open in-utero fetal surgical repair of MMC. The study showed a reduction in the
      incidence of hydrocephalus and in the radiographic severity of hindbrain herniation (relative
      risk: 0.67; 95% confidence interval: 0.56-0.81).

      Open in-utero fetal surgery is not without risk and the NICHD study (MOMS Trial) showed an
      elevation in maternal-fetal morbidity/risk when compared to the postnatally treated group,
      including higher risk for chorioamniotic separation (26% vs. 0%, respectively), maternal
      pulmonary edema (6% vs. 0%), oligohydramnios (21% vs. 0%), placental abruption (6% vs. 0%),
      spontaneous membrane rupture (46%; RR: 6.15; 95% CI: 2.75-13.78), spontaneous labor (38%; RR:
      2.80, 95%CI: 1.51-5.18), maternal blood transfusion (9%; RR: 7.18; 95%CI: 0.90-57.01), and
      preterm delivery before 34 weeks (46%; RR: 9.2; 95%CI: 3.81-22.19). The reason for the
      increased incidence of these complications is related to the nature of the open fetal
      procedure, which involves a multi-faceted invasive approach including maternal laparotomy,
      large hysterotomy with uterine edge stapling, and open fetal repair of the spina bifida
      defect that may involve manipulation and exposure of the fetus for a significant amount of
      time.

      Fetal endoscopic surgery has progressed rapidly over the past decades and investigators are
      now able to perform a number of intricate procedures inside the uterus with specially
      designed instruments. These procedures include laser therapy for Twin-twin-transfusion
      syndrome, fetal cystoscopy and fulguration of posterior urethral valves, release of amniotic
      bands, and placement of various shunts and balloons inside fetal structures and cavities
      (peritoneal, pleural, cardiac, and trachea).

      Fetoscopy offers a less invasive therapeutic option that could reduce a number of the
      morbidities (both maternal and fetal) related to open fetal procedures.

      A few animal studies and growing clinical human experience with fetoscopic repair of MMC have
      demonstrated the feasibility of covering the defect and performing a full repair. These
      repairs have been accomplished using at least two (and sometimes more) entry ports through
      the uterine wall. Kohl et al. in Germany, have demonstrated the feasibility of performing a
      complete percutaneous fetoscopic repair of MMC using carbon dioxide to distend the uterus and
      provide a dry working area for the surgeon to perform the repair.

      These investigators described a two-layer covering technique using an absorbable patch
      (Durasis, Cook, Germany) and sutures. However, while they showed that the procedure is
      feasible, their percutaneous technique with complete two layer surgical closure of the defect
      using sutures was associated with prolonged operative time and significant maternal and
      obstetrical morbidities.

      Fetoscopy in a CO2 gas filled uterus has been recently reported by groups in Bonn, Germany
      (Kohl et al) and Sao Paulo, Brazil (Pedreira et al). The fetoscopic technique the
      investigators use has been developed and tested in a fetal sheep model of MMC by the
      investigators group and others (Peiro et al).

      This fetoscopy technique has evolved over time to a 2-port technique developed by the team in
      Houston, Texas and its feasibility and applicability to the human uterus and fetus have been
      demonstrated and published (Belfort et al, 2017) and demonstrate an improved degree of
      flexibility in terms of access to the fetus regardless of placental location. The technique
      is designed to decrease the maternal risks of open uterus fetal surgery while maintaining a
      similar level of fetal benefit as seen in the MOMS trial.

      The investigators technique employs an open abdomen/exteriorized (but closed) uterus
      methodology that allows the minimally invasive multi-layer closure of the fetal neural tube
      using the same closed skin repair currently employed at Baylor College of Medicine/Texas
      Children's Fetal Center using the open uterus approach. The technique employs a novel
      approach to low pressure uterine distention using the same carbon dioxide gas (8-12 mmHg
      pressure) that others attempting fetoscopic repair have used, but employing a much lower gas
      flow rate. In addition, the exteriorized uterus technique used by the Baylor investigators
      (as compared with the percutaneous method) allows improved access to the fetus in cases of
      anterior placentation, ability to manipulate and maintain the fetus in the required position,
      and optimal port placement resulting from the exteriorized maternal uterus.

      In addition, because of the exteriorized uterus and the optimal placement this allows, only
      two access ports are needed and these can be sutured into the uterus allowing a closed seal
      and minimizing gas leakage. The use of humidified, warmed CO2, pioneered by the Baylor group,
      in fetal surgery, decreases membrane disruption and may prolong gestation without rupture of
      the membranes. Finally, recent advances in miniature surgical instruments (Storz 1.5 - 3mm
      surgical sets) allow unprecedented flexibility which enables a full surgical repair to be
      performed via a fetoscopic approach.

      In preparation for the human trial the Barcelona group of Peiro et al tested their patch and
      sealant technique in a sheep model using single or double port access. Fetoscopic neural tube
      closure using a 12 F cannula, and when needed a second 9F cannula, a cover patch, and a
      medical sealant . They had similar results to that seen with open fetal surgical repair in
      the same sheep model.26 When they progressed to human trials this success in closing the
      lesion was not seen and they abandoned this approach

      The team at Baylor College of Medicine/Texas Children's Fetal Center have now completed 53
      cases using a 2 port exteriorized technique with results that support the initial hypothesis
      (Belfort et al , 2017). As with any technique there have been advances in instrumentation and
      technique and a multilayer closure (with or without a patch) has now been developed. The
      current study is designed to investigate the multilayer closure technique using a Durepair
      patch and to compare results to those achieved with the single layer closure.

      We have recently added a percutaneous approach option for those patients with an anterior
      uterine window (i.e. an area of the uterine surface under the maternal anterior abdominal
      wall that is completely free of placenta (i.e. there is a posterior placenta or placenta that
      is located laterally and posterior such that the anterior uterine wall is free of placental
      tissue). The rationale for this is that in some selected cases, it will be possible to access
      the uterine surface in such a way that exactly the same port placement, membrane plication
      sutures and surgical repair as we currently perform, can be done through two smaller openings
      than the currently utilized large lower abdominal laparotomy that we use. The benefits of
      this proposed percutaneous approach are: Maternal - it will avoid the larger incision and
      reduce potential blood loss and infection risk from a long incision, reduce hospital length
      of stay, decrease maternal recovery and pain, and possibly give a better cosmetic outcome by
      avoiding a large scar. The fetal benefits will potentially include decreased heat loss from
      an open abdomen and thus reduced fetal hypothermia, decreased uterine artery manipulation and
      thus reduced risk of ischemia during the procedure, and a shortened surgery because of a much
      smaller length of abdominal opening to be closed.

      In this protocol, All women who have an appropriate window and choose fetoscopic surgery will
      be offered (along with the standard open hysterotomy approach) the two fetoscopic options,
      (i) laparotomy assisted and, (ii) totally percutaneous expandable port assisted. In this new
      aspect of our protocol, the repair of the open neural tube defect will continue to follow the
      same principles used in open repairs currently being done at this institution and at others
      around the world. This involves release of the placode, dissection of the surrounding skin,
      development of myofascial flaps on either side of the defect, suture of the flaps over the
      freed placode, and attempted primary closure of the defect using available skin. The
      additional step in this protocol will add introduction of the Durepair patch to be laid on
      top of the placode prior to closure of the myofascial flaps. If necessary we will use
      relaxing incisions to provide additional mobility to the skin to be closed over the defect -
      an accepted technique routinely used in open procedures at our institution. In those cases,
      where we are able to complete the procedure with full skin closure of the defect, the only
      difference between the open uterus procedure, the laparotomy assisted fetoscopic procedure,
      and the totally percutaneous expandable port assisted procedure will be the approach inside
      the uterus. In the event of expandable port assisted repair being deemed too difficult or too
      risky, we will revert to laparotomy assisted fetoscopic repair, or to open repair (as has
      always been our alternative for any abandoned fetoscopic case).

      Approximately 6 weeks after the surgery a post-procedure fetal MRI will be performed. If
      there is evidence of good closure of the neural tube defect and reversal of the Chiari II
      malformation, a vaginal delivery can be attempted based on obstetric criteria. Patients will
      be followed in person every 3-4 months after birth to 12 months at the Spina Bifida Clinic at
      TCH. Remaining visits will be yearly up to 5 years. If this is not possible, questionnaire(s)
      will be performed over the phone with the child's parents and records will be requested from
      the treating neurosurgeon on this same schedule.
    
  