
    
      Cutaneous healing is a physiological process that occurs in many occasions: posttraumatic,
      post-burn, but also in postsurgery or aesthetic interventions. Most often, topical products
      are used to create a favorable environment for wound healing.

      LED (Light Emitting Diode) are light emitting diodes which produce monochromatic or
      non-coherent polychromatic radiation when an electric current passes through them. Some LED
      emitting wavelengths in the visible or near infrared have been reported to promote wound
      healing. In the literature, in vitro studies showed stimulation of fibroblast and
      keratinocyte proliferation under the effect of irradiation by the LED. Animal studies have
      also shown that some LED treatments were able to stimulate healing and angiogenesis. Despite
      existence of strong data in in vitro and animal studies, the clinical data in humans
      regarding wound healing are still very poor. Thus, it is still not clear whether the LEDs
      have a real interest in skin healing, and if so, what are the wavelengths and optimal
      parameters. Despite this, the LEDs are used widely, unfortunately without a clear
      demonstration of their effectiveness and without any determination of optimal parameters of
      treatments that could guide clinicians.

      The main objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy at day 3 of different parameters
      of LED to enhance wound healing after dermabrasion with CO2 fractional laser on mini-zones on
      10 healthy volunteers.

      Design of the study:

        -  screening visit (day-7 to day-21): information of the patient, verification of inclusion
           criteria , preselection of 7 mini-zones, collection of the informed consent. Clinical
           examination, vital signs. Pregnancy test for women old enough to procreate.

        -  V1 (inclusion): clinical examination, vital signs, new pregnancy test for the women old
           enough to procreate, randomization for the allocation of treatments (LED parameters) on
           7 mini-zones of 1,5x1,5 cm at the level of forearm, one of them is allocated to control
           ( only laser). Dermabrasion by fractional laser CO2 ablative, evaluation of the pain on
           every zone by VAS post-act. Exposition to LED (630nm, 830nm and 590 nm). Water loss
           measure and colorimetry before and after laser and after the exposition to LED. Clinical
           evaluation of local tolerance post-laser and post-LED + standardized photographs.
           Application of a healing cream twice a day on area treated until healing.

        -  V2 (24 hours): evaluation local tolerance, photos, colorimetry, waterloss measure before
           the session LED.

        -  V3 (48 hours): evaluation local tolerance, photos, colorimetry, waterloss measure before
           the session LED

        -  V4 (72 hours): clinical exam, clinical local tolerance evaluation and healing, waterloss
           measure, colorimetry and standardized photos

        -  V5 ( J7): evaluation local tolerance, colorimetry and waterloss measures, standardized
           photos . V6 (J21+/-3 days): clinical exam, clinical local tolerance evaluation and
           healing, waterloss measure, colorimetry and standardized photos. Final visit of the
           study
    
  