
    
      Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) are a common neurologic emergency. Clinical management
      guidelines recommend oral anticoagulation for TIA patients suffering from atrial fibrillation
      (AF). Therefore, a diagnosis of AF in TIA patients has a major impact on the choice of
      adequate secondary stroke prevention. However, detection of paroxysmal AF in patients with
      TIA can be challenging. AF remains undetected in a relevant proportion of stroke and TIA
      patients using current routine diagnostic procedures. The actual prevalence of AF in TIA
      patients is unknown.

      Although the detection of AF has identical consequences for preventive therapy in patients
      with ischemic stroke and TIA, the management setting and diagnostic pathways frequently
      differ substantially between both manifestations. So far, only limited data exist on AF
      detection after TIA specifically, and the best method for diagnosis of AF has not been
      established. The usefulness of prolonged rhythm monitoring using event recorders or
      non-invasive continuous ECG in TIA patients has not been determined. While the use of an AF
      detection tool in TIA patients is desirable, an adequate use of resources of AF detection
      technologies in unselected TIA patients may be needed for this large scale health care
      problem. Identifying TIA patients that are at increased risk of suffering from AF using
      clinical and blood-based biomarkers and therefore most likely to benefit from such diagnostic
      procedures would be useful.

      The primary research question of the trial is whether prolonged ECG recording (intervention)
      significantly increases the rate of detection of pAF compared to 24 h ECG monitoring
      (control) 6 months after start of monitoring in patients with recent TIA. The co-primary
      question of the trial is whether 28 d non-invasive continuous ECG monitoring is non-inferior
      to ECG recording using an implanted event recorder for AF detection.

      The ODEA-TIA trial is an investigator initiated prospective, multicentre, randomized, open
      study with blinded outcome assessment comparing different diagnostic methods for detection of
      paroxysmal AF in patients with recent TIA. The primary endpoint is the rate of AF detection
      during the 6 months after randomization. Approximately 40 centers in Europe (e.g. UK,
      Germany, and Spain) will participate in this trial. Patients with a recent TIA fulfilling the
      eligibility criteria (see below) will be randomized in a 1:1:1 fashion between 24 h
      arrhythmia monitoring (control arm) and the two procedures for prolonged ECG monitoring
      (interventional arms). That means we have two interventional arms, patients receiving either
      continuous 28d non-invasive ECG monitoring or ECG event recording using a subcutaneously
      implanted event recorder.
    
  