
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a chronic condition characterized by episodes of apnea and
      hypoxemia caused by upper airway collapse. These episodes lead to symptoms such as daytime
      fatigue and sleepiness in addition to multiple effects on health including hypertension,
      stroke, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Obesity, defined by the World Health
      Organization and the United States National Institute of Health as a body mass index (BMI)
      ≥30 kg/m2 is a major risk factor for OSA and along with the obesity epidemic, the prevalence
      of OSA has been increasing and is estimated to be around 3-7% in the United States. In 2017
      The American Gastroenterological Association release the Practice guide on Obesity and Weight
      management, Education and Resources (POWER) that provides guidance on obesity management.
      This is in recognition that gastroenterologists are at the frontline of managing patients
      with multiple obesity related conditions such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
      non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, gastroesophageal reflux, Barrett's esophagus, and colon
      cancer. In the midst of these guidelines, recognition of extra gastrointestinal obesity
      related conditions such as OSA remains an important task as this can have important long-term
      health consequences.

      There are different tools modalities to screen for OSA such as STOP-BANG questionnaire (SBQ)
      and the Epworth Sleepiness scale (ESS). The SBQ was originally developed to screen patients
      in the pre-operative setting as this population may be at higher risk for post-operative
      complications, however this tool has been validated by multiple studies to identify patients
      that may be at high risk for OSA. A systematic review and meta-analysis on the performance of
      SBQ in different populations showed a sensitivity of 90%, 94% and 96% to detect any OSA
      (Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI) ≥ 5), moderate-to-severe OSA (AHI ≥15), and severe OSA (AHI ≥30)
      respectively. The ESS is a simple and validated questionnaire for assessing excessive daytime
      sleepiness in the context of sleep disorders and has been suggested as a tool to identifying
      patient with OSA. Studies comparing ESS with SBQ showed that although SBQ identify more
      patient with OSA, the ESS has a higher specificity which is potentially of use in conjunction
      with another higher sensitivity modality such as SBQ may improve the diagnostic accuracy
      other screening modalities. Although the sensitivity of Berlin, STOP and STOP-Bang
      questionnaires was generally high, the low specificity of these questionnaires results in
      increased false positives and failure of exclusion of individuals at low risk.

      The high sensitivity of SBQ, high specifity of ESS and ease in performing these questionnaire
      makes it an ideal tool to screen patients for OSA in the endoscopy unit. Given the potential
      cardiorespiratory decompensations in patients with OSA, multiple studies have used this
      questionnaire to determine factors associated with airway maneuvers (AM) and sedation related
      complications (SRC). In one study of patients undergoing advanced endoscopic procedures a SBQ
      score ≥3 (SBQ+) was associated with increased risk of hypoxemia and the use of AM. These
      patients also had a mean BMI of 31.4 kg/m2 which is defined as obesity class I. A similar
      study on patients undergoing elective EGD and colonoscopy found no correlation between SBQ+
      patients and SRC or AM, however it should be noted that the mean BMI in this SBQ+ population
      was 28.3 kg/m2 which does not meet criteria for obesity. Although not statistically
      significant there was a trend towards a higher use of AM in the higher BMI group (p=0.066).
      In addition the combined analysis of adverse events for EGD and colonoscopies together can be
      problematic since only about half of the patients on the study (n=120) underwent EGD which
      has a higher risk of transient hypoxemia than colonoscopy, because of the potential of direct
      impingement of the airway, laryngeal irritation or micro aspiration during esophageal
      intubation17. Also the use of propofol was not standardized and other methods of sedation
      were used such as benzodiazepine and opioids.
    
  