
    
      The word 'shiftwork' is commonly used to describe irregular, odd, untraditional working
      hours, or working hours that are away from day work period. Shiftwork dates back to the late
      1800s, as applied to guardians of old kingdoms and in the military services. After the
      innovation of the light, shift work expanded for nonstop production as in steel factories,
      iron foundries, and material plants. Approximately one-fourth of the workforce in hospitals
      works unusual hours (away from the traditional diurnal work period) . Shiftwork has a number
      of advantages and disadvantages to employers, employees, and their families. The advantages
      for employers include optimal use of energy, facilities, and other resources through extended
      capital operating time. The advantages for employees include increased income, more free time
      for daily activities, and saving time by avoiding traffic rush hours. Shiftwork is associated
      with both short-term and long-term disadvantages on physical and psychophysiological health.
      Short-term effects include fatigue and difficulties with sleep. Difficulties with sleep are
      found to be the most common complaint among shift workers. Sleep disturbances were the main
      reasons that led shift workers to leave night shiftwork owing to disturbed health habits
      compared with day workers .Gastrointestinal disorders were reported 2-5 times more commonly
      among shift workers than daytime workers. These disorders range from minor complaints (e.g.,
      constipation, heart burn, distension, and disturbed appetite) to serious gastrointestinal
      disorders, which may develop into chronic diseases such as chronic gastritis or peptic
      ulcers. Shiftwork has been also linked to type 2 diabetes and obesity as sleep deprivation
      activates the immune system and influences glucose metabolism .

      An association between shiftwork and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) has been reported. There
      is a higher risk for CVD such as hypertension, subclinical atherosclerosis, and ischemic
      heart disease compared with daytime workers . Different types of cancer have been reported in
      shift workers including cancers of the breast, colon, and endometrium. Shiftwork system
      causes circadian rhythm disruption, which is probably carcinogenic to humans.

      Also, shiftwork causes disruption in both social and domestic lifestyle, which is a major
      consequence of shiftwork, especially with maternal employment that may have some adverse
      influences on their young children's cognitive and behavioral outcomes.
    
  