
    
      Studies suggest that autistic adults are at greater risk for social anxiety. Social anxiety
      is a condition characterized by fear of scrutiny and avoidance of social interactions. Social
      anxiety frequently compounds the considerable social challenges experienced by autistic
      adults. There are currently no FDA-approved pharmacologic treatments for autistic adults,
      although off-label prescription of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are on the
      rise in this population.

      Based on the known effects of MDMA, as well as individual reports from autistic adults, this
      exploratory study focused on enhancing functional skills in this underserved population, who
      tend to experience greater anxiety, depression and victimization than typically developing
      adults. This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled exploratory pilot study assessed
      the safety and feasibility of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-assisted therapy for
      social anxiety in MDMA-naïve adults on the autism spectrum.

      The main objective of this study was to collect safety data to examine whether MDMA-assisted
      therapy was tolerated and to estimate symptom reduction in social anxiety and other
      psychiatric symptoms that are common in the adult autistic population as evaluated by
      standard clinical measures. The primary outcome measure was change in social anxiety symptoms
      as measured by the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS) [Heimberg et al., 1999].

      Each of the 12 subjects participated in two blinded experimental sessions, assisted by either
      MDMA or placebo, which lasted seven hours. Before experimental sessions, participants
      underwent three separate hour-long preparatory sessions to learn what to expect and complete
      pre-treatment assignments. After each experimental session, participants underwent three
      separate hour-long integrative sessions to help integrate their experiences and insights from
      the experimental sessions.

      This study was designed as a dose escalation study to assist with the exploration of safety
      and finding the most effective dose in this population. Upon enrollment, the first six
      subjects (Group 1) was randomized to receive one dose of either placebo (N=2) or 75 mg of
      MDMA (N=4). In the second experimental session one month later, Group 1 subjects randomized
      to MDMA escalated to 100 mg of MDMA, unless contraindicated. The second six subjects enrolled
      (Group 2) were randomized to receive one dose of either placebo (N=2) or 100 mg of MDMA
      (N=4). In the second experimental session one month later, Group 2 subjects randomized to
      MDMA escalated to 125 mg of MDMA, unless contraindicated.

      The blind was maintained through the six-month follow-up. In Stage 2 after the blind was
      broken, subjects who received placebo in Stage 1 were offered an open-label extension with
      two experimental sessions of MDMA scheduled one month apart. Subjects received 75 mg of MDMA
      in the first session and escalated to 125 mg of MDMA in the second session, unless
      contraindicated.
    
  