
    
      In a recent study, ablation therapy of AF was superior to antiarrhythmic drug therapy alone
      in preventing atrial arrhythmia recurrences in patients with paroxysmal or persistent AF.
      Various techniques have been proposed and are currently under investigation in various
      electrophysiology laboratories, with increasing knowledge of the pathophysiology of human AF
      and critical assessment of clinical outcome after the procedure. The factors related with the
      technical success involves appropriate contact force between catheter tip and target tissue
      for the complete electrical blockade and transmural ablation scar formation through
      continuous and sufficient energy transfer.

      For improving contact and energy transfer, it is required to accurately visualize the 3D
      anatomy of the left atrium in order to reduce fluoroscopic exposure during the procedure. For
      the purpose, electro-anatomic mapping systems (EAM) are commonly being used to reconstruct a
      virtual 3D chamber anatomy through the acquisition of a limited number of anatomical surface
      location points derived from the position of the catheter tip and an extrapolation of the
      chamber surface in between these acquired anatomical points.

      Previously, a more detailed appreciation of the complex left atrium (LA) anatomy can be
      obtained with 3D-anatomical chamber reconstructions derived from the computed tomography (CT)
      or magnetic resonance imaging(MRI). Integration of EAM with CT (or MRI) was generally
      regarded as a more accurate method. However, the method needs to be improved since it
      sometimes generates significant error during the integration process. Recently,
      volume-rendered 3D imaging can be created more accurately and easily through fast anatomical
      mapping (FAM) using multi-polar catheter. Furthermore, 3D anatomy obtained by FAM might
      provide more sophisticated information than that obtained from CT or MRI images since it
      reflects the real-time physiology and shape of the heart during the ablation procedure.

      However, there have been no prospective studies investigating that 3D anatomy obtained
      through which method can help to improve acute or long-term procedural outcome of the
      ablation procedure as well as reduce procedure-related adverse effects or complications.

      The purpose of the study is to investigate the differences between the 3D map constructed by
      the integration of the FAM with CT or MRI (FAM-CT 3D map) and that by FAM (FAM 3D map) alone
      with respect to following aspects:

        1. the contact force between the electrode and the atrial tissue during the ablation
           procedure;

        2. the safety and the procedure-related complications during or after the ablation
           procedure;

        3. the long term procedural outcome after the ablation procedure.
    
  