
    
      PROM Survey The BREAST-Q survey will be utilized to evaluate PROMs at the designated survey
      time points. The investigators will utilize the mastectomy and breast conserving therapy
      pre-operative and post-operative modules dependent on the type of surgery each patient
      chooses. The BREAST-Q survey has questions that pertain to the following domains: 1.
      Satisfaction with breasts, 2. Psychosocial well-being, 3. Physical well-being, 4. Sexual
      well-being, 5. Adverse effects of radiation, and 6. Patient experience with the health care
      team. Scores for each domain are scored with an equivalent Rasch transformed score (range
      0-100). These scores can then be tracked over time. In addition to the BREAST-Q modules, the
      investigators will ask 3 open ended questions. These questions will allow patients to share
      concerns or outcomes at each time point in an effort to identify currently unmeasured
      outcomes that are important to patients.

      Timing of Surveys For patients having surgery first: At the pre-operative visit, patients
      will be provided the pre-operative module. The post-operative modules will then be
      administered via email or in the clinic at the post-operative visit (~2 weeks after surgery),
      and then at 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months after surgery. After one year,
      patients will be surveyed annually.

      For patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy, surveys will be administered every 3 months
      during the pre-operative period. The post-operative modules will then be administered via
      email or in the clinic at the post-operative visit (~2 weeks after surgery), and then at 3
      months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months after surgery. After one year, patients will be
      surveyed annually.

      Patients will be randomized to receive the results of PROM surveys graphed over time
      (experimental group) or to not receive the results of the PROM surveys (normative control
      group). Results of the BREAST-Q surveys will be available to providers for all patients.

      Statistical Analyses Study data will be collected in a prospective database using the CCTSI
      RedCap database, with which the breast cancer program has extensive experience. The database
      will include demographic information, clinicopathologic data, surgical details, neoadjuvant
      and adjuvant treatments, and the equivalent Rasch transformed scores for each PROM metric at
      all recorded time points.

      Descriptive statistics will be utilized to characterize the patient population and patient
      engagement with PROMs. Univariate and multivariate analyses will be used to evaluate
      demographic and clinicopathologic variables and variations in PROMs across the course of
      treatment. The study endpoints will be evaluated with the following statistical methods:
    
  