
    
      Preschool years are critical times when dietary and PA behaviors are established and over 70%
      of U. S. children under the age of six attend out-of-home child care. Unhealthy food and PA
      behaviors contribute to the high prevalence rates of childhood obesity. Through this research
      study, our team will first conduct formative research using focus groups and key-informant
      interviews of Family Child Care Home (FCCH) providers. Partnering with Ready to Learn
      Providence the investigators will recruit FCCH providers to participate. The investigators
      will partner with Alison Tovar, PhD, (URI faculty) and her students to conduct interviews and
      discussion groups in English and Spanish. This formative work will inform our adaptation of
      components of previous evidence-based interventions to create a new innovative intervention
      in both English and Spanish to improve food and PA environments of Family Child Care Homes
      (FCCH). The intervention will integrate: a) support from peer counselors with child care
      experience who will serve as team leaders for groups of FCCPs; b) tailored print and video
      materials; and c) a set of portable active toys. A cluster-randomized trial with 132 FCCH and
      396 children in their care will evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention with a
      Steering Committee and Community Advisory Board guiding all aspects.

      The Specific Aims of the study are to: 1) Conduct formative research to inform the
      development and adaptation of the FCCH intervention. 2) Conduct a cluster-randomized trial of
      the intervention's efficacy with 66 FCCH providers and a control intervention with 66
      demographically-matched FCCH providers to evaluate its impact on: a) Children's overall
      dietary quality at FCCHs; b) Children's PA and sedentary behaviors at FCCHs; and c) the
      physical and social food and PA environments of FCCHs. Evaluation methods will include survey
      data collection of the FCCH Providers; observation of children's' dietary intake and physical
      activity in FCCHs(Partnering with Diane Ward, PhD (UNC faculty) and her student/staff member
      team); recruitment of children within the FCCH for physical and survey measurement with
      permission from their parents.

      The investigators will also conduct extensive mixed-methods process evaluation to determine
      fidelity, dose, acceptability, context, and unintended consequences; explore the relationship
      between outcome measures and intervention dose as well as with mediating/moderating
      variables, and explore the intervention effect on child BMI. If proven effective, this
      intervention has the potential to be replicated and widely disseminated throughout RI and the
      US, where improvements in the childcare environment are a high priority.
    
  