
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival in patients with resectable non-metastatic
      pancreatic cancer treated with peri-operative modified leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil,
      irinotecan hydrochloride, oxaliplatin (mFOLFIRINOX).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine overall survival. II. Determine objective response rate after neoadjuvant
      mFOLFIRINOX.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare R0 resection rate and pathologic stage with institutional historical controls who
      did not receive neoadjuvant therapy.

      II. Correlate early metabolic response, determined by changes in glucose metabolism using
      positron emission tomography (PET) scanning, with pathologic response, R0 resection, and
      pathologic stage.

      III. Correlate early metabolic response, determined by changes in glucose metabolism using
      PET scanning, with progression-free and overall survival.

      IV. Correlate pre-operative response of CA19-9 with progression-free and overall survival.

      V. Collect and bank serial serum and plasma specimens from subjects for future correlative
      biomarker studies.

      VI. Collect and bank tumor tissue from subjects prior to treatment (from the diagnostic
      endoscopic ultrasonography [EUS]-guided biopsy) and after treatment with six cycles of
      FOLFIRINOX (from the surgical specimen) for future correlative biomarker studies.

      OUTLINE:

      NEOADJUVANT THERAPY: Patients receive mFOLFIRINOX comprising oxaliplatin intravenously (IV)
      over 2 hours, levoleucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90
      minutes, and fluorouracil IV continuously for 46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2
      weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SURGERY: Beginning 3-8 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant therapy patients undergo
      surgical resection.

      ADJUVANT THERARPY: Beginning within 12 weeks after surgery, patients receive mFOLFIRINOX as
      in neoadjuvant therapy. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 3 years,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  