
    
      Long-term oral anticoagulation is standard for secondary stroke prevention in patients with
      atrial fibrillation (AFib). However, there is limited data and no consensus on the timing of
      when to initiate anticoagulation therapy, and concern that starting too soon risks
      symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation. These data are derived almost exclusively from
      heparins and Vitamin K antagonists (e.g.,warfarin). Now that NOACs have become the mainstay
      of stroke prophylaxis in AFib and have more rapid and consistent anticoagulation and fewer
      strokes (hemorrhagic especially), the question of optimal timing of NOAC initiation is of
      increasing importance.

      The primary aim is to determine the time-to-treatment interval with the lowest associated
      risk for adverse events in the context of anticoagulation therapy with NOACs for acute stroke
      patients with non-valvular AFib. The question will be investigated with a prospective,
      adaptive, randomized, controlled "dose-exploration" trial with the time to treatment with
      NOAC therapy treated as the incremental "dose".

      An adaptive, pragmatic trial will be performed that will not deviate from the treating
      physicians' usual practice except for randomizing the time to start the NOAC. Data collection
      will be limited to those fields necessary for the planned primary and secondary analyses.

      The composite primary outcome event will be any of the following within 30 days of the index
      stroke: Ischemic Events (symptomatic ischemic stroke or systemic embolism), Hemorrhagic
      Events (symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation of index ischemic stroke, other symptomatic
      intracranial hemorrhage, or major extracranial hemorrhage), or all-cause mortality.

      Four time-to-treatment intervals, i.e. study arms, between 2 and 14 days will be
      investigated: 60 hours, 132 hours, 228 hours, and 324 hours. An innovative adaptive design
      will be used which includes response adaptive randomization and modeling of ischemic and
      hemorrhagic outcome events. The ischemic and hemorrhagic events within the composite primary
      endpoint are modeled separately using their known monotonic property that the risk of an
      event increases (ischemic) or decreases (hemorrhage) as the time-to-treatment interval
      lengthens. Interim analyses will occur after every 100 subjects are randomized, where the
      primary outcome will be analyzed and new randomization probabilities will be calculated to
      favor the arms that have a better risk-profile.
    
  