
    
      Hysterosalpingography (HSG) remains one of the most reliable methods to study tubal patency
      and the uterine cavity (1-3). The relative indications and importance of HSG and laparoscopy
      in the diagnosis of tubal factor infertility have been extensively discussed. Recently a
      multicenter randomized controlled trial (4) has demonstrated that the routine use of HSG at
      an early stage of infertility work up, prior to laparoscopy and dye, does not influence the
      cumulative pregnancy rate compared with the routine use of laparoscopy and dye alone.
      However, HSG is an efficient method which is less invasive and less costly than laparoscopy
      (5), and than transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy (6). The main disadvantages of HSG are being
      unable to confirm adhesions, endometriosis and being a painful procedure (7,8). Different
      cannulas and catheters have been tried to reduce pain such as the Rubin cannula (9), Jorcho
      cannula (10), and Whitehead cannula or Foley catheter (11). Minimal difference in the degree
      of pain was found when the balloon catheter was compared with the cervical cup (12). General
      and local medications have been tried to alleviate pain during the procedure. (3,13).

      HSG is widely practiced in our country, however, for cost effective reasons, the standard
      metal cannula is the only method used at our hospital. It is painful procedure because it
      requires grasping the cervix with a tenaculum and inducing some cervical dilatation during
      introduction of the cannula. The aim of this pilot study was to develop a simple and painless
      technique for HSG using a thinner than normal catheter, and without grasping the cervix with
      a tenaculum. Leakage of the dye through the cervix was prevented by pressing on the
      portiovaginalis of the cervix using the vaginal speculum. This technique for performing HSG
      is a novel one and has not been described previously in the medical literature.
    
  