
    
      This is a randomized, stratified, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel group,
      placebo-controlled, dose finding, multicentre, multinational, phase II study in patient with
      colorectal cancer receiving 5- Fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy (FOLFOX -FOLinic acid,
      Fluorouracil, OXaliplatin chemotherapy regimen - or FOLFIRI - FOLinic acid, Fluorouracil,
      IRInotecan chemotherapy regimen). Patients will receive, starting from the day of
      chemotherapy administration, a single daily dose subcutaneously (s.c.) of elsiglutide 10, 20
      or 40 mg or placebo for 4 consecutive days. Each patient will be in the study for 3
      consecutive chemotherapy cycles. The treatment period for each patient will be 4 consecutive
      days at each of the first 2 chemotherapy cycles.

      Randomization will be performed with a 1:1:1:1 treatment allocation and will be stratified by
      chemotherapy regimen and country. Two populations are planned for this study.

      The population receiving FOLFOX or FOLFIRI without monoclonal antibody is defined as the
      Target population, while the population concomitantly receiving monoclonal antibody is
      defined as the Additional population.

      Randomization in Target and Additional population are handled independently.

      Primary Objective:

      To compare the efficacy of 3 s.c. doses of elsiglutide versus (vs.) placebo and vs. each
      other dose in the prevention of CID in colorectal cancer patients treated with 5-FU based
      chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI) with no addition of a monoclonal antibody.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  As a secondary objective, the efficacy of 3 s.c. doses of elsiglutide vs. placebo and
           vs. each other dose in the prevention of CID in colorectal cancer patients treated with
           5-FU based chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI) given in combination with a monoclonal
           antibody will be explored.

        -  Safety and tolerability of the administered repeated doses of elsiglutide will be
           evaluated.

      Additionally the following secondary objectives will be explored:

        -  The pharmacokinetics (PK) of elsiglutide, and its metabolites in each patient who
           consents to undergo an exposure assessment after the first administration and at steady
           state. The influence of possible demographic and therapeutic covariates on the PK
           parameters and their variability will also be investigated. The possible relationship
           between exposure of elsiglutide and its metabolites and efficacy measures in the target
           and overall population will be explored.

        -  The economic impact of the 3 doses of elsiglutide vs. placebo and each other dose in the
           treatment of CID.

        -  The impact on patient's QoL (quality of life) of the different dosages vs. placebo.
    
  