
    
      (1) NSSI NSSI epidemiological survey. For example, epidemiological investigation. For
      example, in the period of 2020.1.1-2020.6.30 half a year, the psychiatric departments of
      fourteen hospitals of different regions, regions and nature (psychiatric specialist
      hospitals/general hospitals), hospitals of different types in Jiangsu Province, and hospitals
      of different types in Jiangsu Province were selected by stratification. In outpatient and
      inpatient departments, a certain proportion of young people were selected from outpatients
      and inpatients. Guided by the recommended diagnostic criteria of DSM-5 and guided by
      semi-structured interviews, the patients with NSSI behavior were screened out by
      semi-structured interviews. The incidence, comorbidity, incidence, comorbidity and basic
      psychosocial factors were investigated.(2) Exploring the pathogenesis of NSSI. Exploration of
      pathogenesis. A case-control study was designed on the basis of flow survey. The NSSI NSSI
      group and the normal control group were set up. The data of symptomatology, genetic factors
      of social factors of psychological cognitive function and brain imaging were collected. The
      data of brain imaging, brain imaging and other data were collected, and the data of
      social-psychological-biological data collection and mechanism exploration were carried
      out.(3) Clinical intervention study of NSSI. NSSI patients were randomly divided into
      structured DBT group intervention group (DBT-ST) and support group discussion group (SGT).
      The experimental group was given structured DBT group therapy intervention, while the control
      group was given the same frequency of support group discussion. To explore the therapeutic
      effect and mechanism of structured DBT group therapy intervention on NSSI behavior. In order
      to provide a scientific and effective treatment for NSSI behavior.
    
  