
    
      Previous research has shown that approximately twenty-five percent of patients capable of
      triggering the ventilator in assisted modes have high rates of patient-ventilator asynchrony,
      and that such patients have a longer duration of mechanical ventilation. It is not known
      whether asynchrony is a cause of weaning failure or simply a marker of more severe
      respiratory failure. The most common type of asynchrony, ineffective triggering, may be both
      a marker of respiratory disease and a cause of delayed weaning. During ineffective
      triggering, the patient's inspiratory effort fails to trigger a ventilator breath, and thus
      the respiratory rate displayed on the ventilator underestimates the patient's true, intrinsic
      respiratory rate. Since ineffective triggering is more common at higher levels of pressure
      support than lower levels, an increase in respiratory rate during weaning of pressure support
      may indicate the development of respiratory distress or simply the abolition of ineffective
      triggering. Ineffective triggering may also cause delayed weaning because respiratory muscle
      energy is "wasted" on non-supported breaths. Proportional assist ventilation (PAV) is an FDA-
      and HPB-approved mode of ventilation in which the ventilator applies pressure in proportion
      to patient effort. Using PAV, patient-ventilator interaction may be optimized and ineffective
      triggering greatly reduced. Since the patient and ventilator respiratory rates are generally
      equivalent, a reduction in respiratory rate with increasing ventilatory support is less
      likely to be false positive indication of the need for greater assistance.

      In this study, patients with difficulty weaning from mechanical ventilation will be
      randomized to weaning with one of two weaning protocols: Proportional Assist Ventilation
      (PAV) weaning algorithm (intervention arm) vs. Pressure Support Ventilation (PSV) weaning
      algorithm (control arm).
    
  