
    
      An incremental, multi-method approach was adopted, in line with the MRC Framework for complex
      interventions. Four prior data collection phases helped to inform the development of the
      educational intervention (a review of guidelines and a systematic review of the existing
      literature Muldrew et al 2018; a clinical case note review (McIlfatrick et al 2019) and
      qualitative findings from patients, caregivers and health professionals (Hasson et al 2019).
      The refinement of the intervention involved the project's fourth step (unpublished). This was
      the use of the Nominal Group Technique (NGT) with 39 HCPs to help identify priorities in the
      assessment and management of constipation. The findings from the NGT were further ratified by
      an international review group (n=19) on constipation management and care.

      A mixed methods approach was undertaken to inform the development of the intervention and
      assess its impact. A small cohort, one-sample repeated measures design was used to assess the
      impact of the intervention on the knowledge of participants (health care professionals). Data
      collection was focused on three primary groups of HCPs; nurses, medics, and pharmacists.
      Qualitative data were collected after the intervention to assess the appropriateness of the
      intervention, the support in the specialist palliative care unit to complete it, the overall
      processes surrounding its implementation, and any impact that participants felt it had on
      practice. These data were gathered from focus groups (n=4) with 14 HCPs and nine telephone
      interviews with managers and senior staff in the SPC units. The intervention was delivered,
      and participants were recruited from five specialist palliative care inpatient units in the
      UK (Northern Ireland, Scotland, and England).

      HCPS (nurses, medics, pharmacists) were invited to participate if they met the following
      inclusion criteria; (i) working in a clinical capacity in the SPC inpatient unit; (ii)
      involvement in the management of patients with constipation; (iii) over 18 years of age; and
      (iv) able to provide written consent in English. The educational intervention was advertised
      across sites through Research Leads, flyers and the identification of a "champion", in
      conjunction with senior staff. HCPs who met the inclusion criteria and were willing to
      participate could sign up via a webpage containing an information sheet, consent form, and
      information on how to access the education programme.

      Intervention development and implementation processes Based on the findings from the previous
      stages, a 6-week, online, educational program was created with Syngery Learning an online
      learning management company, on constipation assessment and management. Each week of the
      program consisted of a short theoretical introduction to key aspects of constipation
      (assessment, prevention, non-pharmacological management, pharmacological management, opioid
      induced constipation, and bowel obstruction). This was supplemented with a quiz, link to
      practice activity, and a group discussion in an online closed group. Participant's study was
      largely self-directed and flexible. They could log in at any time during the 6-week data
      collection period to complete the activities. Managers of the specialist palliative care
      units were supportive of the educational program and assisted in the practical elements of
      running the course, including releasing staff from their workload to complete the required
      activities. Participants were encouraged to complete these activities during their work
      hours.

      Data collection Measures were completed online at baseline and after completion of the
      educational intervention. Competency measures were the primary outcome of the study, linked
      to the NiCan Framework for Generalist and Specialist Palliative and End of Life Care
      Knowledge and Skills Framework. Participants completed a competency assessment tool extracted
      from the Competency and End of Life Care Competency Tool and the Knowledge and Self-Efficacy
      Survey. The intervention was implemented gradually, over two separate occasions, enabling
      learning from the first phase to be incorporated into the second phase.

      Qualitative Data Collection Qualitative data were collected after the intervention to assess
      the appropriateness of the resource, the support within the SPC unit to complete it, the
      overall processes surrounding its implementation, and any impact that participants felt it
      had on practice. This used focus groups and telephone interviews with managers and senior
      staff within the specialist palliative care units . Participants taking part in were invited
      to participate if they met set inclusion criteria; (i) employed by hospice as HCP; (ii)
      previous experience working with patients receiving palliative care who suffer from
      constipation; (iii) over 18 years of age; and (iv) Willing to participant in the study and
      have provided informed consent.

      Cost analysis Information was collected on the time spent by staff on the training resource,
      by staff type and by study centre. Staff time was valued using unit costs obtained from the
      Personal Social Services Research Unit Costs of Health & Social Care 2018.
    
  