
    
      Primary Objective-To establish a biobank of specimens that allows for the future creation of
      iPS cells with the potential to make human neurons for functional studies of specific
      genes/genetic variants.

      Secondary Objectives-To develop a clinically relevant in vitro model of cisplatin induced
      peripheral neuropathy to be used to 1) screen new drugs for the treatment or prevention of
      peripheral neuropathy; 2) evaluate candidate genes for their role in cisplatin induced
      neuropathy.

      Study Procedures-Subjects who wish to participate will undergo the following study
      procedures, which will be performed after the informed consent document is obtained:

        1. Sample Collection-A trained phlebotomist will conduct a blood draw for the collection of
           SIX samples for peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) isolation and infectious
           disease testing.

        2. Patient Self-Report of Toxicities-All patients in the study will be asked to fill out
           the Patient-reported Toxicity Form. This will take approximately 10 minutes to complete
           and consists of 20 questions related to patient symptoms describing toxicities
           experienced secondary to receiving cisplatin chemotherapy. They will be asked to fill
           out the form twice: (1) describing the peripheral neuropathy they currently are
           experiencing and (2) describing the worst peripheral neuropathy toxicity they
           experienced as a result of cisplatin therapy. These paper forms will be filled out at
           time of enrollment in the study.

        3. Physician Report of Toxicities-The patient's physician or the designatee will complete
           an adverse event form at day of enrollment detailing the physician's assigned grade of
           toxicities (according to CTCAE version 4.3) experienced from cisplatin. Other
           information regarding the particularly severe neurotoxicity may also be collected from
           physicians (e.g. patient use of walker or wheelchair, patient application for disability
           based on neuropathy).

        4. General Information- This information will be collected at the same time point as all of
           the other study procedures (i.e., Day One). This will include but may not be limited to:
           age, height, weight, patient-identified race and ethnicity, information about the
           chemotherapy regimen, total cisplatin dose administered and date of last cisplatin dose.

        5. Cisplatin Dose-Total cumulative dose of cisplatin administered will be recorded. Outside
           records will be obtained where needed.

        6. Follow-up and Duration of Follow-Up-There will be no subsequent patient follow-up after
           time of enrollment. Subjects may withdraw consent for specimen use by contacting the PI
           in writing.
    
  