
    
      Chest pain remains one of the most common, potentially serious presenting complaints for
      adults emergency department visits with approximately 7.6 million yearly visits in the united
      states. The priority for emergency physician is to determine whether these patients with
      acute chest pain have a potential life threatening underlying etiology. The great challenge
      is to differentiate patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome and those with other
      more benign conditions. Obviously, medical history, clinical examination, and laboratory
      values may help to identify patients with true ACS. None are sufficiently accurate to be used
      independently. Thus, about 5% of ACS patients are inappropriately discharged annually.
      Therefore, there is a global tendency for ED physician to overinvestigate chest pain patients
      with further, often more invasive testing, even in low-risk patients. This kind of practice
      leads to resource overutilization and a huge health costs waste contrasting with no outcomes
      improvement.

      For many years, physicians were searching tools, ranging from specific diagnostic tests to
      entire strategies of evaluation, to appropriately risk stratify patients with chest pain in
      order to simultaneously prevent major adverse cardiac events and reduce unnecessary testing
      and hospitalisations. Based on the principal that a prompt quick and accurate identification
      of patients who are at high and low risk of developing major adverse cardiac events is
      paramount, and in order to optimally allocate ED and hospital resources, many bioclinical
      scores have been developed. One of the most known risk scores is TIMI score, which was
      originally derived and validated in a population of in-patients with unstable angina and non
      ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). Its main performance is to predict early
      occurrence of major cardiovascular events (MACE). However, TIMI score like many other
      specific scores gave conflicting results when applied on chest pain patients in the ED. The
      HEART score is one of the more recently proposed model derived through a process involving
      expert opinion and review of medical literature. It is calculated based on admission data of
      medical history, EKG, age, cardiovascular risk factors and troponin levels. The HEART score
      was created specifically to identify ED patients presenting with undifferentiated chest pain
      who were at low risk as well as patients at high risk of short-term MACE occurrence. HEART
      score has been widely reported to outperform the TIMI and the GRACE scores. Several
      scientific societies are encouraging the use of HEART score, for evaluating patients with
      chest pain suggestive of ACS in the ED. A recent systematic review comprehensively compared
      the leading clinical prediction rules for chest pain, including the TIMI, the HEART, and the
      GRACE scores. Among the three risk stratification tools, the HEART score was found to be the
      most useful for managing patients with undifferentiated chest pain who present to the ED
      because it is simple, easy, and quick to use and it also has been validated in several
      studies conducted in the ED. Additional studies providing further worldwide data about the
      validation of this risk score will empower emergency physicians' decision making when relying
      on this score in ruling in or ruling out their chest pain patients. The goal of our
      investigation is to validate HEART score as a prognostication tool among ED patients with
      chest pain in teaching hospitals in Tunisia.
    
  