
    
      The research question addressed in this study is how preoperative markers of diabetes control
      correspond with the fluctuations in glucose levels which occur around surgery measured using
      continuous glucose monitoring (CGM). At present a HbA1c blood test prior to surgery is
      routinely used to infer the surgical risk associated with a person's glucose levels. HbA1c
      gives a measure of average blood glucose levels over the preceding 2-3 months and the joint
      British diabetes society guidelines recommend aiming for an HbA1c of 69mmol/mol or less
      before planned surgery.

      However the HbA1c does not give a complete picture of a person's diabetes control and the
      evidence behind this threshold is incomplete. Furthermore due to the physiological stress of
      surgery and counterregulatory hormone release glucose levels can be more dynamic and
      unpredictable in this population. With CGM glucose levels are recorded multiple times an
      hour, revealing glucose variation and the amount of time the person's glucose levels spend
      above and below the ideal range which is understood to be associated with increased risks.
      This study aims to examine how such glucose patterns and 'at risk' time periods when glucose
      levels are outside of the target range correspond with different levels of HbA1c before
      surgery. This is an important area of study as diabetes is becoming increasingly prevalent in
      surgical patients and is associated with worse outcomes. Using new technologies to evaluate
      predictors of such harmful patterns in glucose levels is therefore vital.

      Individuals who are eligible for this study are those with type 2 diabetes undergoing
      elective primary hip or knee replacement surgery. This is an observational study.
      Participants will wear a Freestyle Libre Pro glucose sensor for 2 weeks before and 2 weeks
      immediately post their surgery. The investigators will also collect information about
      participants recovery.

      Duration of the study will be up to 8 weeks. The study will take place at Portsmouth Hospital
      NHS trust.
    
  