
    
      Background: Fructose has been implicated in chronic disease guidelines. The American Heart
      Association (AHA) and American (ADA), Canadian (CDA), and European (EASD) Diabetes
      Associations discourage dietary fructose at high intakes (>15-20% energy), citing its ability
      to aggravate blood lipids. The American Heart Association (AHA) and the World Health
      Organization (WHO) recommend reduced consumption (<5-7% and <10% energy, respectively) of
      added sugars, especially as high fructose corn syrup in sugar sweetened beverages, to
      decrease the risk of weight gain. These concerns, however, are based on inconsistent
      intervention data in humans. There is also paradoxical evidence that small, catalytic doses
      of fructose at a level obtainable from fruit (<10-g/meal) may improve glycemic control in
      humans.

      Objective: To improve evidence-based guidance for fructose recommendations, the investigators
      propose conducting a series of 7 systematic reviews and meta-analyses of controlled feeding
      trials to assess the effect of oral fructose on cardiometabolic risk in humans. The first 6
      systematic reviews and meta-analyses will each be conducted on a different area of
      cardiometabolic risk: (1) lipids, (2) glycemic control, (3) body weight, (4) uric acid, (5)
      blood pressure, and (6) non-alcoholic fatty liver (NAFL). The seventh meta-analysis will
      investigate the effect of small, "catalytic" doses of fructose at a level obtainable from
      fruit (<10-g/meal) on all areas of cardiometabolic risk.

      Design: The planning and conduct of the proposed meta-analyses will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data sources. MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms, supplemented by
      manual, hand searches of bibliographies.

      Study selection: We will include controlled feeding trials investigating the effect of
      fructose in isocaloric exchange for other carbohydrate sources (isocaloric trials) or added
      to a control diet as a source of excess energy (hypercaloric trials) on cardiometabolic risk
      factors in humans. Studies that are <7-days diet duration, lack a control, or do not provide
      viable endpoint data will be excluded. To isolate the effects of fructose, we will also
      exclude trials in which fructose was administered exclusively as sucrose (bound fructose) or
      high-fructose corn syrup (42% to 55% of free fructose), except where these sweeteners were
      the comparator.

      Data extraction. Two investigators will independently extract information about study design,
      sample size, subject characteristics, fructose form, dose, reference-carbohydrate, follow-up,
      and background diet profile. Mean±SEM values will be extracted for all outcomes. Standard
      computations and imputations will be used to derive missing variance data. Investigators will
      assess the quality/validity of each study using the Heyland Methodological Quality Score
      (MQS).

      Outcomes: The first 6 of 7 proposed analyses will each assess a set of outcomes related to a
      different area of cardiometabolic risk: (1) lipids (fasting lipids [triglycerides,
      HDL-cholesterol [C], LDL-C, apo-B, total-C:HDL-C ratio, apo-B:apo-A1 ratio, non-HDL-C] and
      postprandial lipids(non-fasting peak, mean, and area under the curve [AUC] triglycerides),
      (2) glycemic control (fasting glucose and insulin, glycated blood proteins) and insulin
      sensitivity (Euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp, frequent sampling intravenous glucose
      tolerance test [FSIGT], Homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance [HOMA-IR], oral
      glucose tolerance test insulin sensitivity index [OGTT-ISI]), (3) body weight, (4) uric acid,
      (5) blood pressure (systolic BP, diastolic BP, mean arterial pressure), and (6) NAFL (imaging
      and spectroscopy endpoints of liver fat and biomarkers of hepatocellular injury
      [transaminases]). The last proposed analysis investigating the effect of small, "catalytic"
      doses of fructose will focus on all 6 outcomes.

      Data synthesis. Meta-analyses will be conducted using the Generic Inverse Variance method
      applying random effects models expressed as standardized mean differences (SMDs) with 95%
      CIs. Paired analyses will be applied for crossover trials according to Elbourne et al. (Int J
      Epidemiol. 2002;31:140-149). Heterogeneity will be assessed by the Q statistic and quantified
      by I2. A priori subgroup analyses will be undertaken to explore sources of heterogeneity
      including the effect of underlying disease status, reference carbohydrate (comparator),
      fructose form, dose, follow-up, study design, baseline measurements, and study quality on the
      effect of fructose. Significant unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by additional
      post hoc subgroup analyses (e.g. age, sex, level of feeding control, energy balance and
      composition of the background diet, etc.) and sensitivity analyses. Meta-regression analyses
      will assess the significance of subgroups analyses with piece-wise meta-regression techniques
      used to identify dose or follow-up thresholds. Publication bias will be investigated by
      inspection of funnel plots.

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
      Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key areas for
      future research will be defined. Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among
      opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly as committee members in the
      development of future guidelines.

      Preliminary findings: A pilot project which explored the effect of fructose on lipids in
      diabetes identified 786 articles, of which 14 (16 trials)were included in a meta-analysis.
      Isocaloric exchange of fructose for carbohydrate had a triglyceride raising effect in type 2
      diabetes only where the reference carbohydrate was starch, dose was >60-g/d, or follow-up was
      ≤4-weeks. These distinctions had not been appreciated previously (Sievenpiper et al. Diabetes
      Care 2009;32:1930-1937).

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the effects
      of dietary fructose on diabetes, and cardiovascular risk factors, strengthening the
      evidence-base for recommendations and improving health outcomes through informing consumers
      and guiding future research.
    
  