
    
      Patients ordered to receive a SABD, will be screened for presence of moderate to severe COPD
      exacerbation; spontaneously breathing patients as well those supported with non-invasive
      ventilation (NIV) will be screened for inclusion.

      Upon consent, the patient will be randomized to receive the ordered SABD via a JN (MistyFast,
      Carefusion-BD, CA) or VMN (Aerogen Ultra, Aerogen, Galway, Ireland).

      Included subjects will receive therapy with a mouthpiece interface. In the case a patient is
      unable to tolerate, maintain a tight seal around the mouthpiece or otherwise not perform
      aerosol therapy with a mouthpiece, a valved-aerosol mask (I-Guard aerosol mask, Salter Labs,
      Lake Forest, IL) will be utilized.

      Subjects that require NIV, whether on admission to the ED or in the face of escalating
      therapy, will receive NIV via a non-vented, oronasal mask and the allocated nebulizer will be
      placed distal to the leak in the NIV circuit (between the mask and circuit). Patients will
      receive positive expiratory and/or inspiratory pressure at specific settings determined by
      the prescribing physician and clinical team.

      Subjects will be re-evaluated and clinical data collected following delivery of the initial
      SABD treatment that includes signs of possible side effects.

      The prescribing physician and clinical team will determine the need for additional SABD
      therapy beyond the initial therapy. Subjects indicated and ordered for additional
      administration of SABD will continue to receive SABD with the randomly allocated aerosol
      delivery device. Subjects will be re-evaluated and assessed for possible side effects after
      delivery of the additional SABD.

      The initial order, as well as all subsequent orders for SABD medication will be at the
      discretion of the physician and clinical team. The type and dosage of medication and the
      approximate timing of medication delivery designated in the study protocol is according to
      and correlates with the standard practices. The process of determining need by the clinical
      team and administering additional SABD, followed by evaluation, will continue up to a total
      of four SABD treatments. If at any point following a SABD treatment, the clinical team
      assesses the subject and determines that no additional therapy is indicated, the subject will
      not receive additional SABD. Clinical data will be collected following each SABD administered
      (approximately every 30 minutes) and conclude at 120 min after randomization.

      Subjects requiring the need for endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilator support,
      immediate or in escalation of support, will be at the discretion of the attending physician.
      Subjects requiring endotracheal intubation as escalation of therapy following study
      enrollment will be included in the study analysis. Those subjects requiring the immediate
      need for endotracheal intubation prior to randomization will be excluded from the study.

      Individualized decision regarding hospitalization or discharge to home will be according to
      the attending physician. Subjects admitted to the hospital for continued inpatient care will
      continue to receive nebulized bronchodilator therapy, as indicated and ordered, with an
      aerosol delivery device according to the MWHC bronchodilator protocol and standard practices.
    
  