
    
      This is an open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), multicenter (when
      more than one hospital or medical school team work on a medical research study),
      non-randomized (a clinical trial in which the participants are not assigned by chance to
      different treatment groups), prospective (study following participants forward in time)
      safety and efficacy study of siltuximab in participants with relapsed or refractory multiple
      myeloma. The study consists of 3 Phases: Screening Phase (from first visit until the first
      dose of study drug), Treatment Phase (from the first dose to the end-of-treatment), and
      Follow-up Phase (after end-of-treatment until the end of study). The duration of
      participation in the study for an individual participant will be up to 4 weeks for Screening
      Phase, approximately 52 weeks for Treatment Phase and until death, lost to follow-up,
      withdraw of consent or end of study, whichever, comes first for Follow-up Phase. Treatment
      will be administered on a 28-day cycle. The study is designed with 2 alternative treatment
      plans. Treatment Plan A: during first 2 cycles siltuximab will be administered alone,
      dexamethasone may be added to the treatment regimen based on the participant's response to
      treatment. Treatment Plan B: siltuximab and dexamethasone combination for the duration of the
      study. The first 14 eligible participants will follow Treatment Plan A and data evaluation
      will be conducted for participants after 2 cycles of treatment and 2 post baseline disease
      assessments. If at least one complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) is observed in
      14 participants, all subsequent participants will follow Treatment Plan A. However, if no
      responses (CR or PR) are observed, all subsequent participants will follow Treatment Plan B.
      The primary efficacy endpoint will be percentage of participants with overall response.
      Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  