
    
      The decline in first-phase insulin secretion is a key event in the etiology of type 2
      diabetes (T2D). Although the cause of beta-cell failure is not clear, "lipotoxicity" has been
      proposed. Bariatric surgery and very-low calorie diets in patients with T2D induce disease
      remission, characterized by a return of first-phase insulin secretion and a depletion of
      pancreas lipid. However, these are extreme approaches to treating T2D, and non-invasive,
      sustainable, yet equally effective, treatments are needed. The investigators have shown in
      individuals at risk for T2D that an intervention with a weight-maintaining low-glycemic (LG)
      diet selectively depletes visceral adipose tissue and ectopic lipid in muscle while
      preserving thigh subcutaneous adipose and lean body mass. This observation suggests that such
      diets are able to "remodel" body composition by re-partitioning energy away from
      metabolically harmful lipid stores. Participants on the LG diet also demonstrated improved
      insulin sensitivity and a dramatic (9-fold) increase in first-phase insulin secretion. Thus,
      the investigators hypothesize that a weight-maintaining LG diet will selectively deplete
      ectopic adipose tissue, including pancreatic lipid, and will permit recovery of beta-cell
      function in individuals with T2D. Rescue of beta-cell function may be particularly important
      in African-Americans (AA), who as a group demonstrate a high prevalence of T2D, for reasons
      that cannot be explained by lifestyle. AA are likely to be vulnerable to beta-cell failure
      due to inherently high beta-cell responsiveness (demonstrable in healthy young children).
      Further, it has been shown that pancreas lipid is a determinant of prediabetes specifically
      in AA. Thus, the investigators hypothesize that an LG diet will be particularly beneficial to
      beta-cell function and glycemic control among AA.
    
  