
    
      The goal of this project is to test the efficacy of a computer-facilitated Screening and
      Brief Intervention system adapted for Military use (cSBI-M) in reducing substance use among
      18- to 25-yr-old U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps personnel (USN/USMCs). The aims and
      hypotheses of this project are to: 1)Test the effects of cSBI-M on any alcohol use.
      Hypothesis: Among 18- to 25-yr-old USN/USMCs coming for routine health screenings, those
      receiving cSBI-M will have lower rates of any alcohol use at 3-, 6-, 9- and 12-month
      follow-ups than Treatment As Usual (TAU). 2) Test the effects of cSBI-M separately as a
      preventive, early therapeutic, and risk-reduction intervention. Hypotheses: (a) Among 18- to
      25-yr-old non-drinking USN/USMCs (negative history of past-12-months drinking at baseline),
      those receiving cSBI-M will have lower rates of drinking initiation and heavy episodic
      drinking (HED, a.k.a. "binge" drinking) at 3-, 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-ups than TAU. (b)
      Among 18- to 25-yr-old drinking USN/USMCs (positive history of past-12-months drinking at
      baseline), those receiving cSBI-M will have higher rates of drinking cessation, reduced
      intensity of drinking (e.g., past-3-months drinking days, HED, and driving after drinking or
      riding with a drinking driver at 3-, 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-ups than TAU. (3) Test the
      effects of cSBI-M on tobacco use; explore its effects on other drug use. (4) Assess potential
      moderators (e.g., age, gender, race/ethnicity, substance use history +/-, parent/sibling/peer
      substance use), mediators (e.g., Patient to Provider Connectedness,17 perceived harmfulness
      of alcohol and drug use), and explore cSBI-M's mechanism of action. Hypotheses: among 12- to
      18-yr-old patients coming for routine care, those receiving c-ASBI will have 1) lower rates
      of any alcohol use, of drinking initiation and riding with a driver who has been drinking,
      and 2) higher rates of drinking cessation, reduced intensity of drinking, heavy episodic
      drinking and driving after drinking or riding with a driver who has been drinking, at 3-, 6-,
      and 12-month follow-ups compared to Treatment As Usual (TAU).
    
  