
    
      Background:

      Arthritis is the most common cause of disability, and is associated with activity limitation,
      work disability and significant health care costs. Approximately 50 million US adults have
      doctor-diagnosed arthritis. Non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics have worse arthritis impact
      despite having the same or lower prevalence of arthritis compared to non-Hispanic whites.
      People with arthritis who exercise regularly have less pain, more energy, improved sleep and
      better day-to-day function. Yet, arthritis is one of the most common reasons for limiting
      physical activity. Improving health quality for people with chronic disease requires patients
      to take responsibility for their own care. Self-efficacy enhancing interventions may enable
      individuals to undertake self-care activities that improve physical and mental well-being.
      Attention is now being focused on complementary and integrated non-pharmacologic self-care
      approaches. Yoga is among the top 10 complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) modalities.
      Stretching, strength, posture, balance, and the ability to adjust pace and intensity are
      important safety components for patients with arthritis, all of which yoga encompasses.
      Mind-body interventions, such as yoga, that teach stress management with physical activity
      may be well suited for investigation in both osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis
      (RA). Yoga users are predominately white, female, and college educated. In a descriptive
      study of patients enrolled in the Natural History of Rheumatic Disease in Minority
      Communities protocol only 4.6% were doing yoga. These disparities may be related to cost,
      access, and cultural beliefs. There are few studies that examine yoga in minority
      populations; none of these address arthritis.

      Study Objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the feasibility and acceptability of
      providing yoga to an urban, minority population with arthritis.

      Secondary Objective:

      To determine the appropriateness of specific physical and psychosocial measures for this
      population, and intervention with a focus on physical function and patient reported measures.

      Tertiary Objective:

      To determine the feasibility of using computerized self-interview (with assistance) to
      capture baseline and final status.

      Eligibility:

      Adult patients (18 years or older) enrolled in the Natural History of Rheumatoid Disease in
      Minority Communities protocol with a diagnosis of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis or
      systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

      Design:

      A pilot study to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of conducting a study based on a
      yoga intervention for arthritis in minority communities. Assessments will be made from a
      convenience sample of 20 RA/OA participants and 5 SLE participants undergoing an 8-week
      program of yoga classes consisting of 60-minute sessions, twice a week. The yoga classes are
      designed especially for people with arthritis.
    
  