
    
      In order to validate the item banks and to examine their utility as computerized adaptive
      tests (CATs), the PROMIS network has designed a series of studies that will allow us to
      examine the attributes of the measures in "real-world" clinical environments. This protocol
      is aimed at comparing the psychometric properties of the PROMIS item banks with non-PROMIS
      "gold standard" instruments currently used in our respective fields (pain and mental health).
      In this context, note that the proposed study is not intended to evaluate treatment
      effectiveness, and no control group has been included. The main consideration has been to
      design a study involving ecologically valid treatments with established efficacy that can be
      administered and evaluated over the short term (i.e., 3 months). Regardless of their impact
      in the aggregate, such treatments will generate considerable variability in individual
      outcomes, and this heterogeneity is optimal for examining relevant psychometric issues. The
      psychometric issue of greatest concern is the validity of the PROMIS item banks as evidenced
      in convergent and discriminant validity and responsiveness to change. We also will make
      initial estimates of clinically significant change as reflected in our PROMIS measures. By
      combining efforts of the two sites that led in the development of the item banks for
      emotional distress (University of Pittsburgh) and pain (University of Washington), the study
      will maximize total sample size and provide a fertile ground for analyses of psychometric
      functioning of the PROMIS banks.

      In addition to psychometric questions, we will also address clinically meaningful questions
      related to pain, depression, and the relationship between the two. The complex relationship
      between pain and depression has been observed for years. Both syndromes are mutually
      exacerbating-pain worsens depression and depression worsens the experience of pain. The
      domain-related issues of greatest interest focus on the interaction between depression and
      pain and its impact on treatment outcome (including changes in symptoms of both depression
      and pain, in acute clinical status, and in social functioning).
    
  