
    
      Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) originate from interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) and
      are the most common tumors derived from mesenchymal tissues of the digestive tract. GISTs can
      occur in any part of the digestive tract, among which gastric stromal tumors are the most
      common, accounting for about 60%. The incidence of GIST has been increasing in recent years,
      partly due to the gradual popularity of gastrointestinal endoscopy. Many early GISTs with
      smaller tumors have also received early diagnosis and treatment intervention. Due to the
      potential malignancy of GISTs, complete resection of the tumor is the first and only radical
      treatment option currently.

      Many studies have shown that laparoscopy is safe and effective approach in the treatment of
      gastric stromal tumors. In principle, as long as the tumor can be completely resected
      (neither residue macro nor microscopic) with intact tumor capsule and without tumor rupture,
      laparoscopic surgery is definite an option. Studies showed both short-term and long-term
      results of laparoscopic surgery were comparable to conventional open surgeries.

      On the other hand, endoscopic resection showed promising results in recent years. Endoscopic
      submucosal dissection endoscopic full-thickness resection are both reported with promising
      results in terms of safety and short-term efficacy.

      Though endoscopic resection has been suggested as one of the treatment options for gastric
      GISTs, No randomized controlled trial for endoscopic resection versus laparoscopic partial
      gastrectomy exists at this moment. This research is a prospective, multi-center trial for
      endoscopic resection and laparoscopic partial gastrectomy in patients with 2-5cm gastric
      GISTs. The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the early operative morbidity and
      mortality and determine the safety of endoscopic resection compared with laparoscopic partial
      gastrectomy for 2-5cm gastric GISTs. The second purpose is to evaluate the recovery course
      and compare the postoperative hospital stay of the patients enrolled in this study.
    
  