
    
      There are two parts to this study. Adapting and refining the MCGT intervention manual will be
      accomplished primarily in Part 1, building upon a preparatory project to obtain feedback on
      the MCGT intervention manual and materials.

      Step 1 of Part 1 will involve a brief open trial of MCGT delivered in person at an MSK
      location with individual parents (n=5) to further refine the treatment through active
      participant feedback and identify ways to improve therapeutic alliance to maximize the impact
      of delivery via videoconferencing. Parents may also invite a support provider to join them
      for Session 9 (support provider n = 5). Support providers will not be evaluated as research
      participants.

      Step 2 of Part 1 will be another brief open trial (n=5) delivering MCGT via video
      conferencing to iron out any logistical challenges prior to the pilot randomized controlled
      trial (RCT). The investigators hope to use videoconferencing in order to ultimately improve
      parents' access to supportive services. Participants will be able to complete sessions
      wherever they have both privacy and access to a computer and the internet. Parents may also
      invite a support provider to join them for Session 9 (support provider n = 5). Support
      providers will not be evaluated as research participants.

      All Part 1 participants will be assessed pre-intervention (T1), mid-intervention (T2),
      post-intervention (T3), and at 3-months post-intervention (T4). A qualitative exit interview
      will also be conducted post-intervention. This interview will be audio recorded. Video
      recording of the exit interview will be optional. Throughout both steps, parent testimonials
      that address barriers to accessing mental health services will be obtained to assist in Part
      2 outreach and recruitment.

      Part 1 will be conducted with parents experiencing elevated PGD symptoms as measured by the
      PG-13, a 13-item self-report scale evaluating PGD symptom severity, duration, and impairment.
      For this study, PG-13 scores ≥ 34 will be considered indicative of elevated PGD symptoms.

      Part 2 will be used to obtain information about the feasibility, tolerability, acceptability,
      and effect size estimates of MCGT (delivered via video conferencing) to assist in planning a
      larger, efficacy RCT. These goals will be accomplished by undertaking a parallel-arm RCT
      comparing the refined MCGT to a standardized supportive psychotherapy (SP), both one-on-one
      interventions delivered via videoconferencing, which numerous studies show is as efficacious
      as in-person delivery.15-17 Parents (n=66) with PG-13 scores ≥ 34 will be randomized to
      receive MCGT or SP to compare their relative feasibility, acceptability, tolerability, and
      preliminary effects. As in Part 1, participants will be assessed pre-intervention (T1),
      mid-intervention (T2), post-intervention (T3), and at 3-months post-intervention (T4). All
      psychotherapy sessions for Part 1 will need to be completed before Part 2 begins. The
      investigators expect that they will be able to begin Part 2 of the protocol (during which
      recruits 66 parents) approximately 3 months after the final parent is enrolled in Part 1,
      Step 2. Approximately 66 parents (individuals) will complete the intervention in Part
      2.Parents randomized to MCGT may also invite a support provider to join them for Session 9
      (support provider n = 33). Support providers will not be evaluated as research participants.
      There may be weeks where sessions do not take place and/or weeks where more than one session
      takes place in a week.

      Past participants on the study may also be contacted to join a Parent Advisory Board (PAB)
      Potential members of PAB may also be identified from the community. Members of the PAB will
      be invited to provide their perspectives, ideas, and feedback on the intervention and ongoing
      and future research.
    
  