
    
      Setting: This research project will be performed at an inner-city hospital in Western New
      York, Buffalo General Medical Center (BGMC) is typical of an under-resourced facility
      providing care to a substantial proportion of the indigent, minority, immigrant and medically
      underserved population of a region. In 2017, 36% of BGMC patients identified themselves as
      Black or African American. Typical patients face economic, cultural or linguistic barriers to
      healthcare. By focusing on OIRC at BGMC, this study will help in informing how health
      disparities may impact the incidence of OIRC. At BGMC in 2017, 11,744 surgical procedures
      were performed and 2% of general surgical cases experienced an adverse event (code blue).
      Information on adverse events related to OIRC is not available.

      Aim 1. After recruiting and performing informed consent pre-operatively, we will monitor
      post-operative patients using pulse oximetry, capnography, TCpCO2, and minute ventilation
      during recovery from anesthesia (in PACU), and on the general care floor for up to 72 hours.
      An observational study of 50 surgical patients will be performed to record electronic
      respiratory monitoring data as well as patient characteristics. This information will be used
      for validation and iterative development of prediction models using machine learning
      techniques. In our preliminary work, we used data that was collected by the research
      assistants reading the data off the device display. During the proposal proposed study, we
      will record the data from each electronic device directly on USB memory sticks attached to
      the device. In our preliminary work, we had data from the PACU stay only. During this study,
      we will collect data prospectively throughout the hospital stay to further inform changes in
      respiratory compromise as the patient transitions away from the anesthetic and paralytic
      agents . On the machine learning side, we will explore long-short term memory networks
      (LSTM), which have become the state of art machine learning models to deal with sequence and
      time series data (24), including applications in the healthcare domain (25), including recent
      work by Co-I Chandola. The justification behind using these models over the support vector
      machine model used in our preliminary study is that they are able to explicitly model the
      temporal dependencies in the data, which is expected to provide significant improvements in
      the predictive performance of the model (26).

      Aim 2. To further understand factors related to OIRC and to assist in responding to the AHRQ
      reviewers' comments, we will perform a root cause analysis of all adverse events found in the
      patients we recruited for Aim 1, as well as all rapid response calls, naloxone deliveries,
      and code blue calls for 2018 at Buffalo General Medical Center (BGMC ). We will examine each
      case specifically for nursing assessment and monitoring procedures as well as all patient and
      environmental factors that may have contributed to the adverse event. The patient safety
      physician and quality assurance nurses from BGMC will be interviewed to perform root cause
      analysis of all opioid-related adverse events that have occurred over the past year at the
      facility. Each event will be broken down by who was involved, what they were doing, what
      technologies were used, where did the event take place, and what outside factors may have
      contributed to the event. This information will be used to group the potential causes and the
      progression toward the adverse event, which will allow for identification of the roles of
      staff workload and patient monitoring on OIRC occurrence. We have received a letter of
      support from the medical director of patient safety at BGMC and Kaleida Health chief nursing
      office for our intended projects.
    
  