
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effect of Hypericum perforatum (St. John's Wort) on the pharmacokinetic
           clearance of docetaxel in patients with unresectable solid tumors.

        -  Determine the effect of Hypericum perforatum on the production and plasma concentrations
           of M4-C13-hydroxydocetaxel in these patients.

        -  Determine the effects of this drug on the pharmacodynamics of docetaxel in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the relationship between the effects of this drug on docetaxel metabolic
           clearance and CYP3A4/CYP3A5 genotype in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationship between the effect of this drug on docetaxel metabolic
           clearance and p-glycoprotein genotype in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationship between the effect of this drug on docetaxel clearance and
           pregnane receptor genotype in these patients.

        -  Assess compliance with this drug in these patients.

        -  Assess the steady state concentrations of hyperforin, one of the putative psychoactive
           components of Hypericum perforatum, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients who have not
      been receiving chronic Hypericum perforatum (St. John's Wort) are assigned to group A, while
      a cohort of 8 patients who have been receiving chronic Hypericum perforatum are assigned to
      group B.

        -  Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral placebo three times daily on days 1-14 and docetaxel IV
           over 1 hour on day 15.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral Hypericum perforatum three times daily on days 1-14 and
           docetaxel as in arm I.

        -  Group B (non-randomized group): Patients receive docetaxel as in arm I and continue to
           receive their chronic regimen of Hypericum perforatum except on day 15.

      Treatment in both groups repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed for new primaries and survival only.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 92 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  