
    
      Purpose The purpose of the study is to determine the effects of early and late time
      restricted eating on body composition in overweight and obese young adults. It is
      hypothesized that early time restricted eating will provide a more desirable effect (lower
      fat mass) on body composition for the participants.

      Sample The sample will include 30 overweight/obese young adults, male and female, ranging in
      age from 18-30 that volunteer to participate in the study. This sample size is justified
      assuming a standard deviation of 1.5 based on previous studies and using a power of 80% with
      the statistical significance of 0.05 the resulting n would be 2(1.5)^2*(0.84+1.96)^2/5=7
      (Kadam, P., & Bhalerao, S. (2010). Sample size calculation. International journal of Ayurveda
      research, 1(1), 55). To account for dropouts/non-interest in participation, 10 participants
      will be recruited for each group. All individuals must give written informed consent in order
      to participate in the study. Exclusion criteria include self-reported: diabetes, smoking,
      CVD, pregnancy, weight loss medication, physical activity level greater than low/sedentary
      (7500 steps daily), unstable weight (>4kg loss/gain) for 3 months prior to study
      commencement.

      Procedure Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be explicitly stated throughout the recruitment
      process. Potential participants will be recruited through mass email recruitment via Western
      email services, presenting one-slide information sessions at the beginning of lectures and
      posting flyers around campus. Participants will then be in direct contact with Reed Zehr to
      set up a meeting to gain information of the study. After the information meeting the
      individuals will be given up to 3 days to determine if they want to participate and give
      their informed consent. See attached form in the consent section of the ethics application.

      Measurement: All participants will be required to have their Body Composition measured using
      non-invasive densitometry (BodPod). The procedure poses no risk to the participant and takes
      approximately 5 minutes to complete. This procedure will take place initially one week prior
      to study commencement and then every 4 weeks after study commencement until the 12 weeks of
      the study duration are complete. This results in a total of 4 measurements. Upper body
      strength measurements will be recorded one week prior to commencement of the study and once
      again after study completion using a maximal bench press test. Lower body strength
      measurements will be recorded one week prior to commencement of the study and once again
      after study completion using a maximal leg press test. Completion of a health-related quality
      of life questionnaire one week prior to commencement of the study and once again after study
      completion is also required.
    
  