
    
      With the unprecedented size of the recent 2014-2016 West African Ebola outbreak, the
      scientific community is learning a great deal about the psychological and physical
      consequences of Ebola, Ebola viral persistence in survivors, risk of Ebola disease relapse in
      survivors, and the potential for survivors to transmit the virus to others. Data from PREVAIL
      III has demonstrated that persistence of Ebola virus in the semen of male survivors is
      common. In addition to Ebola virus persistence, Ebola relapse causing clinical disease has
      been well documented.

      There are no licensed therapies for the treatment of Ebola virus disease nor for the
      clearance of persistent Ebola virus in survivors. A safe, effective therapy that can reduce
      and/or eliminate persistent Ebola virus from semen would reduce the risk of transmission and
      enable male survivors to resume normal sexual relations without fear of harming loved ones.
      The mechanism underlying Post-Ebola Syndrome is as yet unknown, but improvement in Post-Ebola
      signs and symptoms resulting from GS-5734 treatment would be an added benefit.

      This study is a double-blind, randomized, two-phase (treatment and longer-term follow-up),
      two- arm trial of GS-5734 versus placebo among male Ebola survivors with persistent Ebola
      virus RNA in their semen. Participants are randomized 1:1 to receive either 100 mg of GS-5734
      or placebo once daily by intravenous catheter for 5 days. Informed by transaminase elevations
      in prior Phase I studies in normal healthy subjects, a risk-mitigation strategy includes a
      built-in dose de-escalation. Participants will be stratified by country and on the basis of
      one versus two positive semen samples for Ebola virus RNA using the Cepheid GeneXpert
      platform assessed within 42 days prior to study enrollment. The early DSMB review in August
      2016 concluded there was no need for a cohort dose reduction. The protocol expanded to Guinea
      in October 2017, where the outbreak ended later. Currently there is an outbreak in the
      Democratic Republic of the Congo where the study team may evaluate conducting this study
      following the completion of the outbreak.

      Antiviral activity, as well as safety and tolerability, will be assessed during the treatment
      phase. Longer-term clearance of Ebola virus will be assessed during the 5-month follow-up
      phase. Primary analyses for the assessment of antiviral activity in the treatment phase will
      focus on the assay negativity rate (ANR; percentage of genital samples that are negative for
      Ebola) over the first 28 days of the study, as well as clinical and laboratory adverse
      events. A sample is considered negative by PCR if the test result is undetectable. Primary
      analysis for the follow-up phase will focus on the ANR collected monthly from months 2 to 6.
    
  