
    
      Objectives:

      Our primary objectives are to: 1) characterize and compare lower extremity motor coordination
      in children with cerebral palsy (CP) across mobility levels and to children without CP; and
      2) evaluate the effects of two home-based exercise programs on motor coordination, as well as
      other physical, functional and neurological outcomes in children with CP. We hypothesize
      children with CP will exhibit significant coordination deficits compared to those without CP
      and that each exercise program will lead to significant improvements in outcomes.

      Study Population:

      Objective 1 will include 60 ambulatory children with spastic diplegic CP (20 in each of three
      mobility levels) and 20 children without CP within the same age range. Forty (40) children
      with CP will participate in Objective 2; 20 in each exercise group.

      Design:

      In Objective 1, the multiple measures taken at a single point in time will be compared across
      the three CP and the control groups. Children with CP from Objective 1 will be invited
      consecutively to participate in the exercise program (Objective 2), until enrollment is
      complete. Participation in Objective 2 lasts for 6 months. Subjects will be randomly assigned
      to use one of two novel lower extremity exercise devices: a motor-assisted cycle or an
      elliptical trainer. Children will exercise for 20 minutes, 5 days a week for 12 consecutive
      weeks. The major goal of each is to increase the ability to cycle or step at a rapid pace
      (the target goal is 40 RPM), with resistance added once speed goals are attained and
      thereafter progressed gradually. The timing of the exercise period (immediate vs. delayed for
      3 months) will also be randomly assigned allowing assessors to be masked to group assignment.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome is the difference (Objective 1) or pre to post-exercise change (Objective
      2) in coordination as measured by the fastest active (voluntary) cadence with each device.
      Additional coordination measures include cadence at free speed, variability in cadence, and
      EMG reciprocation vs. synchronization. Selective Control Assessment for the Lower extremity
      (SCALE), strength and spasticity tests and ultrasound measures of muscle size will be
      assessed at each time point. These will be compared across groups and before and after the
      two exercise programs. Functional outcomes include gait speed and two validated
      computer-based questionnaires. Neural outcomes include selected measures of gray and white
      matter connectivity as assessed with fcMRI and DTI, respectively.
    
  