
    
      Phantom limb pain (PLP) belongs to a group of neuropathic pain syndromes that is
      characterized by pain in the amputated limb. Rehabilitation for chronic pain involves a
      structured treatment plan targeting all dimensions of the pain experience, and should include
      a comprehensive interdisciplinary approach that allows patients to receive the most benefit
      according to their needs. As in other chronic pain syndromes, chronic Phantom limb pain (PLP)
      is often difficult to treat; showing to be resistant to classical pharmacological and
      surgical treatment approaches.

      In this context, we hypothesize that novel treatments of PLP need to target specific neural
      networks associated with this maladaptive plasticity. Transcranial direct current stimulation
      (tDCS,Soterix ©) is a powerful and non-invasive technique of brain stimulation that is known
      to significantly modulate plasticity and alleviate chronic pain in various syndromes. device
      for this trial. This study usiGiven tDCS underlying neural mechanisms, it is critical to use
      a multimodal approach to treatment - using both tDCS and behavioral therapy simultaneously.
      In this case, an ideal therapy is mirror therapy (MT).

      Recently, we showed that anodal tDCS can induce a selective short-lasting relief from PLP,
      and repeated applications of anodal tDCS induces long-lasting analgesic effects. These
      preliminary results show that tDCS may be a promising rehabilitative tool for the management
      of chronic PLP. This neurorehabilitation technique is commonly used in PLP, and is designed
      to modulate cortical mechanisms of pain by performing movements using the unaffected limb in
      front of a mirror. We propose to carry out a mechanistic, factorial, randomized controlled
      trial to evaluate a novel rehabilitation approach combining tDCS and MT in PLP patients. We
      aim to compare the brain changes before and after treatment in order to study the mechanisms
      underlying PLP.
    
  