
    
      The present study is an Open-Label within-patient (single arm) extension study of our
      Open-Label initial study (EM1000-1) whereby seven of the eight Alzheimer's subjects
      participating in the initial study agreed to participate. The present study is intended to
      continue evaluation of the safety and efficacy of Transcranial Electromagnetic Treatment
      (TEMT) in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease who had previously participated
      in the initial Open-Label study. The study duration for each subject is approximately 4 1/2
      months, which involves a total of four clinical visits: pre-baseline, baseline, 2-months into
      treatment, and at treatment completion (4-month into treatment).

      This extension study will utilize the same MemorEM 1000 head devices (designated as NSR) as
      in the initial 2-month treatment study, but will involve daily treatment for a longer four
      month period. Only one 1-hour treatment will be administered per day rather than the two
      1-hour treatments per day administered in the initial 2-month study because: 1) the extension
      study involves a longer period of treatment, and 2) preliminary results from the initial
      2-month study show a strong carry-over effect of treatment on cognitive performance after the
      2-month treatment period had been completed (14 days after end of treatment).

      Cognitive safety/efficacy will be evaluated using the same battery of cognitive tasks as in
      the initial study. These include ADAS-cog (primary outcome), and secondary cognitive outcomes
      of Rey AVLT, MMSE, ADCS-ADL, Digit span, Trails A & B, and clock draw tasks. Additional
      secondary outcomes involve analysis of blood and CSF (collected at baseline, 2-months and/or
      4-months into treatment) for various beta-amyloid and tau protein species. As another
      secondary outcome, safety of TEMT will be monitored by regular Adverse Events Assessment,
      physiologic monitoring, and patient daily diaries maintained by the caregiver.

      Expected Results: The investigators expect that 4-months of once-daily TEMT will not present
      any significant sides effects or safety issues to the seven subjects who were initially
      provided the same treatment twice-daily for 2-months. The investigators further expect that
      cognitive measures will be stable and/or improve by the end of the the treatment period. In
      addition, changes in blood/CSF levels of various beta-amyloid and tau species are anticipated
      that reflect the mechanisms of TEMT action.
    
  