
    
      Study design Subjects will be recruited and randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio, by means of
      sealed envelopes, to receive either 'virtual care' or 'routine care' for the 14day course of
      communitydeliveredIV antibiotics. Subjects randomly allocated to receive 'virtual care' will
      be shown how to use the oximeter and spirometer, as well as the videoconferencing software.

      'Virtual care' subjects will be asked to perform a lung function test (using the spirometer)
      and record their oxygen saturations (using the oximeter) twice weekly during the
      videoconference with the CF team. Times and dates for the videoconference will be arranged at
      a time that is convenient for the patient. Subjects will be able to videoconference using any
      internetenabled device (laptop, tablet, mobile phone) available for the patient's use, but
      this device will not be provided as part of the study. The videoconferencing software used
      for this study is Webex, which is widely used within the NHS for videoconferencing with
      patients and all data is fully encrypted. Subjects in both groups ('virtual care' and
      'routine care') will be offered home visits by a CF nurse if required as usual and an
      appointment made in the outpatient clinic immediately after the course of intravenous
      antibiotics finishes as usual.

      Both cohorts ('virtual care' and 'routine care') will be asked to complete the CFQR(a
      validated disease-specific health related quality of life questionnaire) at the beginning and
      end of their course of IV antibiotics. Subjects in both groups will also be asked to complete
      a satisfaction questionnaire at the end of the course of antibiotics. Patients receiving
      'virtual care' will be specifically asked about the ease of use of the oxygen saturation and
      spirometer equipment, as well as the videoconferencing system. Data regarding participants'
      lung function, nutritional status and medications will be recorded during each clinic visit
      for both cohorts. Subjects in both cohorts will also be asked to record any costs related to
      their care throughout the course of treatment (e.g. travel, parking). The researchers will
      record the costs associated with caring for each participant (such as cost of nursing visits
      and staff time) and the cost of conducting the study (e.g. cost of the oxygen saturation
      monitor, spirometer and videoconferencing equipment).

      The primary outcome is health-related quality of life (measured by CFQR) in subjects
      receiving 'virtual care' compared to subjects receiving 'routine care'. Our null hypothesis
      is that there will be no significant difference in the CFQR in subjects receiving 'virtual
      care' compared to subjects receiving 'routine care'. Secondary outcomes are: patient
      satisfaction with care, days on intravenous antibiotics, lung function and weight in subjects
      receiving 'virtual care' compared to subjects receiving 'routine care'. A health economic
      analysis will be conducted to determine whether 'virtual care' is value for money both from
      an NHS and a patient perspective.
    
  