
    
      Graft versus host disease (GVHD) is one of the major causes of death in patients undergoing
      allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). Despite prophylactic measures, the
      incidence of acute GVHD is estimated at 40-60% among patients receiving allograft from
      HLA-identical sibling donors, and may even reach 75% in patients receiving HLA-matched
      unrelated grafts. Approximately 20% of the patients will develop the severe variant of the
      disease and there is a tight association between the severity of GVHD and
      transplantation-related-mortality. The treatment of GVHD is largely based on high dose
      steroids regimen which is associated with long term morbidity and mortality. In the subgroup
      of patients with steroid-refractory or slowly resolving GVHD, there are currently no
      recommendations on the best timing of tapering down the steroids dose in the case of
      resolution of the disease, or adding a second line medication, in case of non-resolving or
      progression of the symptoms.

      18F-FDG PET/CT (2-[fluorine-18] fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, Positron emission tomography- CT)
      is a noninvasive technique that allows quantifying and precisely localizing 18F-FDG uptake in
      the entire body. 18F-FDG uptake is caused by increased local metabolic activity. Such
      increased uptake has been described not only in neoplastic lesions but also in inflammatory
      lesions (2). In this condition, uptake has been correlated with local stimulation of tumor
      necrosis factor, and with monocyte priming and activation. A physiologic variable uptake may
      be observed in the bowel, especially the cecum, and has limited the use of PET in
      inflammatory bowel diseases. The advantage of combined PET and CT devices leads to
      significant improvements in the interpretation of the bowel areas, and greatly reduces the
      number of false-positive findings in the gastrointestinal tract.

      CT-PET has been recently evaluated in our center as a diagnostic tool for Crohn disease. In
      this study, CT-PET had a good correlation between FDG uptake and the severity of Crohn
      disease. In the acute GVHD setting, a study reported on a small cohort suggested a
      correlation between CT-PET findings, FDG uptake, and the diagnosis of lower gut acute GVHD.

      In this study, we aim to evaluate and characterize the correlation between CT-PET findings in
      patients suspected to have acute GVHD, and the disease course.
    
  