
    
      Raising children is a fundamental yet challenging task. While parents are highly invested in
      their children's development, they also have a vast influence on it. Indeed, among
      environmental factors, the most widely accepted predictor of children mental health is
      parenting quality. Research has shown that optimal parenting is composed of three key
      dimensions: structure, autonomy support, and affiliation (vs. permissiveness, psychological
      control, rejection). For parents, providing all three key "nutriments" is not necessarily
      natural or easy. Indeed, it can be challenging to (1) require children to adopt socially
      desirable behaviors (2) without thwarting their need for self-determination, (3) while
      preserving a positive parent-child relationship. In addition, available parenting resources
      (e.g., diverse parenting books) are sometimes contradictory, abstract, and rarely tap all
      three important parenting dimensions. Providing the general population with concrete and
      complete parenting education is essential in helping parents with their important yet
      challenging role.

      The goal of the proposed research is to evaluate a parenting program (i.e., How-to program)
      that addresses all three key dimensions of optimal parenting. This program is congruent with
      basic developmental research and with knowledge from decades of motivation research devoted
      to autonomy support and self-determination theory. The objectives of the How-to parenting
      program are 1) to improve optimal parenting style, and 2) to foster children mental health
      (i.e. decrease child' internal and external problems, and increase child' well-being). The
      investigators expect that parents assigned to experimental groups will show improvements in
      parenting over time, whereas parents in control groups will not show such improvements (i.e.,
      stable or declining parenting quality). The investigators also expect children of parents in
      experimental groups to experience improvements in mental health, whereas children whose
      parents are on the wait list will not show improvements over time (i.e., stable or
      deteriorating mental health and well-being).

      The research team will recruit participants and conduct the study in four schools per year,
      during four years. The How-to parenting program will be offered to parents of grade school
      children (5 to 12 years old). Grade schools will be recruited through Montreal school boards.
      Only one parent per family may participate in the study. If parents have more than one child
      in grade school, they will be asked to identify the one who is closest to 9 years of age and
      then answer questionnaires about this "targeted" child. The seven-week parenting program will
      be offered to the experimental groups (one per school) each spring (Years 1 to 4). Each of
      these 4 experimental groups will be paired with a wait list control group from the same
      school. Parents from these control groups will be offered the program the following year
      (Years 2 to 5). In total, 256 parents from different families (mothers or fathers) will be
      recruited in participating schools (16 parents [8 in experimental group + 8 in control group]
      in each of 4 schools, for 4 years). This sample size was chosen to achieve adequate power,
      while keeping the study feasible given participation rate.

      The How-to program highlights the importance of structure and teaches parents how to provide
      it. Parents learn how to communicate expectations, give feedback, follow through with logical
      consequences and use problem solving for recurrent problems. In addition, the program
      perfectly captures what it means to be autonomy-supportive. Moreover, this style helps
      children feel better about the rules and about themselves. These new skills empower parents
      to exert their authority with confidence and, importantly, without guilt. Parents are then
      more apt at providing structure effectively and consistently. With the How-to Parenting
      program, parents learn how to listen and respond to their children in a way that helps
      children feel loved and accepted for who they are.

      The How-to parenting program consists of seven 2 ½-hour weekly sessions. It is a manual-based
      program in which participants have their own exercise booklet containing parenting skills and
      exercises. Groups are led by 2 group leaders and formed of 6 to 10 parents. The format of
      this program optimizes learning by (1) linking group content with parents' needs, (2)
      facilitating awareness with perspective taking activities, (3) offering concrete parenting
      skills, (4) modeling the skills and providing practice in a predictable and non-judgmental
      environment, (5) emphasizing the importance of implementing these skills at home for long
      term behavioral change, and (6) offering tools (i.e., exercise booklet, skill summary) that
      facilitate information retention.

      All parents and children will complete the same questionnaires before randomization
      (baseline), after the seven-week program (post-test), and again at 6-month and 1-year follow
      ups to assess change over time. Data will also be collected from targeted children's
      teachers. These teacher reports will be collected at school, at each assessment point. At
      follow ups, teacher reports will be provided by participating children's new teachers (i.e.,
      in October and April of the 2nd school year). All measures (except for the control variables)
      are included at all four assessment times to allow change measurement. The investigators will
      adopt an intent-to-treat approach, as this approach increases external and internal validity.

      Parenting style measures were reviewed and selected to best reflect recent conceptualizations
      of the three key parenting dimensions and to do so with the least overlap. Affiliation
      (Parental Bonding Instrument), structure (Parenting Scale), and attitude toward autonomy
      (How-to Parenting Skill Scale; Parental Autonomy Support Scale (P-PASS)) are assessed by
      parents and children. Child mental health will be assessed using a multi-source approach
      (parent, teacher and child reports). Parents will rate their child's internalized and
      externalized psychological problems (Child Behavior Checklist; CBCL). Teachers are asked to
      evaluate children's classroom and social problems (Teacher-Child Rating Scale; TCRS). The
      problem subscales of the TCRS assess internalized (I-) and externalized-(E-) problems.
      Teachers will also complete the competencies subscales of the TCRS, which evaluate
      socio-emotional competencies (i.e., frustration tolerance, task orientation and social
      skills).

      In the present data, baseline, post-test, and 6-month and 1-year follow up measures are
      nested within a parent, who are nested within a parenting group. To evaluate change over
      time, the four assessment points (baseline, post-test, 6-month follow up, and 12-month follow
      up) will be treated as repeated measures using a piecewise growth hierarchical linear
      modelling (HLM). These analyses are chosen because they model change between each subsequent
      time points, which allows for rates of change to differ across time. HLM models are
      recommended for intervention studies in order to capture rates of change both in the
      intervention period and in the follow up periods. The effect of the parenting program will be
      evidenced by significant interactions between rates of change and experimental conditions.
      These interactions should reveal that optimal parenting components (H1) and child mental
      health indicators (H2) increase over time for participants in the experimental condition, but
      not for participants in the control group.

      By including all three dimensions of optimal, authoritative parenting, the How-to program
      stands in contrast to the majority of existing parenting training programs. In general, most
      interventions target children already showing behavioral problems or considered at risk and
      focus on behavior management strategies such as planned ignoring or reinforcement. Results
      from a recent meta-analysis provide support for the adoption of a program that encompasses
      all of the three essential dimensions of optimal parenting. Indeed, results showed that
      programs' components that were predictive of larger effects pertained to autonomy support,
      affiliation and structure. Though no formal evaluation of the How-to program has been made,
      one early study suggested that it was associated with better familial climate and parenting
      practices.

      This proposal is a first step toward implementing and evaluating a parenting program tailored
      to the promotion of children's mental health. By improving parenting, it can ameliorate
      children's life-course trajectories, thereby reducing mental health problems and their
      associated costs. By offering parenting groups, this research project includes a significant
      knowledge transfer component that will directly impact parents enrolled in the program.
      Dissemination of findings will be made in schools, by giving school principals, teachers and
      parents an easy-to-read summary of results. If the present randomized controlled trial and
      following replication trials are successful, a wider dissemination/evaluation trial will be
      implemented, making the program widely available to parents.
    
  