
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death among adult population in
      developed countries. Optimal method of revascularization of patients with multivessel CAD is
      still the matter of debate. Currently, there are two recognized methods: percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Both methods were
      compared in a number of studies, including several randomized trials. Most trials have left
      some doubts. First of all, none of them used functional evaluation of the stenosis. The
      decision regarding revascularization was based on angiographic results alone. The trials that
      have used fractional flow reserve (FFR) show no clear correlation between the degree of
      stenosis assessed angiographically, in the range of 50-90%, and its functional significance.
      In a randomized FAME trial, out of 1329 significant stenosis assessed anatomically, nearly
      40% revealed no functional significance. The study showed that coronary revascularization
      guided by FFR in multivessel stable CAD resulted in a smaller number of vessels stented, and
      hence fewer stent implantations. Such a strategy has improved patient clinical outcomes. In
      the group of patients undergoing revascularization based on fractional flow reserve
      significant reduction in major adverse cardiac events (MACE) was observed in 1- and 2-year
      follow up.

      Another weakness of former studies was the use of first-generation drug eluting stent (DES)
      showing an increased risk of restenosis and late and very late stent thrombosis. Many
      randomized studies documented superiority of new generation DES, with more biocompatible or
      bioresorbable polymer in terms of the incidence of MACE (SPIRIT, LEADERS). Recently, fully
      bioresorbable vascular scaffolds (BVS) have been introduced into routine clinical practice.
      Preliminary results of the ABSORB EXTEND trial demonstrated similar efficacy and safety of
      the Absorb BVS, as compared with the best-in-class its metallic counterpart XIENCE. Since the
      complete resorption of the scaffold requires two-three years, the greatest clinical benefit
      will be observed a couple of years after implantation. Total bioresorption of the scaffold
      not only allows to restore the physiological function of the vessel, but also eliminates a
      number of adverse events associated with the presence of permanent metallic prosthesis in the
      vessel wall, such as very late stent thrombosis and the neo-atherosclerosis development.

      Intravascular imaging with intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) or optical coherence tomography
      (OCT) is widely considered the gold standard for scaffold optimal implantation, although
      currently it is not routinely used. The use of intravascular imaging techniques before and
      after BVS implantation may help to avoid inadequate expansion and apposition of the scaffold
      struts. Subintimal calcifications detected with IVUS or OCT require adequate lesion
      preparation before stent deployment. This is particularly crucial for patients receiving BVS,
      where the goal of lesion preparation is to facilitate scaffold delivery, reduce plaque shift
      and to allow optimal scaffold expansion. OCT with its greater resolution enables to assess
      the scaffold integrity, apposition and the presence of thrombus or edge dissections.

      Based on the ABSORB EXTEND trial there are some suggestions for longer dual antiplatelet
      therapy duration and more potent agents than clopidogrel (i.e. ticagrelor) regardless of
      clinical presentation, particularly in the first months after BVS implantation. Ticagrelor in
      the PLATO trial has been shown to reduce the rate of a combined endpoint of cardio-vascular
      death, myocardial infarction, or stroke compared to clopidogrel. In patients treated with
      PCI, it also reduces the rate of stent thrombosis. Statins are the most widely used
      LDL-lowering drugs in high-risk patients. It is recommended to achieve a greater than 50%
      reduction in LDL levels. Treatment goal for fasting LDL-cholesterol is < 70 mg/dl (1.8
      mmol/l). In comparison with other lipid-lowering agents, rosuvastatin is the most potent
      agent to achieve the required reduction of LDL. Rosuvastatin in maximal tolerated dose is
      indicated to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction and revascularization procedures.

      RELEASE-BVS study is the first trial that takes into account all of the following important
      aspects:

        -  stable advanced coronary artery disease: 3-vessel disease or significant left main (LM)
           stenosis, suitable for either PCI or CABG with proven ischemia in stress CMR;

        -  coronary revascularization (PCI) guided by functional assessment of stenosis (iFR/FFR);

        -  the use of a bioresorbable everolimus-eluting scaffolds (Absorb) and PCI optimization
           with intracoronary imaging techniques (OCT);

        -  long-term post-procedural management with potent antiplatelet drug (ticagrelor) and
           optimal lipid-lowering therapy with maximal tolerated dose of rosuvastatin.
    
  