
    
      The AnTIC trial is a 40-site, pragmatic, patient randomised superiority trial comparing an
      experimental strategy of once daily antibiotic prophylaxis against a control strategy of no
      prophylaxis. Both groups will otherwise receive usual care including on demand discrete
      treatment courses of antibiotic treatment for UTI. The trial will be set in both primary and
      secondary National Health Service (NHS) care. Participants and their clinicians will not be
      blinded to the allocated intervention but central trial staff managing and analysing trial
      data will, as far as possible, be unaware of participant allocation. The investigators will
      also assess participant perception of benefit firstly by completion of a treatment
      satisfaction questionnaire on exit and secondly by qualitative analysis of semi-structured
      interviews on trial completion exploring the views and attitudes of a purposive sample of
      participants towards the trial intervention. The primary economic analysis will assess the
      cost per UTI avoided but we will also perform a cost-utility analysis and a contingent
      valuation study. Bacterial ecological change will be assessed by comparing changes in
      resistance patterns of E. coli in urine and perianal swabs. The investigators have formulated
      a recruitment plan to progressively build to a target of 372 participants over 24 months.

      The primary objective is to determine the relative clinical effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of an experimental UTI prevention strategy of continuous once-daily
      prophylactic antibiotic therapy against the control strategy of no prophylaxis in people
      carrying out intermittent bladder catheterisation who suffer recurrent UTI. Outcomes will be
      collected over 12 months for each participant and analysed at trial termination according to
      intention to treat.

      Primary objectives are:

        -  Determine the relative impact on incidence of UTI over 12 months

        -  Determine the incremental cost per symptomatic UTI avoided

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  Clinical

             -  Determine the relative effect on quality of life (QoL) amongst trial participants

             -  Measure overall satisfaction with prophylactic antibiotic treatment

             -  Assess participants' perception of benefit at 12 months

             -  Record adverse effects related to both prophylaxis and treatment antibiotic use

             -  Determine relative rates of hospitalisation because of UTI

             -  Measure difference in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) at 12 months

             -  Determine rates of asymptomatic bacteriuria at 12 months

             -  Assess ecological change in E. coli isolated from urine and perianal swabs

        -  Economic

             -  Measure incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained through
                repeated completion of SF-36

             -  Assess participants' willingness to pay to avoid a UTI by contingent valuation at
                end of trial participation and incorporate these data in the economic evaluation
                using a cost-benefit framework.

      The investigators will recruit from the population of adult users of CISC. The setting is NHS
      hospitals and community sites throughout the UK where CISC use is taught and/or monitored.
      The investigators expect to randomise at least 372 participants over a 24 month period. For
      primary outcome purposes, follow up will continue for 12 months after intervention.
      Participants will be consented separately to submit an additional urine sample and perianal
      swab six months after trial completion (18-month timepoint) to assess return to baseline of
      E. coli ecology. Separate consent will also be asked for permission to access clinical
      records for extended follow up for a further nine years (ten years in total) and for
      life-long linkage to central NHS databases. Allowing for a four-month analysis phase, the
      total planned trial duration is 42 months.
    
  