
    
      Colorectal and thoracic surgical patients are susceptible to poor postoperative outcome. In
      colorectal surgery the rate of post-op complications is between 15-20% and the rate of 30 day
      mortality is 2.3%. Thoracic surgery also carries significant risk, 30 day mortality is 2.2%
      while the rate of post-op complications is 29.3%. Poor postoperative outcome significantly
      affects the patients recovery and increases hospital costs. Reducing postoperative risk
      therefore conveys significant benefit to the patient and the hospital.

      Preoperative physical fitness is predictive of postoperative outcome in intra-abdominal and
      thoracic surgery. In a systematic review of 6 studies preoperative exercise interventions
      improved pre-op physical fitness in patients undergoing abdominal surgery, however it is
      unclear if this translates into an improvement in postoperative outcome.

      An updated systematic review and meta-analysis was performed on the effects of
      pre-habilitation on postoperative outcome. While the results demonstrated that preoperative
      exercise interventions of 4-6 week duration reduced post-op complications a significant
      amount of work is still to be performed in this area.

      The current colorectal/thoracic pathway from diagnosis to surgery is about 2 weeks and
      therefore interventions of longer duration are not feasible. Clinicians may be presented with
      a difficult choice in delaying surgery to perform prehab or cancel the pre-op intervention.

      To create greater improvements in aerobic fitness, participants are required to exercise at
      high levels of VO2peak (e.g. ≥80% VO2peak). High intensity interval training (HIIT) requires
      participants to exercise at high levels of VO2peak (≥80% VO2peak). Participants exercise for
      short periods (15 seconds) followed by 15 seconds of rest and typically continue this pattern
      for 30 minutes or until exhaustion.

      A recent review reported HIIT programmes to be safe in individuals with coronary artery
      disease and stable heart failure. In agreement with this paper a recent meta-analysis noted
      that HIIT produced a more pronounced incremental gain in participants' mean VO2peak when
      compared with continuous moderate intensity exercise There are a number of factors to take
      into account when designing a HIIT programme e.g. duration and intensity of exercise phase
      and type of recovery period (active vs. passive). Two papers compared a selection of HIIT
      protocols for safety and time at a high percentage of VO2peak (≥ 80% VO2peak). Protocols with
      rest periods (passive recovery) allowed patients to exercise for longer and had lower
      perceived difficulties. In one study of 20 patients with CAD, HITT was prescribed with 15s
      exercise and passive recovery intervals at 100% Peak Power Output (PPO) or Maximal Aerobic
      Power (MAP) with no adverse events. PPO or MAP is the power of the last completed stage
      during a maximal exercise test (watts). This intervention had the highest duration above 80%
      VO2peak (819s) and a high completion rate of 63%. This protocol was chosen for this study.

      HITT has not been investigated as a preoperative intervention to either optimize fitness
      prior to surgery or reduce postsurgical complications. Preoperative HIIT is an intense
      intervention which will require significant participant adherence. The safety, cost and
      clinical application of such a programme needs to be performed. This feasibility study aims
      to assess the ability of HIIT to improve aerobic fitness two weeks prior to surgery and
      determine its feasibility.
    
  