
    
      COPD is a major cause of illness and death worldwide, representing a significant economic and
      social cost. In the household, it causes concern, limited social life and leisure; commits
      the budget and shortens life. In the professional field, reduces productivity, anticipates
      the retirement and results in pension payments and benefits. In the area of health system,
      motivates repeated calls in emergency rooms, outpatient clinics and is a frequent cause of
      hospitalizations, which causes high costs for government and society. Most cases can be
      attributed to smoke.

      COPD is often developed in middle-aged smokers with long time exposure which have a variety
      of other diseases related to smoking or aging. COPD itself has also significant
      extra-pulmonary effects (systemic) that lead to comorbid conditions. Nutritional
      abnormalities, weight loss and skeletal muscle dysfunction are well-recognized extrapulmonary
      effects of COPD and patients are at high risk for myocardial infarction, osteoporosis,
      respiratory infection, bone fractures, depression, sleep disorders, anemia and glaucoma.

      Thus, this study aims to investigate the erythrocyte membranes stability in patients with
      COPD compared to healthy individuals, since the loss or damage of the red blood cells may be
      related to worsening gas exchange of patients and caused, for example, by increased oxidative
      stress observed in the disease mechanism of COPD patients, especially those with advanced
      lung disease.

      Cross-sectional, observational study, which will be compared COPD patients with Advanced Lung
      disease using Long-Term Home Oxygen Therapy to healthy subjects to evaluate the presence of
      difference in membrane stability in the red blood cells as well as differences in pulmonary
      function tests, physical tests, laboratory analysis and presence of oxidative stress, as well
      as their quality of life.

      The results obtained after analysis of erythrocyte membranes stability, as well as oxidative
      stress and functional and laboratory tests will be correlated, both in patients with COPD
      Long-Term Home Oxygen Therapy as the control group in order to establish relationships
      between variables and also compare between groups to determine the differences among them.
    
  