
    
      Lack of or insufficient ovulatory events is the primary cause of infertility worldwide and
      with 12% of couples within the US being diagnosed with infertility each year (according to
      the CDC), thus being able to confirm ovulation is an essential component of infertility
      evaluations in women. The gold standards for confirming ovulation include transvaginal
      ultrasounds and serum progesterone blood draws. Both of these techniques are too invasive,
      too expensive, and/or inaccessible to most women. Therefore a non-invasive, inexpensive,
      home-based testing system to confirm ovulation is desired. Several recent studies have
      identified urinary pregnanediol levels as an accurate way to confirm ovulation. However,
      until now, urine pregnanediol levels were always measured via a lab setting. Here the
      investigators describe the development of a urine pregnanediol (PDG) rapid test and its use
      at confirming ovulation in a home environment. Study Protocol One hundred and ninety six
      women were recruited to take part in a prospective, blinded cohort home environment study.
      The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee at Solutions IRB. Detailed
      information about the study was provided to each volunteer, and informed consent was obtained
      prior the study commencement. Inclusion criteria were non-pregnant women residing within the
      United States, aged 18- 45, and not currently on hormonal birth control. Importantly, women
      were not excluding due to average cycle length, weight (BMI), breastfeeding status,
      poly-cyctic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) or any other cause of infertility or lifestyle factor.
      Participants were asked to predict ovulation by monitoring changes in cervical mucus and/or
      tracking luteinizing hormone (LH) via home test kits. Participants were asked to self-report
      their peak fertility day, which was defined as the first LH surge day and/or day of peak
      cervical mucus (stretchy and eggwhite in consistence).

      Participants collected first morning urine as various times during their cycle, including,
      prior to, during, and after peak fertility signs were observed. Participants were provided
      PDG rapid response test strips and self-administered the tests and recorded the results. Test
      results were reported back the investigators via a log sheet. Log sheets recorded testing
      date, day of cycle, date of peak fertility (if known), personal assessment of results
      (positive result vs negative result) and a place to tape the completed test strip.
    
  