
    
      The intervention package had three phases including pre-intervention, intervention, and
      post-intervention phases. Pre-intervention: During the pre-intervention phase, patients
      completed the quality-of-life assessment (SF-36), perceived stress questionnaire (PSQ-14),
      and State and Trait Anxiety, Barthel Index (BI) and Kessler Psychological Distress Scale
      (K10) questionnaires as well as a Six-minute walk test (6MWT), and 51 times walking per 5
      years (at discharge, month 1 to month 42 (each month), and months 45, 48, 51, 54, 57, 60, 63,
      and 66). A rehabilitation plan was formulated incorporating considerations for the patient's
      identified strengths' and weaknesses. See the RP section.

      Intervention: Once discharged, patients called their study nurse every 2 days to report any
      problems or complications. Patients were evaluated by their primary multidisciplinary medical
      team including their pulmonologist, intensivist, internist, psychologist, psychiatrist,
      physical therapist, and occupational therapist on a weekly basis and at 30 days. At each
      visit, the patient was interviewed, underwent a physical examination, pulmonary-function
      testing (PFT), posterior-anterior and lateral (PA-Lat) chest radiography (CXR), resting
      oximetry, a standardized 6MWT with continuous oximetry, free walking test as long as the
      stamina and capability of patient, and laboratory tests as indicated. At other times, if
      patients experienced a problem or complication, they notified investigators and presented to
      either their multidisciplinary medical team or their primary care provider for evaluation.
      Patients in the group 1 received rehabilitation employing the mixed model: Family-Centered
      Empowerment Model (FCEM) and Continuous Care Model (CCM). Group 2 received rehabilitation
      employing the FCEM, and Group 3 employed CCM, each in 4 stages. Stage 1 of the intervention
      was awareness and cognition. The patient was evaluated for their insight into their perceived
      illness severity and perceived sensitivity, or the degree to which they felt threatened by
      their illness. This was performed by means of 3-5 group sessions in the pre-intervention
      phase. Group sessions included 3-5 patients and lasted for 45-60 min each. Session content
      included assessments of the participants' psychological and physical conditions as well as
      their attitude towards the nature, definition, risk factors, symptoms, medical and nursing
      care, and complications resulting from the ARDS. In stage 2, patients were assessed for their
      expectations over 3-5 one-hour sessions. Groups of 3-4 patients shared and learnt from each
      other under the moderation and guidance of the principal researcher. In stage 3, the degree
      of patient acceptance was assessed using an educational participation method in group
      discussion. Patients reached practical solutions through using the problem-solving findings
      of the previous stage. Stage 4 consisted of formative and summative evaluations. The aim of
      the formative evaluation was to encourage patients to internalize their locus of control by
      encouraging personal responsibility about issues of health and seeing his/her
      self-empowerment. Summative evaluations were performed to evaluate the influence of the
      intervention on the study's medical outcomes. The study's medical outcomes were assessed in
      pre intervention, measurement 2 (10-day post intervention), measurement 3 (three-month post
      measurement 2), and ten following ups includes six three-month periods (6, 9, 12, 15, 18,
      21), four six-month periods (27, 33, 39, 45), and two twelve-month period (57, and 69) after
      intervention by deploying FCEM and CCM questionnaires.

      Post-intervention follow-up: Phase 3 began 90 days following pre-intervention (control
      group), and 90 days after measurement 3 in three intervention groups. To assess the
      durability and stability of patient empowerment, patient knowledge, attitude and practice
      (KAP) was assessed over ten follow-up sessions with mentioned intervals. During the 66-month
      follow-up period, patients attended a total of 56 support-group webinars addressing topics
      including returning to work, intimate relationships, nutrition, sleep hygiene, tobacco use,
      exercise, and leisure activities as well as testing and laboratory issues. Follow-up
      interviews were conducted during home visits, when available, or with the assistance of
      telephone, Skype, Viber or WhatsApp according to patient preference.

      Role of the Designee: Following informed consent, the designated family member or friend
      (hereafter called designee) continued through the study with the patient as a 'unit'. The
      designee attended the patient's educational sessions during stages 3 and 4, with stage 2
      being according to the family member preference. Recall that stage 2 deals with patient
      expectations, stage 3 with patient acceptance and problem-solving, and stage 4 with
      evaluations and internalizing his/her locus of control. The designee and the patient attended
      the same sessions, and studied the same learning materials. Up to eight family members were
      allowed to join in the educational sessions if requested. In stage 3, the designee was
      charged with learning and reinforcing educational material with the patient. In stage 4, when
      instructed by study investigators, the designee would administer the KAP assessments to the
      patient. In addition to scores, the designee would provide additional information on the
      patient's home situation and current condition. Patients were assigned a code, and
      de-identified data were transmitted from the designee to investigators either by encrypted
      email, telephone, mail or in person.

      Rehabilitation plan: All patients had similar inpatient rehabilitation programs. For patients
      in the three intervention groups, outpatient rehab included daily exercise for 0-2 h/day.
      Exercise occurred between 8:00 and 10:00, and types included walking, jogging, bicycle,
      swimming, or other exercise according to patient preference or resource availability and
      confirmed by multidisciplinary medical team. Daily exercise was supervised by designated
      family members. Investigators randomly attended sessions in an unannounced fashion. Although
      not routinely involved, multidisciplinary medical team consultations were available on
      investigator request. Exercise data were independently collected from the patient and their
      designated family member on a weekly basis (κ statistic=0.94). To measure the patients'
      walking distance, investigators provided them with a Fit bit (Fit bit, San Francisco, USA).
      Routine care included education on smoking cessation and education on food selection.
      Patients were provided printed materials, with dietician assessments available on request.
      Patients in the control group received the same education and printed materials during their
      inpatient course. Patients exercised daily, at any time, for ≤2 h according to patient
      tolerance. Sessions were supervised by family members. Investigators did not attend sessions.
      Exercise data were independently collected from the patient and their designated family
      member on a weekly basis (κ statistic=0.22). Again, walking distance was measured using the
      Fit bit. Routine care included education on smoking cessation and education on food
      selection. Patients were provided printed materials, with dietician assessments available on
      request.
    
  