
    
      Cardiovascular disease, and especially myocardial infarction, is the most common cause of
      death globally, and is particularly common in older individuals. Practical measures that can
      reduce both the prevalence and incidence of cardiovascular disease are of great value. It is
      well known that regular physical activity has a protective effect against the development of
      cardiovascular diseases such as acute myocardial infarction. Therefore, the American Heart
      Association also recommends ≥ 30 min. per day five days a week. It has been shown that
      physical activity can improve the function of the heart and blood vessels, but it is less
      well known how physical activity can affect the risk of formation of dangerous blood clots,
      and thus the risk of heart attack and stroke.

      In a cross-sectional study it has been shown that a physically active lifestyle can reduce
      the risk of blood clot formation, but experimental evidence for the importance of a period of
      physical activity for the risk of blood clot formation is lacking. New methods have been set
      up for measuring the coagulation profile. The analyzes are performed on a blood sample and
      allow a thorough determination of platelet reactivity as well as an innovative measure of how
      the microstructure of a possible blood clot would develop. In this project, these methods is
      used to examine how physical activity, in the form of team sports, affects the coagulation
      profile of elderly men and women.

      The increasing age-related risk of cardiovascular disease is associated with endothelial
      dysfunction and decrease in capillary density, and it has been shown that initiation of
      capillary growth is a successful method to treat cardiovascular disease. Therefore, this
      project will also investigate how a longer period of physical activity, in the form of team
      sports, affects capillary density and endothelial function in men and women aged 60-70 years.
      Both men and women will be recruited, as it is still unknown whether men and women respond
      differently to physical activity in relation to coagulation profile, susceptibility to blood
      clots and capillary density.

      Part of the novelty of this present study consist of 1) linking the clinical measurements
      with data on sickness absence, disease development, etc. and with data on the underlying
      mechanisms, 2) examining the short-term effect (16 weeks) and the long-term effect (up to 2
      years) of physical activity, in the form of team sports in a municipality setting, on
      coagulation, risk of blood clots, capillarization and endothelial function in general in the
      elderly, as well as 3) investigate whether there is a difference in the aforementioned
      measurements in men and women.
    
  