
    
      Background Accurate prediction of recovery of UL function after stroke can lead to targeted
      rehabilitation. The Predict Recovery Potential (PREP2) algorithm combines individual
      prediction of UL function with recommendations for treatment. The PREP2 algorithm is based on
      clinical assessment of UL paresis combined with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to
      examine corticospinal tract integrity. For this PhD project the PREP2 is modified to be
      applicable in a rehabilitation setting and the initial assessment of PREP2, the SAFE score,
      is carried out at day 14.

      Study 1 Aim: Assess the accuracy of PREP2 when applied in a subacute rehabilitation setting.

      Hypothesis: PREP2 applied at day 14 post stroke accurately predicts UL function 3 months
      after stroke for a minimum of 75 % of the patients.

      Method: A prospective cohort study. Setting and population: The study will take place at
      Hammel Neurorehabilitation Centre and University Research Clinic. Ninety patients will be
      included.

      Inclusion criteria: First or recurrent ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke (diagnosis verified by
      CT or MR scan); New upper limp impairment; Less than 15 days post stroke; ≥ 18 years; Able to
      follow simple commands and cooperate with examinations Main outcome measure: Action Research
      Arm Test (ARAT), measuring UL motor function.

      Secondary outcome measure: Fugl-Meyer Motor and sensory Assessment for UL. Functional
      Independence Measure (FIM).

      Examined at baseline: Pain wil be assessed with a verbal rating scale. Inferior subluxation
      in the glenohumoral joint. Neglect will be assessed with star cancellation test and line
      bisection test

      Study 2 Prediction of real life UL use Hypothesis: PREP2 can be used to predict real life UL
      use 3 months post stroke. Patients: The entire cohort from study 1 will be included. Real
      life use will be assessed with accelerometers at 3 months follow up.

      Main outcome: is the use ratio between affected and unaffected UL.
    
  