
    
      Despite substantial advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology of pain and
      availability of newer analgesic techniques postoperative pain is not always effectively
      treated. Optimal pain management technique balances pain relief with concerns about safety
      and adverse effects associated with analgesic techniques. Currently, postoperative pain is
      commonly treated with systemic opioids, which are associated with numerous adverse effects
      including nausea and vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, pruritus, urinary retention, and
      respiratory depression. Use of regional and local anesthesia has been shown to reduce opioid
      requirements and opioid-related side effects. Therefore, their use has been emphasized. The
      advent of ultrasound guided regional anesthesia has brought more precision to these
      techniques, including the ability to visualize the anatomy, perform real-time navigation, and
      direct observation of local anesthetic spread, as it allows a greater degree of sensory and
      motor blockade. Thoracic paravertebral block (TPVB) has been used for analgesia of the
      thoracic wall since it was first described in 1905. A relatively recent alternative to the
      TPVB is the thoracic erector spinae plane (TESP) block, which involves the ultrasound-guided
      injection of local anesthetic into the interfascial plane deep to the erector spinae muscle
      at the level of the transverse process. It results in a loss of somatic sensory sensation
      across multiple unilateral dermatomes due to local anesthetic mediated blockade of the dorsal
      and ventral rami of the spinal nerve roots. It is increasingly being used due to ease of
      placing the block and a perception of greater safety. It has been shown to provide pain
      relief from rib fractures, thoracotomy, and chronic neuropathic pain of the chest wall.
      However, to date, TESP block has not been compared with TPVB in regards to analgesia with
      mastectomy surgery, which has been extensively studied.

      The investigators hypothesize that TESP block will provide similar (i.e., non-inferior)
      analgesia compared to TPVB block while reducing the cumulative consumption of oral morphine
      equivalents during the 24h post-operative period. The two co-primary aims of the study are to
      compare a) pain scores at 2h post-operative period, and b) cumulative consumption of oral
      morphine equivalents during the 24h post-operative period. Secondary objectives include
      comparison between the group in terms of pain scores at 6, 12, 24, and 48 hours
      post-operatively, as well as block-related morbidity (e.g.- pneumothorax), time to perform
      each block, and opioid-related adverse effects (e.g.- postoperative nausea and vomiting).
    
  