
    
      Implantation of a femoral percutaneous aortic prosthesis (TAVI) has become a routine therapy
      for elderly patients with severe aortic stenosis (SA) and a high or intermediate surgical
      risk. With growing experience of intereventional temas with the technique, improvement of
      device technology, and expansion of the technique to patients with lower surgical risk, the
      procedure is mostly currently performed under local anaesthesia with or without conscious
      sedation (TAVR-LA-CS) rather than by the traditional general anaesthesia approach (TAVR-GA).

      The purpose of this study is to compare the safety (primary outcome) and efficiency
      (secondary outcome) of local anesthesia (LA) with conscious sedation (CS) versus general
      anesthesia (GA) for the TAVR procedure performed with transfemoral access.

      This is a blindly randomized, non-inferiority controlled trial. The study will include all
      consecutive patients referred to the Cardiology Department of the CHU of Montpellier, France,
      for TAVR by transfemoral access which is the default strategy. Procedure is indicated for
      severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis with high or intermediate surgical risk or with
      contraindication to surgery and after decision of the multidisciplinary team according to the
      current recommendations of the European society of cardiology. Patients are randomized into
      two groups with surgical risk stratification : one with general anesthesia (experimental
      group) and one with local anesthesia with sedation: (control group) in a 1/1 ratio. Exclusion
      criteria include contraindication to GA or LA-CS based on hemodynamic status or
      comorbidities. The primary composite endpoint combines the major peri and post-operative
      adverse events (72 hours), including hemodynamic instability and major complications (VARC 2
      criteria). Secondary criteria include length of intensive care unit (ICU) hospitalization and
      total hospital stay, duration of intervention, analgesic dose up to 72 hours, finger oximetry
      results, transition to GA in the AL group, fluoroscopic time, patient and operator
      satisfaction (questionnaires for patients, interventional cardiologists and
      anesthesiologists) and mortality at 30 day follow-up.

      It is expected that 20% of patients will have an event defined by the main judgement outcome.
      To balance the various expected benefits of LA-CS over the length of stay, duration in ICUC
      and opioid drug use, the non-inferiority threshold was set at an absolute difference of up to
      15%, or 35% of event rates in the experimental arm.

      Based on this threshold and the above assumptions, and using 80% power and 5% Type I error
      (for a one-sided test), 109 patients are must be included in each arm, for a total of 218
      patients with a randomization rate of 1:1.

      The inclusion period will be 24 months or as soon as the required number of subjects is
      reached. Follow-up includes a medical assessment during the peri-operative period (72h) and
      at the end of the hospital stay and a clinical evaluation by phone survey at 30 days.
    
  