
    
      The annual incidence of colorectal cancer in the US during 2005 was approximately 150,000
      cases and this neoplasm claimed 56,000 lives (American Cancer Society). Detection (and
      removal) of colonic polyps is now the central strategy in reducing the risk of colon cancer.
      Thus, failure to detect and remove small cancers and polyps can have dire consequences.
      Although it has not been shown that persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) have an increased
      risk of this disease, there is no reason to assume that the incidence after SCI would be less
      than that of the general population.

      Colonoscopy would appear to be a better approach to colon cancer screening after SCI but may
      also be unreliable if bowel evacuation is unsatisfactory for complete large bowel
      visualization. Poor colonoscopic visualization is a major concern in persons with SCI because
      they have long-standing difficulty with evacuation (DWE) and might not respond in a
      predictable or satisfactory manner to the conventional bowel preparations used for
      colonoscopy. Furthermore, to the extent that bowel preparation for colonoscopy is
      unsatisfactory in persons with SCI, the putative benefits of colonoscopy in reducing colon
      cancer mortality may not be realized.

      In the absence of effective regimens for bowel preparation in persons with SCI, we suspect
      that the documented benefits of screening colonoscopy in the able-bodied may not generalize
      to persons with SCI. Regardless, these observations support the need for improved bowel
      preparation approaches in persons with SCI. One such approach might involve the adjunctive
      administration of prokinetic drugs to standard practices. A prokinetic agent that might be
      beneficial in this context is neostigmine, an anticholinesterase inhibitor with prominent
      parasympathomimetic actions (stimulation of peristalsis) on the colon. We have studied
      neostigmine extensively in persons with SCI and have shown that, when given in combination
      with glycopyrrolate, this approach to stimulate bowel evacuation is safe and effective for
      bowel evacuation.
    
  