
    
      Schizophrenia is a debilitating mental disorder with a complex and multifactorial etiology.
      The exact pathophysiological mechanisms have remained elusive, but a large body of evidence
      points toward abnormalities in a number of brain neurotransmitter systems: dopamine,
      glutamate, and gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA). Pharmacological studies have shown that acute
      exposure to cannabis is able to induce psychotic symptoms in healthy individuals and
      exacerbate symptoms in patients with an established psychotic illness. In addition,
      epidemiological studies have established that cannabis use in early adolescence is associated
      with an increased risk of developing schizophrenia later in life. Together, this evidence
      suggests that the neural systems targeted by cannabis may be involved in the pathophysiology
      of schizophrenia.

      The brain endocannabinoid (EC) system is a recently discovered brain neurotransmission
      system, which involves endogenous cannabinoid agents (ECs) that act upon specific receptors
      (CB1 and CB2). CB1 receptor is abundant in the human brain and acts as an inhibitory
      modulator of classical neurotransmitters. ECs and CB1 receptors appear to be involved in the
      pathophysiology of schizophrenia. EC levels are elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid of
      patients with schizophrenia, and post-mortem studies have shown increased density of
      radioligand binding to brain CB1 receptors. To what extent CB1 receptors are involved in the
      pathophysiology of schizophrenia in the living human brain is currently unknown. The lack of
      suitable methods to reliably quantify CB1 receptors in the living human brain have to date
      hindered the progress in this field.

      In this protocol, we outline studies aiming at elucidating the role of CB1 receptors in
      schizophrenia by using positron emission tomography (PET) and the recently developed
      radiotracer for CB1 receptors, [18F]FMPEP-d(2). The aim of this project is to explore CB1
      receptor abnormalities in human patients with schizophrenia. The primary hypothesis is that
      CB1 receptor density is increased in patients with schizophrenia in comparison with healthy
      subjects. Insight into the role of CB1 receptor function in schizophrenia may help guide
      future development of pharmacotherapies.
    
  