
    
      Recruited patients will initially undergo baseline measurements including BMI. Neurotrophin
      (BDNF and NGF) and cytokine (IFN-Y and IL-4) concentration will be measured from participant
      serum using commercially available ELISA kits (R&D systems).

      Assessments of cognitive ability, mood, fatigue and quality of life will also be performed
      using psychometric tests as described in outcomes. Exercise capacity and mobility will be
      also be measured.

      Participants will also undergo a maximal exercise test, recently validated for use in this
      patient population (Heine et al., 2014). Briefly, rested participants will initially cycle at
      a power of 25W whilst maintaining a minimum cadence of 60rpm as a 5 minute warm-up. This
      leads directly into the testing period, during which the power is increased incrementally
      (15W per minute) until the point of volitional termination or a drop in cadence of 10rpm
      below the minimum (60 rpm). Peak oxygen consumption (VO2 peak) is used as a measure of
      cardiorespiratory fitness.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups - high intensity (HI), moderate
      intensity (MI) or usual care (UC). Exercising groups will take part in a 15 week programme.
      All exercise will be performed on a cycle ergometer and will be carried out twice per week
      for 15 weeks (30 sessions) at the Douglas Grant Rehabilitation Centre, Irvine. In all
      sessions HI participants will exercise intermittently (30 seconds on 30 seconds off) at 80%
      of the peak power (based on maximal exercise test) for 15 minutes. MI participants will
      exercise continuously at 40% peak power for 15 minutes. To ensure exercise intensity remains
      consistent throughout the programme the workload will progressively increase over time to
      accommodate any increases in participant fitness levels as measured by %HR. UC participants
      will not participate in the supervised exercise programme but will continue to receive their
      usual care.

      5 weeks after completion of the exercise programme, a follow-up testing session will occur.
    
  