
    
      SUMMARY

      Sponsor: B. BRAUN Medical AG

      Trade name: Prontosan® Wound Irrigation Solution Prontosan® Wound Gel

      Active substance: Polihexanide (0.1%) Betaine (0.1%)

      Study Duration (per patient):

      13 weeks, including the 1 week run in period

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of Prontosan® Wound Irrigation Solution and
      Prontosan® Wound Gel in the reduction of wound size of hard-to-heal venous leg ulcers
      compared to control saline irrigation solution and inactive gel.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To assess the change in bio-burden (assessment of organisms present) and to determine local
      tolerance as well as reduction in pain and to monitor exudate control.

      Methodology:

      A pilot randomised, double-blind, controlled clinical trial at a single centre

      Planned number of patients:

      A sample size of N= 15 evaluable patients was estimated for each treatment group (group "A"
      and "B"). Adding a dropout rate of approx. 25% results in a total number of patients for both
      treatment groups of N=38.

      Study Visits:

      Visit 0 (-1 week) - Screening Visit 1 ( Week 0) - Treatment and assessment visit Visit 2
      (Week 1, day 7 +/- 1 day) - Treatment and assessment visit Visit 3 (Week 2, day14 +/- 1 day)
      - Treatment and assessment visit Visit 4 (Week 4, day 28 +/- 2 days) - Treatment and
      assessment visit Visit 5 (Week 8, day 56 +/- 2 days) - Treatment and assessment visit Visit 6
      (Week 12, day 84 +/- 2 days) - End of study following 12 weeks of treatment or at healing
      whichever is soonest

      The number of additional visits will be recorded in the Case Report Forms.

      Treatment efficacy assessment:

      Clinical signs and symptoms will be compared between the two randomised groups with
      microbiological analysis and, computer planimetry assessments of ulcer size, using Visitrak™
      (Smith & Nephew), and digital photography at entry to the study, at each planned study visit
      and at healing or 12 weeks, whichever is soonest.

      Tolerance assessment:

      The tolerability of study treatment will be evaluation based on the intensity and the course
      of adverse events (undesired concomitant effects, both subjectively perceived symptoms and
      objectively detected signs of disease). Tolerance assessments will take place from visit 2
      onwards

      Assessment methods:

        1. Assessment of clinical signs and symptoms, in particular related to development of
           infection:

             -  reduction of slough and necrotic tissue

             -  control of exudate

             -  presence of granulation tissue

             -  reduction of inflammatory signs (surrounding skin)

             -  pain

        2. Ulcer computerised planimetry using Visitrak™

        3. Microbiological analysis for bioburden (the bioburden within an ulcer relates to a
           microbiological qualitative and quantitative assessment of organisms present) assessed
           by wound swab or biopsy

        4. Serial photography with blinded assessment of progress using linear analogue scale
    
  