
    
      This clinical trial is 12 weeks, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel group, phase
      3 study which registered patients in total 19 institutions appointed as national clinical
      trial institution, it was conducted by receiving IRB(institutional review board) approval
      from each institutions.

      Target patients were aged over 20 years old male or female lower limb peripheral artery
      occlusion patients with fontaine stage II/III, who has lower limb pain. Lower limb pain
      degree is over 40 mm evaluated by VAS at screening, and ABI (ankle-brachial index) ≤0.9 or
      stenosis rate over >50%, diagnosed with PAD and voluntarily agreed to participate in clinical
      study and signed study consent form. Study subjects who met subjects criteria and recruited
      were total 170 subjects. Selected subjects were stratified by 1:1 ratio and randomly assigned
      to investigational product or comparator.

      Investigational product was SID142 and comparator was Rinexin® Tab (Cilostazol 100mg, Ginkgo
      biloba leaf extract 80mg). Administration period to subjects was 12 weeks, study group took
      investigational product, SID1421 tab once(morning) and took placebo 1 tab/once, 2 times/day,
      and comparator group took investigational product, Rinexin® Tab 1 tab/once, 2 times/day and
      took placebo 1 tab once(morning).

      Efficacy and Safety Assessment Parameter Subjects visited at 4, 8, and 12 weeks including
      baseline visit (visit 2) at 4 weeks interval and took efficacy and safety.

      Variation in lower limb pain (VAS) comparing baseline with 12 weeks point as a primary
      efficacy Assessment parameter, variation in lower limb pain (VAS) comparing baseline with 4,
      8 weeks, ankle brachial pressure index (ABI), ankle systolic pressure (ASP), Maximum Walking
      Distance (MWD), Pain Free Walking Distance (PFWD), andInvestigator's global assessment
      (5-point scale) as secondary efficacy assessment parameters, efficacy was measured. Pain and
      coldness test was measured using pain and coldness felt by subject 24 hours prior to the
      visit, MWD and PFWD was measured only on subjects who was determined to be possible to
      measure. Also, adverse event, laboratory test, vital sign, were conducted for safety
      assessment. Physical test and vital sign were conducted at screening visit, administration
      begins, 4, 8, and 12 weeks and urine pregnancy test and laboratory test were conducted at
      screening visits and 12 weeks. ECG test was conducted at screening visit, 4, 8, and 12 weeks
      after. Laboratory test criteria were hematological test, blood chemical test, blood
      coagulation test and urine test.
    
  