
    
      Oral feeding issues in preterm infants are a growing concern for neonatologists because the
      difficulties preterm infants show in transitioning from tube to independent oral feeding lead
      to delayed hospital discharge, maternal stress and rising financial burden.

      Safety in infant oral feeding implies minimal risk of aspiration and requires the adequate
      coordination of sucking, swallowing and respiration.

      Sucking and swallowing are present in early foetal life, but the coordination of sucking with
      swallowing and breathing is not thought to occur before 34 weeks post-menstrual age (PMA).
      Thus, preterm infants tend to suck, swallow and breathe in an alternate, rather than
      coordinated fashion.

      Accelerated maturation of sucking reflex and earlier readiness for bottle-feeding is reported
      when preterm neonates were given non-nutritive sucking (NNS) opportunities during gavage
      feeding. Recent evidence suggests that the sensory consequences associated with the
      production of NNS have beneficial effects on oral feeding performance and the development of
      specific sucking skills.

      At present, it is customary for infants who have stable cardiopulmonary status to be
      introduced to oral feeding around 33 to 34 weeks PMA. They usually take days or weeks in the
      transition period of combined gavage and oral feeding before reaching full oral feeding.

      Recent studies suggest that an oral stimulation program associated to NNS applied to preterm
      infants for at least 10 days in the period of full gavage feeding can facilitate their oral
      feeding progress, improves breastfeeding rates among preterm infants and decreases the length
      of stay.

      A meta-analysis found that NNS decreases significantly the length of hospital stay in preterm
      infants with an acceleration of the transition from tube to bottle feeds and better bottle
      feeding performance, without any negative outcomes reported.

      Actually, in our neonatal intensive care unit, preterm infants don't receive any oral
      stimulation or a pacifier to develop NNS before oral feeding introduction and they show
      frequently, even for the infants born after 32 weeks' gestational age, difficulties in the
      transitioning from tube to independent oral feeding.

      In a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial, prefeeding oral stimulation will be
      compared with the conventional approach for oral feeding initiation.

      Considering a 15 days follow-up for each patient after the introduction of oral feeding, an
      expected rate of patients performing the full oral feeding after 15 days of 95% in the
      stimulated group and of 70% in the non stimulated group, the minimal sample size needed to
      observe a difference between the two groups would be 37 patients in each group with a power
      of 80% and an alpha level of 5%.

      A total of 74 preterm infants are going to be included from the neonatal intensive care unit
      at the Children's Hospital of the Centre Hospitalier de Luxembourg, Luxembourg.

      The investigators are going to include preterm infants from 26 to 33+6 weeks' gestational
      age, as determined by date of last menstruation and first-trimester ultrasound. Prior
      informed consent is going to be obtained from the parents/guardians of the newborns for their
      participation in the study.

      Infants' randomization, into an experimental and a control group, is going to be done when
      they reach 32 weeks PMA for the infants born before 32 weeks, and at birth for the infants
      born after 32 weeks' gestational age. The process is done using sequential numbers, kept in
      sealed, opaque, non-translucid envelopes. Randomization is going to be stratified based on
      gestational age ranges (26-27+6, 28-29+6, 30-31+6, 32-33+6) to ensure a similar gestational
      age distribution in the two groups.

      Infants in the interventional group are going to receive a prefeeding oral stimulation (group
      1), the infants in the control group (group 2) are neither being stimulated nor will them be
      proposed a pacifier before or gavage feeding.

      The intervention will start at 32 weeks PMA in a medically stable infant feed by gavage
      feeding for the infants born before 32 weeks' gestational age, and, as soon as clinical
      stability is acquired, for the infants born after 32 weeks.

      The investigators defined as a complete oral feeding a minimal quantity of 5 millilitres that
      the preterm infant has to drink in less than 10 minutes by bottle or by breastfeeding. These
      5 millilitres are the usual quantity that a preterm baby born at 34 weeks' gestational age is
      able to drink by himself at each meal.

      The program is going to be interrupted if infants are medically unstable and/or have any
      episodes of oxygen desaturation, apnoea and/or bradycardia during the intervention.

      Gavage feeding will begin when the preterm infant is clinically stable in terms of
      hemodynamics and has presented peristalsis according to criteria established by the caretaker
      staff. Oral diet progress depends on infant's tolerance and will be about 20 ml/kg/day.

      The change from gavage to oral feeding is going to be initiated at 34 weeks PMA, after the
      beginning of oral stimulation program in group 1.

      The gavage feeding will be stopped and the orogastric tube removed, when the infant attains
      an oral feeding volume of more than 120 ml/kg/day. A weight lost of 5 % is authorized after
      stopping gavage feeding.

      Full oral diet is defined by an oral intake of milk > 150 ml/kg/day, by bottle or by
      breastfeeding, for 3 consecutive days.

      The expected benefits of this study are a reduction in the length of stay in our neonatal
      unit in the stimulated group, due to the reduction in the length of the transition period in
      these preterm infants. A minimisation of the hospitalization cost and a reduction in the
      parental stress can by expected with an earlier hospital discharge.

      An increase of the breastfeeding rates at discharge is expected. With the improved feeding
      performance in the stimulated group, the maternal stress concerning breastfeeding is reduced
      and the risk of failure is smaller. A better mother-child attachment can be expected with
      this study.
    
  