
    
      Biological aging, especially when coupled with cardiovascular risk factors, leads to chronic
      endothelial dysfunction within cerebral micro-vessels that impairs the brain's ability to
      meet the metabolic demands placed upon it by everyday life. This chronic mismatch between
      blood supply and metabolic demand often leads to cerebral microvascular disease (CMD), or the
      accumulation of ischemic damage within a network of frontal and subcortical regions. CMD is
      recognized as white matter hyperintensities on MRI scans and manifests clinically as mobility
      impairment, executive dysfunction and depressed affect. As 11-17% of elderly individuals
      present with this constellation of symptoms, and each of these symptoms is independently
      linked to increased morbidity and mortality, CMD is a critical yet understudied healthcare
      issue with rapidly-growing personal and economic costs.

      There is currently no cure for CMD and trials aimed at pharmacological improvement of
      nonselective systemic vasodilation report no therapeutic value (Sorrond & Lipsitz, 2011). Our
      team, however, has demonstrated that the severity of clinical symptoms suffered by those with
      CMD is critically dependent upon the brain's remaining capacity to activate the appropriate
      cortical networks when metabolic demand is increased by the performance of various
      cognitive-motor tasks (Purkayastha et al., 2014; Sorond et al., 2010; Sorond et al., 2011).
      Therefore, investigators predict that improvement in the capacity to activate the appropriate
      cortical networks in response to increased metabolic demand would ameliorate the symptoms and
      improve the quality of life of patients with CMD.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) enables noninvasive, selective and sustained
      modulation of cortical activation. tDCS works by sending low-level currents between two or
      more scalp electrodes, which alters brain polarity and thus, perfusion and cortical
      excitability. One 20-minute session of tDCS targeting the left prefrontal cortex acutely
      increases cortical activation during both cognitive and motor task performance in healthy
      adults. Investigators have demonstrated that this same stimulation improves mobility and
      cognitive performance in community-dwelling older adults. Moreover, repeated tDCS sessions
      over a one month period reduce symptoms of depression and may improve executive function in
      healthy individuals. This preliminary evidence suggests that tDCS may be an effective
      intervention for CMD; however, the impact of tDCS on this disease has not been investigated.

      The study investigators ultimately aim to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of tDCS in
      patients with CMD by conducting a double-blind, proof-of-principle, sham-controlled trail
      along with extensive functional and neurophysiological assessments. In order to finalize the
      design and plan the implementation of this definitive trial, investigators currently aim to:

        1. Conduct a pilot study to establish the feasibility of deployment of tDCS in large
           populations of individuals with CMD, and to obtain preliminary evidence for a causal
           effect of the intervention on mobility, executive function and depressive symptoms in
           this population.

        2. Within the pilot study, investigate the effects of the tDCS intervention on cortical
           activation in response to cognitive-motor tasks.

      This study will provide first-of-its-kind, proof-of-principle evidence on whether tDCS
      provides meaningful symptomatic relief to patients with CMD. Moreover, it will inform a more
      definitive, larger-scale randomized controlled trial (RCT) by providing information on
      recruitment and retention, compliance, estimates of effect size, and the neurophysiological
      underpinnings of expected functional improvements. If successful, knowledge gained is also
      expected to spur the investigation of tDCS as treatment for many other diseases-from dementia
      to diabetes-that negatively impact the brain's capacity to activate appropriate cortical
      networks.
    
  