
    
      Introduction TMS is a non-invasive neuronal stimulation of surface areas of the brain that
      since its introduction in 1985 has been frequently used in neurology as a diagnostic and
      research tool. TMS uses magnetic fields to induce electrical currents that cross the nervous
      tissue depolarizing neurons, and reproduced motions generated are recorded as electromyograph
      potentials. TMS is able to explore the functionality of the cortical-spinal system, measure
      cortical excitability, mapcortical features, and evaluate brain modulators.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is frequently used in the experimental
      field for cortical function scans and modulation of the intrinsic cortical plasticity. In
      particular, high frequency rTMS has facilitating effects on cortico-spinal excitability and
      the low-frequency one is usually inhibitory. rTMS is a method of extreme interest for the
      possible therapeutic role in conditions of altered cerebral excitability, both psychiatric
      (schizophrenia, posttraumatic stress disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, major
      depression) and neurological (epilepsy , stroke, degenerative diseases). At experimental
      level, the actual stimulation is compared with an inactive stimulus called sham, which acts
      as a control condition.

      Direct Transcranial Electric Stimulation (tDCS) requires the application of weak electrical
      currents directly to the head for several minutes. These currents generate an electric field
      modulating neural activity based on the application mode. tDCS alters the rate of discharge
      of neurons. In fact, cathodic polarization applied to the motor cortex can induce a robust
      reduction in cortical excitability, while anodic polarization increases the excitability of
      the motor cortex. The short-term effects of tDCS are probably due to a change in neural
      membrane polarization. Similarly to rTMS, these changes last even after the end of
      stimulation for periods ranging from minutes to hours. Thus, tDCS can modify performance in
      many cognitive tasks.

      Non-invasive cerebral stimulation have demonstrated a potential for the treatment of
      neurological disorders such as chronic pain, Parkinson's disease, neglect, aphasia, memory,
      motor deficiency and epilepsy. In general, non-invasive brain stimulation techniques have
      shown to induce changes in cortical plasticity that may last even beyond the end of the
      stimulation period. Considering this potential, there is an increasing interest in the
      application of these techniques in the therapeutic field.

      In our study, we suggest evaluating any variations in the muscular tone of the lower limbs as
      a result of high frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in patients
      with multiple sclerosis with relapsing-remitting pattern without evidence of medullary
      demyelination areas. rTMS allows modulation of intracortical excitability and can therefore
      modify the control of spinal excitability.

      Sensory disorders are frequently observed within neurological disorders and are a possible
      cause of disability. Recent studies based on non-invasive stimulation techniques have shown
      interesting results in modulation of tactile sensory functions in healthy subjects. tDCS is
      capable of inducing a plastic change in motor and somatosensory areas. Several studies have
      reported anodic tDCS stimulation that can reduce both chronic and acute pain in different
      conditions. In addition, anodic tDCS stimulation can improve the loss of tactile sensitivity
      resulting from Multiple Sclerosis.

      Most patients with Parkinson's Disease develop after several years of treatment with a number
      of clinical complications, including dyskinesias, involuntary pathological, sometimes
      frankly, dystonic movements. Pathological Long Term Potentiation (LTP) phenomena were
      observed in the stigma of parkinsonian rats that developed dyskinesias following L-dopa
      treatment. Low-frequency electric stimulation of single cells induces a reversal of enhanced
      synaptic responses, a phenomenon known as depotentiation.

      Several authors have observed that in patients with focal dystonia there is a lack of
      intracortical inhibition of controls. A pilot study examined the effects of slow rTMS on the
      motor cortex, highlighting normalization of intracortical inhibition and improving clinical
      symptoms.

      The role of TMS in the treatment of major drug-resistant depression has been amply defined.
      Some early studies demonstrated that a high-frequency focal pacing of the left-sided
      prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) induced symptom improvement, quantifiable as a reduction in the
      score to the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, probably via an increase in the content of
      brain monoamines. Studies on cerebral blood flow have also shown an increase in activity in
      the stimulated DLPFC.

      It is now accepted that rTMS has the same efficacy, in the most potent drug-resistant
      depression, of electroconvulsive therapy, with virtually null side effects.

      Hypothesis Based on these assumptions, the underlying hypothesis behind this project is that
      the therapeutic use of cranial - electrical or magnetic stimulation - can aid the recovery of
      various brain injury symptoms.

      Specific objectives This study aims to provide preliminary data about the benefits of using
      cortical stimulation to recover various brain injury symptoms. This will be made possible
      thanks to the specific skills of a multidisciplinary team of neurologists and physiatrists,
      healthcare professionals such as physiotherapists, occupational therapists, psychologists,
      speech therapists and the support of a biomedical engineer. These professional figures are
      already available at the UCK Neurosurgery of the IRCCS Neuromed directed by the proposer and
      actively collaborate to optimize the therapeutic exercise of patients with neurological
      damage.

      Population of the study The sample estimate was made by analogy after a literature analysis.
      Considering the risk of abandonment quite high, our intention is to recruit at least 100
      subjects in a population of patients with cerebral injury who are involved in the
      neurological department of IRCCS. Neuromed in Pozzilli, featuring the symptoms described
      below in the inclusion criteria Inclusion and exclusion criteria are specified below.

      Experimental design Double-blind prospective study, between randomized, placebo-controlled
      parallel groups.

      Patients will undergo a cerebral pacing program listed below and differentiated according to
      the type of symptom presented. All conventional therapies taken by patients will be recorded
      by the operators. Patients will be divided into Stimulation and Sham (control) groups and
      will be evaluated at zero time before starting treatment (T-0W) after 6 weeks to evaluate the
      effects at the end of treatment (T-6W) and at 12 weeks (T-12W) to evaluate the maintenance of
      long-term effects. Randomization will be balanced in accordance with age, sex and schooling.

      The physiotherapy or speech therapy approach will be different between patients considering
      the different types of brain damage and the different levels of disability, according to the
      rehabilitation unit team for each case.

      Spasticity Patients will be evaluated clinically, using a clinical scale to quantify muscle
      tone in the various districts (Ashworth scale) and neurophysiologically by eliciting the H
      reflection. The electrophysiological parameters detected will be: M response, H reflex and
      its M / H ratio. Patients with spasticity to lower limbs will be enrolled in continuous
      interferon therapy and free of cortisone for at least 30 days.

      The runtime rTMS will be applied to the motor at rest (RMT) on the primary motor area for the
      lower limb, 5 Hz (excitatory) with 20 trains of 10 sec (50 train stimuli, 1000 total stimuli)
      with intertree intervals of 30 seconds (total 22 min. Ca) on the primary motor cortex for the
      lower limb and we will measure the H reflex before and after the stimulation session. The
      treatment will last 2 weeks with daily sessions.

      Dyskinesia Patients with clinically diagnosed discontinuous L-Dopa treatment history will be
      enrolled.

      They will be given rTMS for 7 consecutive days with the following stimulation parameters: 1
      Hz frequency; 90% Active Motor Threshold intensity; Train duration 899 sec (900 stimuli). At
      the end of each individual stimulation session patients will be subjected to neurological
      evaluation of the symptoms.

      Sensory Deficits Patients with reduced tactile sensitivity to upper or lower limbs will be
      enrolled. Patients with peripheral neuropathy, psychiatric disorders, cognitive deficits,
      epilepsy will be excluded. TDCS stimulation will be administered for 5 consecutive days at 2
      mA for 20 minutes. The anode will be placed 2 cm behind the C3 / C4 points of the defective
      hemisphere. The reference electrode will be positioned over the contralateral control region.
      Sham stimulation will have the same parameters. Clinical evaluation will be performed before
      and after treatment, and at a distance of 1, 2 and 4 weeks.

      Pain Patients with neuropathic pain in the upper or lower limbs, VAS score of at least 40,
      will be enrolled in the absence of analgesic treatment for at least one month. Subjects with
      peripheral neuropathic pain, headache, psychiatric disorders, cognitive deficits, epilepsy
      will be excluded. TDCS stimulation will be administered as above. The anode will be
      positioned 2 cm behind the CP's defective hemisphere points. The reference electrode will be
      positioned over the contralateral control region. Clinical evaluation will be performed
      before and after treatment, and at a distance of 1, 2 and 4 weeks.

      Aphasia Patients with flu-like and non-fluent language disorders will be enrolled, evaluated
      by clinical scales and clinical visits. TDCS stimulation will be administered for 5
      consecutive days, followed by 2 days of pause and subsequent 5 days of 1 mA stimulation for
      20 minutes. The anode will be located at the Broca or Wernicke area level. The cathode will
      be placed on the homologous counterpartical area of the anode. Logopedic therapy will be
      coupled to true tDCS stimulation and sham. Clinical evaluation will be performed before and
      after treatment, and at a distance of 1, 2 and 4 weeks.

      Dysphagia Patients with swallowing disorders will be enrolled, evaluated by clinical scales,
      logopedic visit, Otorhinolaryngology visit. TDCS stimulation will be administered for 5
      consecutive days at 2 mA for 20 minutes. The anode will be positioned at the level of the
      dominant motor cortex to control the muscles of the swallowing. The reference electrode will
      be positioned over the contralateral control region. Logopedic therapy will be coupled to
      true tDCS stimulation and sham. Clinical evaluation will be performed before and after
      treatment, and at a distance of 1, 2 and 4 weeks by logopedic, neurophysiological and ORL
      assessment.

      Major Depression In the study, 15 patients with major DSM-IV depression diagnosed with proven
      drug resistance will be enrolled. Of these, five will be submitted to rTMS of the left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), five at rTMS of the right DLPFC and five at sham
      stimulation. The study will be conducted in single blind. The rTMS session will last (15)
      consecutive days. The stimulation parameters will be: 10 Hz frequency; 100% RMT intensity;
      Train duration 10 sec (100 stimuli); Inter-train interval 1 minute; n. Total of the terrors
      12; Duration of a session about 13 minutes. Hamilton Depression Rating Scale will be
      administered on the first day before stimulation, and on the last day after stimulation.

      Expected results The present study aims to provide preliminary data on the benefits of
      cortical stimulation for the recovery of various brain injury symptoms.

      The expected result is that neurostimulation training potentiates the recovery of the various
      symptoms considered in the present study, resulting in brain damage.
    
  