
    
      Background

      Acute urinary retention is one of the most common complications after surgery and anesthesia.
      It can occur in patients of both sexes and all age groups and after all types of surgical
      procedures. It is linked to several factors including increased intravenous fluids,
      postoperative pain and type of anaesthesia.

      Micturition depends on coordinated actions between the detrusor muscle and the external
      urethral sphincter. Motorneurons of both muscles are located in the sacral spinal cord and
      coordination between them occurs in the pontine tegmentum of the caudal brain stem.
      Motorneurons innervating the external urethral sphincter are located in the nucleus of Onuf,
      extending from segment S1 to S3. The detrusor smooth muscle is innervated by parasympathetic
      fibers, which reside in the sacral intermediolateral cell group and are located in S2-4.
      Sympathetic fibers innervating the bladder and urethra play an important role in promoting
      continence and are located in the intermediolateral cell group of the lumbar cord (L1-L4).
      Most afferent fibers from the bladder enter the sacral cord through the pelvic nerve at
      segments L4-S2 and the majority are thin myelinated or unmyelinated.

      There are few studies on the urodynamic effects of various anaesthetic agents, which mainly
      focused on lumbar epidural anaesthesia. Under the influence of epidural analgesia, patients
      may not feel the sensation of bladder filling, which can result in urinary retention and
      bladder overdistension. Overfilling of the bladder can stretch and in some cases permanently
      damage the detrusor muscle.

      Because epidural anesthesia can be performed at various levels of the spinal cord, it is
      possible to block only a portion of the spinal cord (segmental blockade). Based on knowledge
      of the bladder innervations, it can be assumed that epidural analgesia within segments T4-6
      to T10-12 has no or minimal influences on lower urinary tract function.

      In a previous study, the investigators found, against their expectations, that thoracic
      epidural analgesia (TEA) with bupivacaine significantly inhibits the detrusor muscle during
      voiding, resulting in clinically relevant post void residuals which required monitoring or
      transurethral catheterisation 11. This detrusor inhibition is comparable to a motor blockade.

      In addition, it is known that the epidural administration of ropivacaine during labour
      results in a clinically relevant reduction of motor blocks. However, the analgesic potency of
      ropivacaine is approximately 60% that of bupivacaine.

      Objective

      The main objectives of this investigator initiated trial are:

        -  To analyse if a TEA with the local anesthetics ropivacaine leads to less detrusor atony
           and thus resulting to lower incidence of postvoid residual urine volume resulting in
           postoperative urinary retention.

        -  To compare urodynamic parameters (storage and voiding phases) during TEA with
           ropivacaine versus bupivacaine.

      Methods

      Assessments of bladder function:

      International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) will be used for assessment of lower urinary
      tract symptoms preoperatively.

      Urodynamic investigations will be performed: The first investigation will be done as baseline
      data before attempted surgery.

      Urodynamic investigations will be performed according to good urodynamic practice. After
      placement of a 6 French transurethral dual channel catheter and a 14 French rectal balloon
      catheter (Gaeltec, Dunvegan, Scotland), the bladder will be filled at a rate of 25 to 50
      ml/min with Ringer's lactate solution at room temperature. Parameters of both the storage
      phase (maximum cystometric capacity, bladder compliance) and voiding phase (detrusor pressure
      at maximum flow rate (PdetQmax), maximum flow rate (Qmax) and PVR will be recorded. All
      methods, definitions and units will be in accordance with the standards recommended by the
      International Continence Society.
    
  