
    
      Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is a T-cell mediated autoimmune disease in which
      insulin-producing beta cells are completely or near completely destroyed resulting in
      life-long dependence on exogenous insulin.

      CTLA4-Ig (Abatacept) inhibits a crucial stimulatory pathway in the activation of T cells. By
      this mechanism, the drug is thought to arrest or slow the T cell mediated autoimmune
      destruction of beta-cells and preserve their function. At the time of clinical onset of T1DM,
      a significant amount of insulin producing beta cells are destroyed, but as many as 10-20% are
      still capable of insulin production. By using CTLA4-Ig close to the onset of T1DM, we hope to
      arrest or slow down the autoimmune destruction of these beta-cells and extend the endogenous
      insulin production. CTLA4-Ig regulates T cell function but does not deplete T cells.
      Therefore, its safety profile appears to be better than other immunosuppressive agents.

      Eligible participants will be randomized to the experimental or control groups. The
      experimental group will receive intravenous infusions of CTLA-4 Ig. The first infusion will
      occur at the time of randomization, followed by another infusion 2 and 4 weeks later.
      Subsequent infusions will be given monthly for two years during the treatment phase of the
      study. There is a total of 27 infusions during the treatment phase of the study.

      Participants in the control group will receive intravenous infusions of placebo according to
      the same schedule outlined above.

      Both groups will receive standard intensive diabetes treatment with insulin and dietary
      management.

      All participants randomized into the study will be seen at study site monthly for 24 months
      and then every 6 months for up to an additional 2 years. Participants will undergo
      assessments of their insulin production, immunologic status, overall health and well being
      and diabetes care.
    
  