
    
      In December 2019, a backlog of patients with respiratory disease was identified in Hubei
      Province, China. The number of infections increased rapidly, and more patients were
      identified in other provinces in China, and in various countries in the Far East, Europe and
      the United States. With few exceptions, patients became infected while staying in China. The
      cause of the disease has been identified as a virus from the corona family - SARS-CoV-2 and
      the new name given to the disease. (COVID-19) Coronavirus disease The virus belongs to a
      family of respiratory viruses that often cause mild respiratory illness, however, viruses
      from this family have also caused epidemics of severe respiratory infections. On March 11,
      2020, the World Health Organization declared the corona virus a global pandemic. The average
      incubation period (from exposure to the onset of clinical symptoms) is 6 days, with a range
      of 2 to 11 days. Common symptoms of coronary heart disease include: fever, cough, shortness
      of breath, muscle aches.Some patients develop complications, including pneumonia, respiratory
      failure, myocarditis and death. Similar to other respiratory viruses, 2019-nCov is
      transmitted by respiratory droplets. Diagnosis is made by PCR examination from a sample of
      the upper respiratory tract (pharynx and nose).

      In the literature accumulated in recent months suggests that haemato-oncology patients are at
      increased risk for severe corona disease and mortality. In haemato-oncology patients the
      recovery process from corona may be prolonged, including a prolonged secretion of the virus
      compared to a healthy population.

      The study population: CLL, Multiple Myeloma or Lymphoma patients as well control group of
      healthy patients who are vaccinated with COVID-19 in a commercial preparation, regardless of
      the study.

      Serology test between two and three weeks after the second dose of the vaccine to test the
      effectiveness of the vaccine will be performed as part of the study .

      All data collected in the study will be typed into Excel and analyzed using SPSS version
      21.0. Continuous data will be described using averages and standard deviations, and
      categorical data will be described using prevalence and percentages.
    
  