
    
      An important aim in cataract surgery has always been a good postoperative visual outcome.
      Efforts have been made to achieve this, with the introduction of intraocular lens in the
      1980s and small incision cataract surgery in the 1990s. In the recent years, 'refractive'
      cataract surgery has taken the form of corneal astigmatic correction. Patients with
      pre-existing astigmatism of more than 1.5D may benefit from surgical correction during
      cataract surgery, in the hope of improving uncorrected visual acuity as well as lesser image
      distortion from corneal aberrations.

      The limbal relaxing incisional technique involves placement of incisions corresponding to the
      steep meridian, thereby resulting in corneal flattening and reduction of astigmatic power. It
      is increasingly popular due to its advantages. LRI is simple to perform, very safe procedure
      in experienced hands, effective for astigmatic reduction of up to 4D, has rapid visual
      rehabilitation and is associated with very few visual complications due to the peripheral
      location of the incisions. Possible complications include globe weakening, corneal
      perforation, worsening of astigmatism, incorrect incisional placement and corneal
      hypoesthesia.

      LRI technique and the practical nomograms has been described and made feasible by both James
      P Gills and Louis D Nichamin. Based on preoperatively measured astigmatic power and axis,
      these two nomograms recommend a systematic approach to the amount of surgical correction
      required.

      The reason for the Nichamin nomogram being more frequently applied, can be attributed to a
      few inherent features. It accounts for the age of the patient as a surgical variability and
      recommends the use of paired arcuate limbal incisions measured in degrees of arc. Paired
      incisions enable symmetric corneal flattening at the steep meridian, whilst arcuate incisions
      are more physiological, thereby resulting in accurate astigmatic correction that is
      independent of corneal diameter. Nichamin has also implemented a modified Nichamin age and
      pachymetry-adjusted nomogram (otherwise known as 'NAPA' nomogram). It accounts for the
      patient's peripheral corneal thickness and adjusts the incisional depth accordingly to
      achieve 90% of corneal thickness.

      Many studies have shown that LRI is an effective option for astigmatic correction in
      Caucasian eyes. Whether these results can be further extrapolated to apply to Chinese eyes
      are still largely uncertain. To date, there has not been a formal study conducted to evaluate
      this hypothesis. Moreover, there has been some anecdotal evidence suggesting less favorable
      postoperative outcome of LRI in Chinese eyes. The main objective of our study is thus to
      assess the utility and effectiveness of LRI in Chinese eyes.
    
  