
    
      Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) is grown commercially in the Near East, India, Spain, Israel
      and the United States (California) where it is of significant economic importance1.
      Pomegranate fruits and products, including juice, tea, wine and extracts are widely consumed
      and recognized for their health benefits. Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) fruit possesses
      strong antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative properties. In recent years, most
      health advantages of pomegranate have been attributed to the presence of ellagitannins,
      mainly punicalagins and ellagic acid. Punicalagin is unique to pomegranate and is part of a
      family of ellagitannins. The ellagitannins are hydrolyzed to ellagic acid in the gut, and
      further metabolized by the colon microflora to form urolith A and B. Investigations using
      pure bacterial cultures have shown that pomegranate by-products and punicalagins
      significantly inhibited the growth of pathogenic Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
      clostridia and Staphylococcus aureus.

      Oral feeding of pomegranate fruit extract to mice afforded protection to mouse skin against
      the adverse effects of ultraviolet-B (UVB) radiation by modulating UVB-induced signaling
      pathways.5 Hydroalcoholic extract based-ointment from pomegranate was reported improving
      wound healing in vivo. Pomegranate ellagitannins have been demonstrated to have antimicrobial
      activity. Punicalagin is unique to pomegranate and is part of a family of ellagitannins. The
      ellagitannins are hydrolyzed to ellagic acid in the gut, and further metabolized by the colon
      microflora to form urolith A and B. Investigations using pure bacterial cultures have shown
      that pomegranate by-products and punicalagins significantly inhibited the growth of
      pathogenic Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, clostridia and Staphylococcus aureus.

      Pomegranate Extract (POMx) is made from pomegranate fruit as a byproduct of pomegranate juice
      (PJ) production. A second pressing of the fruit liberates a complex mixture of hydrolysable
      polyphenolic compounds normally ingested with pomegranate juice, and these are purified by
      spray drying. POMx powder is encapsulated for oral administration, with each capsule
      containing 1,000 mg of pomegranate polyphenols. The present study will determine whether a
      pomegranate product (POMx or PJ) can decrease skin photoaging, inflammation and skin
      pathogenic bacteria.
    
  