
    
      Study Design: The proposed study is a pilot randomized controlled trial comparing a
      pre-operative multi-modal intervention and standard care among pre-frail/frail patients
      undergoing total hip or knee replacement surgery. Pre-frail (score of 1 or 2) or frail (score
      of 3-5; Fried Frailty Phenotype) patients, ≥ 60 years undergoing elective unilateral total
      hip or knee replacement after at least 3 months will be recruited from the practices of 8
      orthopedic surgeons (Hamilton Arthroplasty Group).

      A research assistant (RA) will conduct the eligibility screening at the Regional Joint
      Assessment Program (Hamilton Health Sciences) and St. Joseph's Healthcare, Hamilton, ON
      during an appointment (3-9 months prior to surgery). Patients with renal insufficiency, a
      neuromuscular disorder, active cancer or any inflammatory arthritis will be excluded.

      Stratified block randomization will be used to randomly allocate participants to the
      intervention or usual care arms of the study. The allocation sequence will be computer
      generated using Statistical Analysis Software (SAS) 9.3. Once the study RA confirms the
      patient's eligibility, and obtain consent, the RA will inform the research coordinator (RC)
      who will randomize the participant using Red Cap randomization list. Then the RC will call
      the participants to inform them if they fall in the intervention or control group and arrange
      the first visit.

      Multi-Modal Frailty Intervention (3-9 months). Exercise: A Registered physiotherapist will
      develop an individualized exercise program and schedule appointments with the patient at home
      including goal setting discussion. Participants will be offered free YMCA membership to
      participate in the IN Motion program.The IN Motion program is designed for older adults and
      include gentle fit, hydrotherapy and walk fit classes along with health education sessions.
      Participants will be taught how to monitor their own heart rate and level of exertion using
      the Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion 10-point Scale. All participants will be encouraged to
      exercise at least 3 times per week for 45-60 minutes either at home and/or at YMCA IN Motion
      classes. The home exercise will incorporate aerobic, resistance training, flexibility and
      balance components. Patients will be provided with and asked to keep an exercise log-book.

      Cognitive-behavioral Change Strategy and education:

      Cognitive Behavioral Change Strategies (CBCS) may be an effective way to facilitate coaching
      strategies to increase participant exercise levels. In the current study, modules will be
      presented to participants in the event that they express any barriers to exercise. These
      barriers will vary based on: the individual, environment, and previous exercise behaviors.
      Throughout the intervention, CBCS will be performed and administered by the physiotherapist
      prior to the participants scheduled surgery. The administration of the modules will be
      dependent on the challenges that the participants express in relation to exercise (i.e., lack
      of time, motivation, social support, etc.). A definition of each strategy will be given to
      the participant; the physiotherapist will then work through a worksheet with the participant.

      Protein Supplement: Participants will be provided with 1-2 daily supplements (containing
      20-40 gram protein, 1.5 g β-Hydroxy β-Methylbutyrate /serving) to be taken with a meal or on
      activity days within 3-hours of exercise.

      Vitamin D: All participants in the intervention arm will be provided with a supply of Vitamin
      D3 (1000 IU/day tablets) for the duration of the intervention period.

      Medication Review: After randomization, a geriatrician will review the medications for
      patients in the intervention arm and provide written recommendations to the participant's
      family doctor.

      Control arm: Patients in the control arm will receive usual care which may include the
      recommendation to attend fitness classes before surgery; however these patients will not
      receive the more intensive assessment/intervention of the physiotherapist and other
      intervention components. Control participants will be asked pre-operatively and
      post-operatively to indicate whether or not they exercise, take protein or vitamin
      supplements.

      For participants in intervention and control groups will, 1) be monitored for their YMCA
      attendance and 2) be instructed on the completion a dietary intake log that indicate the type
      of food and amount over a four-day period in order to calculate energy and micronutrient
      consumption. Then a RA will call the participants to collect their food intake.
    
  