
    
      Standard procedures:

      Patients will be monitored and treated according to guidelines for post out of hospital
      cardiac arrest treatment as described in local ICU protocols. Patients do not suffer any
      harm, disadvantage of discomfort while participating in this study.

      Standard treatment includes targeted temperature management, hemodynamic monitoring and
      stabilisation, continuous EEG monitoring, blood sampling through the jugular bulb catheter,
      Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS), and transcranial doppler (TCD) measurements. The patient's
      status is repeatedly assessed and treatment is based on the clinical findings.

      Additional procedures:

        1. MRI A total of 3 MRI scans is planned for each patient: at day 3 ± 1, and day 7 ± 2
           after cardiac arrest, and 3 months ± 2 weeks after cardiac arrest. The imaging protocol
           will consist of structural MRI (including FLAIR and ADC maps) to detect ischemic damage,
           a 3D T1 for structural analysis and SWI sequences to detect micro bleeds), structural
           connectivity measurement by DTI, and functional connectivity measurement by resting
           state BOLD functional MRI. Estimated time to prepare the patient and transport to and
           from the MRI scanner will be approximately 30 minutes, the scan itself will take
           approximately 30 minutes, as well. No intravenous contrast agent is used.

           1.1 Acute phase MRI To estimate the feasibility of MRI scanning in the acute phase and
           to gain more insight in the dynamics of PAE, a subgroup of patients will be scanned
           within 24 hours after cardiac arrest. Patients will be included in this subgroup
           dependent on availability of the MRI facility, the clinical stability of the patients
           and after the patients legal representatives signed informed consent.

           1.2 Transport to the radiology department

           The transport to and from the radiology department will be performed as described in the
           local protocols on patient transportation. Transport to and from other departments is a
           frequent procedure in ICU patients. During transport, the patient will be accompanied by
           a physician and ICU nurse. The MRI scans for this project will be handled as 'elective',
           which indicates that only patients with a stable hemodynamic and respiratory status will
           be transported to and undergo the MRI. For this, a patient has to meet all the following
           criteria:

           A. Hemodynamic stable condition, defined as:

             -  mean arterial pressure > 60 mmHg

             -  no or low inotropes or vasopressors (dosage norepinephrine < 0,3 ug/kg/min and/or
                dobutamine < 10 ug/kg/min or equivalent), dosage adjustments less than 0.1
                ug/kg/min in the last hour before MRI

           B. Stable cardiac rhythm, defined as:

             -  sinus rhythm 50 - 120 beats per minute

             -  atrial fibrillation or flutter with ventricle response 60 - 120 per minute

           C. Pulmonary stable condition, defined as:

             -  Arterial oxygen saturation > 95%

             -  maximum fraction inspired oxygen < 60% with maximum level of positive end
                expiratory pressure of 10 cm H2O

             -  peak inspiratory pressure < 30 cmH2O or <5 l/min oxygen trough nasal cannula (for
                patients not on mechanical ventilation)

           Mechanical ventilation during transport and scanning will be provided by an MRI
           compatible ventilator.

           Extensive monitoring of vital functions will not be interrupted during transport or MRI
           scanning, by using a mobile trolley with MRI compatible monitoring and ventilation
           equipment. At all times, a physician and trained ICU nurse will accompany the patient.
           The medical team accompanying the patient can change treatment during transport and
           scanning to pursue optimal hemodynamics, pulmonary state, and/or comfort.

           1.3 Clinical evaluation of MRI scans All structural MRI scans will be assessed by a
           radiologist and results are added to a patient's medical file. Patients and their
           families will be informed. However, MRI findings will not be taken into account for
           decisions on withdrawal of treatment. BOLD fMRI and DTI data will be analysed later.

        2. Outcome At 3 and 6 months, CPC score will be assessed by a telephone interview by a
           trained investigator. Additionally, at twelve months, for assessment of cognitive
           outcome, depression, quality of life, and care giver strain, the patient will be invited
           to the hospital or visited at his / her place of residence. If a patient dies during the
           follow-up, the cause of death will be requested from the general practitioner or medical
           specialist.

        3. Post mortem analysis From all patients that die in the hospital after PAE, permission to
           perform autopsy is sought for. Permission will be asked from the legal representative in
           the context of current care, after the patient has died. According to current care,
           brains will be removed and samples fixated within 24 hours at the local pathology
           departments. On samples from 8 brain areas (sensory- and motor cortex, thalamus, basal
           ganglia, upper brain stem) evaluation of the agonal state is performed on
           hematoxylin-eosin staining. Additionally, predefined sections, including all cortical
           layers and white matter, will be formalin fixed for further analyses.
    
  