
    
      Genital human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection in the
      United States. Most HPV infections are asymptomatic and clear on their own within 2 years but
      persistent infections can lead to diseases, including several cancers. Cervical cancer is the
      most common cancer caused by HPV infection, and virtually all cervical cancers can be
      attributed to HPV infection. There is no cure for HPV, but HPV can be prevented through
      vaccination. Current recommendations from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices
      (ACIP) state that the HPV vaccine may be given starting at 11-12 years of age for boys and
      girls, through age 26. Despite the safety and efficacy of this vaccine, the coverage among
      adolescents aged 11-17 years old remains low. Attaining high vaccination rates among
      adolescents is essential to decreasing the burden of disease due to cervical cancer, and
      other cancers caused by HPV.

      Parental decision to vaccinate their children, specifically with the HPV vaccine, can be tied
      to multiple constructs of the Health Belief Model. These include perceived susceptibility of
      HPV infection (is my child at risk of infection), perceived benefit, and perceived severity
      (of disease, and of vaccine related adverse events). This would suggest that messaging
      surrounding the HPV vaccination should be highly salient within these constructs. The current
      message tied to the HPV vaccine presented by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has a
      focus on HPV as an infection and is clinical in nature. In a randomized trial, parents given
      information about HPV were no more likely to be accepting of an HPV vaccine and no more
      likely to get their child vaccinated. Based on this literature, the researchers hypothesize
      that reframing the message to promote HPV vaccination as a means of protection against
      cervical cancer will impact intent to vaccinate among parents of adolescent females (aged
      11-17 years old).

      In the first phase of this study the researchers assessed how appealing to different moral
      foundations impacted attitudes towards vaccination and intent to vaccinate. For this phase of
      this study, the researchers will conduct a 3-arm randomized trial to compare the current CDC
      HPV, a cervical cancer focused message developed by the study team, and a non-vaccine related
      control passage among parents of adolescent females. The goal of the trial will be to
      determine if the new cervical cancer framed message has an increased impact on intent to have
      daughters receive the HPV vaccine over the trial period as compared to the current CDC
      message. Additionally, the researchers will examine the impact both the CDC message and the
      new message have on intent to vaccinate when compared to the non-vaccine related control
      message.

      The participant's vaccine beliefs and intent to vaccinate will be assessed through an online
      survey at baseline. Two weeks later, participants will be randomized to view one of the three
      messages: the current CDC message, the cervical cancer framed message, or a non-vaccine
      related control message. Immediately afterwards, vaccine beliefs and intent to vaccinate will
      be assessed to determine the impact of the message.
    
  