
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore basal levels and effects of durvalumab in combination with chemotherapy on
      molecular markers in immune-related pathways, including but not limited to, deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) copy number, mutation, and level of ribonucleic acid (RNA) and protein expression,
      before and after durvalumab and chemotherapy treatment in women with primary advanced high
      grade serous ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression-free survival of paclitaxel and carboplatin and durvalumab in
      patients with advanced stage, metastatic ovarian cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      II. To describe the feasibility of combination therapy and maintenance durvalumab in this
      population.

      III. To evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK) of combination and
      maintenance durvalumab.

      IV. To report overall survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate circulating lymphoid populations (subsets). II. To determine tissue programmed
      death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression and T-cell infiltration.

      III. To measure circulating immune-related cytokines/chemokines. IV. To capture patient
      reported outcomes (symptoms, quality of life, and patient utilities).

      OUTLINE:

      NEOADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY: Before debulking surgery, patients receive durvalumab and
      carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1, and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on days
      1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo debulking surgery.

      SURGERY: After 3 courses of chemotherapy, patients undergo debulking laparoscopic surgery.

      ADJUVANT THERAPY: Beginning after debulking surgery, patients receive carboplatin IV over 1
      hour on day 1, paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on days 1, 8, and 15, and durvalumab IV over 1 hour
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1 and 15. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 7 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9,
      10, and 12 months, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  