
    
      Effect of Self-Directed Versus Traditional Clinical Learning Model on Nurses' Airway
      Management Competencies and Patients' Airway Related Incidents

      Introduction

      Airway crisis situations in ICUs (Intensive Care Units) are common, complex, dynamic and
      time-sensitive contexts, that pose a significant threat to patient safety, and are a major
      source of preventable errors [1]. Although, only a few studies have demonstrated the airway
      incidents in ICUs, 7.04% of ICU patients developed airway incidents [2]. The UK National
      Reporting and Learning Centre identified that 82% of ICU airway incidents occurred in patient
      with ETT, with 25% contributing to the patient's death [3]. The concept of Airway management
      in nursing perspective includes any nursing procedures and techniques required to keep the
      airway open and prevent aspiration [4]. In fact, Airway management has the highest priority
      in patient care, it is the first step in the (ABCDE) approach. Several nursing related
      factors that can directly or indirectly cause a patient to have airway crises either patient
      intubated or even non-intubated, such factors include a partial or complete airway
      obstruction, injury or infection [5,6]. However, Airway management procedures and techniques
      (Table 1) are rapidly changing, there is a need for structured innovative training models
      related to Airway management education for critical care nurses to develop nurses'
      competences and subsequently will enhance patients' outcomes [7,8,9].

      Adult learning has speciﬁc characteristics, adult education is a practice in which adults
      engage in systematic and sustained learning activities in order to gain new forms of
      knowledge, skills or values. Adults have already accumulated knowledge and work experience
      which can add to their learning experience. Most adult education is voluntary; therefore, the
      participants are generally self-motivated. Furthermore, adults apply their knowledge in a
      practical fashion to learn effectively. They must have a reasonable expectation that the
      knowledge they gain will indeed help them further their goals [10].

      Continuing education (CE) of nurses is increasingly necessary to keep abreast of rapid
      changes in patient care due to advancements in knowledge and technology, nurses also should
      be well motivated to enroll in CE hospital activity to upgrade their professional skills and
      knowledge to remain current in their professional practices and improve their ability to
      serve the patients safely [11]. Clinical placements provide opportunities for nurses to learn
      experientially. To create a constructive learning environment nursing staff, need to be
      friendly, approachable, available and willing to learn. Also, CE should be providing adequate
      opportunities for nurses to develop conﬁdence and competence in clinical skill with a focus
      on nurses' learning needs rather than service needs of the facilities [12].

      Although nursing care has been changed significantly over the past 30 years, methods for
      clinical training nurses have not [13]. A popular or traditional model for clinical teaching
      of nurses, including but not limited to; integrating lectures, skills laboratory training and
      supervised clinical experience. A benefit of this model is the opportunity to assist nurses
      to integrate the concept learned in class or skill lab in patient care. Also, the instructor
      can select clinical activities that best meet nurses' needs and are consistent with hospital
      goals [14]. In addition, the low confidant nurses prefer this type of clinical teaching
      because they feel more secure [15]. On the other side, the traditional model for clinical
      teaching contributes to poor critical thinking and reasoning development among nurses and
      results in task-oriented approaches to teaching and learning. Consequently, nurses may lack
      the capacity to think through interventions that lead to positive patient outcomes [16].
      Therefore, there is a need to find innovative approaches to effectively train nurses to
      better prepare them for today's health care environment. These innovative approaches may
      increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the clinical nursing education system [13].

      Self-directed learning (SDL) is one of these modern approaches of clinical learning, the
      concept of SDL originates from the Adult Learning Theory. This theory suggests that adults
      are pragmatic and problem-focused individuals whose learning are mainly affected by
      experiential rather than passive approaches [17]. Self-directed learning was applied and
      examined on nursing students as well as working nurses who are engaged in an on-going
      continuing training [18]. Self-directed learning is a process in which the instructors play a
      facilitating role while, learners actively participate in identifying their own learning
      needs, learning goals, allocating resources & decide whether learning method can be used, and
      engaging in self-reflection & evaluation. The positive outcomes of SDL including but not
      limited to, greater self-control, self-confidence, autonomy, and lifelong learning skills
      [17]. While, SDL may helpful, there is an increasing awareness that SDL is not universally
      applicable to all learners and all situations. Also, the majority of nurses not familiar with
      SDL approach of learning they preferred and felt more secure with traditional
      teacher-centered approach as they usually learned in schools [19]. Self-directed learning can
      be challenging, even for the brightest and most motivated nurses. Therefore, it should apply
      in a systematic way to maximize the benefits. four key stages to apply SDL; being ready to
      learn independently, setting learning goals, engaging in the learning process by
      understanding themselves and their needs (the discrepancy between the present level of
      competence and the required level of competency), and evaluating learning [20, 21].

      Successful independent study requires certain responsibilities or roles of both nurses and
      instructor. It is useful for both to communicate as to whether each feels the other is
      fulfilling their share of the responsibility. nurses' roles include; self-assess readiness to
      learn, define your learning goals, monitor learning process, be self-motivated, re-evaluate
      and alter goals as required, consult with instructor as required. While, instructors' roles;
      Build a co-operative learning environment, help to motivate and direct the nurses' learning
      experience, facilitate learning, be available for consultations as appropriate during the
      learning process, serve as an advisor rather than a formal instructor [22]. In essence the
      aim of this study will be examining the effect of Self-directed clinical learning model as
      compared to the traditional models to improve nurses' Airway management competencies and
      minimize airway related incidents.

      Research Hypothesis H1: Critically care nurses who will approach self-directed clinical
      learning model (μ1) will have a higher level of Airway management skills (μ2), (H1: μ1 > μ2).

      H1: Intensive care units who will approach self-directed clinical learning model to learn
      their working nurses (μ1) will have a lower frequency of patients' airway-related incidents
      (μ2), (H1: μ1 < μ2).

      Subjects and Methods

      Research Design:

      True experimental, prospective, and comparative research design will be utilized in the
      current study. The study will be conducting a nursing self-directed clinical learning model
      as compared to the traditional models to improve nurses' Airway management competencies and
      minimize patients' airway related incidents.

      Ethical Consideration:

      An official permission to conduct the proposed study will be obtained from the ethical
      committee. Also. Participation in the study is voluntary; each subject has the right to
      withdraw from the study when he or she wants. Informed consent will be obtained from the
      subjects. Confidentiality and anonymity of the subjects are assured through coding of all
      data; subjects will be assured that these data will not be reused in another research without
      their permission, collected data will be used for the purpose of the research only and The
      entire needed sample in the study will be followed until been analyzed. All information taken
      will be protected and will not affect their annual appraisal by any mean. The formulated
      database and the result of the current study will be raising the awareness of all health
      professionals and incorporating in the future plan of care.

      Procedure:

      The study will be conducted through three phases; preparation & designation, implementation,
      and follow up & evaluation phase. The preparation & designation phase will be concerned with
      taken the official permission and ethical approval. Also, it includes a recent review of
      related literatures, and preparation of the different (constructed and adapted) study tools
      and formulate the latest evidenced educational content and materials related to airway
      nursing management. These tools and educational content will be revised by medical and
      nursing expert to ensure its content validity.

      Once the official permission and ethical approval are granted to proceed the proposed study,
      the implementation phase will be applied in two parts:

      The 1st Part will be initiated by allocating the selected ICUs randomly into two paired
      settings, one for applying traditional learning (control ICU) and the other for self-directed
      learning experimentation (study ICU). the nurses who are working in selected ICUs and
      correspond to the inclusion criteria, will be randomly distributed into two equal groups (30
      nurses in each group). The nurses who are working in study ICU will be asked to fill out the
      nurses' readiness assessment sheet to learn independently (tool 4). The nurses who will
      demonstrate a high readiness score (>80%) for independent learning will be included. if the
      nurses number exceeding the intended number (30 nurses), the highest scores will be selected.

      Self-directed clinical learning model:

      The concept of Airway management will be nominated for participant nurses to be an area of
      investigation. each nurse will be asked to fulfill the pre-structured Learning contract
      between nurses and instructors within one week, the contract will include the following
      items.

        -  Goals for the area of learning (the researcher will confirm the congruence with the
           expected goals).

        -  Structure and sequence of activities.

        -  Timeline for completion of activities (maximum one month).

        -  Details about resource materials for each goal.

        -  Feedback and evaluation as each goal is completed.

        -  Meeting plan with the instructors.

        -  Self-reflection and self-evaluation methods. the researchers will facilitate all nurses'
           stated resources incorporation with hospital manager such as (Sill lab., computer lab.,
           internet, hard books, digital books, clinical instructions, or Egyptian Knowledge Bank).

      Traditional clinical learning model It will concern the Airway management competencies; it
      will be given within one month and it will take place during working hours.

        1. the researcher will divide the participant (30 nurses) into two main groups (15 nurses
           in each), each group will be given pre-scheduled integrated lectures related to
           theoretical background of Airway management. Four lectures will be given once per-week,
           2 hours long, written handouts will be given.

        2. After each driven lecture, the researcher will give a supportive four hours skill
           laboratory training by traditional 2 stages, methods ("see one, do one"). This
           traditional "2-stage approach" was standard for improving clinical practices.

        3. Then, the researchers will provide a clinical supervision and guidance for the
           participant nurses to ensure that they will able to apply what they learned in real
           settings.

      Once implantation is complete, the follow-up and evaluation phase will be initiated by daily
      monitoring of the occurrence of patients' airway related incidents in both control and study
      ICUs for a continuous three months (tool 3). Then, the nurses' knowledge and practices (in
      the control group) will be evaluated two times, 1st time will be 1 month after the
      implementation phase, and the second time will be after 3 months from the 1st evaluation (to
      measure the retention of given education and training), tools (1, 2) will be utilized, and it
      will be completed by blinded assessors (who were not part of the research team). On the other
      side, the study group of self-directed learning will be self-evaluated by using tools (1, 2)
      and also will be evaluated two times like control group. Finally, the researcher will compare
      the results (outcome given by self-directed learning) to the collected baseline data (control
      group) which will be given as usual ongoing traditional learning.
    
  