
    
      Sleep is a periodic, reversible state of reduced consciousness, and response to external
      stimuli. A total sleep duration of normal human sleep is approximately 7-8 hours per night.
      Sleep deprivation is common in critical patients and it can cause impair consolidation of
      memory, cognitive function, metabolic function, immune, neurological and respiratory system
      as well as worsen the quality of life after discharge. The impact of sleep deprivation in
      critically ill patients is gaining attention as it links between sleep loss and delirium. It
      has been demonstrated that reducing sleep disturbance could attenuate the development of
      delirium in ICU patients. However, sleep evaluation is only personal perception and the
      previous study expressed that medical personnel evaluation still showed some error in
      approximately 56%. There are various methods for sleep monitoring, in which the most commonly
      mentioned methods include polysomnography, actigraphy, and the Richards-Campbell Sleep
      Questionnaire (RCSQ). Polysomnography is considered as the gold standard for monitoring the
      quantity and quality of sleep. Although, it is difficult to apply in critical care as it
      requires expensive setup and maintenance and is prone to patient dislodgment and electrical
      interference leading to low quality of signals and missed interpretation.

      Nowadays, actigraphy has been used to assess patterns of rest and activity, which can
      distinguish sleep from wakefulness. The advantage of actigraphy is easy to use and
      non-invasive, can be used by non-specialists, and allows continuous measurement over days to
      weeks. On the other hand, its disadvantages are such as neuromuscular weakness and increases
      risk of overestimating sleep quantity as periods of inactivity scored as sleep. However, the
      technology has been improved recently leading to more accurate sleep measurement. Although it
      has been shown that actigraphy is a good alternative sleep measure in non-ICU patients, the
      accuracy of actigraphy is unknown in ICU patients.

      For subjective tool for evaluating sleep, the Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire (RCSQ) is
      one of the most commonly used questionnaires. It contains a simple five-item questionnaire
      which are sleep depth, ability to fall asleep, number of awakening, ability to fall asleep
      when awake and quality of sleep. The RCSQ shows a good correlation with polysomnography in
      sleep efficacy index. The advantages of RCSQ are easy-to-use, inexpensive and providing good
      quality of sleep assessment. It has been widely used in the United States and many countries.
      Moreover, it has been translated to many languages, such as Spanish, Swedish, German, and
      Japanese; and the translated version of RCSQ can be used as an alternative sleep measurement
      to polysomnography. Currently, our research group is translating the RCSQ into Thai version
      by using standard guidelines on the translation process. In spite of this, The Thai version
      of RCSQ (T-RCSQ) has not been validated with polysomnography before.

      The aims of our study are to validate the accuracy of the T-RCSQ for sleep measurement
      compared to polysomnography, which is considered as the gold-standard and to access the
      accuracy of actigraphy for monitoring sleep quality and quantity compared to polysomnography
      in Thai critically ill patients admitted to surgical intensive care unit (SICU).
    
  