
    
      Primary Endpoint:

      A) Change in wrinkle depth. Full facial photographs will be obtained at baseline, 8 weeks,
      and 16 weeks. The images will be obtained with the 3D Clarity Pro® Facial Modeling and
      Analysis System (Brigh-Tex BioPhotonics, San Jose, CA) that has standardized positioning and
      lighting. This system can assess average wrinkle depth. The PI has already validated this
      measurement tool against standard clinical grading of facial wrinkles[13].

      Secondary Endpoint:

      A) Change in clinical appearance of facial wrinkles on lateral canthi: Two blinded
      dermatologists will grade the photographs obtained at each of the time points on the lateral
      canthi ("crow's feet"). The dermatologists will not know which group the subjects were in.

      B) Change in facial sebum production through the use of a Sebumeter, a commonly used device
      that measures sebum excretion rate [13,17]. Sebum excretion rate will be measured at
      baseline, 8 weeks, and 16 weeks.

      C) Change in serum and sebum lipid profiles obtained through the use of Sebutapes at
      baseline, 8 weeks, and 16 weeks.

      D) Change in the serum and sebum lipid profile for assessment of long chain/short chain fatty
      acid ratios and the NS ceramide content.

      Procedures Involved This study will be a 16-week supplementation study that utilizes two
      study groups: 1) Control group 2) Almond supplementation: 20% energy intake. This will be a
      randomized, rater-blinded, controlled study.

      There will be a total of 30 subjects:

      Control Group: n=15 Almond Supplementation: n=15

      The subjects will be recruited from the UC Davis Dermatology Department, the surrounding
      clinics in a 25 mile radius, and the general population in the Davis and Sacramento areas.
      The greater Sacramento area has a population of over 2 million to draw from and recruitment
      will be conducted through the use of Social Media and flyer based recruitment.

      Investigators will collect medical history and current medications from study participants-
      this is outlined in the HIPAA form. The two intervention groups will consist of those
      receiving almonds and those that are receiving a calorie matched snack. The almond dose will
      be provided as 20% of total energy (20% E) in the diet. This dose was selected based on a
      previous randomized trial examining lipid parameters in response to 0, 10%, and 20% E as
      dietary almonds and a recent meta-analysis of intervention trials of tree nuts [23,24]. The
      control snack will be a typical western diet snack. The calorie-matched control snack will be
      commercially available individually wrapped food products such as a small granola bar +
      pretzels. Once a subject has met inclusion criteria and has signed IRB consent,
      anthropometric data will be obtained, 3-24 hour recall will be collected by phone, skype, or
      in person by a Registered Dietitian, training will be provided for recording dietary records,
      and estimated caloric needs will be calculated. Estimated energy needs (EER) will be
      determined using the Mifflin-St. Jeor equation and total daily energy needs (TDE) calculated
      as EER x activity factor of 1.3-1.5 for sedentary to average activity, or a higher activity
      level as indicated. A representative example of a 60 year old woman, 5'4", 140 pounds with
      typical activity level yields TDE of approximately 1,600 - 1,800 kcal/day, and 20% E of
      320-360 kcal/day. The dose of almonds would be 2 ounces (equal to 23 whole kernels)/day,
      providing 328 calories.
    
  