
    
      Currently, clinical practice regarding positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) strategies for
      Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) revolves around two PEEP/FIO2 algorithms developed
      NHLBI research ARDSnet program. These two algorithms are known as the "High" PEEP/ lower FIO2
      and "Low" PEEP/ higher FIO2 protocols. The High PEEP/ lower FIO2 protocol is seen as
      aggressive or the highest PEEP level a clinician would want to set, while the low PEEP/
      higher FIO2 is seen as lowest PEEP level a clinician would set. While many studies have
      demonstrated safety and efficacy of a PEEP setting based on a required fraction of inspired
      oxygen (FIO2) to maintain adequate oxygenation, yet there are equal outcomes between the two
      strategies. There is growing evidence that the Low PEEP/ higher FIO2 protocol leaves large
      proportions of the lung derecruited and the High PEEP/FIO2 protocol may create overdistension
      in the compliant sections of the lung that are largely free from disease as it uses a single
      gas exchange (oxygenation) parameter to determine PEEP settings.

      Specific Aim 1: To demonstrate safety of an EIT guided PEEP titration strategy. (Hypothesis:
      EIT guided titration of PEEP will improve ventilation and oxygenation without increasing
      incidence of barotrauma or hemodynamic compromise.)

      Specific Aim 2: To demonstrate the efficacy of a PEEP titration strategy to increase
      distribution of ventilation and improve oxygenation in children with ARDS utilizing an EIT
      guided protocol within two standards of care. (Hypothesis: EIT guided titration of PEEP will
      lead to a more homogeneous distribution of ventilation, improved lung compliance and improved
      ventilation and oxygenation.) Background and Significance Lung units participating in gas
      exchange are known as 'recruited' lung. Patients with lung injury suffer from a proportion of
      lung units which not participating in gas exchange (i.e. the derecruited state), at times
      resulting in impaired gas exchange. Derecruitment of alveoli may also cause intrapulmonary
      shunting and worsen lung injury through atelectotrauma. Outcomes in ARDS have improved
      significantly since clinicians have begun to employ lung protective strategies, including
      low-tidal volume ventilation and permissive hypercapnea. However, low-tidal volume
      ventilation has been recognized to decrease recruited lung volume, a phenomenon that persists
      despite the aggressive positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) strategy employed in ARDSNet
      studies. Atelectasis associated with low-tidal volume ventilation is relieved through the use
      of so-called sigh breaths, higher levels of PEEP or recruitment maneuverers. Further, the
      proportion of lung remaining in the derecruited state may contribute to the morbidity and
      mortality associated with ARDS. In adults, several strategies have been utilized to recruit
      the lung: sustained inflation (SI) and the maximal recruitment strategy. The so-called open
      lung approach (OLA) includes an SI followed by the setting of PEEP to the measured lower
      inflection point of the PV curve. An alternative approach to setting PEEP is a decremental
      PEEP titration, which includes the sequential lowering of PEEP until a predetermined
      decrement in PaO2 or SaO2 occurs.

      The impact of lung recruitment in the long-term course of ARDS is not yet clear. It is clear
      that lung recruitment is most effective earlier in the course of ARDS. Grasso et al
      demonstrated that patients who received a recruitment maneuver on day 1±0.3 of ARDS could be
      recruited, versus patients recruited on day 7±1. Similarly, Gattinoni et al7 and Crotti et al
      found limited recruitment in patients who were well along in the course of ARDS. Borges et
      al, Tugrul et al, and Girgis et al all recruited patients early in the course of ARDS, and
      each found marked lung recruitment, on average, in all the patients studied. Each of these
      studied demonstrated an ability to improve oxygen saturations and (sometimes studied)
      end-expiratory lung volume. While no study has examined the effect of this change on
      morbidity or mortality, in children hypoxemia is known to be a common cause of morbidity.
      Importantly in children, treatment of hypoxia often drives escalating ventilator settings,
      the use of high frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) or the use of extra-corporeal
      membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Early recruitment and proper titration of PEEP in children with
      ARDS may prevent the need for escalation of care towards these more invasive, and
      risk-imposing therapies.

      Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) Barber and Brown introduced electrical impedance
      tomography to the medical community in the early 1980s. From there a wide spectrum of
      applications in medicine ranging from gastric emptying, brain function, breast imaging, to
      lung function have been explored. It is our belief that the most valuable benefit of EIT is
      in the monitoring of regional lung function in critically ill patients. Early EIT devices
      fell susceptible to poor sensitivity and signal interference in the clinical setting. After
      years and a renewed interest from a few commercial companies interested in ventilation
      technology, many of these shortcomings have been resolved. As with any new modality, EIT and
      its clinical utility and application need to be methodically explored; therefore we propose
      this IRB protocol to take us a step closer on this journey to develop a clinically useful
      tool.

      Electrical impedance tomography capitalizes on changes in electrical impendence between
      air-filled versus tissue or fluid-filled spaces in order to characterize and quantify
      regional distribution of lung volume at the bedside. This technology has been validated in
      animal and human studies. The technology utilizes a series of 16 electrodes placed across the
      patient's chest. As small currents, which are undetectable to the subject, are passed between
      the electrodes, impedance is measured between and amongst the series. Through a complex
      interrogation and manipulation of these impedance values, a two-dimensional image is formed,
      and has been shown to correlate with clinical and radiographic changes in patients. The
      ability to estimate lung volume and regional distribution of gas non-invasively and in real
      time may give us insight as to what mode of ventilation or setting is more effective in
      optimizing positive pressure ventilation.
    
  