
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the post-transplant 2-year event-free survival of pediatric patients with
      intermediate-risk or high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in second complete
      remission or high risk ALL in first remission undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation treated with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis comprising
      tacrolimus and methotrexate with or without sirolimus.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare rates of relapses, transplant-related mortality, and acute and chronic GVHD in
      these patients.

      II. Evaluate the relative contribution of resistance by ALL blasts to cytolytic therapy
      (e.g., chemotherapy/irradiation) as a cause of relapse post-transplantation by correlating
      ALL in vivo blast resistance with in vivo sirolimus, inhibition levels of the mTOR pathway in
      patients treated with sirolimus, and altered resistance pathways in ALL blasts measured by
      microarray analysis.

      III. Evaluate the relative contribution of resistance by ALL blasts to the donor immune
      response as a cause of relapse post-transplantation by correlating the development of donor
      anti-ALL T-cell response, the development of acute and/or chronic GVHD, and the detection of
      altered ALL blast immunogenicity after transplant with increased minimal residual disease,
      persistent recipient chimerism, and relapse.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to specific combinations of risk (intermediate CR2 vs high CR2 vs high CR1), donor
      type (matched sibling vs unrelated or other related), and stem cell source (filgrastim
      [G-CSF]-primed bone marrow vs unprimed bone marrow vs bone marrow vs peripheral blood vs
      umbilical cord blood).

      PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients undergo total-body irradiation twice daily on days -8 to -6 and
      receive thiotepa IV on days -5 and -4 and cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2.

      ALLOGENEIC HEMATOPOIETIC STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation on day 0.

      GRAFT-VERSUS-HOST DISEASE (GVHD) PROPHYLAXIS: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

      ARM I: (experimental) Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously or orally (when able) daily
      beginning on day -2 followed by a taper beginning on day 42 and continuing until day 98 (for
      patients undergoing matched sibling donor transplantation) OR tacrolimus IV continuously or
      orally daily beginning on day -2 followed by a taper beginning on day 100 and continuing
      until day 180 (for patients undergoing related, unrelated, or cord blood donor
      transplantation) in the absence of GVHD. Patients also receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3,
      and 6 (for patients with matched sibling and umbilical cord blood donors) OR days 1, 3, 6,
      and 11 (for patients with unrelated bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cell donors) and
      oral sirolimus daily beginning on day 0 followed by a taper beginning on day 180 and
      continuing until day 207.

      ARM II: (control) Patients receive tacrolimus and methotrexate as in arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for approximately 5
      years.
    
  