
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the proportion of patients who experience a prostate specific antigen (PSA)
      decline of at least 30% within 12 weeks of initiation of combination therapy when phenelzine
      (phenelzine sulfate) is added to docetaxel in patients who have evidence of progression on
      standard docetaxel.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine duration of progression free survival after initiation of combination
      phenelzine and docetaxel therapy.

      II. To determine the response rate in measurable disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria after initiation of combination phenelzine and docetaxel
      therapy.

      III. To report the maximum change in PSA from baseline to 12 weeks (or earlier in patients
      who discontinue early) by waterfall plot after initiation of combination phenelzine and
      docetaxel therapy.

      IV. To determine the toxicity of the combination regimen in castration-resistant prostate
      cancer (CRPC) previously treated with docetaxel.

      V. To determine time to death from all causes. VI. To determine the frequency of monoamine
      oxidase A (MAOA) overexpression in CRPC tumors that are progressing on docetaxel.

      VII. To compare the level of MAOA expression in primary diagnostic tissue (e.g. biopsy or
      radical prostatectomy) with CRPC tumors that are progressing on docetaxel.

      VIII. To correlate MAOA overexpression in CRPC tumors with response to combination study
      treatment.

      IX. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future molecular correlative studies.

      X. To validate MAOA assessment in circulating tumor cells. XI. To assess correlation with
      tissue expression of MAOA. XII. To measure hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha expression
      and other potential biomarkers in circulating tumor cells as a potential measure of MAO
      activity.

      TERTIARY OUTCOMES:

      I. To measure expression of lysine-specific histone demethylase 1 (LSD1) in CRPC tumors that
      are progressing on docetaxel and correlate with the endpoints described in the primary
      objective and secondary objectives I, II, III, and V.

      II. To conduct gene expression studies in CRPC tumors that are progressing on docetaxel and
      correlate them with and correlate with the endpoints described in the primary objective and
      secondary objectives I, II, III and V.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of phenelzine sulfate.

      Patients receive phenelzine sulfate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -7 to -4, and then
      twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 21. Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 12 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.
    
  