
    
      The current proposal seeks quantify neural inhibition using magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRS) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in older Veterans to identify how each
      measures contributes to aging-related changes in motor performance. Currently, over 56% (11.8
      million) of Veterans are over age 60. Recent research has shown that aging is associated with
      decreased cortical inhibition and impaired hand motor function. However, this loss of
      inhibition is not an inescapable consequence of aging. The investigators' previous work that
      healthy older adults who engage in regular physical activity show increased cortical
      inhibition and improved dexterity as compared to their sedentary age cohort. This indicates
      that aerobic training may reverse aging related changes in cortical inhibition and alteration
      of tonic levels of cortical excitability can have a powerful impact on motor performance in
      the aging brain. In the current proposal, the investigators will enroll older adults to
      assess how different measurements (TMS and MRS) of the dominant inhibitory neurotransmitter
      in the brain - GABA differ in relation to motor control. During the MRS scan, participants
      will perform a motor learning task to assess change in GABA level throughout the acquisition
      session. These data will be compared with measures of cortical inhibition using TMS to
      quantify neurotransmitter receptor activity with respect to aging-related changes in motor
      performance. The investigators will also be comparing the effects of an aerobic exercise
      intervention as compared to a contact matched stretching control. The investigators believe
      this project is the first inquiry of its kind and will have an important impact in the
      understanding of aging-related neurophysiological changes in the brain and how it can
      remediate associated behavioral declines.
    
  