
    
      This study is a randomized, national, multicenter clinical study aimed at non-small-cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC) subjects with PD-L1 ≥ 1% who have not previously received systematic treatment
      After comparing Pembrolizumab alone or Pembrolizumab combined with chemotherapy for 6 cycles,
      after the efficacy evaluation was stable (CR, PR, and SD), the safety and clinical efficacy
      of maintenance therapy every 3 weeks and every 6 weeks were compared. The eligible subjects
      in this study will be randomly assigned into the following two groups according to the 1: 1
      ratio:

      (A) Standard maintenance program group, namely Pembrolizumab 200mg, every 3 weeks, a total of
      2 years of treatment, followed up for 1 year; (B) Modified maintenance program group, namely
      Pembrolizumab 200mg, every 6 weeks, a total of 2 years of treatment, followed up for 1 year;

      During the course of the trial treatment, if the subject develops disease (the first PD), the
      researcher will decide whether to continue the medication according to the patient's
      situation and communicate with the patient, and decide whether to unblind according to the
      specific situation, as follows: After the first PD of the subject, the researcher decides
      whether to continue the treatment with the original regimen according to the disease state of
      the subject. At least 4 weeks later, the tumor is evaluated again. If the tumor progresses
      again (the second PD), the subject's study treatment ends and the follow-up period is
      entered; if there is no progress, the original regimen is continued. If the subjects decide
      to continue to use Pembrolizumab-related treatment after PD, they must meet the corresponding
      indicators of the enrollment and exclusion criteria of this study:

        1. No clinical symptoms and signs of significant disease progression (including worsening
           of laboratory examination results).

        2. ECOG's physical performance score is stable.

        3. Critical anatomical sites (such as spinal cord compression) did not see rapid disease
           progression or tumor progression requiring urgent alternative medical interventions.

        4. The main organ function meets the corresponding laboratory indexes in the inclusion and
           exclusion criteria of this study.

        5. The subject must sign the "Informed Consent for Continued Medication after the First
           Disease Progression".

      The primary end point of this study was to compare the incidence of treatment-related grade
      3-5 adverse events between the standard maintenance group and the modified maintenance group.
      The secondary end point was descriptive analysis of progression-free survival and overall
      survival. Using RECIST 1.1 as the evaluation standard, the independent imaging evaluation
      committee (IRRC) conducted the evaluation. For the first time to evaluate PD, regardless of
      whether they continue to study treatment after progression, the date of the first PD
      evaluated by IRRC will be used for all statistical analysis containing progress information.
    
  