
    
      Lichen planus pigmentosus (LPP) and erythema dyschromicum perstans (EDP) (also known as ashy
      dermatosis (AD)) are two conditions on the spectrum of dermal pigmentary disorders. LPP
      typically affects skin phototypes III-V and has involvement of sun exposed areas or
      intertriginous areas. It presents as irregularly shaped or oval grey-brown macules and
      patches that are typically asymptomatic, but can have mild pruritus and burning. EDP, on the
      other hand, presents as grey-brown macules and patches in sun-protected sites and may have an
      early inflammatory phase with an erythematous border. It is typically asymptomatic, but can
      also be mildly pruritic. There is significant histologic overlap between the two conditions
      including basal cell degeneration, a mild perivascular or band-like infiltrate in the upper
      dermis, and dermal melanophages.

      Multiple treatments for these conditions, including topical corticosteroids, topical
      calcineurin inhibitors, topical retinoids, chemical peels, minocycline, dapsone,
      hydroxychloroquine, isotretinoin, griseofulvin, and systemic steroids have been reported in
      the literature. However, none of these have been effective consistently.

      Tranexamic acid (TA) is a synthetic analog of lysine, and serves as a fibrinolytic agent by
      binding lysine sites on fibrinogen. Commonly used in surgery to prevent bleeding, it has
      recently been used in dermatology for the treatment of melasma. Melasma is a pigmentary
      disorder characterized by hyperpigmented patches in sun-exposed areas, often in response to
      hormones, sunlight, and other factors. The proposed mechanism of action of tranexamic acid in
      decreasing pigmentation in this condition is that it decreases inflammation by decreasing
      dermal angiogenesis and inhibits UV induced plasmin activity in keratinocytes. Plasmin
      activity can increase melanogenic factors, leading to increased pigmentation. In a study by
      Lee et al., when administered orally at a dose of 250mg twice daily over approximately 4
      months, 89.7 % of patients had documented improvement in pigmentation. Of those who improved,
      the median lightening was approximately 50%, which is significant. Other studies have also
      shown promising results.
    
  