
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify a maximum tolerated dose for the EZH2 inhibitor, tazemetostat hydrobromide
      (tazemetostat), when used in combination with dual BRAF inhibitor (dabrafenib mesylate
      [dabrafenib]) and MEK inhibitor (trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide [trametinib]) therapy in
      BRAF/MEK inhibitor-resistant, BRAFV600-mutated metastatic melanoma. (Phase 1) II. To
      determine if the addition of the EZH2 inhibitor, tazemetostat, to BRAF and MEK inhibitor
      therapy improves progression-free survival over single-agent EZH2 inhibitor therapy in
      patients with BRAF/MEK inhibitor-resistant, BRAFV600-mutated melanomas harboring an EZH2
      alteration. (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase 1) II. To determine the overall response
      rate of single-agent EZH2 inhibitor therapy (tazemetostat) and triplet EZH2 inhibitor
      (tazemetostat), BRAF inhibitor (dabrafenib) and MEK inhibitor (trametinib) therapy in
      patients with BRAF/MEK inhibitor-resistant BRAFV600-mutated melanomas harboring an EZH2
      alteration. (Phase 2)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore alterations in the gene expression profile (RNA-sequencing), H3K27 methylome
      (IHC, ChIP-Sequencing), and open chromatin landscape (ATAC-sequencing) with EZH2 inhibition
      in fresh clinical or PDX-derived tumor samples, which may reveal underlying
      transcriptional/epigenetic pathways mediating response to treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation trial of tazemetostat followed by a phase II
      trial. Patients in the phase I trial receive treatment as in Arm II. Patients in the phase II
      trial are randomized to Arm I or Arm II.

      ARM I: Patients receive tazemetostat PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At the time of progression, patients
      may crossover to Arm II after completion of radiation therapy.

      ARM II: Patients receive tazemetostat PO BID, dabrafenib PO BID, and trametinib PO QD on days
      1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then annually
      thereafter.
    
  