
    
      A 'can't intubate can't oxygenate scenario (CICO) is defined as a situation when there is a
      failed intubation and failure to adequately oxygenate using facemask ventilation or
      supraglottic airway device resulting in increasing hypoxemia in an anaesthetised and
      paralysed patient. Although this situation is rare, if not managed appropriately it can
      result in hypoxic brain damage and death. The successful management of CICO includes timely
      decision making to perform front of neck access (FONA) via the cricothyroid membrane (CTM).
      The currently recommended technique in the UK is surgical cricothyroidotomy.

      Successful FONA depends on the ease of anatomy of the neck and the ability to locate the
      cricothyroid membrane. In cases where the cricothyroid membrane is not palpable, front of
      neck access is difficult. The clinical procedure involves an 8 cm long skin incision and
      finger dissection to palpate the cricothyroid membrane. In a real-life situation, this will
      be compounded by profuse bleeding and no structure would be visible. Therefore, prediction of
      difficult FONA and appropriate preparation is essential for safe airway management.

      Routine airway assessment includes mouth opening measured as inter-incisor gap, Mallampatti
      score, thyromental distance, sternomental distance, jaw protrusion and neck movements. In
      addition, ability to perform front of neck access should be ascertained prior to induction of
      general anaesthesia. Depth of cricothyroid membrane is one of the factors leading to
      technical difficulties in front of neck access. In situations where the CTM is deep and not
      palpable, FONA is technically difficult and takes longer. A previous observational study has
      shown a positive correlation between patient's weight, height, body mass index and neck
      circumference with depth of cricothyroid membrane. A scoring system to assess the depth of
      cricothyroid membrane based on the patient's height, weight, neck circumference and other
      airway assessment parameters would be useful in predicting the depth of CTM. Hence
      difficulties with front of neck access can be anticipated and appropriate measures can be
      taken in the event a CICO situation arises.

      DAS 2015 guideline recommend airway assessment and preparation for all patients presenting
      for surgery. Routine airway assessment includes mouth opening measured as inter-incisor gap,
      Mallampatti score, thyromental distance, sternomental distance, jaw protrusion and neck
      movements. In addition, ability to perform front of neck access should be ascertained prior
      to induction of general anaesthesia. Depth of cricothyroid membrane is one of the factors
      leading to technical difficulties in front of neck access. In situations where the CTM is
      deep and not palpable, FONA is technically difficult and takes longer. A previous
      observational study has shown a positive correlation between patient's weight, height, body
      mass index and neck circumference with depth of cricothyroid membrane. A scoring system to
      assess the depth of cricothyroid membrane based on the patient's height, weight, neck
      circumference and other airway assessment parameters would be useful in predicting the depth
      of CTM. Hence difficulties with front of neck access can be anticipated and appropriate
      measures can be taken in the event a CICO situation arises.
    
  