
    
      In the early phase of sepsis, the activation of innate immunity plays a significant role.
      Immune cells enhance the production of pro-inflammatory mediators. These pro-inflammatory
      mediators are responsible for the development of immune response and the intensification of
      the inflammatory processes. To counteract this, anti-inflammatory mediators limit and
      alleviate inflammation. Critically ill septic patients with higher levels of both anti- and
      proinflammatory mediators are at higher risk for death. The main cause for early mortality is
      the uncontrolled release of inflammatory mediators leading to cardiovascular failure, while
      in the late phase of the disease, secondary infections and the subsequent multiorgan failure
      dominate due to the exhaustion of the immune functions and the subsequent insufficient
      protective mechanisms. Therefore, it has been suggested that the outcomes of severe sepsis
      can be improved by attenuating the inflammatory processes. A recently developed, highly
      biocompatible hemadsorption device has been tested that can selectively remove inflammatory
      mediators from the circulation. This device is currently commercially available, and in
      Europe, it has been approved for clinical use. Based on experience to date, this adsorption
      technique may influence the immune function; removing inflammatory mediators from the blood
      may improve organ functions and even increase the chances of survival.

      During the study, data will be collected exclusively; the application of CytoSorb therapy
      will be considered by the current physician always on an individual basis. Data will be
      recorded during hospitalization (using the documentations of the ICU) and immediately after
      discharge.

      This study is suitable for recording every step of medical care from the diagnosis of
      SARS-CoV-2 infection. To investigate the biomarkers and the genetic background that
      potentially play a role in the infection, biological samples will be also collected - by
      already indicated interventions during standard care, i.e. without additional intervention.

      This study aims to describe cytokine adsorption therapy (CytoSorb) in general and to detect
      its most important features. The study would also like to assess the safety and
      cost-effectiveness of the therapy, evaluate specific interventions required during the
      treatment, and to assess the outcomes of the disease. This study can provide important data
      and expand our knowledge about COVID-19 and its treatment, as well as improve the outcomes of
      the disease.
    
  