
    
      COronaVIrus Disease or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome -CoV-2 or COVID-19, pandemic
      threatens patients, societies and healthcare systems around the world. Morbidity and
      lethality have a direct link with the early vicious circles triggered by an acute
      microcirculation endotheliopathy, a correlated coagulopathy, up to late hypoxic damage of
      multi organ tissue The host immunity determines the progress of the disease , its lethality
      and the need of care intensity. The clinical course of the infection consist of three stage
      of which only the third -which intervenes in a low incidence of patients - need of
      hospitalization for severe hyperinflammatory syndrome including acute respiratory failure,
      while first and the second or moderate pulmonary involvement, might manage and monitoring
      within a homecare program during quarantine. Actually, the rough mortality in Italy is - at
      the current date - 7.6 % with an expected death of 0.004 of the whole population. The late
      lethality - still little known - from COVID-19 is to be correlated with mental disorders from
      stress response emerging from the first three COVID-19's stages and which result in a
      significant increase in suicides that is estimated at 30% more than expected of 7.4 deaths
      for 100,000 residents. This estimate can be considered as stage 4 of the disease or post
      COVID-19 mortality. In this scenario, mortality of COVID-19 is by intensity response of "the
      host " and in the meantime, a cutoff for homecare, hospitalization and time-related stress
      disease. Lines of evidence reports that direct-indirect stimulation of vagus nerve bring to
      the modulating of pro-inflammatory cytokines with effective systemic anti-inflammatory effect
      and has shown antidepressant effects in chronic treatment resistant depression. Because the
      vagus nerve is linked to brain regions important in anxiety regulation (locus coeruleus,
      orbitofrontal cortex, insula, hippocampus and amygdala), this pathway is involved in
      perceiving various somatic and cognitive symptoms that characterize anxiety and mental
      disorder disorders. On the basis of all these reasoning we plan to introduce a medical
      based-yoga deep breathing for activation of vagus nerve by scalene and sternocleidomastoid
      muscles function during breathing, as an adjuvant of care of the 1-2 and 4 stages of the
      COVID-19 disease to counteract the cumulative incidence of mortality and better outcome.
      Medical yoga protocol has been developed and designed to test a cost-effective care
      provision, training, contact tracing and mass efficacy testing.
    
  