
    
      An association between Gaucher disease and parkinsonism has been demonstrated by the
      concurrence of parkinsonian manifestations in patients with Gaucher disease and an increased
      incidence of glucocerebrosidase (GBA) mutations in subjects with parkinsonism of various
      ethnicities. Furthermore, there is a significant number of obligate and confirmed Gaucher
      carriers with parkinsonian manifestations. Thus, alterations in GBA appear to be a more
      common risk factor than previously thought for the development of sporadic Parkinson disease
      and related disorders. However, in affected and at-risk individuals, the identification and
      characterization of early parkinsonian manifestations, and the rate of progression of
      symptoms have not been studied comprehensively and longitudinally. This in-vivo study employs
      multiple imaging modalities to better define the phenotype in GBA1-associated parkinsonism,
      follow disease progression, and identify at-risk individuals. The subjects include patients
      with Gaucher disease and Gaucher carriers with parkinsonian manifestations. In addition,
      clinically unaffected but at-risk individuals carrying GBA mutations, with and without a
      family history of parkinsonism will also be included. The control groups consist of
      individuals with Gaucher disease but no parkinsonian symptoms and relatives of probands
      without GBA mutations as well as PD patients without GBA mutations and healthy volunteers
      enrolled in NIMH clinical protocols. Positron emission tomography (PET) with 6-[F-18]
      Fluoro-L-Dopa (6FD) is used to evaluate presynaptic dopaminergic function, where 6FD uptake
      in putamen and striatum is employed as a measure of neuronal structural integrity in the
      substantia nigra. H2 15O PET is used to evaluate changes in resting regional cerebral blood
      flow (rCBF) associated with regional changes in cortical synaptic activity and metabolism.
      Each subject is screened with an MRI to rule-out anatomic brain abnormalities, and to further
      delineate areas of interest in the PET scans. Subjects also undergo transcranial
      ultrasonography (TCS) to assess the substantia nigra. The results of both the PET scans and
      TCS will be kept confidential, and will not be communicated to the individuals or families
      involved in the study. In addition to the imaging studies, all patients will undergo a
      physical and neurological examination, neurocognitive evaluation, olfactory testing and will
      be surveyed for potential non- motor manifestations.
    
  