
    
      Coronary microvascular dysfunction (MVD) has been implicated as an important marker of
      cardiac risk and has been thought to directly contribute to the pathogenesis of a wide
      variety of cardiomyopathies. For instance, MVD is believed to cause ischemia (with reduction
      in coronary flow reserve) in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) despite the
      presence of angiographically normal epicardial coronary arteries. The implication is that MVD
      in HCM may lead to the ventricular arrhythmias, sudden death, and heart failure. Similarly,
      patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDCM) have blunted coronary flow reserve,
      which appears to be independently associated with poor prognosis.

      Several etiologic mechanisms have been proposed to explain the occurrence of MVD, including
      structural and functional abnormalities1:

        1. increased microvascular resistance due to reduced vascular luminal caliber.

        2. reduced density of microvessels associated with replacement scarring.

        3. inappropriate vasoconstrictor responses.

        4. inadequate vasodilator responses.

      Unfortunately, these mechanisms are difficult to study in humans since no technique currently
      allows the direct visualization of the coronary microcirculation in vivo. Thus, MVD has been
      largely studied using non-invasive imaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography
      (PET) or single photon emitted computed tomography (SPECT).

      Although these methods have provided insight into MVD, much remains unknown. For example,
      even the prevalence of MVD in patients with various types of cardiomyopathy is unclear, with
      different studies showing widely different rates.

      Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is increasingly being used in clinical practice to
      evaluate cardiac disease. CMR employs a multifaceted imaging approach with separate
      techniques used to acquire separate sets of raw data, providing information on cardiac
      morphology, function, regional myocardial ischemia, scarring, and global myocardial perfusion
      reserve. The advantage of this approach is that image artifacts in one set of data will not
      affect the quality of the other datasets, and the datasets in combination can be used to
      distinguish separate pathophysiologies that could confound image interpretation. For example,
      perfusion defects could be due to ischemia or scar tissue, but since the investigators will
      obtain both perfusion images and scar images, the investigators will be able to resolve the
      etiology. Additionally, CMR provides high spatial resolution (over 10-fold higher than PET),
      and hence partial volume affects will be kept to a minimum and variability in measurements
      will be reduced.

      The aim of this study is to assess microvascular function as determined by a cardiovascular
      magnetic resonance measurement of whole-heart (global) perfusion reserve. The goal is to
      determine the prevalence of MVD in two common forms of non-ischemic cardiomyopathy,
      hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDCM). The
      hypothesis that an optimized technique will provide robust detection of MVD and that a
      multifaceted approach will provide new insights into the pathophysiology of MVD, including
      the influence of myocardial scarring upon the presence and severity of MVD.
    
  