
    
      Systemic inflammation is a condition in which the innate immune system is activated due to a
      variety of causes such as sepsis, trauma, and major surgical interventions. The clinical
      condition in which the body responds to such stimuli by the release of circulating
      inflammatory mediators is well known as the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)
      and is defined by tachypnoea, tachycardia, leucocytosis or leucopenia and hyper- or
      hypothermia.

      Although this activation of the immune system is essential for survival, the often subsequent
      overwhelming pro-inflammatory response may be detrimental. Of the many downstream
      consequences of this exaggerated inflammatory response, organ injury and failure is the most
      serious, most often involving the kidneys. Multiple organ failure (MOF) is associated with
      high morbidity and mortality, whereas failure of kidneys is an independent prognostic factor
      for mortality in critically ill patients.

      This exaggerated systemic pro-inflammation also occurs during major surgical procedures,
      especially in cardiac surgery procedures. Multiple stimuli during these procedures, such as
      sternotomy, extra-corporal cardio-pulmonary bypass (ECC) and aortal cross-clamping, account
      for substantial systemic inflammatory activation. The extent of inflammation following this
      procedures is directly associated with patient outcome, as high post-operative levels of IL-6
      have been proven to correlate with adverse outcome and mortality. Also at organ level, the
      incidence of inflammation associated development of acute kidney injury (AKI) following
      cardiac surgery is high and correlates with adverse outcome and mortality.

      To date, no immunomodulatory treatments, aimed at dampening the (acute) systemic inflammatory
      reaction following cardiac surgery with cardio-pulmonary bypass, have shown to improve
      essential outcome. Current strategies consist of prevention and supportive treatment; new
      strategies aiming at attenuating this exaggerated pro-inflammatory response are therefore
      warranted.

      EA-230 is a novel pharmacological compound, developed for the treatment of systemic
      inflammation and associated organ dysfunction. It is a linear tetrapeptide derived from the
      human chorionic gonadotropin hormone (hCG). It has shown anti-inflammatory properties and
      protects against organ failure and associated mortality in several pre-clinical models of
      sepsis or systemic inflammation. As EA-230 attenuates the pro-inflammatory response in
      neutrophils and monocytes ex vivo, and neutrophil influx in tissues during systemic
      inflammation in vivo is abrogated, it is thought that EA-230 acts by protecting the host
      against the detrimental effects of neutrophils during acute systemic inflammatory diseases,
      thereby preventing organ damage.

      A recently performed phase I study into the safety and tolerability of EA-230 in 24 subjects
      showed that continuous administration of EA-230 up to 90 mg/kg/hour infused intravenously is
      well tolerated and has an excellent safety profile. This profile was confirmed in a
      consequent executed phase IIa study in which 36 healthy subjects received the same dosages of
      EA-230 during human experimental endotoxemia. In this human model of controlled systemic
      inflammation elicited by the administration of a low dose of endotoxin, the anti-inflammatory
      effects of EA-230 shown in pre-clinical studies were confirmed and the optimal dose was
      established. Subjects treated with the highest dose (90 mg/kg/hour) showed less flu-like
      symptoms, development of fever was suppressed, and reduced levels of pro-inflammatory
      mediators (among others Interleukin-6 and Interleukin-8) were observed compared to
      placebo-treated subjects.

      This current study is a combined phase IIa/IIb, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind,
      clinical trial. In the first part, phase IIa, the study aims to confirm safety and
      tolerability in a patient population (n=60, 30 active and 30 placebo) with systemic
      inflammation elicited by on-pump cardiac surgery. In the second part, phase IIb, the
      immunomodulatory effect of EA-230 is studied in a same patient population (n=180, 90 active
      and 90 placebo, including patients from part 1).

      After inclusion of 90 patients, halfway the study, an additional adaptive power analysis will
      be performed to re-evaluate group size and power. Efficacy and sample size re-determination
      will be performed by the statistician of the Data Safety Management Board (DSMB).
    
  