
    
      The trial will be run as close to the ideal trial methodology for a randomised trial as
      specified by the CONSORT statement as possible. This will include secure randomisation,
      intention to treat analysis, full reporting of outcomes and follow-up by a person who is
      blinded to the prosthesis used. The trial will follow the code of good clinical practice as
      specified by the hospital trusts Research and Development Committee.

      In Peterborough all hip fracture patients are admitted to the acute trauma ward and
      transferred to the care of MJP. Those patients that are willing to participant in one of our
      randomised trials are consented prior to surgery. Treatment follows standard evidence based
      protocols with follow-up of all patients in a hip fracture clinic. A comprehensive database
      is maintained for all patients containing both audit and research data. Included in this is a
      standardised assessment of outcome.

      The surgical treatments under comparison will be either a cemented Exeter stem monoblock
      prosthesis inserted via an anteriolateral surgical approach or a cemented Total hip
      replacement. The stem for the THR will be a polished tapered stem of the Exeter type with a
      32 or 36mm head articulating with a cemented high density polyethylene cemented acetabular
      cup. All operations will be undertaken or supervised by MJP. Post-operative care programmes
      for the two patients will be identical.

      After discharge patient will be seen once in the hip fracture clinic by MJP. At this time
      they will also be assessed by the research nurse who is blinded to the type of prosthesis
      used. The outcome questionnaire is completed which includes an assessment of hip movement and
      limb shortening. All subsequent follow-up assessments will be done by phone call from the
      research nurse. Any patient with significant residual symptoms will be asked to re-attend the
      hip fracture clinic.
    
  