
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, Phase 3 study to evaluate the efficacy of
      the administration of Phenobarbital Sodium Injection, USP in participants who have suffered
      from a clinical seizure. As neonatal seizures can have long-term adverse effects, including
      death, placebo-controlled studies are not appropriate for this population. This study is
      designed to show phenobarbital is effective at preventing subsequent seizures by
      demonstrating greater efficacy at the higher (40 mg/kg) dose compared to the lower dose (20
      mg/kg). It is important to note that, although phenobarbital is not approved for the
      treatment of neonatal seizures, it is commonly used for this indication and is considered the
      first-line therapy in the United States, (US), and by the World Health Organization. The
      minimum recommended dose of phenobarbital used to treat neonatal seizures is 20 mg/kg.
      Therefore, the lower dose of phenobarbital used in this study is considered an "effective"
      dose for the treatment of neonatal seizures. The design of this study allows for assessment
      of the minimum recommended dose with the maximum recommended dose to show the increased
      efficacy of the high dose in various measures of reduction in seizures.

      Study participants undergoing electrographic or electroclinical seizures lasting 10 seconds
      or longer will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion between the 2 treatment arms. Participants will
      receive either a 20-mg/kg or 40-mg/kg loading dose of Phenobarbital Sodium Injection, USP
      upon confirmation that the seizure was not due to metabolic imbalances. Randomization of
      participants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, (HIE), will be stratified between the
      dosing groups. Participants will further be stratified by treatment group for
      pharmacokinetics, (PK), analysis timepoints due to the limitations on the number of
      pharmacokinetics, (PK), samples that can be taken from each patient. After cessation of
      seizures the participants will remain in the hospital for 24 hours for continuous monitoring
      by electroencephalogram, (EEG).

      According to recommended dosing of phenobarbital, participants in the 20-mg/kg treatment arm
      in whom seizure activity does not resolve after the first dose (20 mg/kg) will be given
      phenobarbital in 10-mg/kg increments (each hour) until the seizure activity resolves, up to a
      maximum total dose of 40 mg/kg. If the seizure activity is still not resolved, participants
      will be given a second-line anticonvulsant. The second-line therapy given will be determined
      by the attending physician and recorded in the study documentation. Participants in the
      40-mg/kg treatment arm in whom seizure activity does not resolve after the initial loading
      dose of phenobarbital will be given a second-line anticonvulsant. The second therapy given
      will be determined by the attending physician and recorded in the study documentation.
    
  