
    
      This study is a prospective single arm open label intervention study over 16 weeks using the
      DHFS with ARV-naive subjects initiating HIV treatment. The study intervention has an
      initiation (Phase 1), persistence (Phase 2) and follow-up period up to 96 weeks. In phase 1
      Subjects will use the DHFS with close follow-up incorporating visits with directly observed
      ingestions. In Phase 2 the Subjects utilize the DHFS in their natural setting with sporadic
      study visits until 16 weeks. Eligible HIV seropositive subjects who are at least 18 years of
      age, are HIV treatment naïve, and are initiating antiretroviral therapy prescribed by their
      HIV practitioner will receive an ingestible sensor enabled oral Anti-Retroviral or IS-ARV
      either IS-R/F/TAF (Odefsey®), IS-EC/F/TAF (Genvoya®), IS-BIC/F/TAF (Biktarvy®),
      IS-DTG/TDF/FTC (Tivicay® and Truvada®) or IS-DTG/TAF/FTC (Tivicay® and Descovy ®). The study
      will be conducted at the UCSD AVRC. Subjects will be recruited from UCSD AVRC, UCSD Owen
      Clinic, related or affiliated UCSD HIV primary care programs or community HIV primary care
      clinics. Following the 16 week intervention HIV plasma viral load and continuation in HIV
      care are followed for up to 96 weeks. The primary outcome will be an accurate measure of
      adherence i.e. the number of doses of selected IS-ARVs ingested, as captured by the DHFS,
      over the number of doses prescribed, adjusted for PDA. The investigators will also assess the
      acceptability and feasibility of longitudinal monitoring in real time of the ingestion rate
      utilizing the DHFS. In addition the investigators will evaluate the ability of the DHFS to
      identify subjects whose longitudinal medication taking and timing patterns in the first 16
      weeks of ARV treatment puts them at risk for detectable HIV RNA levels as far out as 96 weeks
      from start of treatment.

      PHARMACOKINETIC (PK) SUBSTUDY

      A subset of 15 participants prescribed an IS-Dolutegravir regimen will be enrolled in a PK
      sub-study to generate a projected time-course of drug concentrations across the entire study
      period. On Day 14 of treatment sub-study participants will have a detailed PK profile for
      Dolutegravir obtained over a single dosing interval.

      Participants will also have random plasma Dolutegravir levels measured at 4, 8, 12, and 16
      weeks during the DHFS monitoring.Plasma HIV-1 RNA and CD4+ T-cell count will be measured at
      study entry.

      At the start of the IS-Tivicay, participants included in the PK study will undergo intensive
      monitoring of viral decay dynamics with plasma HIV-1 RNA measured at baseline and Days 2, 7,
      10 and 14, as well as at Weeks 4, 8, 12, and 16 to provide the dynamic range of virologic
      suppression relative to drug exposure profiles generated from the intensive PK sampling on
      Day 14 and the DHFS dosing history.
    
  