
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate safety and tolerability of leflunomide in hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT)
      patients with steroid dependent chronic GvHD (cGvHD).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize the toxicity profile of leflunomide in patients with steroid dependent cGVHD.

      II. Obtain preliminary evidence of leflunomide activity against GVHD by estimating the
      response rate (as defined by 2014 National Institutes of Health [NIH] consensus development
      project on clinical trials in cGVHD) in an expansion cohort of 12 patients with steroid
      dependent cGVHD.

      III. Evaluate changes in cGVHD severity using physician-reported cGVHD activity assessment
      form.

      IV. Evaluate changes in symptom activity using cGVHD activity assessment patient self-report.

      V. Evaluate failure-free survival and GVHD free survival. VI. Evaluate changes in steroid
      doses while on therapy. VII. Evaluate rate of infectious complications during leflunomide
      administration.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the presence and percentage of immune cell subsets (including but not limited to
      Th17 and Treg cells) in whole blood after leflunomide administration.

      II. Assess the changes in the presence and levels of GVHD inflammatory biomarkers and
      cytokines (including but not limited to IL-17A, IL-21, and IL-2) in plasma after leflunomide
      administration.

      III. Assess the plasma pharmacokinetics of teriflunomide (active metabolite of leflunomide).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive leflunomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) for days 1-28. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients may optionally continue leflunomide for an additional 6 cycles as long as response
      or stable disease is maintained.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then
      periodically thereafter.
    
  