
    
      An important aspect of the delivery of these alcohol interventions will be their
      incorporation into TB care and delivery by non-alcohol specialists, i.e. TB physicians. In
      this study, we propose to exploit the strengths of the TB care delivery paradigm (DOTS) by
      linking to this care system the provision of alcohol interventions. In order to develop this
      integrated system, we propose the following innovative approaches to AUD management among TB
      patients:

        1. The Behavioral Counseling Intervention (BCI) will be adapted through iterative
           collaboration of an interdisciplinary team of local and international specialists to
           derive a protocol that is easily integrated into routine patient care by TB physicians.
           This process will include assessment for feasibility and cultural acceptability within
           the Tomsk clinic and the evaluation of TB physicians for adherence to the BCI protocol.

        2. Secondary interventions, incentives and case management, will be implemented to maximize
           the primary BCI intervention delivered by the TB physician and increase patient
           motivation to change drinking behavior. These will be designed to capitalize on similar
           case holding strategies already in place in the Tomsk TB services.

        3. Naltrexone will be delivered in the context of DOTS, administered under direct
           observation administration along with TB medications.

      To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine the feasibility of alcohol care when
      delivered as part of routine TB care and to assess this treatment model's impact on both TB
      and alcohol outcomes. If proven feasible and effective, this treatment model could be adapted
      for patients with AUDs and co-occurring medical conditions in other settings. First, this
      model could be used anywhere co-occurring AUDs adversely affect TB outcomes, including the
      United States. Second, this strategy could integrate alcohol treatment with medical care of
      other chronic conditions that are affected by poor adherence due to alcohol use. In
      particular, the greatest global challenge to treating HIV infection in populations with high
      rates of substance use is the successful management of substance use to ensure adherence to
      antiretroviral therapy.
    
  