
    
      Participants will be randomized to take part in one of two groups:

        -  The Memantine Group will be prescribed memantine at a dosage following FDA-approved
           adult labeling. A low dose will initially be given beginning at least two weeks (± 7
           days) prior to beginning radiation therapy. The dose will increase until participants
           reach the target dose of 20 mg/day. Memantine will be given for a total of 12 weeks.

        -  The Placebo Group will be prescribed identical capsules with no active drug. The placebo
           drug will be given in the same dose and frequency as described for the Memantine group.

      Participants will undergo the same evaluations and monitoring throughout the medication
      phase. Assessments will be done at baseline prior to study start, with follow-up assessments
      at 6 weeks (end of radiation therapy), and 12 weeks (end of study medication). Psychological
      testing to measure attention, working memory, problem solving, intelligence and academics
      will be done for each participant. Caregivers will also complete questionnaires about
      attention, problem solving, mood and interpersonal interactions. Caregivers will also be
      asked to complete a questionnaire about the family's general characteristics and medical
      history.

      At the time points noted above, blood work, vital signs and echocardiograms will be obtained,
      and the study neurologist will examine the participant to monitor side effects and
      neurological functioning. A study nurse will contact the participant once per week during the
      12 weeks of medication administration to identify possible medication-related side effects
      and to check on rate of compliance with taking the medication. A remote app will be installed
      on the participant's home computer or cell phone to help remind them to take the medication
      and track success. At one year post medication, psychological and neurological examinations
      will be repeated.
    
  