
    
      Prospective, longitudinal, controlled, multicentric, randomised, open study.

      Subjects: 3 groups of 40 patients (n=120): one group of patients profiting from a structured
      program of preoperative cognitive remediation (SICRPPD group: Specific Individual Cognitive
      Remediation Program in Parkinson's Disease), one group of patients profiting from a
      preoperative non structured accompaniment (ICM group: Intensive Care Management), one control
      group (CG group: Control Group).

      Required sample size: The sample size of 40 patients/group will allow to demonstrate with a
      significance threshold of 5% and a power of 80% a difference of evolution of the global SAS
      SR score of 0.75 SD between 2 of the 3 groups. For an intended SD of 0.2 units, the threshold
      corresponds to a difference of 0.15 units, minimal significant change.

      Intervention: The structured program of preoperative cognitive remediation is divided in 3
      parts: one interview with the patient to do a building of the subjective theories
      (difficulties due to the disease, hope relative to the intervention), a study meeting of the
      cognitive remediation possibilities and a cognitive remediation meeting with the patient. The
      spouse will be included in the program.

      Evaluation tools: Patients will be met before and after the intervention for clinical
      evaluations and scales making: For the psychiatric evaluation: Mini International
      Neuropsychiatric Inventory (M.I.N.I.), Starkstein Apathy Scale, Montgomery and Asberg
      depression scale (MADRS), global functioning evaluation scale (EGF) and Hamilton anxiety
      scale (HAMA)/ For the social adaptation evaluation: Social Adjustment scale Self Report (SAS
      SR)/ For quality of life evaluation: 39-item Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39)/ For
      the daily life activities, 'motor' symptomatology and treatment complications evaluation:
      Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS, parties II, III, et IV).

      Main criteria: change in the global score of the SAS SR scale.

      Secondary Criteria: change in scores of the PDQ-39 (quality of life), HAMA (anxiety),
      Starkstein (apathy), MADRS (mood), EGF (psychologic, social, professional functioning, and
      depending on the psychiatric symptomatology) questionnaires.

      Statistics: parametric and non parametric tests will be done for p < 0.05.
    
  