
    
      Damage to articular cartilage in the knee by acute or chronic injury causes pain and limits
      knee function. If left untreated, damage to the articular cartilage can lead to painful
      osteoarthritis. The human body has a limited ability to regenerate or adequately repair
      damage to articular cartilage. There are several surgical techniques available to assist the
      repair of articular cartilage and improve pain and function. Microfracture is the most
      commonly used technique for cartilage repair. Microfracture involves the creation of numerous
      small fractures in the bone with a pick. These small fractures cause the release of
      multipotential stem cells from the bone marrow creating a clot on the surface. Over time,
      this clot causes reparative fibrocartilage to form. However, fibrocartilage is less durable
      and lacks the mechanical properties of normal articular cartilage. The majority of patients
      treated with microfracture has good results within the first 2 years after microfracture.
      However, beyond 2 years, functional deterioration is seen in over 50% of patients. Therefore,
      there is a clinical need for a product that improves surgical outcomes in patients with
      cartilage damage.

      The Kensey Nash Corp. Cartilage Repair Device is a two layer, bioresorbable implant. The top
      layer consists of collagen fibers like those found in normal cartilage. The collagen layer is
      about as thick as the cartilage in human knees. The bottom layer of the Cartilage Repair
      Device mainly consists of a calcium mineral naturally found in human bones. The mineral is
      held within a biodegradable polymer material. The device has a highly porous structure that
      allows the blood, stem cells and joint fluid to infiltrate the device during the healing
      process. Over time, the top layer is designed to be replaced by cartilage and the bottom
      layer is designed to be replaced by bone.

      Both microfracture and the Cartilage Repair Device are expected to reduce knee pain and
      increase knee function in a majority of patients during the first 2 years post-operative.
      However, if the Cartilage Repair Device produces better and more durable cartilage than the
      microfracture technique, those patients treated with the Cartilage Repair Device may have a
      better long term outcome.
    
  