
    
      Hypertension affects an estimated 20% to 30% of the world's adult population. Despite the
      availability of numerous safe and effective pharmacologic therapies, including single-pill
      combinations of 2-3 drugs, the percentage of patients achieving adequate blood pressure
      control meeting guideline targets remains low. The rule of halves still applies. Of
      hypertensive patients, only 50% are on antihypertensive medications. Of those on blood
      pressure lowering drugs, only 50% have their blood pressure controlled. Achieving target
      blood pressure levels in the treatment of hypertension requires that patients take their
      medications not only properly (adherence), but also continue to do so throughout long-term
      treatment (persistence). Poor medication-taking behavior is a major problem among patients
      with hypertension, and is one of the main causes of failure to achieve blood pressure
      control. Self-measurement of blood pressure at home improves adherence to treatment and the
      control of blood pressure. One might even hypothesize that telemonitoring of blood pressure,
      which allows instantaneous feedback between doctor and patient might even be more effective
      than usual self-measurement in improving adherence and reaching treatment tools.

      Previous studies demonstrated the feasibility of telemonitoring of blood pressure. However,
      several issues remain unaddressed.

        -  Feasibility of telemonitoring within the Belgian context has never been tested. No
           attempt has ever been made in Belgium to assess adherence to antihypertensive drugs in
           primary care.

        -  Telemonitoring of blood pressure will never make it to the routine clinical practice
           unless it can be proven that application of the technique results in faster and better
           blood pressure control compared with usual care including self-measurement of blood
           pressure at home.

        -  Secondary endpoints must also include adverse events, a simple assessment of quality of
           life, adherence, a log of technical problems, and cost-effectiveness.

      LAPTOHP is a randomized parallel-group study, which will address the feasibility and
      potential benefits of telemonitoring of blood pressure at home. Eligible patients will be
      recruited at seven general practices. LAPTOHP will include three stages

        -  Screening period followed by stratification and randomization: Screening involves
           checking inclusion and exclusion criteria, ruling out secondary hypertension remediable
           by specific treatment, and obtaining informed written consent as outlined in the
           Helsinki declaration. Eligible patients will be stratified by centre and randomized in a
           one-to-three proportion to control or intervention. Randomization will be implemented by
           sequentially numbered sealed envelopes, which contain the group assignment. These
           envelopes will be available at the practices, so that no contact with the Studies
           Coordinating Centre (SCC) will be necessary to randomize the patient.

        -  Randomised period: Investigators will optimize medical treatment by rotating patients
           through different classes of antihypertensive drugs, combining drug classes according to
           the current guidelines of the European Societies of Cardiology and Hypertension
           (ESC/ESH), while achieving the maximal tolerated dose of each drug. In the intervention
           group, investigators will receive a report on the telemonitoring data at weekly
           intervals; in the control group doctors will receive information on the self-measured
           blood pressure as recorded at home in the week preceding the office visit via a diary
           card. Doctors are free to schedule contacts with their patients and office visits at
           their own discretion or as indicated by the clinical context. Once blood pressure
           control is achieved, the blood pressure measuring devices (telemonitoring enabled or
           not) will be recuperated and will become available for a next patient. In the control
           group, patients will keep a diary card in the week preceding the office visits. In the
           control group, doctors will receive a full report on all telemonitoring data at the
           completion of randomized treatment, after patients have achieved blood pressure control.

        -  Late follow-up: Three months after achieving blood pressure control, all patients will
           be telemonitored for 1 week and complete a diary card, preceding an office visit.
    
  