
    
      Heart failure is a complex clinical syndrome that results from any structural or functional
      impairment of ventricular filling or ejection of blood. Although survival has improved, the
      absolute mortality rates for HF remain approximately 50% within 5 years of diagnosis. In the
      ARIC study, the 30-day, 1-year, and 5-year mortallity rates after hospitalization for HF were
      10.4%, 22%, and 42.3%, respectively. HF represents a major burden in the developed world. In
      the United States, HF is the primary diagnosis for more than 1 million hospitalized patients
      annually. A significant number of patients with acute decompensated heart failure have
      baseline renal insufficiency. Yet perhaps more important is the change of renal function
      during hospitalization. Gottlieb et al. have shown that even a small increase in serum
      creatinine, e.g., 0.1 mg/dl will worsen the outcome of the patients. It is also noteworthy
      that a significant rise in serum Cr generally may occur in the first 3 d of the admission to
      the hospital. The mortality rate in ADHERE registry is 4% for all the patients; however, the
      mortality of patients with significant renal insufficiency, i.e., Cr >3 mg/dl, is 9.4%, and
      the length of hospital stay is also lengthened as compared with those who do not have renal
      insufficiency. In another study of 1681 patients admitted for ADHF, Krumholz et al. found
      worsening renal function during hospitalization in 28% of patients. In-hospital mortality was
      more than double in those with versus without worsening renal function (7% versus 3%). This
      significant difference remained at 30 d (10% versus 6%) and 6 mo (25% versus 19%). The CHARM
      investigators also studied predictors of outcome in all three component trials in 2680
      patients for an average of 34 mo. They found that every 10 ml/min decrease in eGFR increased
      the adjusted HR of cardiovascular death or readmission to the hospital by 10% (1.10, CI 1.07
      to 1.13, P < 0.001). Therefore, even small changes in Cr have an important impact on
      in-patient mortality as well as postdischarge mortality.

      Patients hospitalized for HF are at high risk for all-cause rehospitalization, with a 1-month
      readmission rate of 25% [4]. In 2013, physician office visits for HF cost $1.8 billion. The
      total cost of HF care in the United States exceeds $30 billion annually, with over half of
      these costs spent on hospitalizations [3]. Presently, HF is the leading cause of
      hospitalization among patients >65 years of age; the largest percentage of expenditures
      related to HF are directly attributable to hospital costs. Moreover, in addition to costs,
      hospitalization for acutely decompensated HF represents a sentinel prognostic event in the
      course of many patients with HF, with a high risk for recurrent hospitalization (50% at 6
      months). Median length of in-hospital stay in the United States is approximately 4 days,
      whereas lengths of stay in Europe are generally markedly longer with a median of 9 days as
      reported in the EuroHeart Failure Survey II. Although systemic and pulmonary congestion is
      the main reason for hospitalization in most patients, many do not have a decrease in body
      weight during their hospital stay and are discharged with signs and symptoms of HF. Given
      that re-hospitalization drives much of the cost associated with HF, there has been increased
      interest in predicting risk of re-hospitalization as a means to control health care costs and
      reduce future risk. These risk stratification models can serve as important clinical tools by
      helping to identify those patients at both ends of the spectrum of risk; patients who are at
      very high risk may be observed more closely or treated more intensively, whereas patients at
      low risk may need less rigorous follow-up and monitoring. In the cohort from the OPTIMIZE-HF
      study with 60- to 90-day follow-up data, the most important predictors for the combined
      endpoint of death or re-hospitalization were admission serum creatinine concentration,
      systolic blood pressure, admission hemoglobin level, discharge use of ACE inhibitor or ARB,
      and pulmonary disease. In the EVEREST trial, composed of patients admitted with worsening HF
      and reduced ejection fraction, independent predictors during hospitalization of readmission
      and mortality included low admission Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire score, high
      BNP, hyponatremia, tachycardia, hypotension, absence of beta blocker therapy, and history of
      diabetes and arrhythmias. Nevertheless, both models fail to provide the treating physician a
      simple decision making tool for predicting which patient is stable enough to be discharged
      from the hospital without a high risk of readmission. On this regard, high levels of BNP were
      found to be a reliable prognostic marker for HF patients readmission after discharge.
      Hospitalized patients with HF can be classified into important subgroups. These include
      patients with acute coronary ischemia, accelerated hypertension and acutely decompensated HF,
      shock, and acutely worsening right HF. Each of these various categories of HF has specific
      etiologic factors leading to decompensation, presentation, management, and outcomes.
      Noninvasive modalities can be used to classify the patient with hospitalized HF. The history
      and physical examination allows estimation of a patient's hemodynamic status, that is, the
      degree of congestion ("dry" versus "wet"), as well as the adequacy of their peripheral
      perfusion ("warm" versus "cold"). There have been limited previous randomized trials of
      therapy tailored during continuous hemodynamic monitoring in heart failure. Use of an
      indwelling pulmonary artery catheters to adjust therapy in advanced heart failure was first
      described by Kovick et al and subsequently by Pierpont for vasodilator therapy in
      decompensated heart failure with high systemic vascular resistance. There have been 11
      additional randomized trials of PACs in critical care. A meta-analysis of these trials,
      including ESCAPE, showed that PAC was neutral in its effect on mortality and
      rehospitalization. These trials support the safety of PACs and the overall neutral effect,
      while highlighting the challenge of assessing a diagnostic tool without a consistent strategy
      of response with effective therapies. These results might be explained by the balance effect
      of improved treatment by tailored medicine that was counteracted by the invasive nature of
      PAC.

      The Non-Invasive Cardiac System (NICaS: NI Medical, Hod-Hasharon, Israel), calculates the
      cardiac output (CO) by measuring whole body bio impedance in a tetra-polar mode, derived from
      electrodes placed on both wrists or one wrist and the contra-lateral ankle. This simple to
      operate, non-invasive technique was validated in several studies to be reliable in estimation
      of CO compared to traditional, invasive techniques in different settings including HF
      patients. A previous study demonstrated that parameters derived from this system showed a
      highly significant correlation to echocardiogram estimated ejection fraction and serum BNP in
      chronic HF patients and were equally able to predict complications in this population
    
  