
    
      The needle-embedding therapy is a method of acupuncture, which inserts the intradermal
      thumbtack needle into skin quickly. The needle will be replaced after 2 or 3 days. This
      treatment has a great efficacy on subthreshold depression (SD) and it is easy to promote.
      However, its clinical effect remains to be studied. In this study, the researchers used this
      method to treat SD by selecting the back shu acupoint and ear acupoint.

      This research aims to evaluate the effectiveness of treating subthreshold depression by
      needle-embedding therapy. On this basis, from the perspective of psychology, this project
      takes the cognitive function of the SD people as the entry point, in order to find the
      scientific indicators to quantify the SD people clinically from the perspective of the
      executive function control system. At the same time, magnetic resonance imaging(MRI) was used
      to compare and analyze the brain executive control system of subthreshold depression group
      and normal group, and to observe the specificity of brain structure, network and function of
      subthreshold depression group. Finally, through the comparative analysis of the brain
      executive control system of the subthreshold depression group with intradermal thumbtack
      needle therapy and shame intradermal thumbtack needle therapy, the neural mechanism of
      needle-embedding therapy promoting the function reset of the brain executive control system
      was speculated based on the evaluation of the efficacy of needle-embedding therapy.

      80 patients will be divided into two groups randomly, intradermal thumbtack needle group or
      shame intradermal thumbtack needle group, and evaluated before and after intervention.

      The primary study outcomes will be depressive symptoms as measured by the PHQ-9. Secondary
      outcomes will be the ability of executive control system, health-related quality of life and
      anxiety symptoms measured as described previously. Tertiary outcomes will be the difference
      between the results of fMRI of SD people and normal brain database, and the difference
      between the treatment group and control group, which can observe the specificity of brain
      structure, network and function in subthreshold depression.

      The results will be analyzed and presented descriptively, as of statistical comparisons of
      pre- and post-treatment and the relationship between the groups.
    
  