
    
      The purpose of this proposed study is to evaluate the clinical utility of serum EBV antibody
      testing for the identification of individuals at increased risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma
      (NPC) within high-risk, NPC multiplex families.

      2,394 unaffected individuals from Taiwanese families, in which two or more relatives have
      been diagnosed with NPC, have been identified and sampled as part of an ongoing collaboration
      to identify genetic factors linked to NPC development. Serum from these individuals has been
      tested for three anti-EBV antibodies (VCA IgA, EBNA1 IgA, and anti-DNase) known to be
      associated with elevated risk of prevalent and incident NPC in general population studies.
      Results from testing of our study population indicate that apparently healthy individuals
      from high-risk multiplex families have a near 3-fold elevation in their EBV antibody
      prevalence when compared to the EBV antibody prevalence observed in the general community for
      these same EBV markers. However, the clinical implications of this apparent elevation in EBV
      antibody reactivity are not yet understood.

      Therefore, we propose to evaluate whether individuals within our previously conducted
      high-risk family study with elevations in EBV antibody levels are at increased risk of
      incident NPC. Individual markers (VCA IgA, EBNIA1 IgA and anti-DNase antibodies) and
      combinations of markers will be evaluated to determine their performance as screening tests
      for NPC risk in high-risk multiplex families.

      To achieve this goal, we propose to invite the 2,394 unaffected individuals from our
      multiplex family study, defined as those families with greater than or equal to 2 NPC. As a
      result of our recruitment efforts, we expect approximately 1,600 subjects to participate in
      an ear, nose, and throat (ENT) examination by an expert otolaryngologist to determine whether
      any of these individuals has occult or symptomatic NPC. We will correlate the three EBV
      antibody screening tests performed at the time of initial recruitment into our family study
      with NPC detection in the period between initial recruitment into the family study and the
      present study (median time between original EBV antibody testing and clinical evaluation =
      5.5 years; range = less than 1 year - 10 years).

      In addition to histopathological specimens collected for NPC diagnosis, participants in this
      study will be asked to agree to a brief risk factor questionnaire and to donate blood,
      saliva, a nasopharyngeal swab, nasopharyngeal tissue, and urine for future studies.

      No accepted clinical management protocol exists for screening unaffected members from
      families at high-risk of NPC development. Results from this study have the potential to
      significantly impact the clinical management and follow-up of individuals with a family
      history of NPC.
    
  