
    
      Approximately 15% of women experience perinatal depression (depression during pregnancy or
      postpartum). Furthermore, 38% of low income women experience postpartum depression
      (Gree-Smith et al., 2012). Perinatal depression is associated with numerous maternal (e.g.,
      weight retention), infant (e.g., poor infant-child bond), and lifespan (e.g., behavior
      problems) consequences (Barker et al., 2011, Herring et al., 2008, Hipwell et al., 2000).
      Psychosocial interventions are efficacious for perinatal depression; however, only 10% of
      women seek treatment (Oppo et al., 2009). There is a need for innovative, low cost
      interventions that can be integrated within existing community-based programs serving women
      in need (e.g., low income women). Preliminary evidence indicates that exercise may be a
      novel, efficacious intervention. The primary aim of this study is to examine the efficacy of
      a novel exercise intervention designed to prevent perinatal depression among women attending
      federally qualified health centers serving high risk women. Possible effects on gestational
      weight gain and retention will also be explored. This study will build upon the study team's
      previous work by recruiting low income women and integrating the intervention with
      community-based clinics. Participants (n=200) who are low income and pregnant (less than 20
      weeks) will be randomly assigned to either a telephone-based intervention that has been
      previously shown to increase exercise among perinatal women (Lewis et al., 2011) or usual
      care.

      With regard to the primary aim, the investigators predict that participants randomized to the
      exercise intervention will report fewer depressive symptoms (as measured by Edinburgh
      Postnatal Depression Scale) at 36 weeks gestation and three months postpartum than women in
      the usual care condition. The secondary aim is to examine the efficacy of an exercise
      intervention on moderating prenatal weight gain and facilitating postpartum weight loss. The
      investigators will also examine several potential mediators (e.g., depression coping,
      self-efficacy, perceived stress, sleep, fatigue) and the effect of the exercise intervention
      on maternal (e.g., hypertension, gestational diabetes, mode of delivery) and infant outcomes
      (e.g., birth weight, gestational age at delivery, breastfeeding, safe sleep).
    
  