
    
      This is a single arm multi-center pilot study. Subjects with heart failure (HF) who are
      discharged following an acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) event and subjects who are
      seen as outpatients with worsening signs or symptoms of HF, who meet enrollment criteria, are
      candidates for this study. Subjects with HF with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction
      (HFREF) and subjects with HF with preserved ejection fraction (HFPEF) are eligible. The
      eventual objective of this area of research is to demonstrate that HF subjects assisted by
      frequent B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) measurements integrated into a home health
      management system have improved clinical outcomes. The specific objective of this study is to
      demonstrate that frequent BNP measurements integrated into a home health management system
      used by physicians to modify or intensify therapy will lead to a reduced risk of ADHF events
      as measured by a reduction in BNP levels. Subjects will be asked to test their BNP at home
      every day for a period of 180 days using the AlereTM HeartCheck System (the Test System). In
      addition to BNP, weights and signs and symptoms of HF will be collected each day of testing.
      The HeartCheck data is transmitted via a secure wireless protocol to the HealthCOM health
      monitoring portal where it is available to the medical staff.

      Enrollment goal is 110 evaluable subjects. Potential subjects who meet the study's inclusion
      and exclusion criteria will be interviewed about their interest in participating in the
      study. Potential subjects that show interest in the study will be judged for their
      willingness, ability and reliability to perform fingerstick BNP measurements every day for
      180 days while at home and be able to report the results using the HeartCheck system. All
      qualifying subjects who agree to participate and provide Informed Consent will be trained to
      use the HeartCheck system which includes daily BNP measurements, daily body weight
      measurements, and daily health survey questions. Subjects who successfully complete their
      training will be judged on their proficiency in all study activities. If found to be
      proficient; they will use the system at home. After a short lead-in period, an algorithm
      (similar in concept to a moving average) will be applied to the BNP data resulting in a
      BNP-based parameter and alerts will be created when this parameter is rising, or during
      periods of sustained high BNP. The patient's physician and medical staff will be required to
      evaluate all BNP based alert notifications and determine if a change in HF treatment is
      advisable. All changes in HF treatment, with or without BNP-based alerts, are at the
      discretion of the treating physician and medical staff of the institution.

      The primary endpoint of the study is a significant lowering of BNP across the population. At
      approximately 1, 3 and 6 months after enrollment, subjects will return to the clinic for
      physical examination, clinical assessment, and review of interval medical status by their
      health care provider. In addition, if warranted, a home health care professional may visit
      the subject at home at any time during the study when additional counseling or training may
      be of benefit for compliance to the protocol.
    
  