
    
      The PIONEER Initiative is a lead clinical trial designed to provide the foundation for
      subsequent adaptive trials. The mission with this and subsequent trial activity will be to
      demonstrate the utility of carrying out functional precision medicine in that cohort of
      patients who receive local cancer care at institutions that do not have significant research
      capabilities or are not NCI-designated cancer centers. As discussed above, the vast majority
      of cancer patients (~85%) are in this category. It is imperative to open up the possibility
      of best-in-class functional precision medicine testing to these patients. Core aspects of the
      PIONEER Initiative include recruiting a cadre of up to 200 patients, showing that proof of
      concept in a more limited set of patients can ultimately scale to arbitrarily large numbers
      of patients. It is anticipated that PIONEER will continue as the foundation for subsequent
      clinical trials into the indefinite future. This evolving trial structure fills an important
      unmet need within the broader cancer community since the primary mission is the return of
      actionable information in order to positively impact care.

      The underlying basic assumption of the PIONEER Initiative is that the ability to receive the
      best in cancer care should not be restricted as to location, age, or medical condition. The
      PIONEER Initiative design facilitates inclusion of subjects across all these divides, thus
      providing beneficence to all participants. A key aspect of the PIONEER Initiative is to
      provide patient benefit through a data and tissue biorepository to be utilized by researchers
      to discover new cancer diagnostics, treatment therapies and preventive strategies.
      Additionally, the data and samples will be used to improve existing treatments and to
      understand, at the molecular level, changes occurring during transition from illness to
      remission and/or relapse. SpeciCare, through the PIONEER Initiative, will store de-identified
      self-reported data, medical records, and biological samples from individuals who consent to
      participate in PIONEER. PIONEER will obtain further study and testing as appropriate and
      return results, through CLIA certified labs, through research vetted by CLIA testing, and, as
      enabled by current regulatory standards, through delivery of research results back to the
      patient and patient's clinical care team.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

        1. To establish a data and tissue biobank comprised of high quality biological specimens
           and associated clinical data that will support drug discovery, diagnostic assay
           development, oncology biomarker discovery, molecular biology, immuno-oncology therapies,
           translational medicine and other future discoveries as novel methods become available.

        2. To facilitate and accelerate oncology research, including genetic research (e.g. whole
           genome sequencing), by providing a pipeline of high quality specimens and associated
           clinical data for researchers to access.
    
  