
    
      How do we help those problem drinkers who will never seek treatment? This is a challenging
      issue because of the large number of problem drinkers and the limited amount of resources
      available. Public health initiatives employing educational materials have met with little or
      no success. However, clinical research has developed effective brief interventions to help
      problem drinkers. This project will merge these two worlds, modifying a clinically developed
      intervention and producing it in an ultra-brief format that is suitable for use as a public
      health intervention. The major objective of this proposal is to conduct a randomized
      controlled trial of an ultra-brief, personalized feedback intervention for problem drinkers.
      The advantages of the personalized feedback pamphlet are that it is low cost and can be
      widely distributed to the population of problem drinkers who never seek treatment. Because
      the materials are based on some of the best of research-based interventions, such an
      ultra-brief normative feedback pamphlet has the potential of helping problem drinkers. An
      effective intervention of this type would yield significant public health benefit. 1830
      problem drinkers will be recruited on a baseline population telephone survey and randomized
      to one of three conditions - personalized feedback pamphlet condition, control pamphlet
      condition (to test if it is the specific content of the pamphlet that leads to the change or
      just the receipt of any pamphlet) and a no intervention control condition (sent intervention
      pamphlet after the six-month follow-up). In the week after the baseline survey, all
      households in the postal code areas that contain respondents in the two pamphlet conditions
      will be sent their respective pamphlets. Changes in drinking will be assessed on post
      intervention three-month and six-month follow-ups. Drinking outcomes will be compared between
      experimental conditions. The primary hypothesis is that respondents from households who
      receive the personalized feedback pamphlet intervention will display significantly improved
      drinking outcomes at three and six-month follow-ups as compared to respondents from
      households in the no intervention control condition. Secondary hypotheses will test the
      impact of the intervention on help seeking, and explore the mediating or moderating role of
      perceived drinking norms, perceived risk and the problem drinker's social reasons for
      drinking.
    
  