
    
      An initial study visit for enrollment will take place at the Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye
      Institute's Lions Vision Center. The investigators will enroll 50 RP subjects with vision
      better than hand motions or bare light perception, who are able to complete PC-based vision
      tests. Written informed consent for study participation will be obtained at the first study
      visit.

      At home PC-based vision tests will be performed bi-weekly, for 2 months (i.e. 16 measures) to
      capture the full range of variability. Binocular visual acuity (VA), contrast sensitivity
      (CS) and visual field (VF) tests will be self-administered by the RP subjects, and will take
      ~10 minutes. Three brief questionnaires will be administered by PC after each vision test
      session: 1) Perceived Stress Scale (PSS); 2) Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS); and 3) Positive
      and Negative Affect Schedules (PANAS). Lab-based vision tests will take place at the time of
      enrollment, and will include: (1) distance best-corrected VA with the ETDRS charts, (2)
      Pelli-Robson letter CS, (3) Goldmann VF with V/4e and III/4e isopters, and (4) Humphrey 10-2
      or 30-2 VF FastPac program. The vision tests and questionnaires are a part of routine
      clinical care.

      After enrollment, The investigators will obtain information about psychological factors by
      administering the following questionnaires by phone on one occasion: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality
      Index, Emotional Stability, Beck Depression Inventory, the Self-Motivation Inventory, and the
      Life Experiences Survey. Questionnaires assessing health-related quality of life (SF-36) and
      mental status (MMSE) will also be administered. The investigators will use a phone version of
      the MMSE only for screening. Other variables that may be of importance to the study will be
      assessed through a complete patient medical, ocular and social history, including questions
      such as duration of visual impairment, occupation, marital status, etc. The questionnaires
      are often used in research settings and sometimes in clinical settings. Many patients
      appreciate the opportunity to provide feedback since these areas are not always addressed as
      part of routine, clinical care. Focus group meetings, facilitated by Dr. George and Lori
      Edwards, will help us begin to understand factors are perceived to influence fluctuations in
      vision.

      Subjects will participate in study procedures over the course of a 3 month period. This
      includes an enrollment visit at our center with lab-based vision tests, and then
      approximately 2 months PC-based vision testing.
    
  