
    
      The overriding hypothesis is that preoperative cognitive impairment is a risk factor for poor
      surgical outcomes in seniors and that preoperative screening is superior to standard or
      systematic clinical processes for identifying at-risk patients. The first objective is to
      assess the marginal benefit of structured preoperative cognitive screening relative to
      standard or systematic preoperative evaluation for identifying seniors with likely cognitive
      impairment. The second objective is to determine whether preoperative cognitive impairment
      predicts postoperative outcome. This project is designed as a prospective, single-center
      observational study. The cohort will consist of 250 consenting subjects ≥ 65 years of age who
      present to the BWH Weiner Center for Preoperative Evaluation (CPE) prior to elective lower
      extremity joint replacement surgery. These surgeries are selected because they are common in
      this age group, associated with significant morbidity, and along with dementia are considered
      a priority area (bone and joint conditions) by AHRQ. These ages are chosen as significant
      clinical data demonstrate increased cognitive impairment in community dwelling elders.
      Eligibility criteria include: patients ≥ 65 years of age with an ASA physical status of I-IV
      presenting for elective joint replacement. Exclusion criteria will include planned ICU
      admission postoperatively, uncorrected vision or hearing impairment (unable to see pictures
      or read or hear instructions); limited use of the dominant hand (limited ability to draw);
      and or inability to speak, read, or understand English. Study staff will use the CPE
      computerized scheduling system, which is updated continuously in real time and captures
      relevant information such as age and procedure, to identify potential subjects. When patients
      check in with the receptionist in the CPE for their appointment they will be notified that
      they (and their surrogate) may be eligible to participate in a study in the CPE involving
      patients over the age of 65. The receptionist will then provide them with a brochure about
      the study that includes information about the purpose of the study, the risks to the patient,
      and the potential benefits to society. The patient will then be asked if they are willing to
      speak with one of the study investigators and only those patients that agree to speak with a
      study investigator will be approached. Patients with known cognitive impairment will be
      included in the study to determine whether this information is included in the preoperative
      evaluation form. They will sign their own consent if they are capable and going to sign their
      surgical procedure consent. In the event that the patient is not capable of signing their own
      consent a surrogate will be asked to provide consent with assent from the patient. In our
      prior studies with similar patient populations less than 1% had documented cognitive
      impairment. The staff member will then describe the goals and risks of the study in a quiet
      room in the PATC and ask the patient (and their surrogate where appropriate) if they choose
      to participate. After all questions have been answered and the patient has the opportunity to
      read the consent form, written consent will be obtained by one of the study investigators.
      After obtaining consent, study staff will gain information about the patient's age and years
      of education. Study staff will administer standard instruments to assess health and
      functional status (basic and instrumental activities of daily living [ADLs and IADLs,
      respectively, and the WHODAS]). The World Health Organization Disability Scale 2.0 (WHODAS)
      is an alternative to the SF36 to measure physical health and disability.

      In addition, patients will be asked if they've had a fall within the last 6 months, whether
      they've been evaluated for a change in memory or thinking, who accompanied them to their
      appointment, their employment status, and their living situation (alone, institutionalized,
      living with family members) in a patient survey. The study staff will also administer the
      MiniCog, a simple cognitive screening tool that takes just 2-4 min to complete and has little
      or no education, language, or race bias. In addition, the Animal Fluency Test will be
      administered, which is a short cognitive screen that takes one minute to complete. Other
      measures of cognitive impairment will be obtained by study staff through: documentation on
      the patient's standard preoperative form, patient or informant report of diagnosis or
      evaluation for cognitive impairment or memory concerns, and systematic medical record review.

      During their routine preoperative blood draw the phlebotomist will be provided with three
      heparinized blood tube labeled with only the patient's study ID number that will be returned
      to the investigative team and processed within 30 minutes of the blood draw. Briefly, half of
      the sample would be spun down and plasma harvested and stored at -80 degrees C and when an
      adequate sample size obtained used to measure inflammatory cytokines by ELISA. The remainder
      of the sample will be divided into 1-ml aliquots and incubated at 37°C for 15 min with
      phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) (control), 100 ng/ml interleukin (IL)-6, 100 ng/ml IL-10, or
      a combination of 100 ng/mlIL-2 and 2 ng/ml granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor,
      or 1g/ml lipopolysaccharide. Blood samples will be resuspended in 1.4 ml stabilizing buffer
      and incubated for 10 min at room temperature for fixation in PFA, cooled to 4C, and stored at
      80C until further processing for flow cytometry to determine the immune response of the white
      blood cells to a ex-vivo immune challenge and whether these correlate with Mini-Cog score or
      the development of delirium.

      Each enrolled patient will receive a business card listing the investigators' contact
      information and be advised to expect a follow up telephone call 6 months and 1 year after
      surgery to verify data elements and reassess functional outcome. Delirium will be assessed
      prospectively once per day on postoperative days 1, 2, and 3 by a trained study team member
      using the Confusion Assessment Method [CAM]. Delirium is most common on postoperative days
      1-3 and the CAM is a well-validated measure of delirium in surgical patients. For functional
      status, the WHODAS will be administered 6-12 months postoperatively either by personnel in
      the surgeon's office as part of routine follow up or by study staff or by telephone.
      Investigators will also collect information on secondary outcomes including duration of PATC
      visit, presence of an advanced directive, whether they had surgical procedure, time to PACU
      discharge, discharge to place other than home (rehabilitation, skilled nursing facility),
      hospital length of stay (LOS), in hospital complications, perioperative variables including
      drugs administered, BIS, estimated blood loss, blood transfusions, fluid administered, blood
      pressure, oxygen saturation, 30-day reoperation or readmission rate, and 30-day and 1-year
      mortality. These outcomes are recorded in the medical record, the BWH Balanced Scorecard, an
      electronic database of all hospitalized patients that tabulates 31 elements of the hospital
      event, or the BWH Research Patient Database Enhanced Query. Data will also be confirmed by a
      follow up telephone interview. Thirty day and 1 year mortality will be recorded.
    
  