
    
      Vitamin A deficiency is common in low-income countries. Vitamin A supplementation to children
      above 6 months of age reduces all-cause mortality with 23 % to 30 %. Studies on vitamin A
      supplementation in infants younger than 6 months of age have reported inconsistent effects on
      mortality. Studies providing supplementation between 1 and 5 months of age have found no
      effect or even a negative effect. However, the only two studies of supplementation at birth,
      both conducted in Asia, showed substantial significant reductions in infant all-cause
      mortality.

      The beneficial effect of neonatal vitamin A supplementation may be a result of correcting the
      congenital vitamin A deficiency resulting from maternal vitamin A deficiency. On the other
      hand, it has been speculated that the beneficial effect of vitamin A supplementation given at
      birth may in part be explained by a synergistic effect of vitamin A supplementation and BCG
      vaccination given at the time of birth.

      The protective effect on mortality of vitamin A supplementation given at birth needs to be
      confirmed in an African population. Furthermore, none of the two previous studies have
      reported data on vaccination status of the included infants.

      In this study, the effect on mortality and morbidity of given vitamin A supplementation
      simultaneously with BCG vaccination at birth to normal birth weight infants will be
      investigated in an African population. Furthermore, the effects of vitamin A supplementation
      will be evaluated with respect to effect on growth, the response to BCG vaccination, infant
      vitamin A status and infant cytokine profile. Furthermore the effect on specific diseases
      such as malaria, measles and rotavirus infections. The mechanisms behind the effects of
      vitamin A will be evaluated.

      We will include 4,800 normal birth weight infants (> 2500 g) infants randomized to 50,000 IU
      of vitamin A or placebo given simultaneously with BCG vaccine. The study take place in
      Guinea-Bissau, West Africa. The study area consists of five districts in the capital of
      Guinea-Bissau. The Bandim Health Project has been working in the study area for almost 25
      years, and a demographic surveillance system has been established and functioned for many
      years.
    
  