
    
      The most serious aspect of neoplastic disease is the spread of cancer cells to secondary
      sites, often distant from the primary site of growth. Bone is a breeding ground for many
      types of cancer, especially those derived from breast, prostate and lung. Despite the
      enormous progress in diagnosis and therapeutic strategies, bone metastases still have a
      profound impact on quality of life and survival, being often responsible for the outcome of
      the disease. To improve the outcome of patients with poor prognosis, a deep knowledge of the
      mechanisms underlying dissemination, colonization and progression of cancer cells in the bone
      is necessary.

      The investigators therefore intend to clarify some pathogenic mechanisms involved in the
      growth of bone metastases, and to uncover predictive signs that underlie the spread of breast
      cancer cells to bone.

      Primary aim of the investigators is to deepen the role of the de-regulation of
      post-translational events, such as Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier- (SUMO) SUMO-ylation in the
      progression of breast cancer. The expression of SENP1 (a member of the SUMO-specific protease
      family) in bone metastatic and non-metastatic mammary carcinomas will be evaluated. The
      evaluation of the expression of SENP1 in bone metastases will be finalised to define a
      possible use as a therapeutic target. SENP1 could be a potential prognostic indicator of the
      neoplastic progression of breast cancer and a potential therapeutic target, but data on its
      participation in the process of metastasis to bone are still scarce. Moreover, the
      investigators try to deepen the knowledge of the interaction between tumour cells and bone
      microenvironment and the role of immunosurveillance as an important part of the immune
      response against to neoplastic cells. Finally, the investigators will analyze the role of
      autophagy and apoptosis in the dissemination and growth of metastases due to the capacity of
      autophagy to provide energy, nutrients and resistance to anoikis, and to promote the
      dissemination of cancer cells and metastatic growth.
    
  