
    
      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits.

        -  The name of the study device involved in this study is: NovoTTF-200A

        -  The name of the drug used in this study is: Pembrolizumab

        -  Eligible participants will be in this research study for up to 2 years, or until
           progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity as is reflected in the protocol.

        -  This is a Phase I/II clinical trial.

             -  A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety and toxicity of adding an investigational
                device NovoTTF-200A to standard-of-care drug Pembrolizumab to use for further
                studies.

             -  A Phase II clinical trial tests how well the combination works for your brain
                disease. "Investigational" means that the device is being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved NovoTTF-200A for your brain
      metastasis from melanoma.

      A metastatic brain tumor is usually found when a cancer patient begins to experience
      neurological symptoms and a brain scan (CT or MRI) is ordered. However, some participants are
      symptom-free and are only diagnosed with brain metastases with MRI or CT scans for another
      reason.

      The NovoTTF-200A System is a portable device which produces changing electrical fields,
      called Tumor Treatment Fields ("TTFields") within the human body. TTFields stop the growth of
      tumor cells resulting in cell death of the rapidly dividing cancer cells. TTFields may also
      sensitize the tumor cells to immune therapies and this is the rationale for combining
      NovoTTF-200A and Pembrolizumab.

      The system is a portable, light-weighted, battery operated device designed to deliver
      TTFields directly to the region where brain metastasis are. The device can be carried
      backpack while working or doing other activities of daily living.
    
  