
    
      NAION produces an ischemic insult in the optic nerve head presumably due to the hypoperfusion
      of the short ciliary arteries that supply it. This leads to the release of vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and swelling of the affected area of the nerve. Vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) causes a rapid and reversible increase in vascular
      permeability and thus vasogenic edema of the affected area of the optic nerve head.
      Subsequently, increased pressure from the swelling of the affected segment causes compression
      and infarction of the previously not affected parts of the optic nerve by creating a sort-of
      "compartment syndrome".

      Bevacizumab is a known anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) agent. It is the
      investigators hypothesis that by injecting bevacizumab intra-vitreally the vasogenic edema
      will be reduced, preserving viable but threatened optic nerve tissue. One recent case report
      described a patient with sequential NAION treated with intra-vitreal bevacizumab who
      demonstrated significant improvement in visual acuity and on visual field testing (1). An
      editorial in the same issue of the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology in which this article
      appeared suggested that if the small studies evaluating intra-vitreal injections of
      bevacizumab in NAION would support its use in this disease, a large multi-center trial could
      be planned (2).

      Intra-vitreal injections of bevacizumab have proven to be very safe in treatment of
      age-related macular degeneration (3). Because the patients that the investigators are
      planning to enroll in this study are faced with the real possibility of blindness with no
      therapeutic modality currently available to improve their visual outcome, the investigators
      believe that offering them intra-vitreal bevacizumab injection that might halt the
      progression of the visual acuity and visual field loss if our hypothesis is correct, would
      greatly improve their chances of avoiding blindness.
    
  