
    
      To confront the COVID-19 pandemic hospitals need to maximize bed availability and minimize
      the duration of patients' stay as much as possible. Given the constraints, physicians are
      neither able to investigate the long-term effects of COVID-19 nor able to optimize extended
      treatments beyond the hospital. Physicians also do not have time to keep patients mobile and
      lucid during their hospital stays, resulting in longer recovery periods and further
      complications for patients. The investigators propose the development of a tele-monitoring
      solution for the long-term monitoring of COVID-19 survivors. Such a solution will help save
      significant healthcare costs by reducing the number of plausible future hospitalizations due
      to patient complications, providing valuable insights to various stakeholders from doctors to
      policymakers on the long-term effects of COVID-19, and improving patient care and treatment.

      Using our team's existing bio-instrumentation technologies and years of experience, the
      investigators will develop a custom-designed miniaturized monitoring system capable of
      recording pulse oximetry (blood's oxygen level), blood pressure, heart rate and breathing and
      swallowing sounds. This solution will be non-invasive, easy to implement and will not require
      an assistant physically present. The system will be augmented by regular videoconferencing
      sessions with a medical practitioner. The frequency of the connection can be modified
      depending on the patient's condition and medical history in consultation with our team's
      physician.

      By running the proposed project on a large scale, the expected outcomes will be: 1)
      collection of reliable and objective information on the long-term impacts of COVID-19, 2)
      developing an all-in-one technology for future applications, 3) collection of objective and
      actionable information that can be used to optimize care and treatment plans for patients, 4)
      better care and treatment for all strata of society regardless of the remoteness of the
      residence, and 5) improved mental health and recovery of patients.

      The goal of this project is to provide COVID-19 survivors a point-of-care facility by using
      an interactive virtual program to measure 4 main vital biological signals (blood pressure,
      heart rate, pulse oximetry, and respiratory sounds (that include both tracheal and lung
      breathing and swallowing sounds) and assess cognitive status of individuals remotely at their
      own home. The specific objectives are:

        1. Assemble the existing and medically approved blood pressure and pulse oximetry
           miniaturized non-invasive devices along with a digital stethoscope, all to be connected
           to a smart phone operated by a custom-designed app to collect and store data on secure
           servers of the PI. One secure server is dedicated to the contact information of the
           patients and their unique codes, and another physically separate server is dedicated to
           patients' data after anonymizing.

        2. Schedule videoconferencing sessions for a Research Assistant (RA) to interact with the
           patient regularly to help with recording the signals remotely and assess the cognitive
           and mood of the patients at their home.

        3. Evaluate the above program on 20 COVID-19 patients for a period of 4 months.

        4. Analyse the collected data during the 4 months observation period, and identify any
           consistent pattern of the long-term effect of COVID-19.

        5. Disseminate the results in both scientific and public events, and plan future studies.
    
  