
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the safety of brentuximab vedotin, etoposide, prednisone and doxorubicin
           hydrochloride (AEPA)/cyclophosphamide, brentuximab vedotin, prednisone and dacarbazine
           (CAPDac), as well as the efficacy (early complete response) after 2 cycles of AEPA
           chemotherapy in high risk patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL).

        -  To compare the event-free survival in high risk HL patients treated with AEPA/CAPDac to
           the historical control unfavorable risk 2 arm (UR2) of the St. Jude HOD99 study.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To estimate the number of patients with adequate response according to the definitions
           in the Euro-Net C1 after 2 cycles of AEPA.

        -  To evaluate the safety of Adcetris (brentuximab vedotin) in the AEPA/CAPDac regimen in
           children with high risk HL.

        -  To describe acute hematologic, neuropathic, and infectious toxicities as they relate to
           transfusion requirements, growth factor support, episodes of febrile neutropenia and
           hospitalizations, according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology
           Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0.

        -  To study the association between local failure and original lymph node region and volume
           of radiation (patterns of treatment failure).

        -  To assess patient-reported symptoms and health-related quality of life in children with
           high risk HL compared to those treated on the unfavorable treatment arm of the St. Jude
           HOD99 study.

      OUTLINE:

      AEPA REGIMEN: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin on days 1, 8, and 15, etoposide on days 1
      to 5, prednisone three times daily (TID) on days 1 to 15, and doxorubicin hydrochloride on
      days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CAPDac REGIMEN: Patients receive cyclophosphamide on days 1 and 8, brentuximab vedotin days 1
      and 8, prednisone TID on days 1 to 15, and dacarbazine on days 1 to 3. Treatment repeats
      every 21-28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Beginning 2-3 weeks after CAPDac chemotherapy, patients with lymph nodes that do not go into
      remission after 2 courses of AEPA chemotherapy undergo radiation therapy daily, 5 days a week
      for 3-4 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  