
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by repetitive collapse or 'obstruction' of the
      pharyngeal airway during sleep. These obstructions result in repetitive hypopneas/apneas and
      cause intermittent hypoxia/hypercapnia, as well as surges in sympathetic activity. Such
      processes disturb normal sleep and impair neurocognitive function, often resulting in
      excessive daytime sleepiness and decreased quality of life. Furthermore, OSA is associated
      with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, making OSA a major health concern. Obesity is
      categorically the major risk factor for OSA, with available data indicating a prevalence of
      40% in obese men (BMI > 30kg/m2) and up to 90% in morbidly obese individuals (BMI > 40kg/m2).
      Given the prevalence of obesity has risen to epidemic proportions, with approximately 60% of
      adults considered overweight and 30% obese, it has become one of the world's leading health
      care concerns and research priorities. Importantly, as the prevalence of obesity continues to
      rise, so too does the number of individuals developing OSA. Surprisingly, despite the
      dominant role played by obesity in OSA pathogenesis, the precise mechanisms by which obesity
      leads to OSA are unclear

      Current evidence suggests that OSA pathogenesis involves the interactions of at least four
      physiological traits comprising 1) the pharyngeal anatomy and its propensity towards collapse
      2) the ability of the upper airway dilator muscles to activate and reopen the airway during
      sleep (i.e. neuromuscular compensation), 3) the arousal threshold from sleep (i.e. the
      propensity for hypopneas/apneas to lead to arousal and fragmented sleep) and 4) the stability
      of ventilatory feedback loop (i.e. loop gain). The potential mechanisms by which obesity may
      alter the four traits has to date not been carefully assessed. Specifically, obesity has been
      suggested to a) compromise the anatomy by decreasing the airway size and increasing its
      collapsibility, but it may also b) impair neuromuscular compensation by increasing the
      mechanical load placed on the upper airway muscles, c) increase the loop gain and destabilize
      breathing potentially via reductions in lung volume and increased chemosensitivity or d)
      increase the arousal threshold and thereby reduce the propensity to arouse from sleep which
      may offset some of the obesity-related deficits in the other traits. However, we do not know
      how obesity alters these four traits (in the same individual) and whether it involves
      predominantly one or several of the mechanistic pathways.

      Therefore the aim of our study is to determine the impact of obesity on the mechanisms
      underlying OSA. This will be achieved by making physiological measurements before and after
      weight-loss surgery (i.e. bariatric surgery). Specifically we will assess:

        1. The severity of OSA (apnea-hypopnea-index or AHI)

        2. The physiological traits responsible for OSA:

      i. Pharyngeal anatomy and its propensity towards collapse

      ii. The ability of the upper airway dilator muscles to activate and reopen the airway during
      sleep (i.e. neuromuscular compensation).

      iii. Arousal threshold from sleep (i.e. the propensity for hypopneas/apneas to lead to
      arousal and fragmented sleep).

      iv. Stability of ventilatory feedback loop (i.e. loop gain).
    
  