
    
      Up to 80% of stroke survivors return to community living arrangements, where post-stroke care
      is supported mostly by family and friends. Although family caring at home is cost effective
      from a societal perspective, the challenges of caregiving can be significant and often result
      in negative outcomes for the caregiver, particularly when the caregiver is older and more
      vulnerable to caregiving demands. Caregivers are advised to 'take care', yet receive little
      direction regarding how to accomplish self-care goals.

      The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of a self-care intervention for older,
      spouse caregivers of persons with stroke in reducing caregiving strain, promoting caregiver
      health and well-being, self-efficacy related to health, and in reducing depressive symptoms.
      A randomized, treatment/comparison, repeated-measures experimental design will be used to
      test the effectiveness of the theory-based, health-promoting treatment (Self-Care TALK)
      compared to usual care, for spouse caregivers age 55 and older. Subjects must be living with
      and caring for the stroke survivor, and the stroke must have been a first-ever stroke,
      occurring 6-36 months before enrollment.

      Subjects complete questionnaires at baseline (Time 1) before randomization to the treatment
      or comparison group. Treatment group subjects receive written materials related to self-care
      and health promotion for use during the TALK sessions. Self-Care TALK is implemented through
      6 weekly telephone sessions with advanced practice nurses. Sessions focus on several
      self-care topics, including: healthy habits, building self-esteem, focusing on the positive,
      avoiding role overload, communicating, and building meaning. Basic content is structured, but
      conversations are individualized with regard to each person's environment, abilities, and
      activities.

      All subjects complete questionnaires again at 8 weeks (Time 2), and 24 weeks (Time 3) after
      baseline. Data will be analyzed using linear mixed modeling and linear regression to
      determine the effect of participation in Self-Care TALK on the outcome variables. Treatment
      group subjects are hypothesized to have lower caregiving strain, higher perceived health,
      well-being, and self-efficacy related to health, and less depressive symptomatology than
      comparison group subjects. Promoting healthy outcomes for stroke caregivers is essential to
      fostering ability for continued home care of stroke survivors. Comparison group subjects
      receive written materials related to self-care and health promotion post Time 3.
    
  