
    
      Background:

      Gastroesophageal resection because of gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma is a
      massive surgical intervention. Nevertheless, surgery is the only treatment with significant
      long-term survival. Currently, gastroesophageal cancer surgery is performed with upper
      laparotomy followed by thoracotomy at the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology,
      Rigshospitalet, Denmark. However, minimal invasive techniques (MIT), e.g. robotic assisted
      laparoscopy, is in the progress of being implemented in this field as they are hypothesized
      to be more beneficial for the patients, and in some aspects better than conventional
      laparoscopic surgery [1]. The benefits of MIT are believed to be due to several factors, a
      smaller surgical stress response [2] and less pain [3] resulting in earlier mobilization, to
      mention a few.

      When reconstructing the gastrointestinal continuity, a gastric tube is prepared from the
      upper part of the remaining stomach. It is challenging to visualize, if the remaining stomach
      has adequate blood supply. Earlier studies have shown an up to 70 % reduction in blood flow,
      to the upper part of the remnant stomach [4-6], and ischemia is one of the most significant
      causes of anastomotic leakage [7, 8]. Anastomotic leakage occurs in up to 10 % of the
      patients and is fatal in up to 50 %. Furthermore, a recent study originated from the
      investigators department demonstrated, that patients experiencing anastomotic leakage after
      gastroesophageal cancer resection, have a significantly reduced long-term survival, even when
      early death and other postoperative complications were accounted for [9]. The overall 5-year
      survival rates in patients with and without anastomotic leakage were 20 and 35 %,
      respectively. Therefore, sufficient blood flow to the area of anastomosis is of paramount
      concern. Different techniques have been used in the attempt to assess the microcirculation
      during gastroesophageal resection [5, 10-13]. However, none of these techniques has proven to
      be practical, reliable, and time-efficient, and therefore not being routinely implemented in
      the clinical settings.

      During open gastroesophageal resection, hypotension is common (systolic blood pressure less
      than 90 mm Hg is experienced in more than 30 % of the patients) and is probably accompanied
      by a reduced gastric microcirculatory flow. The hypotension may be due to several factors;

        -  Sympathic nerve system blockage due to thoracic epidural neuraxial anesthesia: Several
           studies have found reduced splanchnic flow after epidural anesthesia, which was
           associated with a decrease in systemic resistance and mean arterial pressure [14, 15].
           The impact of the time-point for activation of epidural analgesia, on complications in
           the postoperative period is unknown. An unpublished study (Nielsen T: "Increased cardiac
           output after Whipple's procedure for pancreatic cancer") suggests that early activation
           during operation leads to significantly longer stay in the recovery ward after the
           surgery.

        -  The initial manipulation of viscera, results in a mesenteric traction reflex (also
           called eventration syndrome) with vasodilatation and secondary hypotension [16, 17]. The
           reason for mesenteric traction reflex is unknown, but is believed to be elicited by
           traction on the mesenterial blood vessels, resulting in a local release of prostacyclin
           (PGI2) from the endothelium. This reflex has mainly been shown to occur during
           pancreatic, gastric and aortic surgery, where manipulation of the mesenteric root is
           inevitable [18-21]. PGI2 is a potent vasodilatator, with inhibitory effect on platelet
           aggression and on vascular smooth cell proliferation [22-24].

      Microcirculatory measurements:

      Laser Speckle Contrast Imaging (LSCI) is a relatively new technique for microcirculatory
      monitoring. When laser light encounters a surface of an object, a random interference effect
      generates, called laser speckle contrast. The speckle pattern changes depending on the
      velocity of the object, and it is possible to get information regarding the object's
      movements, by the fluctuations in the speckle pattern. By measuring the concentration and
      velocity of blood cells, tissue perfusion may be assessed by LSCI technique. A real-time and
      non-touch measurement can be made on a large field (0.5 cm x 0.7 cm up to 15 cm x 20 cm). The
      camera is placed at a distance of 20-30 cm and measures the relative flow (flux) in the
      regions of interest. The measurement is at a depth of 1-2 mm by infrared light reflected from
      circulating erythrocytes in the micro-vessels.

      Hypothesis and aim:

      Robot-assisted laparoscopic surgery alters the hemodynamics and microcirculation in the
      splanchnic system by reduced release of vasoactive substances, such as PGI2, compared to open
      surgery. With this study, the investigators wish to evaluate hemodynamic fluctuations and
      gastric microcirculation, and correlate these to serum levels of PGI2 at different stages of
      surgery in robotic assisted laparoscopic surgery and open surgery, respectively.

      Methods:

      2 × 25 consecutive patients selected for robotic assisted laparoscopic or open surgery.
      Hemodynamic assessments are according to standardized methods. Blood samples will be drawn
      at: 1) after induction of anesthesia, 2) when the peritoneum is first entered, 3) after 15
      min. of surgery, 4) after liberation of stomach, 5) after abdominal skin closure, 6) after
      extraction of the gastric conduit into the thorax, 7) after formation of the anastomosis, 8)
      after thoracic skin closure, 9) 18 hours after surgery. LSCI will be used to measure the
      microcirculation at two locations (3 cm from the pylorus and just below the site of the
      anastomosis (the body)) on the stomach five times during open surgery, and twice during the
      thoracic part of robotic assisted laparoscopic surgery.

      Statistics:

      Statistical power-calculation is carried out on an expected difference of the occurrence of
      mesenteric traction reflex between patients operated with open vs. MIT. By using sample size
      of 50 comparing percentages where group one is 55 % and group two is 12 % [17], a requirement
      of 18 patients in each group is calculated in order to obtain a statistical power greater
      than 0.80 with a α-level of <0.05.
    
  