
    
      Background: Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) has become the most common
      healthcare-associated infection (HAI) in US hospitals, causing approximately 500,000
      infections and 30,000 deaths per year. Prevention of healthcare-onset (HO) CDI has quickly
      become a priority for many hospitals. Hospital prevention measures are limited to modifiable
      risk factors (i.e., prudent antibiotic use and limiting exposure to C. difficile). Hospital
      exposure to C. difficile can occur directly (i.e., hands or clothing of healthcare workers)
      or indirectly (i.e., environmental surfaces or shared equipment), so infection prevention
      measures focus on healthcare worker hand hygiene, barrier precautions (use of gowns and
      gloves) and cleaning of the hospital environment and reusable medical equipment. However,
      these interventions are limited to symptomatic patients who test positive for CDI.
      Asymptomatic patients serve as a reservoir for cross-contamination, but microbiological
      screening for asymptomatic carriage of C. difficile is not routinely performed in healthcare.
      Gloving for all patient contacts may interrupt transmission from asymptomatic patients
      colonized with C. difficile.

      Objectives: The overall purpose of the study is to determine the effectiveness of healthcare
      worker use of gloves for all patient contact (universal gloving) on reducing acquisition of
      C. difficile and hospital-onset CDI in inpatient hospital units. The main objective of the
      study is to compare the effects of universal gloving for all patient contact to the current
      standard of care (i.e., glove and gown use only for known CDI cases). The specific aims are:
      1) compare the effects of universal gloving for all patient contact to the current standard
      of care on C. difficile acquisition rates in hospitalized patients; 2) compare the effects of
      universal gloving compared to standard of care on CDI rates, other HAI rates, 30-day
      mortality, and unit length of stay; and 3) evaluate intervention fidelity, cost, and
      stakeholder experiences with universal gloving.

      Methods: The study will be a cluster randomized trial (CRT) in ten inpatient VA hospital
      units. Hospital units will be randomized either to implement universal gloving intervention
      or to continue standard of care. The universal gloving intervention will consist of all
      healthcare workers (nurses, providers, respiratory therapists, radiology and laboratory
      technicians, etc) utilizing gloves for all patient contacts in the units that are randomized
      to receive the intervention. The non-intervention units will follow standard of care which
      consists of healthcare workers using gowns and gloves only for patients with known CDI and
      other infections (e.g., MRSA). Unit-level data will be collected, including C. difficile
      acquisition and infection rates, mortality, length of stay, barrier precaution compliance,
      and end-user perceptions.
    
  