
    
      Newly diagnosed Multiple Myeloma patients who ineligible for a transplant have inferior
      outcomes compared to that of the transplant population. This is an area of high unmet need
      and calls for newer therapies with novel mechanisms of action to better improve survival in
      this non-transplant eligible (NTE) group. Currently NTE patients will be treated with a
      Bortezomib based or Lenalidomide based doublet or triplet regimen as first-line.

      Daratumumab is a monoclonal antibody that targets CD38 expressed at high levels on myeloma
      plasma cells. In phase 1/2 studies, it has demonstrated impressive single agent activity in
      relapse and refractory myeloma with a very acceptable toxicity profile and is a promising new
      treatment. This set the stage for combinations with daratumumab to increase efficacy and
      improve outcomes of patients in both the relapse refractory and newly diagnosed settings.
      Addition of daratumumab to any number of the backbone regimes have been shown to be of good
      efficacy. 2 phase 1 / 2 studies established the dosing regimen for Daratumumab as a single
      agent in patients who relapse after prior lenalidomide and bortezomib.

      More recently, results from 2 randomised studies comparing Daratumumab plus lenalidomide and
      dexamethasone compared to lenalidomide and dexamethasone, and Daratumumab plus bortezomib and
      dexamethasone compared to bortezomib and dexamethasone, showed that the addition of
      Daratumumab significantly improved response and progression free survival, including a high
      minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rate of more than 20% in the relapse myeloma
      populations.

      Another recent study showed that a different 4 drug combination of Daratumumab, bortezomib
      and Melphalan and Prednisolone in the front line setting of non-transplant Myeloma had
      promising response rates and was a quite tolerable combination.

      All the above Daratumumab trials demostrated that deeper responses are achieved by antibody -
      Proteasome inhibitor or Antibody - ImiD combinations. It is known that deeper response in
      myeloma are associated with longer progression free and overall survival. Hence this trial
      using the three drug combination of Daratumumab, Bortezomib and Dexamethasone is proposed to
      explore its efficacy by demonstarting an improvement in overall response rates, complete
      response rates and to document its safety/tolerability in our population.
    
  