
    
      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are nonhematopoietic progenitor cells isolated from adult
      tissues. These are characterized in vitro by their extensive proliferative ability in an
      uncommitted state while retaining the potential to differentiate along various lineages of
      mesenchymal origin, including chondrocyte, osteoblast, and adipocyte lineages, in response to
      appropriate stimuli.MSCs can be induced to undergo chondrogenic differentiation in vitro and
      in vivo. Centeno et al.in 2008 reported about the beneficial effects of autologous
      mesenchymal stem cells in osteoarthritis of knee. The regenerative effects of MSCs in
      osteoarthritis can be due to their ability to differentiate themselves into chondrocytes and
      structurally repair the articular cartilage. Recently, MSCs have been shown to possess many
      potent paracrine effects through secretion of various soluble factors which can influence the
      local tissue environment and exert protective effects with an end result of effectively
      stimulating regeneration in situ. Recently Amgad etal.in their study reported even more
      effective results with use of platelet rich plasma along with mesenchymal stem cells.
      Platelets play an instrumental role in the normal healing response via the localsecretion of
      growth factors and recruitment of reparative cells. Its use in orthopaedic began early in
      this decade as PRP was used with bone grafts to augment spinal fusion and fracture healing.

      Wakitani et al. in 1994 described repair of defects in articular cartilage in rabbits.Murphy
      et al.studied the effects of autologous mesenchymal stem cells in caprine knee joints.Quarto
      et al.reported the ability of mesenchymal stem cells to repair a large musculoskeletal defect
      with successful healing of a large bone defect in three patients. Centeno et al. reported one
      case in which they showed that isolated and expanded autologous mesenchymal stem cells when
      percutaneously injected into a knee with symptomatic and radiographic osteoarthritis,
      resulted in significant cartilage growth, decreased pain and increased joint mobility. Mishra
      et al. reported that PRP could enhance the chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs, and that
      TGFbeta and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling, which are factors present within PRP,
      were important for chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs.Hence present study is designed to
      study the efficacy of use of PRP enhanced mesenchymal stem cells in osteoarthritis knee.

      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES

        1. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of Platelet rich plasma enhanced autologous
           mesenchymal stem cells versus platelet rich plasma in knee osteoarthritis.

        2. To correlate the clinical improvement with the radiological findings.
    
  