
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the disease-free survival at 6 months and 1 year in patients with high-risk
           myeloid malignancies who undergo a reduced-intensity haploidentical hematopoietic stem
           cell transplantation (HSCT) supplemented with donor natural killer (NK) cells.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the in vivo expansion of a donor CD3- CD19- selected NK cell product
           administered after a preparative regimen of cyclophosphamide, fludarabine, and total
           body irradiation (TBI) and HSCT in these patients.

        -  To determine the rate of graft failure defined by absolute neutrophil count (ANC) <
           500/mm³ by day 28.

        -  To determine the incidence of grade III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) at 6
           months.

        -  To determine the rate of treatment-related mortality at day 100.

        -  To determine the incidence of chronic GVHD at 12 months.

        -  To determine the incidence of disease relapse at 12 months.

        -  To determine the incidence of post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder at 12 months.

      Correlative

        -  To correlate immune reconstitution of the in vivo expanded haploidentical NK cells with
           clinical outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

      Patients receive fludarabine intravenous (IV) over 1 hour on days -18 to -14 and
      cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -16 and -15. Patients receive cyclosporin A on Day
      -15 through Day -8. Patients undergo total body irradiation on day -13. Patients then receive
      an infusion of donor natural killer cells on day -12 and interleukin-2 subcutaneously on
      alternating days between days -12 to -2. Patients receive thymoglobulin (ATG) and undergo
      allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 90 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  