
    
      1. Objectives: This Quality of Life (QoL) outcomes project studies the ability of
           Percutaneous Colostomy (PC) to clinically benefit Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) patients'
           bowel management and, thereby, their lives. This project runs under an umbrella
           Investigational Device Exemption (IDE). Specific objectives include:

           Safety: Monitor adverse events, especially for any evidence suggesting that use of
           Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy (PEG) devices (high risk device) for PC might pose
           an unreasonable risk.

           Efficacy: Prospectively evaluate the ability of a PEG device to successfully function as
           a PC; the ability of a PC to work in its clinically indicated application; the ability
           of the application to yield clinical benefits; and the ability of the clinical benefit
           to impact QoL. Technical Questions: Seek insights on the use of Fluoroscopy and
           Re-Colonoscopy in PC placement.

        2. Research Design: In this 36-Month unblinded intervention trial, each SCI subject serves
           as his or her own control. Using a commercially available PEG tube, PC is placed
           colonoscopically, typically into the cecum. Technically, PC is directly analogous to
           PEG. Pre-and post-PC bowel function and QoL will be defined and compared. This will be
           the first rigorous prospective trial of endoscopic PC, especially for antegrade
           irrigation in SCI adults. This project is intended to be foundational, laying the
           groundwork for a variety of future studies.

        3. Methodology: Subjects are drawn from the general SCI population at Zablocki Veterans
           Affairs Medical Center (VAMC). These patients have already been pre-screened for
           prevalence of bowel dysfunction, compliance, interest in research participation, and
           specific case finding. The investigators will mail a 7-Day Diary of bowel management to
           the 111 potential subjects that the investigators identified as having bowel management
           significantly impact their QoL. Successful completion of the 7-Day Diary will serve as a
           secondary compliance screen and define baseline bowel function. If the subject is
           interested in PC, additional evaluations, including psychological testing and an
           SCI-Specific, 20-question, QoL instrument will be undertaken pre-PC. Repeated measures
           at approximately 12 months will allow determination of physiological efficacy and impact
           on QoL. Additional characterization of each subject may also allow us to retrospectively
           define predictors of success related to bowel motility, clinical characteristics,
           psychosocial factors, etc.

           Underlying this Outcomes study is a standard Safety and Efficacy evaluation of the PC
           procedure, itself. Details of technical aspects of implantation, risk attenuation
           strategies, and data monitoring / reporting are outlined in cooperation with the FDA.
           This IDE covers 25 patients but only under the direct supervision of Drs. Otterson or
           Berger and only at the Zablocki VAMC.

        4. Clinical Relationships: The potential clinical impact of PC is large. There are 45,000
           SCI Veterans and 200,000 SCI patients across the country. If the sample is
           representative, 20% or more of these may benefit from PC. The secondary impact on
           healthcare costs, caregiver burden, and even employability is yet to be determined.
    
  