
    
      Clopidogrel, in addition to aspirin, is the cornerstone of therapy in patients suffering from
      Acute coronary syndrome. However, the platelet inhibitory response to clopidogrel varies
      substantially among individuals. Several loss-of-function polymorphisms have been identified
      that may influence clinical outcome in patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes
      (ACS) who are treated with clopidogrel.

      Mounting evidence suggests a crucial role for the loss-of-function CYP2C19*2 genetic variant.
      Carriers of CYP2C19*2 allele were at 30% higher risk for major adverse clinical events
      compared to non-carriers. CYP2C19*2 alone was also associated with increased mortality and
      stent thrombosis. These findings led the American Food and Drug Administration to issue a
      boxed warning for clopidogrel stating that poor metabolizers may not receive the full benefit
      of the drug. Thus, routine genotyping in the context of dual anti-platelet therapy is
      necessary.

      Individual dual anti-platelet treatment is feasible to give the presence of treatment
      alternatives such as ticagrelor that is not dependent on gene-based metabolic activation and
      demonstrated greater clinical efficacy than clopidogrel. Individualized administration of
      ticagrelor may have the potential to successfully minimize adverse ischemic events.

      200 patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for treatment of
      non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome or stable coronary artery disease will be eligible
      for enrollment. Patients will be randomly assigned to a strategy of genotyping(using Taqman
      genotyping method) or standard treatment . CYP2C19*2 carriers will be given 90 mg ticagrelor
      twice daily, and non-carriers and patients in the standard treatment group will be given 75
      mg clopidogrel daily. At the end of the 5 day antiplatelet treatment, efficacy of the
      treatment strategies will be evaluated using light transmittance aggregometry (LTA) method.
    
  