
    
      CURRENT STATE OF KNOWLEDGE ON PATHOLOGY :

      SARS-CoV-2 is the causative agent of a new infectious respiratory disease called Covid-19
      (for CoronaVirus Disease 2019) which is characterized primarily by potentially serious and
      fatal lung damage. The seriousness of the clinical signs associated with this pathology
      requires hospital admission of approximately 20% of patients, of which 5 to 10% will be
      admitted to intensive care. The more severe forms, though seen mainly in people over 60 years
      old, also occur in younger patients, most of whom are affected by comorbidities such as
      hypertension (30%), diabetes (17 %) or cardiovascular pathologies (15%). The mortality due to
      this infection varies according to the series between 2 and 14%. The most severe cases of
      this pathology begin with dyspnea which rapidly worsens around the 7th to 10th day of the
      disease into Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) which requires the patient to be
      mechanically ventilated in the intensive care unit. and is responsible for the majority of
      deaths. ARDS is an active feature of severe forms of Sars-Cov-2 infection, directly linked to
      the mortality of this infection. The clinico-radiological aspect is not specific to other
      aetiologies of ARDS. Certain biological parameters suggest a massive and sudden release of
      cytokines (interleukins IL-6, IL-8 and IL-10 mainly) secondary to a syndrome of macrophage
      activation mainly at the pulmonary level. This cytokine storm is comparable to that of
      secondary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis which occurs in approximately 4% of sepsis and
      is accompanied, in 50% of cases, by ARDS. The effect of this inflammatory cascade leads to an
      uncontrolled influx and activation of polynuclear and macrophagic cells with hyperproduction
      of oxygen-derived free radicals. These reactive species will damage the capillary alveolar
      membrane with initially hyperpermeability, and secondarily with fibrosis and fibroblast
      proliferation.

      Several therapeutic trials aimed at reducing or controlling this immune storm are underway
      (anti-IL-6 antibodies, anti-r IL6 antibodies, corticosteroids).

      PROPOSED STRATEGY, PURPOSE AND NOVELTY OF THE STUDY :

      There are many theoretical, preclinical and clinical arguments to suggest that the
      administration of molecular hydrogen (H2) could, by the original anti-inflammatory effect of
      H2, help to avoid the cytokine storm. These arguments justified the launch of clinical trials
      proposing the inhalation of H2 (the investigators submitted to the French Ministry of Health
      (ANSM) a protocol, which has just been accepted by the ANSM, providing for the inhalation of
      H2 in patients Covid-19 at the start of oxygen therapy). As will be described in the next
      section, inhalation delivers significantly more H2 than ingestion of water saturated with H2.
      However, the inhalation of H2 involves a complex intervention, which in practice can only be
      considered late, as it can only be implemented for the benefit of hospitalized patients,
      typically in addition to oxygen therapy.

      However, the arguments in favor of the potential interest of H2 in preventing the
      consequences of the cytokine storm apply particularly at the very beginning of the pathology:
      it would be very useful to be able to prevent not the consequences, but the occurrence of
      this storm, which would imply a very early intervention. It is this thinking that motivates
      this clinical trial.

      The investigators hypothesis is that the early ingestion of water enriched in H2, through its
      anti-inflammatory effect, could prevent the complications of Covid-19 in the short, medium
      and long term. The investigators have found no evidence of any clinical study proposing to
      explore this original route, which does not use a drug, but a product classified and marketed
      as a dietary supplement.

      To be able to demonstrate this effect, it is preferable to address a population in which the
      prevalence of complications is high. The investigators have therefore chosen to target
      patients over the age of 60, in whom the complication rate is of the order of 50%. To explore
      the effect of a very early administration of H2, the investigators will limit themselves to
      patients at the very beginning of the pathology, symptomatic for no more than 5 days with the
      realization of a nasopharyngeal sample for COVID- 19, or asymptomatic contact subjects
      diagnosed with COVID + by RT-PCR or antigen test, the contagion dating no more than 10 days,
      and who may remain at home, without treatment or with routine care not requiring oxygen
      therapy. The patients in the interventional arm will self-administer H2, by ingesting 2 x 250
      mL for 21 days, i.e. 0.5 L of water enriched in H2 per day, which they will manufacture
      themselves by dissolving 80 mg tablets of Mg metal (supplied by DrinkHRW, British Columbia,
      Canada): this was the method which seemed to us to be the simplest and easiest to implement
      for self-administration at home. Patients in the control group will receive an effervescent
      placebo tablet containing the same dose of Mg, but in ionic form, unable to generate H2 on
      contact with water.

      The primary endpoint will be a composite endpoint combining worsening of symptoms (dyspnea
      and fatigue), putting on 02, hospitalizations and death occurring within 12 to 14 days
      following a PCR COVID-19 + diagnosis.

      CURRENT KNOWLEDGE ON THE EXPLORATIONS PROVIDED FOR BY THE PROTOCOL :

      Molecular hydrogen (H2) acts on the final path of the complex inflammatory cascade leading to
      the cytokine storm, by inhibiting the cellular action of reactive oxygen species.

      Although the first study on the protective effects of hydrogen reported in the literature
      dates back to the 1970s, it is an experimental study on the therapeutic effects of molecular
      hydrogen in a model of cerebral infarction in rats which really constituted the starting
      point for numerous experimental works in animals and humans. This study showed that hydrogen
      enrichment (2-4%) of inspired air significantly decreases the volume of necrosis resulting
      from experimental cerebral ischemia in rats. The authors' interpretation was that the
      protective effect of molecular hydrogen was due to an antioxidant action linked to its
      reducing properties and its ability to diffuse easily through cell membranes. However, other
      studies quickly showed that the antioxidant and anti-free radical properties of hydrogen
      alone are not sufficient to explain the anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic effects of
      hydrogen administration. Thus, a study have shown that hydrogen inhibits the intracellular
      signaling pathways of inflammation without involving anti-free radical effects.

      In addition, inhalation of hydrogen (2.9%) also limits the activation of mast cells. Finally,
      a study showed that two 60-minute sessions of inhalation of a gas mixture containing 2%
      hydrogen made it possible to limit lesions and mortality of multiple organs in a model of
      generalized inflammation in mice. The same authors have shown that inhalation of hydrogen
      restores the PaO2 / FiO2 ratio, both in a mouse model of sepsis by cecal ligation and in a
      model of lung disease induced by lipopolysaccharides (LPS). In view of the current data in
      the literature, the application of a treatment with molecular hydrogen makes it possible to
      trigger many potentially protective mechanisms in a hyperinflammatory context, such as sepsis
      and very probably Covid-19, by trapping hydroxyl radicals and peroxynitrite, by limiting
      inflammatory reactions by modulating intracellular transduction cascades and by modifying the
      expression of certain genes. This has been confirmed and specified in the case of Covid-19 by
      a very recent publication.

      Several routes of administration have been used for hydrogen, they have been widely
      implemented in the clinic. The most widely used today, both in animals and in clinical trials
      in humans, are the ingestion of drinking water enriched in hydrogen and the inhalation of a
      gas mixture containing up to 4% of hydrogen. The inhalation route allows for the
      administration of much larger amounts of H2 than ingestion of H2 enriched water. In fact, as
      Ohta reports, inhalation makes it possible to permanently maintain a high concentration of H2
      in the liquid compartments, whereas, less than an hour after ingestion of water enriched in
      H2, the concentration in the organism of molecular hydrogen returns to its baseline.

      The preparation of water enriched with H2 can be done in several ways, and consumers have
      access to it in the context of "general public" products, excluding health products,
      considered as well-being products or as food supplements. Multiple CE marked water
      electrolysis devices are available on the French market, they can easily be implemented at
      home by interested consumers (see for example http://www.alkavoda.com/product/hydrogen-
      water-generator / or https://www.lifeionizers.com/products/alkaline-water-ionizers/).
      Hydrogenated water can also be produced industrially by electrolysis, and distributed in the
      form of flexible aluminum bags (see for example https://susosuwater.com/products/packages).
      Finally, the consumer can produce his hydrogenated water himself, by dissolving a tablet of
      magnesium metal in a cup (see for example https://drinkhrw.com/, which will provide us with
      the 80 mg tablets of Mg metal). Mg metal reacts spontaneously with water, according to the
      reaction Mg + 2H20 -> Mg (OH) 2 + H2. This last approach allows to have a hydrogen
      supersaturation for about 10 minutes, then the H2 concentration returns to the saturation
      limit (800 micromoles / L), with a half-life of one hour thereafter. The investigators will
      therefore recommend that the patient dissolve one Mg tablet in 250 mL of water twice a day,
      to drink as much water as possible (ideally at least 200 mL) immediately after dissolving
      this tablet (approximately 90 mL/s), and the rest as soon as possible, while remaining within
      the limits of an ingestion deemed comfortable by the patient.

      No side effects of the administration of H2 could be demonstrated by the numerous preclinical
      and clinical studies. Some studies have even been carried out with high pressure gas mixtures
      (60 bars) containing 49% H2, which corresponds to a considerably greater administration of H2
      than inhalation of mixtures with 4% H2 at atmospheric pressure, and therefore even more than
      what can be administered by ingestion (this was during deep diving experiments, the mixture
      was used to prevent decompression sickness and arterial thrombi. There are traces at
      https://clinicaltrials.gov/ of 20 clinical trials involving inhalation or ingestion of
      hydrogen, but there are more globally, as research in this area is much more active in Japan
      , not all of the trials of which are listed on this site, and more recently in China, where
      two trials on the benefit of inhalation of H2 in Covid-19 by an original method have been
      launched, one of which is still in progress. A first publication highlights the protective
      effect against the complications of Covid by inhaling a mixture containing 66% H2. Regarding
      the ingestion of water enriched in H2, Ohta lists numerous clinical trials. The investigators
      carried out a literature review themselves, which found a total of 410 patients included in
      clinical trials involving the ingestion of water enriched in H2. Among the recent trials
      whose methodology is similar to that which the investigators are considering, the
      investigators note a Japanese double-blind randomized trial including 178 patients with
      Parkinson's disease, patients in the interventional arm received 1 L of H2-saturated water
      for 48 weeks: no side effects has been noted. Finally, note the recent mini-review which
      concludes that the ingestion of water supersaturated with H2 (and also containing citrulline)
      is of potential interest in COVID-19.

      Finally, it should be noted that the FDA has published a note classifying hydrogen-enriched
      water as GRAS (Generally Regarded As Safe), see
      http://www.rexresearch.com/bghealth/ucm409796.pdf and more specifically published a note
      accepting the tablets designed by DrinkHRW as "New Dietary Ingredient", specifying the
      conditions of use that the investigators will implement in this project.

      Since the discovery of the first cases of Covid-19 in China, different strategies have been
      adopted to contain the inflammatory response of patients through antioxidant approaches. In
      this context, at least three pilot studies
      [https://www.cebm.net/covid-19/registered-trials-and-analysis/] and one multicenter clinical
      study [https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show / NCT04336462? Cond = hydrogen + covid + 19 & draw
      = 2 & rank = 1] have been launched in China since January 2020, using the reducing properties
      of molecular hydrogen. The first results of these studies have been very encouraging, to such
      an extent that the Chinese health authorities have included hydrogen therapy in the
      guidelines on the management of patients hospitalized with moderate Covid-19 [Diagnosis and
      Treatment Protocol for Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia (Trial Version 7), National Health
      Commission & State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine. March 3, 2020].
    
  