
    
      Dementia is associated with a major decrease in quality of life of clients and their
      caregivers and a major driver of costs in health care. Recently, evidence was found for the
      effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a community-based occupational therapy (OT)
      intervention for older adults with dementia and their caregivers (COTiD program). This
      intervention resulted in significant improvements in both clients' and caregivers' daily
      functioning, quality of life, mood and health status. In addition, caregivers experienced an
      increased sense of competence.

      Currently occupational therapists (OTs) are trained in using the program during a 3-day
      course. In a pilot implementation study it was found that this course was not effective
      enough as only 20% of the OTs actually used the COTiD program in practice because of a lack
      of implementation skills, feedback and organisational barriers. In order to increase the use
      of this program and increase the quality of care a new implementation strategy is developed.
      This combined implementation strategy provides the OTs with two implementation training days,
      coaching on the job, regional meetings, discussion platform, web-based registration system
      and newsletters. In addition physicians and managers are provided with extra information on
      the COTiD program.

      The current study is designed primarily to evaluate the following research questions:

        -  What is the difference in adherence to the community OT guideline in dementia between
           OTs receiving the combined implementation strategy and OTs receiving the educational
           strategy?

        -  What is the difference in community OT use(referral rate + actual provision of OT)
           between clusters provided with the combined implementation strategy and clusters
           provided with the educational strategy?

        -  What is the difference in cost-effectiveness between the combined implementation
           strategy and the educational strategy with regard to adherence of OTs to the community
           OT guideline?

      In addition the effect of the implementation strategies on patient and caregiver outcomes
      will also be measured.
    
  