
    
      TITLE The Effect of Fermentable Carbohydrate on Weight Management and Glycaemic Control in
      People at High Risk of Developing DMT2

      AIMS To assess the effect of fermentable carbohydrate in subjects with pre-diabetes on:

        1. Appetite regulation

        2. Glucose homeostasis and B-cell function

        3. Weight loss and changes in body composition

        4. Weight loss maintenance

        5. Markers of Oxidative Stress

      DESIGN The investigators plan to conduct 3 investigations. Investigation 1 and 2 are
      Randomised Crossover Control Trials of 14 days supplementation with 30g of inulin
      (fermentable carbohydrate) or a cellulose (non fermentable carbohydrate) control to firstly
      describe the physiology and mechanisms behind appetite regulation and glucose homeostasis.
      Investigation 3 is a Randomised Control Parallel Study of weight loss followed by weight
      maintenance to assess the efficacy of fermentable carbohydrate to decrease risk of T2DM.

      POPULATION Overweight and obese men or women with pre-diabetes.

      TREATMENT Participants in the treatment arm in all 3 investigations will consume inulin 3
      times per day (total daily dose: 30g). Participants in the placebo arm in all 3
      investigations will be taking cellulose 3 times a day (total daily dose: 30g).

      DURATION Investigation 1 will last 16 weeks. Investigation 2 will last 18 weeks.
      Investigation 3 will last 18 weeks.

      BACKGROUND

      Type 2 Diabetes (DMT2) is a major health concern in the UK, as it is worldwide. The increased
      prevalence of DMT2 in the UK is closely linked with the increased prevalence of obesity, with
      the risk for diabetes estimated to increase by 4.5-9 percent with every kilogram weight
      gained (1). Pre-diabetes is also associated with an increase in body weight, and is a
      critical step in the development of T2DM.

      Having pre-diabetes also increases the risk for cardiovascular disease. It is thought this is
      due to the hyperglycaemia and glycaemic variability seen in the pre-diabetic state. Both
      hyperglycaemia and glycaemic variability are associated with oxidative stress. Oxidative
      stress is postulated to cause endothelial damage which can lead to cardiovascular disease.
      Reductions in hyperglycaemia and glycaemic variability may cause a reduction in oxidative
      stress.

      A number of gut hormones - released physiologically in response to food - have been shown to
      powerfully inhibit human appetite and inhibit food intake and glucose homeostasis (2). Two of
      these gut hormones, glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and peptide YY (PYY) are released from
      the neuroendocrine L-cell in the colon, and have demonstrable appetite suppressive effects in
      animals and humans (3-6). GLP-1 also improves glycaemic control by stimulating pancreatic
      B-cells to secrete insulin in a glucose-dependent manner, inhibits glucagon release and
      reduces hepatic glucose output (7-9). Long-term treatment with GLP-1 agonists has been shown
      to cause significant weight loss in humans (10).

      Work by ourselves and others in rodents have shown that dietary fermentable carbohydrates
      (FCHOs) can significantly increase circulating PYY and GLP-1 levels while suppressing
      appetite centres in the hypothalamus (11-12). This results in lower body fat and abdominal
      fat with no overall effect on weight; however as abdominal fat is an important cardiovascular
      risk factor in diabetes, this effect is likely to be favourable to health (13-14). In humans,
      there are a number of short-term studies that report an increase in satiety following
      consumption of FCHOs (15-16)and a year-long study of children consuming the FCHO inulin
      showed significant weight loss compared to controls (17). FCHO has also been shown to
      increase insulin sensitivity, reduce post-prandial blood glucose levels and enhance lipid
      oxidation in overweight subjects with and without diabetes (18,19), effects that may be
      mediated by the FCHO induced GLP-1 increase (GLP-1 was not measured in these studies). Even
      short-term consumption of FCHO in healthy subjects has a similar effect on glycaemic control
      (20).

      STUDY DESIGN

      Inulin will be used as the FCHO supplement in all 3 investigations. Inulin has no known
      effect on the small bowel, being fully fermented in the large bowel. Inulin is therefore
      ideally suited for the investigation of large bowel fermentation on human appetite, glycaemic
      control and weight maintenance. Test

      SCREENING PROCEDURE

        1. Telephone screening will identify the members of this cohort who meet the initial
           screening criteria of:

           Adults over 18 years of age, Participants with no major metabolic disease - including
           diabetes, no known/diagnosed gastrointestinal problem such as inflammatory bowel
           disease, irritable bowel syndrome etc and no drug or alcohol abuse in the last 2 years.

        2. At the Sir John McMichael Centre, participants will undergo the following:

      An oral glucose tolerance test.

      A blood sample of 30ml will be taken for full blood count, liver function tests,
      electrolytes, thyroid function tests, HbA1c, and glucose.

      Body weight and height will be recorded.

      DETAILED PROTOCOL

      APPETITE STUDY SESSIONS

      Visit 1, 2, 3 & 4 in Investigation 1.

      Participants arrive fasted overnight (10 hour fast). After explanation of the procedures and
      confirmation that the participant is happy to proceed, body weight is recorded.

      A cannula is inserted in a forearm vein facilitating blood sampling throughout the day. Two
      baseline blood samples are withdrawn. Visual analogue scales (VAS) are completed every time a
      blood sample is drawn. The sampling scheme is presented below. A total of 80ml of blood will
      taken during investigation 1 appetite study days, and a total of 115ml be withdrawn during
      each appetite study visit in investigation 3. Visual Analogue scales to assess appetite will
      be completed each time a blood sample is taken. The Visual Analogue Scale questions include:
      "How full do you feel right now?" and "How hungry do you feel right now?" and "How much could
      you eat right now?". They will answer by making a vertical mark on a ten centimetre line
      anchored with the terms "not at all" and "extremely". Similarly, side-effects such as nausea,
      sickness, flatulence, bloating, diarrhoea, and general well-being will be assessed.

      At time 0, breakfast is served and participants will have 20 minutes to consume the meal.
      Lunch is served at 240 minutes, and the meal test is served at 440 minutes after the last
      blood sample is taken.

      During the study session, participants will be asked to minimize physical activity. Water is
      allowed freely, though participants will be requested not to drink less than 10 minutes prior
      to a blood sample and VAS completion. At 440 minutes, a pre-weighed meal is served. The meal
      is served in excess and participants are asked to eat until comfortably full. A jug of water
      is served with the meal and the water intake will also be recorded.

      In investigation 3, the study sessions will be shorter, consisting of a breakfast and a meal
      test at lunch.

      ONE TO ONE DIETARY COUNSELLING

      In Investigation 3, all participants will receive dietary counselling at weeks 1, 2, 4, and
      7. The instruction given to the participants will be individualised based on current weight
      and energy requirements, consistent with the usual package of care that would be offered
      within a dietitian clinic. The participants will be instructed to aim for 5% weight loss over
      9 weeks.

      SUPPLEMENTATION UNDER FREE-LIVING CONDITIONS

      The supplement will be provided in sachets (containing 10g portions). During the run-in
      period the daily intake will gradually be increased to 30g per day over 4 weeks. During this
      run-in period the investigators will contact the participants via e-mail or telephone twice
      to ensure the fibre supplementation has no un-toward side-effects and ensure that
      instructions are followed and answer any questions the participants may have. The subjects
      then take 30g a day until the end of the study (at 6 weeks for investigation 1 or 18 weeks in
      investigation 3).

      WASHOUT PERIOD

      In investigations 1 and 2 there will be a wash out period of 4 weeks before the subject
      crosses over the the alternate supplementation.

      DIETARY RECORDS, APPETITE AND SIDE-EFFECTS

      A 3-day dietary record is to be completed for the 3 days preceding visits 1, 2 and 3 during
      Investigation 1, and visits 1, 6 and 7 during Investigation 3. On the same days, appetite
      sensation and side-effects will be assessed using visual analogue scales. The Visual Analogue
      Scale questions include: "How full did you feel after eating meals today?" and "How hungry
      did you feel between meals today?". They will answer by making a vertical mark on a ten
      centimetre line anchored with the terms "not at all" and "extremely". Similarly, side-effects
      such as nausea, sickness, flatulence, bloating, diarrhoea, and general well-being will be
      assessed.

      METHODS FOR ASSESSING INSULIN AND GLUCOSE HOMOSTASIS MEAL TOLERANCE TEST Participant will
      attend the clinical investigation unit a 12 hour fast. A cannula will be placed in their
      forearm. Three fasting blood samples will be taken (-30, -15 and 0). A standard test meal of
      one Kellogg's breakfast bar and an Ensure Plus will be given. Blood will be taken at 0, 5,
      10, 15, 20, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180 amd 240 mins. This will be used to calculate
      Glucose profile, basal insulin response, dynamic phase insulin, static phase insulin
      sensitivity, DI=Dynamic phase insulin X Static phase insulin, GIP and GLP-1 response.

      Free living glucose monitoring: Medtronic iPro Continuous Glucose Monitor will be used to
      assess 5-day continuous glucose monitoring. 5-day continuous glucose monitoring to assess
      "free living" glucose homeostasis. This interstitial fluid glucose data will be analysed for
      mean glucose and glycaemic variability measures including Mean Amplitude Glycaemic Excursions
      (MAGE), Continuous Overlapping Net Glycaemic Action (CONGA) and risk indices such as Low
      Blood Glucose Index (LBGI), High Blood Glucose Index (HBGI) and average daily risk ratio
      (ADRR). For the participant this will mean having a small plastic cannula place in the
      subcutaneous tissue in their abdomen. The participants will also be required to take 3
      finger-prick glucose measurements on 4 successive days while wearing the CGM.

      WHOLE BODY MRI SCANNING In investigation 3, whole body anatomical MR scanning will be
      performed to determine total and regional fat volumes, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRS) performed to measure lipid content in the internal organs, such as liver (IHCL) and
      muscles (IMCL), such as soleus and tibialis.

      Participants will attend the Robert Steiner MRI unit at Hammersmith Hospital after a 10h
      overnight fast. The study visit will last 1 hour. Participants are asked to refrain from
      strenuous exercise and drinking alcohol the day before each visit.

      Firstly subjects will complete a metal check form. Next subjects will change into hospital
      clothes and be asked to lie on the trolley in the scanner. Subjects lie supine or prone in
      the scanner and are automatically moved through the scanner. While in the scanner
      participants will have access to a buzzer to sound an alarm, and will be able to hear and
      respond to instructions from the scanning console. Subjects will be in the MRI scanner for up
      to 1 hour. Scanning will be performed on either the Philips 3.0 Tesla or Philips 1.5 Tesla MR
      scanners in the Robert Steiner MRI Unit at the Hammersmith Hospital. None of the magnetic
      resonance imaging techniques to be used employs ionising radiation or intravenous contrast
      agents. Participants will also have their weight, height, waist and hip circumference
      recorded with a tape measure.
    
  