
    
      Researchers want to learn if a CD133+ selected autologous stem cell transplant can help to
      control the disease in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma. After your cells are collected,
      they will be treated in the cell processing lab using the CliniMACS device. This device will
      separate out the CD133+ cells. These selected cells will then be given back to you on the day
      of transplant.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have a small plastic
      tube placed in the collar bone area or the femoral vein (groin area). This is called a
      central venous catheter (CVC). You will sign a separate consent form for the CVC placement
      and the general anesthesia that is given. There may be several weeks between the collection
      of stem cells and the reinfusion of these cells after high-dose chemotherapy. If the CVC is
      placed in the femoral vein, the CVC will be removed after the stem cells are collected and a
      new CVC will be placed in the collar bone before you are admitted for the stem cell
      transplant. The CVC will be used for chemotherapy, fluids, blood products, stem cells, and
      other medications. The CVC will remain until it is no longer needed (usually 2-3 months).

      To help move the needed stem cells from your bone marrow to your blood, a drug called
      granulocyte colony-stimulating factor G-CSF (filgrastim) will be injected under the skin.
      These injections may be given once a day for Days 2-7. You or your caregiver will be taught
      how to give the injections at home. After 2 days of filgrastim injections, a blood sample
      (about 4 teaspoons each time) will be drawn each day until you begin leukapheresis. This
      blood test is used to check the number of stem cells and to watch for possible side effects.
      You will then be instructed to either continue with the daily injections or stop. When the
      number of stem cells in the blood is high enough, you will go to the MD Anderson Apheresis
      Unit to have your stem cells collected.

      The procedure to collect your stem cells is called leukapheresis. It is similar to donating
      platelets to a blood bank. For this procedure, the stem cells will be removed from the blood
      through the CVC, and the remaining blood will be given back to you through the CVC. You will
      have one leukapheresis procedure per day, for 1-5 days in a row, until enough stem cells are
      collected for the transplant. "Back-up" cells (extra cells collected during the leukapheresis
      procedure) will also be collected. These cells will be stored in the cell processing lab and
      may given back to you later if your white cell count does not recover. Each leukapheresis
      procedure takes about 4-6 hours. This research study will use the CliniMACS device to process
      the blood and separate the cells needed for transplantation. Researchers will test a small
      sample of the collected cells to see if any tumor cells that might be present in the blood
      before using the CliniMACS device are no longer present in the processed blood after using
      the device.

      Carboplatin and etoposide are designed to interfere with the growth of cancer cells by
      stopping cell division, and melphalan is designed to damage the DNA (the genetic material) of
      cells. The combination of carboplatin, etoposide, and melphalan causes a large amount of bone
      marrow cells to die, which stops blood cells from being produced as normal. In order to try
      to restart the production of blood cells, an autologous stem cell transplant is often
      performed. For an autologous transplant, stem cells are removed from the blood. Usually when
      stem cells are collected, they are either given back to the patient as collected, or else a
      smaller group of cells that have a certain "marker" on their cell surface is selected
      (separated out) before being given back to the patient. The CliniMACS device is a machine
      that processes blood and separates the cells needed for transplantation. The CliniMACS device
      is designed to select stem cells with a different marker on the cell surface than is normally
      selected. The marker is called CD133+, and researchers believe that transplanting cells that
      have this marker will make the infused cells less likely to be contaminated with
      neuroblastoma cells, compared to the standard method of cell selection.

      After 5 days of leukapheresis procedures, if the number of stem cells collected is lower than
      a certain level, you will no longer be eligible to take part in the study.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. If these tests
      have been performed recently, they may not need to be repeated. To check the status of the
      disease, you will have CT scans, bone marrow aspirations and biopsies, and a chest x-ray. The
      CT scans will be performed on the chest, abdomen, and pelvis (and if needed, the brain). To
      collect a bone marrow biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic, and
      a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large needle. You will have a
      pulmonary function test (to measure lung function), an echocardiogram (to measure heart
      function), and an electrocardiogram (EKG -- a test to measure the electrical activity of the
      heart). You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (such as blood
      pressure and heart rate), height, and weight. Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests and to check for diseases such as hepatitis and HIV. Females who are able to
      have children must have a negative urine pregnancy test. You will also have a 12 or 24-hour
      urine test before carboplatin can be given. For this test, you will collect your urine over
      12 or 24 hours. You will be provided with a container to collect the urine in. This test will
      be used to help decide the dosing of carboplatin that you receive.

      After enough stem cells are collected, and at a time decided upon by your neuro-oncologist
      and transplantation doctors, you will be admitted to the hospital to receive fluids and then
      the chemotherapy drugs carboplatin, etoposide, and melphalan, according to the standard
      schedule. After the chemotherapy, you will have 3 "rest" days where no chemotherapy is given.

      On the day after the third rest day, your stem cells will be infused back into your CVC. To
      help speed up the recovery of your white blood cells, a drug called filgrastim will be
      injected under the skin. You will receive a filgrastim injection under the skin once a day,
      until the white blood cell count recovers (usually 2-3 weeks). You may also receive standard
      antibiotics, fluids, and/or other medications, if your doctor feels it is necessary based on
      symptoms you may have. While you are in the hospital, you will have physical exams once a
      day. Blood (about 4 teaspoons each time) will be drawn about 3-7 days per week, until your
      blood counts are fully recovered and any side effects of the chemotherapy have resolved. At
      that time, you will be able to leave the hospital.

      From the time you leave the hospital until about Day 60, you will have follow-up visits at
      least once per week. At these visits, you will have a physical exam. Blood (about 4 teaspoons
      each time) will be drawn for routine tests. However, your participation in this study will
      not be over until after your annual follow-up at which time you will have a medical history
      and physical exam, blood (about 4 teaspoons) drawn for routine tests, and a CT scan.

      If the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur at any time in this study, you
      will be taken off study.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in this study are commercially
      available and FDA approved for use in neuroblastoma. The CliniMACS device is not commercially
      available or FDA approved. It has been authorized for use in research only.

      Up to 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at The University of
      Texas (UT) MD Anderson.
    
  