
    
      Background: Schistosomiasis is classified as among the world's neglected tropical diseases
      (NTD). Morbidity due to Schistosoma mansoni (S.mansoni) is greatest among school-age children
      who typically have the highest burden of infection. In 2001, World Health Organization (WHO)
      passed a resolution for large-scale mass drug administration (MDA) using chemotherapy to
      deworm vulnerable children through school-based programs. While MDA has significantly
      contributed to reducing the burden of these infections, several concerns still exist over the
      large-scale use of chemotherapeutic drugs in deworming. The large population of children and
      the high frequency of dosage may pose a challenge to the sustainability of these programs.
      Further, the MDAs exert increasing drug pressure on parasite populations, a circumstance that
      is likely to favor parasite genotypes that can resist chemotherapy. Moreover,
      chemotherapeutic drugs are not recommended for children under the age of 6 years due to their
      toxicity, despite the fact that this is the age group most infected with S. mansoni.
      Additionally, the current school-based MDA does not consider child malnutrition a very common
      malady in African countries.

      Based on the above, we have designed a nutritional food supplement, Ujiplus速, with the
      potential as a homegrown mass drug administration tool against intestinal parasites including
      S.mansoni. Porridge (Uji) made from corn flour is one of the most prevalent traditional
      school meal snacks in developing countries. Because of its low cost, and popularity in
      schools, it has been adopted as a component in school meals, often prepared and given as a
      snack at break time. To enhance its effect, we have fortified the Uji flour with
      micronutrients and extracts from papaya (Carica papaya) seeds to form Ujiplus速. Carica papaya
      seeds have been found in various studies to have an anthelminthic effect with benzyl
      isothiocyanate (BITC) as the potential active ingredient. In a previous clinical trial,
      Ujiplus速 reduced the Ascaris lumbricoides egg count by 63.9% after the two month period as
      compared to the albendazole arm, 78.8%.

      In this study, primary school children (ages 6-8) from four schools in Homabay County Kenya
      will be randomized into two arms: Children from two schools will receive 300 ml Ujiplus速
      porridge daily (test school), and the other two schools will receive a similar serving of
      plain porridge (cornflour and micronutrients only) with Praziquantel. Prior to the
      randomization, an initial baseline stool microscopy analysis will be done to determine the
      presence and intensity of intestinal worms. Core indicators of nutrition-height, weight, and
      hemoglobin counts-will also be assessed. The children will be monitored daily for three
      months and final stool sample analysis and clinical monitoring done at the end of the study.
      Baseline and follow-up data will be collected through Redcap software (Vanderbilt, Nashville,
      Tenn) analyzed and compared through the latest software of SAS statistical package.
    
  