
    
      The study is an international collaboration with European sites. Collaborators on the study
      include the National Cancer Institute, the European Organization for Research and Treatment
      of Cancer and the Movember Foundation. Randomization will be stratified by region (North
      America and Europe) and by modified IPFSG (International Prognostic Factor Study Group) risk
      classification (low, intermediate and high). The primary and secondary objectives are
      described below.

      Primary Objective:

      1. To compare the overall survival in patients treated with conventional-dose chemotherapy
      using the TIP regimen with high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) plus autologous stem cell transplant
      (ASCT) using the TI-CE regimen as initial salvage treatment of patients with relapsed or
      refractory germ cell tumors (GCT)

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with initial salvage
           HDCT with TI-CE versus initial salvage CDCT with TIP

        2. To compare the favorable response rate (FRR) of patients treated with initial salvage
           HDCT with TI-CE versus initial salvage CDCT with TIP

        3. To compare the toxicity, including treatment-related mortality, associated with
           high-dose chemotherapy and ASCT using TI-CE compared with conventional-dose chemotherapy
           using TIP as initial salvage treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory GCT

        4. To prospectively evaluate the IPFSG scoring system as a predictor of outcome to initial
           salvage therapy in patients with relapsed or refractory GCT. In this trial,
           randomization will be stratified by a modification of their IPFSG category and we will
           prospectively evaluate whether or not actual outcomes vary by risk group in the
           appropriate manner (low risk patients have higher OS than high-risk group).

        5. To evaluate the association between tumor marker decline rates of Alpha-Fetoprotein
           (AFP) and Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (HCG) with OS and PFS.

      Treatment is to continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or completion of
      all protocol treatment.
    
  