
    
      Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT), also known as Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome, is an
      autosomal dominant disorder that is characterized by abnormal blood vessel development. This
      dysplasia manifests as mucocutaneous telangiectases and visceral arteriovenous malformations
      (AVM).

      The most common symptom is epistaxis occurring secondary to telangiectases in the nasal
      mucosa in more than 90% of HHT patients. Heterogeneity exists in the severity of epistaxis
      experienced by HHT patients; therefore, treatments and management strategies can vary. For
      minor bleeding, conservative management may include preventing drying of the nasal mucosa
      with the use of ointments and humidification. In some cases, topical or systemic estrogen may
      also be used to improve the stability of the nasal mucosa, thereby reducing bleeding.
      Commonly, anterior nasal packing is used as a non-surgical management strategy to control
      major bleeding. When medical management strategies have failed, laser coagulation of the
      telangiectases or septodermoplasty may be considered however, these solutions are temporary
      as telangiectasia are known to recur. In the acute setting, embolization may be used to
      occlude the abnormal vasculature while maintaining blood flow to the surrounding tissue;
      however, this is also not an effective long-term solution. Severe and difficult to manage
      epistaxis has been effectively treated using the modified Young's procedure where closure of
      the nostril is achieved by suturing together circumferential skin and mucosa flaps.

      Floseal hemostatic matrix (Floseal®) is a hemostatic agent that consists of two major
      components. The first are gelatin granules that swell when they come into contact with blood
      or other wet surfaces creating a tamponade effect. The second is a high concentration of
      human thrombin that promotes natural clot formation by converting fibrinogen to fibrin.
      Floseal® is hydrophilic and therefore adheres well to wet tissues. It is indicated for use as
      an adjunct surgical hemostat and it has recently been demonstrated to be an effective
      treatment for epistaxis. A prospective, randomized, controlled trial compared Floseal® to
      nasal packing in the treatment of acute anterior epistaxis. The results showed Floseal® to be
      better at initially controlling epistaxis and resulted in fewer rebleed events within a seven
      day follow-up period. Patients also reported less pain and greater overall satisfaction with
      Floseal® as compared with nasal packing. Similarly, two prospective studies have evaluated
      the use of Floseal® for the treatment of posterior epistaxis. These trials also showed
      Floseal® treatment to be an effective treatment for posterior epistaxis. Furthermore, the use
      of Floseal® was associated with substantial institutional cost savings.

      In summary, Floseal® has been demonstrated to be an effective treatment for posterior
      epistaxis, regardless of origin within the nose. Recently, Floseal® has been used in patients
      with HHT. This case series showed that patients with anterior epistaxis due to HHT could
      self-administer Floseal® to treat recurrent anterior epistaxis at their home without a
      contact with the medical system, as would customarily occur. This directly leads to an
      improvement in the quality of life of the patients in this study. Impairment of the quality
      of life for patients with HHT is a significant concern. Compared to the normative population,
      all subscales of SF36, but bodily pain, have been shown to be significantly poorer in the HHT
      patients. Studies of HHT substantiate that disease severity is associated with poorer QoL in
      these patients. Treatments for epistaxis that can improve the quality of life for patients
      with HHT are needed.
    
  