
    
      Trial Objectives: To assess the safety and feasibility of Transcatheter Aortic Valve
      Replacement (TAVR) with commercially available bioprostheses in patients with severe,
      symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) who are low-risk (STS score ≤3%) for surgical aortic valve
      replacement (SAVR).

      Methodology: This is a multicenter, prospective trial of TAVR in low-risk patients at up to
      twelve sites in the United States. The trial will have three arms. The first will comprise
      200 patients undergoing transfemoral TAVR. The second arm will comprise200 closely matched
      historical controls who underwent isolated bioprosthetic SAVR.

      Historical controls will be selected from among patients at the same site who have undergone
      isolated bioprosthetic SAVR within the previous 36 months. TAVR patients will then be matched
      to SAVR patients using STS database variables to perform propensity matching, including (but
      not limited to) age, gender, race, ethnicity, STS score, and valve prosthesis size. Once the
      historical matched controls are identified, detailed chart review will abstract in-hospital
      and 30-day outcomes for the SAVR cohort.

      The third arm of the trial will comprise a registry of TAVR in up to 100 low-risk patients
      with bicuspid aortic valve. The results from the registry arm will be analyzed independently.

      Primary Efficacy Endpoint: All-cause mortality at 30 days following transfemoral TAVR vs.
      bioprosthetic SAVR.

      Primary Safety Endpoint: Defined as the composite of major adverse events at 30 days:

      a. all-cause mortality c. spontaneous myocardial infarction (MI) d. reintervention: defined
      as any cardiac surgery or percutaneous reintervention that repairs, alters, or replaces a
      previously implanted aortic valve e. VARC life-threatening bleeding f. Increase in serum
      creatinine to ≥300% (>3x increase compared to baseline) OR serum creatinine ≥4.0 mg/dL with
      an acute increase ≥0.5 mg/dL OR new requirement for dialysis g. coronary artery obstruction
      requiring percutaneous or surgical intervention h. VARC major vascular complication i.
      cardiac tamponade j. cardiac perforation k. pericarditis l. mediastinitis m. hemolysis n.
      infective endocarditis o. moderate or severe aortic insufficiency p. significant aortic
      stenosis q. permanent pacemaker implantation r. new-onset atrial fibrillation

      Secondary Endpoints (TAVR Cohort):

        1. Major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) at 30 days, 6 months, 12
           months, and 2, 3, 4 and 5 years, defined as the composite of:

             1. all-cause mortality

             2. stroke

             3. spontaneous MI

             4. reintervention

        2. The occurrence of the individual components of MACCE at 30 days, 6 months, 12 months,
           and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years (including stoke).

        3. The composite of major adverse device events post-procedure, and at 6 months, 1 year,
           and 2, 3, 4, 5 years

        4. VARC major vascular complications, at 30 days and 1 year

        5. VARC life-threatening or disabling bleeding, at 30 days and 1 year

        6. Technical success upon exit from the operating room or catheterization laboratory,
           defined as all of the following:

             1. alive

             2. successful access, delivery, and retrieval of the device and/or delivery system

             3. correct positioning and successful deployment of the valve

             4. no need for unplanned or emergency surgery or reintervention related to the device
                or access procedure, including reinstitution of cardiopulmonary bypass post-weaning
                for SAVR patients

        7. Device success at 30 days and 1 year, defined as all of the following:

             1. absence of procedural mortality

             2. correct positioning of a single prosthetic heart valve in the proper anatomical
                location

             3. device performing as intended:

      1. No migration, erosion, embolization, detachment, fracture, hemolysis requiring
      transfusion, thrombosis, or endocarditis 2. Intended performance of the heart valve: no
      prosthesis-patient mismatch, mean aortic valve gradient <20 mm Hg OR peak velocity <3 m/s,
      AND no moderate or severe bioprosthetic valve regurgitation 8. Procedural success at 30 days,
      defined as device success AND no major adverse device events 9. Bioprosthetic valve
      regurgitation, defined as either moderate or severe aortic regurgitation OR moderate or
      severe paravalvular leak, at hospital discharge, 12 months, and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years 10.
      Incidence of new-onset atrial fibrillation at hospital discharge, and at 30 days, 12 months,
      and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years.

      11. Conduction disturbance requiring permanent pacemaker implantation at hospital discharge,
      12 months, and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years.

      12. Change in NYHA class from baseline to 30 days, baseline to 6 months, baseline to 12
      months, and baseline to 2-5 years.

      13. Change in distance walked during 6-minute walk test from baseline to 12 months.

      14. Change in responses to the short form Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ-12)
      from baseline to 12 months.

      15. Echocardiographic assessment of the bioprosthetic valve post-procedure, at 12 months, and
      at years 2-5, including (but not limited to):

      a. aortic valve mean gradient, maximum gradient, and peak velocity b. calculated aortic valve
      area c. degree of bioprosthetic valve regurgitation 16. Assessment for subclinical leaflet
      thrombosis with multislice computed tomography, or transesophageal echocardiography if GFR
      <50 mL/min/m2, at 1 to 2 months.

      17. Individual patient level Success all of the following and device success:

        1. No re-hospitalizations or re-interventions for the underlying condition (e.g., HF)

        2. Return to prior living arrangement (or equivalent)

        3. Improvement vs. baseline in symptoms (NYHA Class decrease ≥ 1)

        4. Improvement vs. baseline in functional status (6MWT increase ≥ 50 meters)

        5. Improvement vs. baseline in QoL (KCCQ increase ≥ 10)

      Number of Trial Sites: 12

      Sample Size: 200 consecutive patients and 200 historical controls, and an additional 100 (up
      to) patients with bicuspid aortic valve

      Patient Population: Patients with severe, symptomatic AS who are determined by the Heart Team
      to be at low surgical risk (STS score ≤3%).
    
  