
    
      The study objective is to determine whether the use of high potency statins, compared with
      the use of low potency statins, is associated with an increased risk of acute kidney injury
      (AKI) in routine clinical practice. The investigators will use a common-protocol approach to
      conduct retrospective cohort studies using health care data from nine jurisdictions (the
      Canadian provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec, and
      Saskatchewan, as well as the United States (US) MarketScan and the United Kingdom (UK)
      Clinical Practice Research Datalink [CPRD]). The Canadian provincial databases contain
      information on physician billing, diagnoses and procedures from hospital discharge abstracts,
      and dispensations for prescription drugs at a population level. The CPRD is a clinical
      database that is representative of the UK population and contains the records for patients
      seen at over 680 general practitioner practices in the UK; these data will be linked to the
      Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) database, which contains in-hospital diagnosis and
      procedure data.

      Study population

      In each jurisdiction, the investigators will assemble a study cohort that includes all
      patients with a new prescription for a statin, including simvastatin, lovastatin,
      pravastatin, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, and rosuvastatin, from the earliest availability of
      data at each site to the last date of available data. The date of study cohort entry is
      defined by the prescription date of the newly-prescribed statin.

      For the purpose of this study, two separate cohorts will be created based on the presence or
      absence of a history of chronic kidney disease at any time prior to and including the date of
      study cohort entry. Chronic kidney disease is defined as patients who have 1 hospitalization
      or 1 physician claim 3 years prior to study cohort entry with any of the following diagnoses
      and corresponding diagnostic codes: chronic or unspecified renal failure (ICD-9: 585, 586;
      ICD-10: N18, N19), hypertensive renal disease (ICD-9: 403.x1, 404.x2, 404.x3; ICD-10: I12.0,
      I13.1), nephritis and nephropathy (ICD-9: 582, 583; ICD-10: N03, N05), renal sclerosis or
      disorder from impaired renal function (ICD-9: 587, 588; ICD-10: S00-T98). Patients in each
      cohort will be followed from the date of study cohort entry until an event (defined below) or
      censoring due to death, departure from the database, 24 months after initiation of statin
      treatment, a dispensing for cerivastatin, or the end of the study period (31 March 2010 or
      the last date of data availability at that site), whichever occurs first. Data from Alberta,
      Ontario, and Nova Scotia will be restricted to patients aged 65 years and older as
      prescription data are not available for younger patients.

      Case-control selection

      The cohorts defined above will be analyzed using a nested case-control analysis, where cases
      are defined as a hospitalization for AKI. Risk set sampling will be used to randomly select
      up to 10 controls for each case, matched on sex, age (± one year; however, if no controls are
      available, within five years), cohort entry (± 90 days), and duration of follow-up.

      Exposure assessment

      The exposure categories will be separated by statin potency (high vs. low dose), and the
      duration of current and past exposure. For all cases and controls, exposure will be defined
      hierarchically; more specifically, patients who receive both a high and low potency statin
      within the same exposure category will be classified as high potency statin users. Current
      use of a high potency statin will be defined by the last prescription for a high dose statin
      within the 60 days prior to the index date.

      Current users will be further classified into three mutually exclusive durations of current
      exposure (≤120, 121-365, and 366-730 days). Past exposure will be defined as a new
      prescription for a statin at least 120 days prior to the index date.

      Statistical analyses

      All analyses will be conducted separately among patients with and without a history of
      chronic kidney disease. Conditional logistic regression will be used to estimate the odds
      ratios and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of the association of hospitalization
      for AKI, comparing current and past use of high potency statins to low potency statins. This
      is considered the primary analysis. Several sensitivity analyses will be performed to assess
      the robustness of study results and address some of the study limitations.

      High dimensional propensity scores will be estimated for all patients in the cohorts using
      logistic regression. Fixed cohort analyses will also be conducted on the cohorts in each
      jurisdiction, where the statin exposure category will be defined by the initial prescription
      at cohort entry. Finally, all site-specific estimates will be meta-analyzed using fixed or
      random-effects models with inverse variance weighting. The amount of between-site
      heterogeneity will be estimated using the I square statistic.
    
  