
    
      BACKGROUND Chronic respiratory diseases (CRD), particularly asthma and chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD) are leading causes of mortality and associated with multi-morbidity,
      leading to reduced productivity worldwide[1, 2]. We have limited data on the prevalence of
      CRD in Bangladesh, especially from the rural communities, where poor awareness and
      care-seeking behaviour, is compounded by the unavailability of diagnostic facilities and
      presence of weak primary health infrastructures. Determining the burden of CRD in these
      settings is thus challenging.

      The RESPIRE 4-Country Chronic Respiratory Disease (4CCORD) pilot study, revealed a high
      prevalence of asthma (7%) and COPD (8%) in Bangladesh including many who were unaware of
      having mild airway obstruction and thus susceptible to CRD in future (unpublished data).
      Early diagnosis of these diseases could facilitate better primary prevention (abstaining from
      the exposure to harmful risk factors) and management to prevent deterioration.

      The 4CCORD study aimed to validate the research tools and methodologies to detect the CRD
      cases at the community level. This study collected information from only 100 participants,
      thus lacked power drawing inference on the burden of CRD in the Bangladeshi population. With
      the support of RESPIRE and utilising the Child Health Research Foundation (CHRF) existing
      infrastructure, we want to survey an adequate sample to estimate the CRD burden in Bangladesh
      confidently. These data will help to draw the attention of the policymakers to these
      important diseases and create social awareness of CRD in Bangladesh.

      STUDY AIM and OBJECTIVES To reduce the mortality and morbidity associated with CRD in
      Bangladesh by providing data on the health and economic burden of these diseases.

      OBJECTIVES PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

        1. To estimate the prevalence of CRD at the community level in Bangladesh using the
           screening questionnaire and objective measurements

        2. To determine the risk factors for CRD in the community settings in Bangladesh SECONDARY
           OBJECTIVES

      a. To determine the burden of early-stage asthma and COPD in the community settings in
      Bangladesh b. To assess the loss of productivity and impact on the quality of life due to CRD
      in Bangladesh c. To determine the healthcare-associated costs with CRD in community settings
      in Bangladesh

      STUDY DESIGN This is a prospective observational study. This study protocol will be
      implemented from January 2021 to April 2021. The participants will be recruited from
      Mirzapur, a rural Upazila (sub-district) of Tangail district in Bangladesh; located 65 km
      north of Dhaka. A list of eligible study participants (currently residing in the study area
      and are above 18 years of age) will be generated from the existing demographic surveillance
      system (DSS) database. The eligible participants will be reached over telephone by a research
      assistant to inform the study objectives and procedures. Those who provides verbal consent
      will be asked i) whether the participants or any household member been diagnosed with
      COVID-19/coronavirus disease in the past 14 days, ii) currently any of the household member
      have COVID-19 sign/symptoms (dry cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever or
      chills, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, vomiting or diarrhoea), and iii) Whether any
      household member currently under quarantine or in self-isolation due to contact with a case
      of COVID-19/coronavirus disease or because of an order by a physician or public health
      authority?. Participants who provide negative answer of all three questions mentioned above
      will be asked to attend a mobile clinic to perform the spirometry. Only three participants
      will be asked to attend a session to minimise the risk of COVID-19 infection. The
      participants will be seated in a waiting room maintaining social distance and askinvited for
      the interview in an isolatedprivate room one by one.

      The mobile team, consist a research assistant, a field supervisor and a medical
      technologist/nurses will perform the spirometry at an open place following the national
      health guidelines. Research assistants (RA) will provide the patient information sheet of the
      study to the participants and will give satisfactorily answers to the questions raised by the
      participants. Only participants who provide written consent for their participation in the
      study will be enrolled in the study. Once the participants provide the consent, RA will
      collect all the metadata such as demographics, risk factor information, reported heath status
      etc. from the study participant. A Field Research Supervisor (FRS) will check all information
      collected by the RA to ensure the data quality..

      Each study participant will undergo spirometry to check their lung functions. A nurse/medical
      technologist will conduct the spirometry tests after receiving appropriate training. All
      spirometry data will be reviewed by an expert panel at CHRF to ensure the quality of the
      spirometry. All spirometry data which do not pass the quality will be repeated. Collected
      data and spirometry reports will be reviewed by a respiratory physician to level the CRD
      patients and their type of illness. The enrolled participants may be invited to Mirzapur
      hospital for further clinical examination within the next 10 days of the assessment based on
      the physician's review and the collected information. The spirometry may be repeated and any
      other test to be suggested by the physician if needed.

      STUDY POPULATION A total number of 981 participants aged more than 18 years will be enrolled
      in the study.

      STUDY PROCEDURES: ASSESSMENTS Screening data collection: After obtaining informed consent
      from the eligible participants for enrolment, RA will collect the metadata using screening
      questionnaires (described below) including demographics, risk factors, reported health status
      from the study participants. Disease burden assessment shall be conducted using COPD
      Assessment Tool (CAT), GINA Ashtma Control test etc. This will be followed by conducting
      spirometry using NDD Easyone Air spirometer by trained technologist. The primary spirometry
      indices will be FEV1, FVC and FEV1/FVC. Spirometry will be performed before and after
      bronchodilation via two puffs of salbutamol via MDI+spacer. Quality check of the spirometry
      data generated will be reviewed by the experts on a regular basis and any failure of meeting
      the quality standards will render repeated collection. Each participant's data will be
      reviewed by the physicians on a regular basis for assessing CRD based on screening
      questionnaire and spirometry data. All study team members will be tested periodically (in
      every 14 days) to ensure that they do not have COVID-19. During the clinical session, they
      will year protective equipment such as mask, gloves and gown to reduce the exposure risk. All
      participants will ask to wear mask while not perform the spirometry test. All participants
      will be ask to seat maintaining social distance. We will provide each participant a sterile
      flow tube while performing the spirometry. The outside of the spirometer will be cleaned
      after each session.

      Questionnaires: The questionnaires will be comprised of the following section as anticipated:

        -  Demographic meta-data (age, gender, marital status, occupation)

        -  Chronic respiratory symptoms (wheeze, cough, chest tightness, shortness of breath)
           identification, existing respiratory diagnosis, co-morbidities

        -  Specific screening questionnaire relevant to asthma and/or COPD

        -  Information on risk factors (smoking habits, fuels used for cooking, types of mosquito
           repellent used etc)

        -  Individual burden of disease (e.g. Asthma Control Questionanire, COPD Questionnaire)

        -  Societal impact (e.g. lost productivity, under-performance)

        -  Usage of healthcare resources (primary care, secondary care, medication history) A
           pragmatic balance will be drawn between collecting sufficient detail for as accurate
           costing as possible while minimising participant burden. The study questionnaires which
           already used in the 4ccord study will be available both in English and translated into
           Bengali (local language).

      Physician clinical assessment of a random sample: Subsequent clinical examination (see
      details below) of people diagnosed with CRD and a random sample of screened participants as
      'normal' will further confirm the diagnosis achieved by screening. These participants shall
      be invited to the study clinic/ hospital for further clinical examination within the next 10
      days. During the visit, the physician will check the clinical history and perform clinical
      assessment as necessary. Repeated spirometry and other tests (e.g. Chest X-ray) may be
      performed at the discretion of the study physician. The physician will confirm participants
      as asthma and/or COPD and (where possible) the nature of other CRD based on their clinical
      judgement.

      Participants identified with asthma, COPD or other 'CRD' will be advised to seek further
      advice from their usual clinical services where further investigation can be arranged as per
      clinical needs. We will request permission to contact their usual clinical advisor for the
      outcome of any additional test and final conclusion about the diagnosis.

      References

        1. Braman, S.S., The global burden of asthma. Chest, 2006. 130(1 Suppl): p. 4S-12S.

        2. Lopez-Campos, J.L., W. Tan, and J.B. Soriano, Global burden of COPD. Respirology, 2016.
           21(1): p. 14-23.
    
  