
    
      The proposed study will be nested within the Ghana Randomized Air Pollution and Health Study
      (GRAPHS) to investigate oxidant imbalance and pulmonary function in infants exposed to in
      utero household air pollution.

      GRAPHS is a birth cohort study examining the impact of reduced maternal household air
      pollution exposure on birth outcomes and incident infant pneumonia. Mother-infant pairs are
      recruited from the Kintampo Health Research Centre (KHRC) catchment area in rural Ghana,
      which comprises a population of 146,000 people. 1,415 nonsmoking women who primarily deliver
      at one of four KHRC birth facilities and are pregnant with a singleton fetus of gestational
      age less than 24 weeks are eligible for participation. After enrollment, women are randomized
      to a no-emission liquid petroleum gas (LPG) stove, a low-emission BioLite cook stove or
      control (high-emission) arms and undergo four 72-hour carbon monoxide (CO) and/or particulate
      matter (PM) prenatal exposure monitoring sessions. Birth weights and outcomes are recorded
      and a placenta sample is stored in formalin for future analyses. The infants are followed
      with CO and PM exposure monitoring sessions at 1, 3 and 9 months of age and weekly
      surveillance for incident respiratory disease.

      For the proposed study, we will recruit and consent GRAPHS mother-infant pairs. Venous cord
      blood and placenta samples will be collected following placenta delivery. Cord blood will be
      placed on IsoRack cool packs designed to maintain samples at 0°C for up to 6 hours. Cord
      blood samples will be processed for biomarkers of oxidant imbalance and for future study,
      including but not limited to immune function, hormonal balance and epigenetic analyses. After
      initial processing, samples will be frozen at -80°C until oxidant analyses are performed
      using commercially available reagent kits and protocols.

      When the infant is one month old or younger, trained study personnel will perform noninvasive
      pulmonary function testing (PFT) using the Medispirit Whistler Lung Function Measurement
      Instrument (LFMI) in accordance with ATS/ERS guidelines. The Medispirit Whistler LFMI is a
      lightweight and portable device that allows non-invasive PFTs to be performed in the infant's
      home. The Whistler LFMI flow measurement is ultrasonic and therefore does not need to be
      calibrated. The infant will be held with his/her head in a stable position until s/he is
      breathing quietly or asleep. A sterile, single-use, transparent facemask that does not
      interfere with normal breathing will be placed over the infant's mouth and nose. Tidal flow
      volume loops will be recorded and single occlusion test will be used to determine the ratio
      of time to reach peak expiratory flow to total expiratory time, compliance and resistance.
    
  