
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive and rare severe disease (prevalence of
      15-50 per million) due to obstruction of small pulmonary arteries, leading to an increase in
      pulmonary artery pressure with the ultimate consequence right heart failure. Despite recent
      advances in therapeutic care, there is no cure and most patients die or require lung
      transplantation within 5 years of diagnosis. Currently, right heart catheterisation is
      required to diagnose PAH and monitor response to treatment. Right heart catheterisation is an
      invasive test, and alternatives such as echocardiography have not yielded sufficient accuracy
      both for early diagnosis and disease monitoring. Currently, PAH is often diagnosed at an
      advanced stage of the disease. There is often a delay in diagnosis of several years between
      the first symptoms and the identification of the disease due to the non-specific nature of
      symptoms. Hence, there is the need to improve the time between the first signs and definitive
      diagnosis of the disease. Early diagnosis of PAH remains a challenge due to the low
      sensitivity and specificity of biomarkers available currently.

      The main objective is to validate the results obtained in the previous preliminary proof of
      concept study - that PAH patients display a unique olfactory signature that can be detected
      by an artificial E- nose.

      Secondary objectives are to investigate the ability of the E-nose to:

        -  Discriminate patients with idiopathic PAH from those with heritable PAH due to BMPR2
           mutations

        -  Discriminate patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) from
           healthy controls, and patients with idiopathic and/or heritable PAH.

        -  Detect development of PAH in BMPR2 mutation carriers

        -  Determine whether the olfactory signature can stratify subgroups of patients by
           correlating the olfactory signature to different biological and clinical parameters
           (hemodynamic measurements, NYHA class, duration of treatment, 6-minute walk distance,
           response to nitric oxide, BNP levels).
    
  