
    
      Brief Summary:

      Patients with early stage endometrial and cervical cancer who are undergoing robotic surgery
      to remove the uterus, cervix and lymph nodes will have dye injected into the cervix after
      they are asleep from anesthesia prior to performing the surgery. During the surgery, the
      surgeon will activate the robotic camera that is being used to visualize the internal organs
      changing it to a special mode of imaging called near infrared imaging. The near infrared
      imaging will allow the surgeon to see where the dye that was injected into the cervix has
      spread. The dye travels through vessels called lymphatic channels to nodules called "sentinel
      lymph nodes". These are the tissues the surgeon is most interested in removing in order to
      see if there has been spread of their cancer to those nodules. The dye that travels to the
      lymph nodes makes them more easily visible to the surgeon. Without the dye, these nodes are
      indistinguishable from the surrounding fatty tissue.

      The nodes that have dye in them will be removed from the patient and sent to the pathologist,
      where they will be very closely examined, called ultrasectioning, for cancer spread. The
      surgeon will remove the remaining lymphatic tissue (all of the fatty and lymphatic tissue
      that surrounded the sentinel lymph node that did not stain with the dye), as these are the
      "non-sentinel lymph nodes", and are the tissue that is traditionally removed with endometrial
      and cervical cancer surgery as part of standard of care. These non-sentinel lymph nodes will
      also be examined for evidence of cancer spread. The researchers will compare the pathology
      results from the sentinel nodes and non-sentinel nodes. The researchers hypothesize that the
      sentinel nodes contain cancer cells at least 90% of the time when there is cancer found in
      the non-sentinel nodes.
    
  