
    
      Study Design: This is a cross-sectional study to identify individuals with LTBI and
      coinfections/comorbidities: malnutrition; DM; and helminth infections. Individuals will first
      be evaluated clinically for symptoms of active TB. Individuals with symptoms of active TB
      will be excluded from the study and referred for treatment. Individuals who are asymptomatic
      for active TB will be screened for LTBI by interferon gamma (IFNγ) release assay (IGRA) and
      clinically assessed for malnutrition (by body mass index [BMI]), evaluated for DM status (by
      hemoglobin A1c [HbA1c] levels), and evaluated for helminth infection (by serology and stool
      quantitative polymerase chain reaction [qPCR]).

      Individuals who are eligible will be assigned to one of six study groups based on LTBI status
      and presence of coinfections/comorbidities. Participants will have an additional study visit
      within 6 months of screening for clinical assessment and provide blood (30 ml), urine, and
      stool samples for experimental studies and storage for future research. Key research
      evaluations will include gene expression analyses and immunophenotyping on blood samples.

      Sample Size:

      Primary Objective: N=5000

      Secondary Objective: N=300; n=50 for each of the following groups:

        1. Latent tuberculosis (TB) infection (LTBI) and malnourished;

        2. LTBI with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (DM);

        3. LTBI with helminth infection;

        4. LTBI with multiple comorbidities;

        5. LTBI with no comorbidities (LTBI+ healthy controls); and

        6. LTBI negative healthy controls

      Study Population: Adults and adolescents (14-65 years of age) with or without LTBI.

      Primary Objective: To estimate the prevalence of malnutrition, DM and helminth infections in
      LTBI individuals.

      Secondary Objective: To determine the effect of coinfections/comorbidities on biosignatures
      of LTBI using RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), proteomics, metabolomics, and immunological assays.

      Endpoints: Prevalence of malnutrition, DM and helminth infections in LTBI individuals and
      their effects on biosignatures.

      Enrollment will continue until both the total screening sample and the 6 study groups are
      fully enrolled. We will increase the screening sample size to 6000 if the required study
      group sample sizes are not achieved by screening 5000 participants.

      Recruitment Plan: The screening phase of this study will be a community-based study in South
      India. Participants will be recruited from villages in the Kancheepuram District, where
      approximately 50% of the adult population tests positive for LTBI by IGRA based on our
      previous study (unpublished data). We also anticipate based on our previous study that the
      percentage of the adult population positive for malnutrition is 35%, for DM is 20%, and for
      helminth infection is 20% (unpublished data).

      The census in villages in the Kancheepuram District is updated annually by local health
      workers employed by the Department of Public Health and the field teams of the NIRT in
      Chennai, India. The villages will be chosen in consultation with the Department of Public
      Health in Tamil Nadu. NIRT field teams will distribute pamphlets about the study to spread
      awareness. The pamphlet will be approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee (IEC) prior to
      use.

      Clinical Evaluations:

      Physical examination and history: Review of medical history and regular physical examination
      (including height, weight, vital signs) will be performed at the screening phase.

      During the study phase, a complete medical history will be taken, as well as a regular
      physical exam with vital signs and anthropometric measurements, including height, weight, BMI
      Z scores, weight for height Z scores, mid upper arm circumference, waist and abdominal
      circumference, ratio of waist/hip circumference, skinfold thickness, and grip strength, and
      bioelectrical impedance analysis. For the bioelectrical impedance analysis, a multifrequency
      body composition analyser (Bodystat Quadscan 4000) will be used to derive body composition
      data. The measurements will be taken with light clothing and according to standard
      recommendations for conduct of bioelectrical impedance measurement (e.g., consistent time of
      the day, voiding urine before measurement, avoiding measurements soon after a major meal or
      exercise). The body composition data derived from the source data will be body fat mass, fat
      free mass, and body cell mass. The visceral adiposity index will be calculated based on sex,
      BMI, triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Additionally,
      questionnaires for smoking and drug and alcohol use, including estimating Alcohol Use
      Disorder Identification Test (AUDIT) scores, will also be administered.

      Blood draw: A total of 10 ml of blood will be initially collected from each participant via
      venipuncture in the screening phase. The study phase will involve an additional 30 ml blood
      draw. Blood will be used for laboratory evaluations.

      Urine collection: Urine samples will be collected and stored and evaluated.

      Stool collection: Stool samples will be collected in specialized containers and will be used
      for DNA extraction and storage.

      At-home stool/urine collection: Participants who cannot provide urine and/or stool at a study
      visit may provide it within 3 days. The study team will provide instructions for the
      collection and storage of the samples.

      Laboratory Evaluations:

      Blood collected at the screening phase will be used for the following evaluations.

      1. Hematology: Complete blood count with differential and hematocrit levels. 2. IGRA
      (QuantiFERON-TB Plus Gold In-Tube; Qiagen) to confirm LTBI status. 3. Biochemistry: HbA1c,
      random blood glucose, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), urea,
      and creatinine.

      4. ELISA to identify and quantify infection with Wuchereria bancrofti. 5. Storage for future
      research. Blood collected in the study phase will be used for the following evaluations.

        1. Fasting glucose, HbA1c, and other biochemical parameters.

        2. Macro- and micronutrient levels, including serum albumin, C-reactive protein,
           cholesterol (total, HDL, low-density lipoprotein, triglycerides), vitamins A, B6, B12,
           C, D, and E, selenium, and zinc.

        3. For LTBI-negative individuals, repeat IGRA to confirm LTBI status. If the test is
           positive, the remaining blood will be discarded and the individual will be withdrawn
           from the LTBI negative cohort.

        4. Tempus or PAXgene tube blood collection for DNA and RNA isolation for experimental
           studies and storage for future research. No human genetic testing will be performed
           under this protocol.

        5. Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) isolation for experimental studies and storage
           for future research.

        6. Serum will also be collected for experimental studies and storage for future research.

      Stool samples will be used for the following evaluations.

        1. At screening, stool DNA for qPCR diagnostics to detect hookworms, Ascaris,
           Strongyloides, and Trichuris.

        2. Storage for future research.

      Additionally, urine samples collected in the study phase will be used for the following
      evaluations.

        1. Proteomic and metabolomic investigations.

        2. Storage for future research.

      Results of clinical evaluations will be returned to participants.

      Experimental Studies:

      Transcriptomics: We will perform RNA seq analysis on 50 individuals in each group to examine
      the transcriptomic signature. RNA will be extracted from Tempus or PAXgene tubes, coded, and
      analyzed by RNA seq. The data obtained will then be evaluated for RNA expression patterns and
      alterations.

      Proteomics: Blood and urine proteomics is quickly becoming a major tool in advancing
      biomarker discovery, validation, diagnostics, and other fields. We will use serum and urine
      proteomics from a subset of individuals (n=30) in each group to perform proteomics by liquid
      chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Bioinformatic analysis of protein expression in
      these groups would provide useful information on the protein signatures of LTBI in high risk
      populations.

      Metabolomics: We will use non-targeted capillary electrophoresis time of flight mass
      spectrometry to analyze the serum metabolic profiles of a subset of individuals (n=30) in
      each group. Metabolomics will complement the data obtained from proteomics.

      Immunological assays:

        1. Define circulating immune cell population frequencies by flow cytometry Our standardized
           flow cytometry panels, described below, will be applied to a subset of individuals
           (n=30) in each group (Table 1). We will measure frequencies of all major immune cell
           subsets: monocytes, NK cells, B cells, and T cells, including CD56+ T cells. T cells
           will further be divided into conventional T cells (CD4- and CD8 expressing cells) and
           non conventional T cells (mucosal associated invariant T cells, NK T cells, and gamma
           delta T cells). For conventional T cells, we will also capture memory phenotype and, for
           CD4+ T cells, the Th subsets. We will perform quality control using repeat runs of
           samples from a control donation to validate sample integrity and control for the
           sometimes drastic technical variability observed in cytometry experiments. To minimize
           technical variability, we will apply a centralized gating method where all results will
           be analysed by the same individual.

        2. Define the immune signatures of PBMCs and memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells Cells will be
           sorted on a fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) Aria cytometer from a subset of
           individuals (n=20) in each group. A minimum of 50,000 cells each of PBMCs and memory
           CD4+ and CD8+ T cells will be sorted into TRIzol LS. Based on our experience, at least
           7% of PBMCs are memory CD4+ T cells and 4% are memory CD8+ T cells. Gene expression
           profiles of whole PBMCs and sorted memory T cells will be obtained by RNA-seq using the
           genome wide expression platform from Illumina, providing the expression levels for
           >50,000 identified genes in the human genome (including non-protein coding RNA species).
           Sample generation, library preparation, sequencing, and mapping will be performed under
           well-defined and standardized protocols, with quality control checks included at each
           major step to ensure high quality data generation. For gene expression analysis, where a
           huge number of variables is tested simultaneously, we will use the DESeq Benjamini
           Hochberg corrected p-adjusted values of <0.05 to identify differentially expressed genes
           between groups. We will perform pathway analysis of genes significantly upregulated
           between the different comparisons and investigate the associated gene modules. For this
           purpose, we will use the web tool Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) to determine which
           pathways are significantly represented. We plan to use the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis
           (IPA) software to determine in more detail the directionality of the overrepresented
           functions and the common upstream regulators for the given set of genes. A complementary
           approach will follow a modular analysis that identifies clusters of genes that share a
           similar expression profile. In particular, we plan to use the weighted gene
           co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) algorithm. By simultaneously monitoring the PBMC
           immune cell composition, determining the overall PBMC gene expression, and determining
           the profile of memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, we can detect disease specific signatures
           in PBMCs in general and identify the contribution of T cell subsets to these
           dysregulations in particular.

        3. Define antigen-reactive cellular immune responses by flow cytometry Antigen reactive
           cellular immune responses will be measured in a subset of individuals (n=20) in each
           group. PBMCs will be stimulated with PPD and M. tuberculosis whole cell lysate for 24
           hours and antigen stimulated cellular immune responses will be studied. We plan to
           examine a panel of activation markers (HLA-DR, CD38, OX-40 and CD153), cytokines (IL-2,
           IFNγ, TNFα, IL-17), and cytotoxic markers (perforin, granzyme B, granulysin, CD107a) on
           all major conventional and non-conventional T cell subsets and NK cells.

      Return of Research Results The experimental studies are not expected to reveal individual
      clinical results or medically actionable incidental findings. Therefore, no research results
      will be returned to participants.
    
  