
    
      Objective: This study is designed to investigate the use of dark adaptation as a functional
      endpoint for progression of eyes with no to intermediate age-related macular degeneration
      (AMD).

      Study Population: Two hundred forty (240) participants will be initially accrued; however, up
      to 280 participants who meet the eligibility criteria may be enrolled. Participants will have
      varying degrees of severity of AMD (Groups 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4). Group 0 (N=40) is defined as
      participants without AMD meaning no large drusen (greater than or equal to 125 microns) or
      advanced AMD in either eye. Group 1 (N=40) is defined as participants with large drusen
      (greater than or equal to 125 microns) in the study eye and no large drusen or advanced AMD
      (choroidal neovascularization (CNV) or geographic atrophy (GA)) in the fellow eye. Group 2
      (N=40) is defined as participants with bilateral large drusen (greater than or equal to 125
      microns) with or without retinal pigment epithelial hypo/hyperpigmentary changes. Group 3
      (N=40) is defined as participants with large drusen (greater than or equal to 125 microns) in
      the study eye and advanced AMD (CNV or GA) in the fellow eye. Group 4 (N=40) is defined as
      participants with findings of reticular pseudodrusen (RPD) defined as having (1) the presence
      of reticular inter-lacing patterns on at least one en face imaging method (color photography,
      autofluorescence or infrared) and (2) confirmation of previously described findings of
      hyperreflective material located between the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the
      photoreceptor ellipsoid zone on SD OCT in those areas. Current participants in this study
      have been graded and categorized into this cohort. Up to 40 diabetic participants will be
      recruited.

      Design: This is a single center, exploratory, observational, longitudinal evaluation of dark
      adaptation response in AMD participants over five years and long-term evaluation of dark
      adaptometry (DA) change as a predictor for AMD progression and visual acuity (VA) loss.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is to determine mean change, including the distribution
      of change, in dark adaptation response between baseline and months 12 and 24 for Groups 0, 1,
      2, 3 and 4. The secondary outcomes for each of the five groups are to determine mean change
      in dark adaptation response from baseline at months 3, 6, 18, 36, 48 and 60 and to determine
      mean change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of the study eye from baseline at months
      3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60. Exploratory outcomes for each of the five groups are to
      correlate mean BCVA of the study eye with mean dark adaptation response at baseline and
      months 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60 and to correlate AMD severity with dark adaptation
      response at baseline and months 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60. Images from all visits may
      be sent to the Reading Center; however, only the baseline and annual visits are required to
      be graded. This study will also analyze renal function in AMD participants. Additionally,
      exploratory analysis of the small sample of diabetic participants will also be performed.
    
  