
    
      For pediatric patients presenting to Jinja Regional Referral Hospital in whom admission to
      hospital is deemed necessary by an attending physician, the parent or guardian will be
      approached for consent to participate in the study. If granted, a small volume (1mL) of blood
      will be withdrawn for processing and storage. A RDT for malaria and whole blood lactate level
      will be performed at the bedside. Basic demographic and clinical data will be collected from
      the case admission record, and patients will be followed during their hospital admission.
      Possible outcomes will include: death, discharge without disability, discharge with
      disability, abscondment, and loss to follow-up. The length of stay among survivors will be
      recorded (excluding patients leaving against medical advice).

      Serum samples will be shipped to the collaborating laboratory in Canada for analysis for
      biomarkers. ELISA-based commercially-available assays for biomarker levels will be used to
      quantify biomarker levels. In order to measure levels of 13 biomarkers from a plasma sample
      of 500uL or less, highly co-ordinated procedures with experienced technicians are required to
      perform the ELISA. Our laboratory in Canada has established protocols, experienced staff able
      to perform the testing, as well as equipment and reagents allowing the testing to be done
      efficiently. While it would be desirable to augment Ugandan capacity for biomarker testing,
      this would require significant investment of time and resources for training and testing, and
      may not be feasible in the context of this early study. If biomarkers can be identified that
      have clinical utility, laboratory capacity for ELISA measurement of levels should be
      developed or a simplified platform (e.g., lateral flow immunochromatographic test) should be
      developed.

      Pneumonia and meningitis will be diagnosed clinically. A combination of tachypnea,
      respiratory distress (nasal flaring, intercostal and/or subcostal indrawing, or cyanosis) and
      characteristic findings on chest auscultation (asymmetrical air entry, crackles, dullness to
      percussion) will be used to make a clinical diagnosis of pneumonia. In our setting, chest
      x-ray is not available on site and radiographic confirmation will not be routinely available.
      Neck stiffness, positive Kernig's or Brudzinsky's signs, convulsions and coma will be used to
      make a diagnosis of meningitis. Where a lumbar puncture is performed, according to clinical
      judgment, the results will be used to complement clinical diagnosis. CSF pleiocytosis or a
      positive CSF culture for recognized pathogens will be used to support the diagnosis of
      meningitis.
    
  