
    
      BACKGROUND

      Prevalence and burden of disease:

      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) defined as presence of symptoms of heartburn and/or
      acid regurgitation is a common chronic disorder. It is a significant health problem
      especially in the Western population associated with a huge economic burden and impaired
      quality of life (1, 2). The prevalence of GERD in the adult population of the United States
      is 40% (symptoms at least once a month). Approximately 20% report GERD related symptoms
      weekly while 14% report them on a daily basis.

      The leading gastrointestinal symptoms evaluated in a primary care office setting are those
      related to a diagnosis of GERD. The mainstay of treatment for GERD symptoms at present time
      are proton pump inhibitors (PPI) in combination with life style changes. In fact, PPI have
      become one of the most commonly written prescriptions, trends suggesting that per year
      scripts have doubled since 1999. It is estimated that Americans spend in excess of 10 billion
      US dollars/year on PPIs and two of the top five selling drugs in the United States are PPIs
      (5). For patients who prefer to refrain from long-term medication use, may benefit from
      acid-reflux surgeries such as Nissen fundoplication. However, acid-reflux reducing procedures
      are associated with operative morbidity and mortality including several complications
      including gas bloat syndrome. A large number of patients who undergo surgery for reflux
      symptoms may eventually relapse and require PPIs. Thus, treatment of reflux, either
      pharmacological or surgical, is costly (6-9) and presents a significant economic burden on
      the health-care delivery system.

      Social Impact of the disease:

      GERD symptoms are associated with bodily pain, impaired social, emotional and physical
      functioning which has a profound impact on daily living. Much research has been done to
      evaluate the true burden of GERD on our society. For instance, 40% of patients with nighttime
      symptoms of GERD reported that such symptoms affected their ability to function the next day.
      Furthermore, 27% of these patients reported that their own night-time symptoms affected their
      spouses ability to sleep (10). Clearly, this data indicates a huge number of Americans who
      report the effects of heartburn on personal and spousal quality of life. GERD symptoms need
      to be addressed effectively as successful treatment for GERD results in improvements in
      health related quality of life (11, 12). In the treatment of GERD, the goal should be
      complete symptom resolution as this has been shown to be associated with a clinically
      significant improvement in health related quality of life (HRQL) (13).

      Refractory GERD:

      Despite life style changes and compliant therapy with PPI, a large number of patients may
      have persistent symptoms and classified to have refractory GERD, a distinctive group that is
      difficult to manage (14). The putative reasons remain poorly defined but likely include
      contributions from factors such as non-acid reflux, visceral hypersensitivity, and abnormal
      esophageal motor events (14). A study by Tack et al investigated mechanisms for poor response
      to PPI therapy and showed persistence of acid reflux in 11%, bile reflux alone in 38% and a
      combination of acid and bile reflux in 26%. However, persistence of acid or bile reflux does
      not prove a causal relationship with symptoms (15). Also, in this group of individuals with
      acid or bile reflux on BID PPI's, a possible treatment option is Nissen's fundoplication, the
      utility of which is yet to be proven in this cohort. There is no consensus definition of
      refractory GERD and generally, it is defined as non-response of symptoms to optimum PPI
      trial. The goal of providing symptomatic relief to these refractory patients is extremely
      challenging in view of limited options. It is to these patients that the investigators would
      like to evaluate in a feasibility study the use of complementary medicine modalities
      including acupuncture and yoga that may be relatively safe, cost-effective therapies to help
      with the distressing symptoms of GERD.

      Complementary and alternative medicine:

      Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) is a group of diverse medical and health care
      systems, therapies and products that are not presently considered to be part of conventional
      medicine. These methods have been used for centuries in the eastern culture for a myriad
      group of diseases. CAM became popular in the US in the 1990's where majority of people used
      it as a complement to conventional medicine and not as an alternative (16-18). Recently,
      there has been much interest in applying these modalities not as secondary therapies to
      conventional treatment but as the primary method. Amongst them acupuncture and yoga have
      gained a great deal of popularity.

      Acupuncture (AC):

      Acupuncture is part of the traditional Chinese medicine a complete system of healing that
      dates back to 200 BC. The general theory of acupuncture is based on the premise that there
      are patterns of energy flow (Qi) through the body that are essential for health and
      disruptions of this flow are believed to be responsible for disease. Studies have shown that
      AC modulates the endorphin system via the central pain processing pathways (19, 20).
      Acupuncture has been widely used for various gastrointestinal disorders. It is conceivable
      that acupuncture may be effective in patients with GERD because it has been shown to alter
      acid secretion, GI motility and visceral pain (21, 22).

      The pathogenesis of GERD is multifactorial. The predominant mechanism postulated to cause
      GERD is transient relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter (TLESR). Pathological reflux
      may also occur due to low LES pressures (23). Studies have shown that acupoint stimulation
      can decrease the rate of TLESR's and hence prevents reflux (24). The investigators propose to
      use 3 acupoints ST-36, PC-6, CV-12 for treatment of symptoms of GERD. These points are
      described in the subsequent sections. Acupuncture will be performed by Dr. Santosh Sharma who
      has the expertise in this treatment modality and is currently offering his therapy for
      several years at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Kansas City.

      Yoga:

      Yoga refers to a combination of breathing exercises and postures designed to involve specific
      muscle groups with systemic effects on the various organ systems. Yoga originated in India at
      least 3000 years ago. The practice of yoga came to US in 1890 and gained popularity in 1960s
      because of a rising interest in and cultural acceptance of alternative modalities and mind
      body therapies. Yoga is offered in local YWCA, health clubs and yoga centers and in hospitals
      as part of disease prevention and management programs (25).The most popular form is Hatha
      yoga. As discussed below, the usefulness of yoga has been studied in certain chronic
      illnesses such as back pain with promising results. The investigators propose to use yoga
      exercises specifically designed for reflux symptoms. Dr. Vijay Kumar will be offering yoga
      classes to patients with refractory GERD. Dr. Vijay Kumar is a Professor of Computer Science
      at University of Missouri - Kansas City and has been offering classes for several years at
      various levels.

      Evidence for use of acupuncture and yoga:

      Several randomized controlled trials have been conducted demonstrating the beneficial effects
      of acupuncture. A randomized controlled study in 29 patients with mild to moderate ulcerative
      colitis with a 4 month follow up after completion of acupuncture sessions showed a
      statistically significant improvement in colitis activity index (CAI) as compared to the
      control group. The study concluded that acupuncture provided an additional therapeutic
      benefit to patients with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis (26).

      Another randomized 3-arm study was conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of traditional
      Chinese acupuncture compared with sham acupuncture (needling at defined non-acupuncture
      points) and conservative therapy in patients with chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the
      knee. Addition of acupuncture led to significant improvement in the symptoms (27). Recently,
      Dickman et al evaluated the efficacy of adding acupuncture (twice a week over 4 weeks) as
      compared to doubling the PPI dose in 30 refractory GERD patients(28). The acupuncture group
      demonstrated a significant decrease in mean daytime heartburn scores compared to high-dose
      PPI group. Mean nighttime heartburn and regurgitation scores improved only in the acupuncture
      group. Thus this study showed that adding acupuncture as compared to doubling the PPI dose
      was more effective in controlling symptoms of GERD in patients on standard dose of PPI.

      Similar benefits have been demonstrated with the use of yoga. A randomized controlled trial
      compared yoga, exercise and self care book for chronic low back pain showed that yoga was
      more effective than a self-care book for improving function and reducing chronic low back
      pain and the benefits persisted for at least several months (29). Yoga was also found to be
      useful in improving symptoms related to irritable bowel in a randomized trial conducted in
      Canada (30).

      CLINICAL RELEVANCE OF THIS STUDY GERD is a well known, widely prevalent, clinical entity. The
      symptoms of GERD if not relieved can affect the daily functioning/productivity of
      individuals. This can be especially frustrating for some patients, who may spend hundreds of
      dollars every year on prescription medications, and are still not able to obtain relief of
      their symptoms. In the United States alone, it is estimated that PPI costs alone make up over
      $10billion/year (5). However, despite these staggering costs, it is clear that even PPI
      therapy is not the definitive answer for all patients. Indeed, it has been reported that 37%
      of patients receiving PPIs also note concomitant antacid use. This finding underscores the
      fact that even with PPI therapy, a large percentage of patients do not achieve full symptom
      relief. When left untreated--or when treated inadequately--severe GERD can progress to
      esophagitis, esophageal ulcers, esophageal strictures, laryngeal disease, chronic cough,
      Barrett's esophagus, and esophageal adenocarcinoma. Clearly, such patients with refractory
      symptoms are the ones in the direst need for additional modalities of therapy. Yoga and
      acupuncture may be a promising option for these patients, as they represent cost-effective,
      yet underused, options which may be usefully employed to control the symptoms of GERD.

      Data Collection:

      Patient demographics, order of randomization, responses to questionnaires, and antacid use
      will be collected by the study coordinator and recorded in a database.

      RISK AND BENEFIT TO THE STUDY PARTICIPANT:

      This pilot prospective study has the potential to identify new treatments for GERD symptoms.
      The participants in this study may experience relief from their GERD symptoms persistent on
      high dose acid suppressive therapy. This may improve their quality of life and level of
      functioning. The risks to the study group are minimal. There is minor risk of bruising,
      needle breakage and infection with the acupuncture needles and musculoskeletal symptoms in
      patients undergoing yoga. If the study shows significant improvement in reflux symptoms with
      acupuncture or yoga, then these methods may have a wider application to the entire spectrum
      of GERD symptoms with the prospect of avoiding pharmacologic and surgical therapies.

      STATISTICAL METHODS AND DATA ANALYSIS:

      Data Analysis:

      Data will be analyzed with the help of a statistical software program. Categorical and
      continuous variables will be compared using the Student's t-test and chi-square test. A p
      value of < 0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  