
    
      Hypothesis:

      In a difficult asthma population, a significant reduction in fractional exhaled nitric oxide
      (FeNO) or sputum eosinophils after a directly observed inhaled steroid challenge will
      distinguish non-adherent subjects from subjects with refractory asthma.

      Study Design The study will consist of two phases. The development phase will identify the
      response of FeNO / sputum eosinophils after directly observed inhaled steroid challenge, in
      non-adherent subjects and define cut-off values for a positive and negative test and identify
      the optimum length of steroid challenge. The validation phase will trial and validate the
      test in a 'real life' clinical setting.

      Phase 1 - Development Phase

      During this phase, two groups will be studied:

        -  Non-adherent group - subjects with < 50% prescription filling in previous 6 months and
           persistently high FeNO.

        -  Adherent group - subjects with high prescription filling (> 75%) and persistently high
           FeNO.

      On Day 0, subjects will have a FeNO measurement will be repeated, perform induced sputum and
      complete an asthma control questionnaire. After inhaler technique is deemed satisfactory, all
      subjects will be directly observed taking 1600μg of inhaled budesonide via Turbohaler (or
      bioequivalent dose of Budesonide via MDI / spacer). On the next 6 days, the investigator will
      visit the subjects and perform FeNO measurements, followed by directly observed inhalation of
      1600 μg of inhaled budesonide via appropriate inhaler device.

      On Day 7, subjects will undergo FeNO measurement, induced sputum and an asthma control
      questionnaire. Following who fail to suppress their FeNO level will receive an intramuscular
      injection of Triamcinolone 80mg and will be asked to attend the clinic weekly for 4 weeks for
      measurement of FeNO levels and induced sputum.

      Based on results the investigators will:

        1. Identify if there is a clearly different response in FeNO / sputum eosinophils in
           adherent and non-adherent groups during a 7 day treatment period, with observed high
           dose inhaled steroid therapy, which will define the clinical utility of the technique.

        2. Define cut-off values for a positive test (i.e. which is consistent with non-adherence)
           and a negative test which should mean adherence and consequently refractory asthma.

        3. Define the optimal length of steroid challenge for the validation phase based on
           clinical ease of use and differentiation precision.

      Phase 2 - Validation in a real life Clinical Setting

      Having defined the test, the validation phase will involve prospectively recruited subjects,
      who have a raised FeNO but the investigators will not have access to their prescription
      records at this stage. These subjects will undergo the steroid challenge defined above and
      will be deemed adherent or non-adherent. After the steroid challenge has been performed, this
      will be compared to prescription records and patient confrontation to identify if the
      challenge identifies non-adherence.
    
  