
    
      Randomization of the patients to the different groups will be performed with the appropriate
      software program. Only the lead researcher will have access to the randomization list.
      Allocation to the two groups will be carried out in blocks of four.

      The patients will be sent to Operator A for the periodontal exam. Without knowledge of the
      results of this exam, the patients will be treated by Operators B and C for periodontal
      treatment, which will involve oral hygiene instructions as well as supra-gingival and
      sub-gingival scaling and planing in up to four sessions. At the end of each session, the
      patients will be sent to Operator D, who will administer either placebo or active PDT based
      on the content of the sealed envelope. Thus, both the patients and operator in charge of the
      periodontal exams will be blinded to the PDT protocol (double-blind study).

      Fasting blood sugar and glycated hemoglobin exams will be performed at baseline as well as
      15, 30, 90 and 180 days after the completion of treatment. All exams will be carried out at
      the same laboratory affiliated with the university.

      The clinical periodontal exams will be performed by a single examiner specialized in
      periodontics, who will evaluate six regions of each tooth with a 15-mm probe (North Carolina
      model, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA). The following aspects will be recorded: plaque index,
      bleeding upon probing, probing depth, gingival recession and attachment loss (Armitage,
      2004). Evaluations will be carried out performed at baseline (prior to initial treatment) as
      well as 15, 30, 90 and 180 days after the completion of treatment.

      Patients will receive periodontal treatment and photodynamic therapy (active or sham
      depending on the allocation).

      Crevicular fluid will be collected from the previously defined sites with a probing depth
      equal to or greater than 4 mm that will receive treatment. Collection will be performed with
      relative isolation using cotton rolls following the removal of supra-gingival plaque with
      periodontal curettes and air drying for five seconds. Absorbent paper strips (PerioPaper,
      ProFlow Inc., Amityville, NY, USA) will be individually inserted into each site for 30
      seconds (Rudin et al., 1970). The collections will be performed by a single researcher. The
      volume of crevicular fluid samples will be measured using the Periotron 8000 micro-moisture
      meter (Oraflow Inc., NY, USA). The samples will then be placed in duly identified sterile
      plastic microtubes, temporarily stored in dry ice and subsequently stored in a freezer at -80
      ºC
    
  