
    
      Apart from acute kiddney injury (AKI), critically ill patients with sepsis or trauma can also
      exhibit glomerular hyperfiltration (2-4). Glomerular hyperfiltration is not easily
      recognized, because the decrease in serum creatinine is a late manifestation and generally
      interpreted as normal renal function. Glomerular hyperfiltration may have clinical
      consequences, because it leads to augmented renal clearance of water soluble drugs. This is
      especially relevant for antibiotics, because augmented clearance can lead to underdosing and
      therapeutic failure (5-9). Patients with glomerular hyperfiltration are generally younger
      patients with less severe disease (3) and often exhibit a hyperdynamic circulation. The
      mechanism of glomerular hyperfiltration is poorly understood. High catecholamine release with
      increased renal blood flow could play a role. Direct measurement of renal blood flow is not
      available in daily clinical practice.

      Nowadays, the investigators can measure Renal Resistive Index (RRI) using renal Doppler
      ultrasound. The RRI is a sonographic index assessing resistance of the intrarenal arcuate or
      interlobar arteries and is normally used to assess renal arterial disease. The method has now
      become available at the bedside in the intensive care unit. RRI is calculated as: (peak
      systolic velocity - end diastolic velocity)/peak systolic velocity. Normal values are between
      0.60 and 0.70. A mean value of 0.72 has been found in critically ill patients admitted to the
      intensive care unit (personal data).

      The investigators hypothesize that high glomerular filtration rate as measured with
      creatinine clearance is associated with a low renal resistive index and accelerated
      microvascular blood flow.

      To prove or reject this hypothesis, the following study measurements will be performed in
      critically ill patients with sepsis or trauma:

        1. Renal ultrasound to measure renal resistive index (RRI) After visualising the kidney in
           ultrasound mode, checking for (chronic) renal damage, an arcuate or interlobar artery
           will be localized and three successive Doppler measurements at different positions in
           the kidney (high, middle and low) will be performed. This will be repeated 3 times in
           each kidney. So a total number of 9 RRI values will be obtained in each kidney.

        2. Sublingual microcirculation using Sidestream Dark Field imaging (SDF) After removal of
           secretions with a gauze, the device will be applied below the tongue and three sequences
           of about 20 seconds from adjacent areas will be recorded and stored. The investigators
           will measure the perfused vessel density (PVD), the proportion of perfused vessels (PPV)
           and the microvascular flow index (MFI) for small vessels. Each image will be divided
           into four quadrants, and the predominant type of flow (0 = absent, 1 = intermittent, 2 =
           sluggish, 3 = normal, 4 = high) will be evaluated in each quadrant. The mean of the four
           quadrants will be used for analysis.

        3. To assess fluid status, Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) will be performedusing
           the Akern BIA 101 device.

      BIA measures Resistance (R) and Reactance (Xc) reflecting extracellulair (R) and cellular
      (Xc) resistance to an alternating current of 400 μA with afrequency of 50 kHz. In previous
      studies the investigators found that (changes in) R are highely correlation with (changes in)
      fluid status.
    
  