
    
      Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) disproportionately afflicts older
      Black and Hispanic Americans. ATTR cardiac amyloidosis (ATTR CA) is caused by myocardial
      deposition of misfolded transthyretin protein (TTR or prealbumin) and is classified by the
      genetics of TTR into wild-type (ATTRwt) or hereditary (hATTR or ATTRm). ATTR CA, irrespective
      of genotype, is an age-dependent, often unrecognized, mechanism underlying HFpEF. While hATTR
      CA results from point mutations that promote TTR misfolding and amyloid aggregation, factors
      that contribute to ATTRwt CA are not well defined. While previously thought to be
      untreatable, promising therapies that have been recently reported are most effective if
      administered early in disease course. Only a small proportion of individuals with wild-type
      TTR will develop ATTRwt CA, overwhelmingly reported in Caucasian males beyond age 60 years.
      However, as an autosomal protein, allele distribution is not sex specific. For hATTR, a
      substitution of isoleucine for valine (Val122Ile) is the most frequent TTR mutation in the
      US, observed exclusively in Black Americans with an allele frequency of 3.4%. But there are
      no data regarding the prevalence of ATTRwt CA in African Americans and no data for ATTR CA
      prevalence, irrespective of genotype, in the Hispanic population. One of the reasons for the
      knowledge deficit is the challenge of diagnosis. Endomyocardial biopsy, while nearly 100%
      sensitive and specific, is impractical as a screening test and genotyping alone of patients
      is insufficient to identify ATTR CA because wild-type patients develop disease. In this
      study, the investigators will use a highly accurate technique for ATTR CA identification
      using Tc99m-pyrophosphate (PYP) imaging that avoids the need for biopsy. Tc99m-PYP myocardial
      uptake can occur before echocardiographic or clinical changes, suggesting enhanced
      sensitivity. While studies using the technique have suggested that 10-15% of elderly
      hospitalized patients with HF may have ATTR CA, Tc99m-PYP has not been applied broadly in HF
      patients as a means to facilitate early diagnosis. In addition, the investigators will test
      the diagnostic accuracy of a point-of-care diagnostic tool that utilizes a novel biomarker,
      retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4), and an assay to measure TTR stability. The overall
      hypothesis is that a significant proportion of HF in elderly Blacks and Hispanics is caused
      ATTR CA. Using these non-invasive tests, the investigators will establish the prevalence of
      ATTR CA and explore the relationship between RBP4 concentration and TTR stability in a
      prospective cohort study of elderly Black and Hispanic Americans with HF.
    
  