
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the rate of margin-negative (R0) resection following treatment using
      NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (i.e., mFOLFIRINOX alone, or switch to GA).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) of participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE
      adaptive therapy (i.e., mFOLFIRINOX, or switch to GA).

      II. To determine the PFS of participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy, and
      preoperative radiation therapy (RT).

      III. To determine the disease-free survival (DFS) of participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE
      adaptive therapy (i.e., mFOLFIRINOX, or switch to GA).

      IV. To determine the DFS of participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy, and
      preoperative RT.

      V. To determine the overall survival (OS) of participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive
      therapy.

      VI. To determine the OS of participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy, and
      preoperative RT.

      VII. To assess the surgical complications of participants that undergo surgical resection
      after receiving NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy, and preoperative RT.

      VIII. To assess 30-day post-operative mortality that undergo surgical resection after
      receiving NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy and preoperative RT.

      IX. To assess safety of NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To monitor changes in CA19-9 levels.

      OUTLINE:

      mFOLFIRINOX REGIMEN: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, leucovorin
      calcium IV over 2 hours, and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Patients
      also receive fluorouracil IV over 46 hours starting on day 1. Treatment with mFOLFIRINOX
      repeats every 14 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo disease restaging (re-stage I). Patients with
      radiographic response and no disease progression receive mFOLFIRINOX for an additional 2
      months (approximately 4 cycles). Patients then undergo second re-staging (re-stage II).

      GA REGIMEN: After re-stage I, patients with disease progression or toxicity to mFOLFIRINOX
      (per assessment of the treating physician) switch to receive the GA regimen comprising
      gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes and nab-paclitaxel IV over 30-40 minutes on
      days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo second re-staging
      (re-stage II).

      LOSARTAN: Starting cycle 1 day 1, patients also receive losartan potassium orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) until completion of RT in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      RT/SURGERY: Patients with no vascular tumor involvement at re-stage II, undergo surgery 1-4
      after completion of chemotherapy. Patients with resolution of tumor contact with pancreatic
      vasculature at re-stage II, undergo short-course RT to receive a total of 10 fractions over 5
      days weekly (Monday-Friday). Patients with tumor vessel involvement that is persistent at
      re-stage II, undergo long-course RT to receive a total of 15-25 fractions over 5 days weekly
      (Monday-Friday), and receive capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) on Monday-Friday or
      fluorouracil IV over 5-7 days weekly until completion of RT. Patients then undergo surgery
      1-4 weeks after completion RT.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      6 months, and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.
    
  