
    
      HIV infection has been associated with an increased prevalence of pulmonary hypertension. In
      addition, recent data suggests that a state of endothelial dysfunction develops in HIV
      disease secondary to anti-retroviral therapy and associated dyslipidemia or secondary to
      direct viral infection of the endothelium. This leads to premature atherosclerosis and
      possibly contributes to avascular necrosis of the hip. Similar effects on the pulmonary
      vasculature may be involved in the development of pulmonary vasculopathy.

      In this study we plan to invasively characterize the status of pulmonary and systemic
      endothelial function and determine the mechanisms of pulmonary vascular endothelial
      dysfunction in HIV disease. To this end we will catheterize healthy volunteers and volunteers
      with HIV infection with and without pulmonary hypertension and directly measure
      acetylcholine-dependent blood flow in the pulmonary and brachial artery to assess pulmonary
      and systemic endothelium-dependent blood flow. Simultaneous measurement of exhaled NO and
      pulmonary capillary artery NO2 - will allow for complete characterization of the contribution
      of NO production to endothelium-dependent vasomotor control. We will also use recently
      developed MRI techniques to measure pulmonary artery blood flow during infusion of
      acetylcholine (ACH), sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and NG monomethyl-L-arginine (LNMMA) to
      establish responsiveness to an endothelium dependent vasodilator, endothelium-independent
      vasodilator and an NO inhibitor, respectively. Volunteers with pulmonary hypertension will
      have the option to undergo open label phase I/II treatment with sildenafil for 16 weeks and
      return for a repeat assessment of pulmonary hemodynamics as well as pulmonary and systemic
      endothelial function.

      Endothelial cells will be isolated using novel flow-cytometry methodologies developed over
      the last two years at the NIH intramural division utilizing combinations of positive and
      negative selection based on specific surface markers for activated T cells and endothelial
      cells and markers of cell viability. Endothelial cells will subsequently be interrogated
      using amplified real time PCR methodologies and affymetrix based gene expression profiling
      developed in our laboratories. The levels of expression in endothelial cells of HIV virus,
      HHV8, eNOS, caveolin, HO-1, endothelin receptors A and B, and endothelin 1, in addition to
      other proteins regulating vascular homeostasis and cellular host defense (i.e. epidermal
      growth factor, transforming growth factor beta, platelet derived growth factor and
      interleukin-6), will be assessed.

      These studies will provide insights into the mechanisms of pulmonary artery endothelial
      dysfunction and suggest rationally designed therapies targeting viral load, HHV8, and/or the
      NO/endothelin pathways. These studies have the promise of opening the door to the study of
      pulmonary artery endothelial dysfunction at the physiological, cellular and molecular level.
    
  