
    
      Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) syndromes are disorders characterized by enzyme deficiencies. As
      a result of the enzyme deficiency, glycosaminoglycans that are normally recycled in a healthy
      individual cannot be degraded in the MPS patient. MPS syndromes have been linked to heart
      health complications. Complications related to coronary artery stenosis (narrowing) are
      recognized as potentially fatal sequelae of untreated and treated MPS. Presently, national
      guidelines are largely silent on coronary artery disease risk in this population. There are
      currently no validated markers of cardiovascular or coronary artery disease in the MPS
      population. The main purpose of this observational study is to evaluate the ease and
      convenience of a non-invasive measurement of artery function in MPS I, MPS II and MPS VI
      patients compared to healthy control subjects. Exploring the validity and usefulness of this
      non-invasive measurement is the first step towards developing validated markers of
      cardiovascular or coronary artery disease in the MPS population.

      Specific Aim #1: Compare carotid artery intima-media thickness and carotid stiffness in
      individuals with MPS I, II, and VI (treated and non-treated) vs. healthy age-and
      gender-matched controls. It is hypothesized that MPS patients will have increased carotid
      artery thickness and reduced carotid compliance and distensibility compared to healthy
      controls.

      Specific Aim #2: Compare carotid artery intima-media thickness and carotid stiffness in
      individuals with MPS VI vs. I and II and between MPS I patients clinically treated with HSCT
      vs. ERT. It is hypothesized that MPS VI will have decreased carotid thickness and increased
      carotid compliance and distensibility compared to MPS I and II and that MPS I patients
      treated with ERT will have increased carotid thickness and reduced carotid compliance and
      distensibility compared to MPS I patients treated with HSCT.
    
  