
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive lorazepam.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive a placebo.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving. You will have an equal chance of being in each group.

      All patients will receive haloperidol as part of your standard of care. The study doctor can
      tell you more about haloperidol, how it is designed to work, and about any side effects it
      may have.

      Study Drug Administration:

      After you have started receiving haloperidol, you will receive lorazepam or the placebo by
      vein 1 time over about 1-2 minutes.

      Study Tests:

      Every day while you are in the palliative care unit, you will be asked to complete the same
      questionnaires about symptoms and how you are feeling that you were asked at screening. If at
      any point you recover from your confusion, you will be asked if you remember the confusion
      and how distressing it was.

      Saliva Samples:

      While you are in the hospital, saliva samples (about 1/2 a teaspoon) will be collected every
      day to check for changes in your body's chemical levels. To collect the saliva, a swab will
      be brushed inside your mouth until enough saliva is gathered on the swab. This should take
      about 30 seconds to complete.

      Length of Study:

      You will receive the study drug or placebo 1 time. You will be monitored as part of this
      study until you leave the palliative care unit. You may go off study at any time that
      you/your caregiver decides it is in your best interest.

      This is an investigational study. Lorazepam is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of anxiety, insomnia, and seizures. Its use to help control agitation/delirium
      is investigational.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  