
    
      Drug therapy is growing more complex as patients increasingly suffer from a number of
      co-morbidities. Accordingly, in clinical medicine, a wide range of medication related
      problems may arise (1). A medication related problem (MRP) is defined as "an event or
      circumstance involving drug therapy that actually or potentially interferes with desired
      health outcomes" (2). These problems have been found to lead to more hospital admissions and
      thus increase the cost of healthcare provision (3, 4). For instance, Winterstein et al.
      carried out a meta-analysis of research in this area which showed that 7.1% of hospital
      admissions were attributable to a drug related problem, of which 59% appeared avoidable (5).
      Moreover, a large study in the United Kingdom showed that these admissions cost the National
      Health Service (NHS) up to £466 million annually, which is 0.59% of the British health care
      budget (6).

      Medication related problems (MRPs) remain a serious concern particularly in primary care
      settings. A recent UK study found that one in 20 prescription items in general practice
      included an error, affecting 1 in 8 patients. Although the majority of these errors were
      described as being either mild or moderate in severity, 1 in 550 of all prescription items
      contained an error determined to be severe (7). In addition, significant medication wastage
      has been found within general practice settings in England with an estimated £300 million
      worth of prescribed medications being wasted each year in primary and community care (8).
      Optimisation of drug therapy and prevention of MRPs can reduce health care expenditure,
      potentially save lives and enhance patient quality of life (9-13).

      Medicines optimisation is defined as 'a person-centred approach to safe and effective
      medicines use, to ensure people obtain the best possible outcomes from their medicines.
      Medicines optimisation applies to people who may or may not take their medicines effectively.
      Shared decision-making is an essential part of evidence-based medicine, seeking to use the
      best available evidence to guide decisions about the care of the individual patient, taking
      into account their needs, preferences and values' (14, 15, 16).

      Medicines optimisation requires more patient engagement and professional collaboration within
      health and social care settings. It focuses on actions taken by all health and social care
      practitioners. To support the medicines optimisation agenda a guide on medicines optimisation
      has been produced by The Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) the aim of which is to help
      patients make the most of their medicines (17). This guide involves four key principles for
      medicines optimisation in order to achieve improved patient outcomes (16). These principles
      are as follows:

      (i) Aim to understand the patient's experience (ii) Evidence based choice of medicines (iii)
      Ensure medicines use is as safe as possible (iv) Make medicines optimisation part of routine
      practice

      In order to support the implementation of the guiding principles, NHS England launched the
      prototype medicines optimisation dashboard in 2014. The dashboard aims to 'encourage Clinical
      Commissioning Groups (CCGs) and healthcare Trusts to think more about how well their patients
      are supported to use medicines and less about focusing on cost and volume of drugs' (16).

      Primary care systems have started utilising a team based approach to care delivery.
      Pharmacists have been increasingly recognised as a part of the healthcare professional team
      within primary care settings in many countries (18). This integration of pharmacists into
      primary health care systems was found to have significant benefits that included reduction of
      errors, effective identification and resolution of medication related problems, improvements
      in medication adherence, improved patient outcomes, relief of work pressure on GPs, improved
      communication and cooperation between health professionals, and strengthened team working
      within primary care (18-22).

      Despite the expansion of the role of pharmacists in the primary health care setting, limited
      research has been conducted to evaluate the impact of pharmacist input on health service
      utilisation and cost.
    
  