
    
      The Fit Study is a three-year, cluster-randomized controlled trial that will evaluate the
      impact of school-based body mass index (BMI) screening and reporting on childhood obesity and
      psychosocial outcomes. This study will take place during the 2014-15, 2015-16, and 2016-17
      school years. Seventy-nine schools across California will be randomized to one of three
      groups: 1) BMI screening and reporting, 2) BMI screening, and 3) no BMI screening or
      reporting (control). Schools randomized to Groups 1 and 2 will conduct height and weight
      measurements annually with their 3rd-8th grade students. Group 1 and 2 schools will also
      administer the five fitness assessments (mile run or PACER test, curl-ups, push-ups, trunk
      lift, and sit and reach) annually with their 5th-8th grade students. In the fall of Years 2
      and 3, Group 1 schools will mail a report home to parents with students' results from the
      previous spring. All 3rd and 4th grade parents will receive a report with BMI results only.
      Investigators will randomize the parents of 5th-8th grade students to receive a report that
      provides BMI results only or one that provides BMI results with results from the five fitness
      assessments. Schools randomized to Group 3 will not conduct height and weight measurements
      with their students during Years 1 and 2.

      Each fall, investigators will administer a survey to 4th-8th grade students from all schools.
      This survey will assess weight-based teasing, feelings of stigmatization, and weight-control
      behaviors among students. The student survey will also ask questions about students'
      experiences having their heights and weights measured at school. During all years,
      investigators will mail a survey home a subsample of parents to assess parent behaviors
      related to their child's physical activity and nutrition, as well as parent reactions to the
      BMI report. Finally, schools will complete a survey in Spring 2017 to assess their nutrition-
      and physical activity-related policies and programs.
    
  