
    
      Pemphigus is a serious and life-threatening autoimmune disease characterized by blisters and
      erosions that occur on the skin and oral mucosa. It is caused by autoantibodies that attack
      desmoglein 1 and 3, adhesion molecules that are present on the surface of the cells
      (keratinocytes) that make up the superficial layer of the skin. As a result these cells stop
      sticking together, and come apart resulting in the formation of blisters on the skin.

      Pemphigus is usually treated with systemic corticosteroids often given together with
      immunosuppressive drugs such as Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide), Imuran (azathioprine),
      methotrexate, CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil) and others. However, the prolonged and high
      doses of systemic steroids and other immunosuppressive agents used to treat the disease are
      associated with significant toxicity.

      A new treatment which is now being used to treat pemphigus patients that are unresponsive, or
      that have developed complications to conventional treatment is IVIg (intravenous
      immunoglobulin). IVIg consists of one of the protein fractions present in blood. It is the
      fraction that contains antibodies and is called immunoglobulin (Ig). It is purified from
      blood that has been collected from thousands of donors and treated to remove potential
      infectious agents. It is administered intravenously (IV) over several hours, several days in
      succession. The cycles are usually repeated every 2 to 4 weeks until the disease is
      controlled.

      IVIg treatment is currently given in either of two ways, either by itself or with an
      immunosuppressive drug such as cyclophosphamide or azathioprine. It is unknown which of these
      two procedures is better. This trial is being conducted to determine which treatment is more
      effective.

      The trial is being conducted in patients with pemphigus that are not responding to, or have
      developed complications from, standard treatment. All patients will be treated with IVIg
      administered using a standard protocol. The IVIg will be given daily for 4 days, and this
      cycle will be repeated every other week for a total of 4 cycles. In addition, half of the
      patients will be selected by chance to also be treated with cyclophosphamide, an
      immunosuppressive drug often used to treat other autoimmune diseases including pemphigus. The
      cyclophosphamide is a pill that is taken 3 times a day. A total of 12 patients will be
      treated in each arm of the trial. The trial is being conducted by Dr. Jean-Claude Bystryn at
      the New York University Medical Center.

      The extent and activity of the disease, as well as the blood levels of pemphigus antibodies,
      will be measured at baseline prior to entry into the trial and periodically during the trial.

      The goal of the study is to determine whether there is a difference between the two
      treatments in the rate at which: 1) the activity and extent of the disease improves, 2) the
      dose of corticosteroids required to treat the disease can be reduced, and 3) the blood level
      of pemphigus antibodies decrease.

      This trial will test this hypothesis by examining whether IVIg treatment given with
      cyclophosphamide results in a more rapid decline in circulating pemphigus antibodies than
      when given alone.
    
  