
    
      Background Information.

      Skin grafting is a frequently used technique for covering skin defects in cases of row area.
      The technique evolved from use in the back alleys of India in pre-Christian times to become
      one of the most valuable clinical tools in modern surgery. There are several techniques for
      caring for the skin graft site to assure an adequate graft and prompt as well as wound
      healing.

      The use of the split-thickness skin graft (STSG) as reconstructive technique is very common
      nowadays but this technique is usually a source of pain and discomfort for the patients and
      may cause significant morbidity and result in hypertrophic or even keloid scarring. The wound
      heals by a process of re-epithelialization which results in an epithelial cover usually
      within 7-14 days. The aim of graft management is to maintain an environment that promotes
      optimal healing and prevents morbidity, which can include pain and infection and ultimately
      delayed healing.

      The dressing of donor and recipient sites which provides a protective barrier should be easy
      to apply, promote rapid re-epithelialization, and be pain free, infection free, and
      relatively inexpensive.

      MEBO have been proved to have anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial effect due to the presence
      of - β sitosterol and berberine respectively. Many studies have reported that MEBO provides
      suitable moist environment needed for burn wounds for optimal healing and
      re-epithelialization without the need for wound closure by dressing. Also some studies have
      proved the efficacy of MEBO in secondary healing of partial thickness wounds, such as split
      thickness skin graft sites, with improved cosmetic results and better scar quality.

      In cases of raw area, donor and recipient sites have been traditionally dressed with
      low-adherent wound contact paraffin gauze or antibiotic-impregnated tulle gras and covered by
      a secondary dressing made of gauze and absorbent padding.

      These dressings are relatively inexpensive. However, during the peri-operative period,
      patients complain more often of discomfort or pain at the donor area than at the graft site
      itself besides, the poor cosmetic appearance of donor sites after healing is not readily
      accepted.

      Because the basic pathology of burns closely mimics many aspects of skin graft donor sites,
      researchers are investigating using MEBO at donor and recipient sites.

      Potential Risks

      Due its pure and natural origin, MEBO have been reported to have no side effect or potential
      risks except rare cases of allergy and hypersensitivity.

      Known Potential Benefits

      MEBO has been proved to have a positive effect on improving healing process with rapid
      re-epithelialization. According to a recent study, the burn areas and graft sites were
      markedly less hyperemic and less pigmented and the final cosmetic appearance and patient
      satisfaction were also higher by using MEBO. The cases who used MEBO had better scar
      assessment and lower pain scale.
    
  