
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To quantitatively compare the relative cerebral blood volume/flow, mean transit time,
           and mean vessel diameter as measured by perfusion-weighted MRI before, during, and after
           chemoradiotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme.

        -  To measure the permeability-surface area product on a voxel-by-voxel basis before,
           during, and after chemoradiotherapy in these patients.

        -  To measure the full water self-diffusion tensor on a voxel-by-voxel basis before,
           during, and after chemoradiotherapy in these patients.

        -  To compare the tensor fractional anisotropy before, during, and after chemoradiotherapy
           in these patients.

        -  To compare the relative regional concentrations of choline, N-acetyl-asparate, and
           myoinositol as measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy before, during, and after
           chemoradiotherapy to interrogate cell membrane turnover, neuronal integrity, and glial
           reactions.

        -  To test the affects of a short period of 100% oxygen inhalation on imaging of tumor and
           surrounding tissue regions of interest, specifically cerebral blood volume changes in
           each area as compared to room air.

      Secondary

        -  To collect blood and urine samples for correlation analysis between imaging changes,
           molecular markers (including genetic markers), and clinical outcome of glioblastoma
           multiforme (phenotypic information).

        -  To correlate blood and urine biomarkers and blood genetic markers with tumor expression
           of these markers.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Patients also
      receive oral temozolomide once daily 7 days a week during radiotherapy. After completion of
      chemoradiotherapy, patients receive oral temozolomide once daily for 5 days. Treatment with
      temozolomide repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients undergo MRI, including perfusion- and diffusion-weighted MRI, diffusion tensor
      imaging, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy prior to initiation of chemoradiotherapy, once
      weekly during chemoradiotherapy, and then monthly until tumor progression or until completion
      of 6 courses of post chemoradiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually.
    
  