
    
      The purpose of the proposed project is to test and refine a battery of cognitive measures
      that can be used in treatment studies focused on Down syndrome. The battery is designed to
      assess several key domains of the Down syndrome cognitive phenotype where gaps remain in
      outcome measures, including attention, executive function, learning and memory, processing
      speed, and social cognition, considering comorbid conditions that can potentially interfere
      with the development within these cognitive domains. Although a single battery for the entire
      lifespan of the individual with Down syndrome has obvious appeal, the investigators have
      focused their effort on the school-age years so that the investigators can capture a key time
      point in development of these cognitive domains. Moreover, new pharmaceutical treatments are
      transitioning from adults to the school-age population, making the need greatest for this
      portion of the lifespan.

      However, based on preliminary research from the ongoing study with children, a need was
      identified to evaluate measures with young adults with DS (ages 18-39). Supplementary funding
      will support the expansion of the project to include young adults with DS. Results will
      provide empirical guidance for refining a battery and form the foundation for a larger-scale
      study evaluating outcome measures.

      For participants 6-17 years, at least 160 children with Down syndrome will be recruited
      across two sites for the study, and participants will be enrolled over four (4) years.
      Following pre-screening and the consent visit to determine study eligibility, children will
      be assessed at 6 time points. The first assessment will be the baseline testing/Time 0 visit
      to assess IQ. At Time 1 baseline assessments for other functioning will be completed. A
      two-week interval will separate Time 1 and Time 2, at which time test-retest reliability
      assessments will be collected. Time 3 will occur three months following Time 2 to evaluate
      test sensitivity to change. Time 4 will occur 3 months following Time 3 and Time 5 will occur
      6 months after Time 4 to assess longitudinal changes. The time interval was selected to
      replicate the duration of many clinical trials.

      For participants 18-35 years, at least one hundred young adults aged 18-29 years with DS will
      be recruited across two sites to participate in the study. Adults will participate in
      neuropsychology assessments at 5 time points. Parents/Caregivers will complete behavioral
      measures at all time points. At Time 1 baseline assessments will be completed. A two-week
      interval (+/- 3 days) will separate Time 1 and Time 2, when test-retest reliability
      assessments will be collected. Time 3 will occur three months following Time 2 (+/- 2 weeks),
      Time 4 will occur three months following Time 3 (+/- 2 weeks), and Time 5 will occur 6 months
      following Time 4 (+/- 2 weeks) to evaluate sensitivity to change, Time 6 will occur 24 months
      following Time 1 (+/- 4 weeks), Time 7 will occur 36 months following Time 1 (+/- 4 weeks),
      and Time 8 will occur 48 months following Time 1 (+/- 4 weeks) to evaluate sensitivity to
      change. The three and six-month time intervals were selected to replicate the duration of
      many clinical trials. The 12-month interval was selected to provide a time interval in which
      natural development should occur and allow the investigators to evaluate sensitivity to
      change. In this study, change will occur due to natural development, while in a clinical
      trial, change would be expected due to treatment. The ability to detect relatively small
      developmentally-based change over 12 months will allow the investigators to evaluate if the
      measures could detect similarly small changes in trials. Once recruitment goals are met for
      NIH standards for 100 young adults, aged 18-29, the study team may begin recruiting adults
      who are 29-35, as well.
    
  