
    
      This study protocol was approved by the institutional review board of Chang Gung Medical
      Foundation. The usability assessment focuses on the actual use of the proposed rehabilitation
      system to clarify issues users would face in actual system operation, thus providing a
      reference for subsequent system improvement. Pre-testing and formal testing were conducted at
      Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Taoyuan. The pre-test was conducted on five healthy
      participants, while the formal testing was conducted on 12 participants (4 stroke patients, 4
      caregivers, and 4 therapists). The healthy participants were aged 20-70 years old and had no
      physical disabilities; the stroke patients had normal cognitive and language skills, stable
      stroke status, no fractures in the upper limbs in the previous three months, and minimal or
      no upper limb spasticity with Modified Ashworth Scale of 0 or 1; the occupational therapists
      should had work experience in the hospital for more than one year.

      Prior to the experiment, the subject provided basic biographical information. The
      investigators then explained the experimental process and demonstrated the operation of the
      device. For usability assessment, the subject operated the device under the instruction by
      the researchers, during which problems observed and questions asked were recorded. Following
      device operation, the subjects filled the system usability scale (SUS) questionnaire that
      obtained subjective evaluations and recommendations for the device. Experimental instrument
      consisted of the rehabilitation device, video cameras, still image cameras, digital voice
      recorders, questionnaires and observational recording forms.

      The results of the SUS questionnaire were analyzed using SPSS (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA).
      The split-half method was used for reliability analysis and one-sample t test for comparison.
    
  