
    
      Rationale:

      The Dutch Pancreatic Cancer Project (PACAP) is an initiative of the Dutch Pancreatic Cancer
      Group and was officially launched in July 2014. PACAP is 1 of the largest nationwide
      collaborative outcomes registration and biobanking projects on pancreatic and periampullary
      cancer worldwide and includes the Dutch Pancreatic Cancer Audit (DPCA), the Patient Reported
      Outcome Measures (PROMs), an online expert panel, and the Netherlands Cancer Registry (NCR,
      Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organization; IKNL). During the first 3 years of PACAP,
      regional variations in treatment and guideline (non-)compliance were observed. These
      differences may lead to differences in survival and quality of life of pancreatic cancer
      patients throughout the Netherlands. From PACAP data and literature, best practices for
      pancreatic cancer care have been identified.

      Objective:

      The aim of PACAP-1 is to evaluate to what extent an enhanced implementation of best practices
      in pancreatic cancer care in the Netherlands leads to a prolonged survival and improvement of
      quality of life as compared to current practice.

      Study design:

      The PACAP-1 trial is a nationwide stepped-wedge cluster randomized controlled trial. In a per
      center stepwise and randomized manner, best practices in pancreatic cancer care are
      implemented in all 17 Dutch pancreatic centers. A regional pancreatic cancer team will be
      established per pancreatic center that functions as point of contact for peripheral centers
      in the region. Patient outcomes and compliance will be monitored by the registries founded in
      the PACAP initiative.

      Study Population:

      Prospective cohort of all pancreatic cancer patients diagnosed and treated in the
      Netherlands.

      Interventions:

      Best practices will be implemented in 3 key medical specialties in pancreatic cancer care:
      medical oncology, surgery and gastroenterology. Best practices will be implemented in centers
      during a 6 week intensive initiation period which includes monitoring, return visits,
      provider feedback in combination with education and reminders. The best practices follow the
      Dutch guideline on pancreatic cancer and the current state of the literature and can be
      executed without additional overall costs per center.

      Main study outcomes:

      The primary outcome is 1-year overall survival. Secondary outcomes include quality of life
      (first secondary outcome), 3- and 5-year overall survival and success of implementation of
      every PACAP-1 intervention and participation in DPCG randomized trials.
    
  