
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine median progression-free survival (PFS) in both arms on an intent-to-treat
           basis.

      Secondary

        -  To determine overall survival (OS) defined as the interval from randomization to death
           due to any cause.

        -  To determine treatment-related neurotoxicity rates and disease-related cognitive
           deterioration in each arm, through the following methods: prospective formal
           neuropsychological evaluation, utilizing competing-risk methodology to account for death
           as a competing risk to neurotoxicity or cognitive deterioration from relapsed tumor
           burden/salvage treatment and incidence of clinically defined neurotoxicity as per
           investigator's assessment.

        -  To determine if there exists differences between the two treatment arms in terms of
           health-related quality-of-life and symptoms over time.

        -  To determine response (partial response (PR) and complete response (CR)) rate after
           methotrexate-based chemotherapy and after consolidation whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT).

        -  To determine chemotherapy-related toxicity, measured by Common Toxicity Criteria for
           Adverse Effects (CTCAE), v.4.0.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Memorial
      Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center recursive-partitioning analysis (RPA) classification for
      primary central nervous system lymphoma on age and Karnofsky performance status (KPS) (Class
      1: age ≤ 50 years vs Class 2: age > 50 years and KPS ≥ 70% vs Class 3: age > 50 years and KPS
      < 70%). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive rituximab IV over 5 hours or per institutional guidelines on
           days 1 and 15, methotrexate IV over 2 hours on days 2 and 16, vincristine sulfate IV on
           days 2 and 16 (courses 1 and 2 only), and procarbazine hydrochloride orally (PO) on days
           2-8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive consolidation therapy comprising
           cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive rituximab, methotrexate, vincristine sulfate, and procarbazine
           hydrochloride as in arm I. After completing chemotherapy (2-5 weeks later), patients
           without progressive disease undergo low-dose whole-brain radiotherapy once daily, 5 days
           a week, for approximately 2.5 weeks (13 fractions total). Patients then receive
           consolidation cytarabine as in arm I.

      Patients may undergo blood and buccal sample collection for future correlative studies.
      Paraffin-embedded tissue block of primary tumor or a core tumor tissue punched from the
      tissue block, and cerebrospinal fluid may also be collected.

      Patients may also complete the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R), the Trail
      Making Test Part A and Part B, the Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT), and the
      Quality of Life (QOL) questionnaires at baseline and periodically during study.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 2 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  