
    
      Obesity and Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) have been regarded as global epidemics in developed
      countries and more recently in developing nations. Obesity (a T2DM risk factor) and T2DM
      present significant health risks as individual diseases and substantial risks in individuals
      with both complications (Deepa Nath, 2006). The UAE and USA have a similar prevalence of
      obesity, 36% and 35.7% respectively. Interestingly, the percentage of the population with
      T2DM between the two groups differs significantly, 25% and 8.7% respectively. The rate of
      T2DM in the Emirati population is 2.9 fold higher than in the US. This suggests an altered
      inter relationship between obesity and T2DM. One hypothesis that could explain such a
      variation is differences in body metabolism and central adiposity between the two
      populations. This will be assessed by measuring cardiometabolic risk factors, central
      adiposity and metabolomics. Analysis of the metabolomic profiles may help define the risk
      factors associated with diabetes and differences in metabolic activity between various
      ethnicities.

      Another area of ample interest is the advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) metabolic
      pathways (Pietropaoli D, 2012). AGEs are formed at an increased rate in diabetes and have a
      number of detrimental effects such as retinopathy, nephropathy and atherosclerosis (Melpomeni
      Peppa, 2003). As such, determining the core mechanisms that result in metabolic and
      cardiovascular dysfunction will aid in identifying and developing therapeutic targets, which
      may in turn alleviate the deleterious effects of respective disorders such as diabetes.

      The aetiology of diabetes is complex. However, adenovirus 36 has been shown to play a
      significant role in obesity and diabetes. As such, analysis of ADV-36 occurrence within the
      Emirati population may provide insight into a novel obesity and diabetes risk factor and
      could further clarify the relationship between obesity and T2DM.

      This study may provide evidence that clarifies how obesity can result in T2DM, and why this
      occurrence is more predominant in the Emirati population. In addition, the assessment of AGEs
      within the population, ranging from people with diabetes and obesity to healthy individual,
      may provide insight into potential therapeutic targets, thereby improving overall heath in
      the population. Finally, the data may improve our knowledge of new risk factors such as
      ADV-36 and their subsequent effects on diabetes.
    
  