
    
      Hypertension is a major risk factor for renal and cardiovascular disease (CVD). While the
      health benefits of lowering blood pressure (BP) are well documented, population surveys have
      consistently found that less than a quarter of hypertensive patients have their BP under good
      control. Self-monitoring of BP at home has been extensively evaluated as a potentially useful
      tool to improve BP control and medication adherence in hypertensive patients.

      We developed a user-centric home BP tele-management system. The system captures all home
      self-measured BP readings and requires patients to set jointly with their physician their BP
      treatment goal, home BP monitoring schedule and BP alert levels. The system tracks the
      frequency, date and time of home readings, generates messages for patients and reports for
      physicians indicating whether the BP treatment goal has been reached, and sends BP alerts and
      adherence reminders for BP readings to patients and clinical BP alerts and reports to
      physicians. Using an open, randomized controlled parallel group trial design, older diabetic
      patients with uncontrolled systolic hypertension, recruited from the practice of primary care
      physicians, will receive either usual care approach to home BP monitoring or care that
      incorporates the use of the home BP tele-management system. The primary outcome measure is
      the change in mean daytime systolic BP from baseline to the last (12-month) visit on 24-hour
      ambulatory. The secondary objective is to examine the psychosocial factors that may make it
      difficult for some patients to monitor their blood pressure at home. The rationale for
      including a psychological component in the study is that a critical component of the system
      is adherence to self-monitoring. While adherence can be automatically determined through the
      telemanagement system, the determinants of adherence to this behaviour have not been
      adequately assessed in the literature. To gain insights into this aspect of health behaviour
      we will measure psychological predictors using quantitative and qualitative techniques.
      Moreover, monitoring adherence with home BP monitoring will provide a proxy measure of
      acceptance of the system as a poor adherence rate would suggest that patients perceive it as
      a futile exercise, not leading to any changes in their care.

      This study tests a novel approach to treat hypertension, a major health problem in diabetic
      patients. The information from this study will be invaluable for future health care planning.
    
  