
    
      This study will investigate the role of the cerebellum in speech, building upon prior work in
      understanding cerebellar function in reaching and walking. Neuroimaging and lesion studies
      have provided strong evidence that the cerebellum is an integral part of the speech
      production network, though its precise role in the control of speech remains unclear.
      Furthermore, damage to the cerebellum (either degenerative or focal) can lead to ataxic
      dysarthria, a motor speech disorder characterized, in part, by impaired articulation and
      severe temporal deficits. This project seeks to bridge the gap between theoretical models of
      cerebellar function and the speech symptoms associated with ataxic dysarthria. Two mechanisms
      underlie speech motor control - feedback and feedforward control. In feedback control,
      speakers use sensory feedback (e.g., of their own voice) to control their speech. In
      feedforward control, speakers use knowledge gained from their past speech productions, rather
      than on-line feedback, to control their speech. This study entails a systematic plan to
      elucidate the role of the cerebellum in feedforward and feedback control of speech. A central
      hypothesis is that the cerebellum is especially critical in the feedforward control of
      speech, but has little involvement in feedback control. To explore this hypothesis, we will
      obtain converging evidence from three innovative methodologies: 1) Neuropsychological studies
      of speech-motor responses to real-time altered auditory feedback in patients with cerebellar
      atrophy (CA) and matched healthy controls, 2) Parallel studies in healthy controls undergoing
      theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation to create "virtual lesions" of the cerebellum,
      and 3) Structural and functional studies in CA patients to examine the relationship between
      cerebellar lesion location, dysarthria symptoms, and feedforward and feedback control
      ability.

      Speech provides an important opportunity to examine how well current theories of cerebellar
      function generalize to a novel effector (vocal tract) and sensory (auditory) domain. Its
      purpose for communication imposes exacting spectro-temporal constraints not seen in other
      motor domains. Furthermore, the distinctive balance of feedback and feedforward control in
      speech allows us to examine changes in both control types subsequent to cerebellar damage.
      Critically, this is the first work examining the link between theoretically motivated control
      deficits in CA patients and the speech symptoms associated with ataxic dysarthria, as well as
      their neural correlates.
    
  