
    
      Stages of the study:

      A. Patient recruitment stage: hearing tests battery including: otoscopy, tympanometry,
      pure-tone audiometry - 0 to 20 dB HL; 21 to 60 dB HL and more than 60 dB HL, tinnitus
      matching, TQ and VAS.

      B. Patients will be assign to one of two study groups, Deep TMS over the left auditory cortex
      and Sham. .

      C. TMS Acute treatment phase:

      TMS treatment will be administer for two weeks: 5 days a week for half an hour. Before each
      TMS treatment session, patients will undergo training exercises designed to stimulate the
      neural network associated with attention processes Monitoring for evaluation of treatment
      efficacy and side effects will be perform on a daily basis. . The overall time of each
      session is estimate to be 1 hour.

      D. TMS Maintenance phase:

      Four additional TMS treatment sessions will be administered once weekly for another 4 weeks.

      Long-term durability of treatment effect will be assessed up to 90 days after the last TMS
      session.

      E. TMS treatment program:

        1. The subject will be required to use earplugs to minimize risk of hearing impairment.

        2. Motor threshold stimulation intensity will be determined prior to each TMS session. .

        3. Subjects will receive either active TMS or sham treatment, depending on the experimental
           group to which they were assign. During the first 2 weeks, five treatment sessions will
           be administer each week. During the following 4 weeks, one treatment will be administer
           weekly. Overall, each subject will receive 16 TMS session in 6 treatment weeks.

      F. Safety:

      Throughout the trial subjects will be constantly monitored by a physician. Any adverse effect
      or subjective discomfort experienced will be documented and addressed.

      Magnetic stimulation treatment will be administered by an operator trained and certified by
      Brainsway.

      Subjects who wish to withdraw from the study will be free to do so at any point.

      Drugs belonging to benzodiazepine class will be permitted if necessary at daily doses up to
      the equivalent of 2 mg Lorazepam (Lorivan).
    
  