
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify whether temsirolimus or ch14.18 (dinutuximab) is the optimal therapeutic agent
      to consider for further testing in a future Phase III randomized trial for treatment of newly
      diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma.

      II. To determine the response rate of patients with relapsed, refractory or progressive
      neuroblastoma following treatment with irinotecan, temozolomide and ch14.18 (dinutuximab) and
      to compare this with the known response rate of patients treated with irinotecan and
      temozolomide alone.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the response rates (RR) for patients receiving temsirolimus or ch14.18
      (dinutuximab) in combination with irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride) and temozolomide.

      II. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates for
      patients receiving temsirolimus or ch14.18 (dinutuximab) in combination with irinotecan and
      temozolomide.

      III. To compare the toxicities associated with temsirolimus or ch14.18 (dinutuximab) when
      combined with irinotecan and temozolomide in patients with refractory, relapsed or
      progressive neuroblastoma.

      IV. To compare the ability to maintain intended dose intensity of all agents when
      temsirolimus or ch14.18 (dinutuximab) is combined with irinotecan and temozolomide in
      patients with refractory, relapsed or progressive neuroblastoma.

      V. To determine the concordance between tumor responses as defined by standard International
      Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC) versus response per the revised INRC.

      VI. To study the clinical relevance of naturally occurring anti-glycan antibodies in patients
      receiving ch14.18 (dinutuximab) antibody.

      VII. To study the clinical relevance of natural killer (NK) receptor natural cytotoxicity
      triggering receptor 3 (NKp30) isoforms in patients receiving ch14.18 (dinutuximab) antibody
      or temsirolimus.

      VIII. To study the association between host factors and response to irinotecan, temozolomide
      and ch14.18 (dinutuximab).

      IX. To characterize the tumor immune-microenvironment (gene expression; immune effector
      cells, activities and signaling molecules; immune target expression) following treatment with
      irinotecan, temozolomide and ch14.18 (dinutuximab).

      X. To study the association between changes in the tumor immune-microenvironment (gene
      expression; immune effector cells, activities and signaling molecules; immune target
      expression) with response following treatment with irinotecan, temozolomide and ch14.18
      (dinutuximab).

      XI. To study the association between tumor genomic and transcriptomic aberrations as well as
      levels of circulating ganglioside (GD2) with response to irinotecan, temozolomide and ch14.18
      (dinutuximab).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 06/17/2016): Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) on days 1-5,
      irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1-5, and temsirolimus IV
      over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8.

      ARM II: Patients receive temozolomide PO on days 1-5, irinotecan hydrochloride over 90
      minutes on days 1-5, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim
      subcutaneously (SC) or IV over 2 hours on days 6-12.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  