
    
      This is a single-center, prospective, single arm study involving 10 patients with an
      established diagnosis of Barrett's Esophagus (BE) with High Grade Dysplasia (HGD). Potential
      subjects will be prescreened to assess eligibility and must meet inclusion criteria. In order
      to make this initial qualification, pathology results of biopsies and EMR collected during
      initial EGD will be made available to the Investigator prior to patient consent. Following
      informed consent and as part of routine care, all potential participants will undergo
      endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and a PET/CT scan to confirm that there is no lymph node
      involvement or other metastatic lesions prior to the procedure. Clinical data will be
      collected at baseline to assess the subjects' medical status including: demographics, medical
      history, physical examination, vital signs, and blood testing. Cardiac and pulmonary
      clearance will be obtained if needed based on medical history and will include a chest x-ray,
      ECG, and pulmonary function test. In addition, the subjects will complete three
      questionnaires prior to the procedure: dysphagia severity questionnaire, SF-36, and
      GERD-HRQL.

      At the time of the procedure, participants will undergo TECR with ECM placement using a fully
      covered self-expanding metal stent to temporarily hold the ECM in place. Prior to hospital
      discharge, a barium swallow test (BaSW) will be performed at Day 1 following the study
      procedure to evaluate the passage of contrast through the GEJ. If the BaSW results in
      suspicious findings of esophageal perforation or mucosal necrosis, an upper endoscopy will be
      performed for further evaluation. The first primary safety endpoint for this study will be
      assessed following the procedure and BaSW and before discharge from the hospital. At this
      time point any adverse events will be assessed and recorded.

      All subjects will undergo the same follow-up procedures, including questionnaires and
      post-procedure EGDs performed at Week 2, Month 1, Month 3, Month 6, Month 9 and Month 12 to
      visually assess tissue healing, recurrent disease, and if stricture formation is present.
      Biopsies will be taken during follow-up EGDs so that pathology can rule out recurrence of BE
      and HGD. Subjects will have a barium swallow x-ray at Month 1, Month 3, Month 6, Month 9, and
      Month 12 to evaluate the potential presence of stricture formation.

      During Week 2 EGD, the stent will be removed during the upper endoscopy. If at any time point
      a subject has dysphagia with stricture formation (30% reduction in esophageal luminal
      diameter), routine dilation using a balloon catheter will be performed during the EGD.
      Validated questionnaires including dysphagia severity questionnaire, SF-36 and GERD-HRQL will
      be administered to objectively assess the severity of symptoms and quality of life based upon
      self-reported data. Additionally, adverse events will be assessed and recorded at all
      follow-up time points.

      After completion of the Month 12 visit, subjects will be followed on a routine care basis at
      the Esophageal & Lung Institute.
    
  