
    
      New therapeutic strategies for melanoma come as a result of significant advances in the
      understanding of the immunomodulatory mechanisms and molecular biology. The resulting new
      therapeutic strategies include oncogene-targeted therapy and immune checkpoint blockade, and
      these are now approved therapies that have transformed the routine clinical management for
      patients with metastatic disease. However, most patients with advanced melanoma still die of
      their disease, and thus, there remains an urgent need to improve upon current therapies. Most
      patients with advanced disease eventually progress, and the question as to whether earlier
      treatment with systemic therapy after resection of all macroscopic melanoma (adjuvant
      therapy) improves long term survival is under investigation in melanoma and other solid
      malignancies. Furthermore, with the increased number of therapies utilised in melanoma, the
      question of optimal sequencing and selection of single or combination therapy remains
      unanswered.

      Neoadjuvant clinical trials in patients with resectable but bulky stage III/IV melanoma
      allows for the rapid evaluation of drug activity in humans utilising multiple clinical
      endpoints (metabolic response with Positron Emission Tomography [PET], clinical response with
      Computed Tomography [CT] imaging, pathological response, relapse-free survival and overall
      survival) and translational endpoints (morphological, genetic and immunophenotyping of tumour
      and blood).

      This trial will test the combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib as neoadjuvant and
      pembrolizumab as adjuvant therapy for twenty adult patients with histologically confirmed
      RECIST 1.1 measurable and resectable AJCC (8th edition) Stage IIIB, IIIC or IIID cutaneous or
      unknown primary melanoma.

      The PD-1 receptor-ligand interaction is a major pathway hijacked by tumors to suppress immune
      control. Pembrolizumab is a potent humanized immunoglobulin G4 monoclonal antibody with high
      specificity of binding to the programmed cell death 1 receptor, thus inhibiting its
      interaction with programmed cell death ligand 1 and programmed cell death ligand 2.
      Pembrolizumab is indicated for the treatment of patients across a number of indications
      because of its mechanism of action to bind the PD-1 receptor on the T cell.

      Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels from a pre-existing vascular network, is
      essential for tumour growth and metastasis. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its
      receptors play a major role in tumour angiogenesis. Lenvatinib is an oral potent multiple RTK
      inhibitor that selectively inhibits VEGF receptors. In clinical use, lenvatinib is one of the
      only inhibitors currently labelled with a mechanism of action as an inhibitor of not only
      VEGFRs but also fibroblast growth factor receptors, both of which are currently believed to
      very important for tumour angiogenesis. Tumour blood vessels are abnormal, both structurally
      and functionally, relative to those of non-malignant tissues. Normalizing the tumour
      vasculature with antiangiogenic agents could potentially be used to improve the effectiveness
      of immunotherapy, particularly immune checkpoint blockade. The evidence indicates that the
      potential benefit of such combinations will be manifested though modulation of both the
      tumour vasculature and the tumour immune microenvironment.

      The development of combination therapy of lenvatinib and an anti-PD-1 antibody pembrolizumab
      is ongoing for various solid tumours. In addition to efficacy and safety endpoints, testing
      this combination in the neoadjuvant setting provides a valuable opportunity to investigate
      potential biomarkers and mechanisms of responsiveness, resistance, toxicity and relapse.
      Limiting the combination of drugs to the neoadjuvant period only, limits the toxicity that
      may be experienced by patients whilst maintaining an effective treatment regimen.

      In many cancers, early stage diagnosis and early treatment offers the best chance of a
      prolonged recurrence free- and overall survival. In stage III/IV resectable melanoma, an
      opportunity exists to improve outcomes with the addition of neoadjuvant and adjuvant systemic
      therapy as an adjunct to surgery. Neoadjuvant clinical trials for resectable but bulky stage
      III/IV melanoma allows for the efficient and rapid evaluation of drug activity in humans
      utilising multiple clinical endpoints of metabolic, radiological and pathological response;
      relapse-free survival; overall survival. Recent clinical trials of neoadjuvant ipilimumab
      combined with nivolumab (OPACIN-NEO) and neoadjuvant dabrafenib combined with trametinib
      (NeoCombi) in resectable stage III melanoma showed that a pathological response (< 50% viable
      tumour at tumour bed in the former trial, and complete response in the latter) was associated
      with a longer relapse-free survival

      The rationale for this study design is therefore based on the hypothesis that six weeks of
      combined pembrolizumab and lenvatinib may be sufficient to induce an enhanced tumoral
      immunity to result in a higher pathological and clinical response at the time of definitive
      surgery.

      The clinical and translational findings from this study have the potential to inform rational
      decisions regarding combinations of treatment both in the metastatic and the adjuvant
      settings. This is a critical study to inform future practice and future phase 3 clinical
      trials. The neoadjuvant design provides an important opportunity to address critical
      translational endpoints from multiple blood draws and tissue biopsies during treatment. From
      this, the evaluation of potential biomarkers and mechanisms of responsiveness, resistance,
      toxicity and relapse is possible, beyond the traditional clinical, pathological and
      radiological parameters. Baseline and serial blood, and tissue samples will be analysed at
      MIA translational research facilities. The biomarker component of this study will require
      blood samples and core biopsies of tumour tissue at the following time points:

      Baseline (PRE) Week 1 (EDT 1) Week 6 - complete lymph node dissection specimen (POST) At
      Relapse (RELAPSE) if applicable and available

      Neoadjuvant treatment will be administered for 6 weeks, followed by complete resection of
      tumour to no evidence of disease. Surveillance of disease during the 6 week neoadjuvant
      period will be undertaken with surgical assessments and with ultrasounds of the affected
      lymph node basin. Surgery is followed by 46 weeks of pembrolizumab adjuvant therapy or until
      disease relapse, death, intolerable adverse drug reactions or by withdrawal of patient
      consent. After 52 weeks of the study treatment phase, patients will be followed 3 monthly for
      relapse (and progression, following relapse) and survival for 5 years.

      The efficacy endpoints for this study have been used across the International Neoadjuvant
      Melanoma Consortium.
    
  