
    
      Postpartum-related mood disorders cause significant distress to a potentially large number of
      women. The demand for effective therapies for treating these mood disorders is considerable,
      as is the need to define clinical or biologic markers that may predict successful response of
      these mood disturbances to estradiol. Despite the prevalence of postpartum depressions, only
      a few double-blind, controlled trials of antidepressant agents have been performed in this
      condition (1-4)- only two of which were placebo-controlled. A recent large multicenter trial
      failed to confirm the initially promising but anecdotal reports of the protective role of
      fish oil in PPD (5). Similarly, despite evidence of estradiol s therapeutic efficacy in
      trials

      that were both open (monotherapy) (6) and controlled (combined with traditional
      antidepressant agents (7)), the potential of estradiol to be an effective alternative to
      traditional psychotropics in postpartum depression has not been examined under controlled
      conditions.

      Postpartum depressions occur by definition after delivery when women are relatively
      hypogonadal. Indeed, plasma estradiol and progesterone levels are low and comparable to those
      seen during the peri and postmenopause. However, there is no evidence that postpartum
      depression represents a simple hormone deficiency, and women with postpartum depression are
      not distinguished from women without postpartum depression on the basis of any abnormality of
      basal reproductive hormones. Nonetheless, a role for declining estradiol secretion has been
      suggested by the following observations: 1) estradiol therapy has been reported to have a
      prophylactic effect in women at high risk for developing postpartum depression (8),
      suggesting that the prevention of a decline in estradiol levels (threshold or rate of
      decline) may prevent the onset of postpartum depression in some women; and (2) declining
      ovarian steroids trigger the onset of mood disturbances in women with but not women without a
      history of postpartum depression during a scaled down model of pregnancy in the puerperium
      (9). Thus, as with depressions occurring during the perimenopause, when ovarian hormone
      secretion is also declining, postpartum depression may also be responsive to estradiol
      therapy. In fact, open trials of estradiol therapy in postpartum depression (6) as well as a
      trial of estradiol in combination with traditional antidepressants (7) have suggested that
      estradiol does have antidepressant-like effects that are observed within a three week time
      period in women with postpartum onset major depression. Thus, estradiol treatment may not
      only provide a safe and effective alternative to traditional antidepressants in women with
      postpartum depression, but it may also suggest the relevant hormonal trigger for the
      development of this condition.

      In this protocol we wish to investigate the effects of estradiol on mood in women with
      moderately severe postpartum depression under placebo controlled conditions. This protocol
      will address the following question: 1) Does estradiol improve mood in postpartum depressed
      women?
    
  