
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced stage refractory squamous cell
      carcinoma (SCCA) of the lung randomized to nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) in patients with
      advanced stage refractory SCCA of the lung randomized to nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus
      nivolumab.

      II. To compare the response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) per
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 among patients randomized to
      receive nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

      III. To compare the response rates (confirmed only, complete and partial) per RECIST 1.1
      among patients randomized to receive nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

      IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with nivolumab plus
      ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if there is a differential treatment effect on OS, IA-PFS, and response by
      tumor programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression status.

      II. To examine patient reported outcomes by treatment arm.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and ipilimumab
      IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of every third course (every 42 days). Courses repeat every 14
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment but prior to disease progression, patients are followed
      up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for up to 3 years. After disease
      progression, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and at end of year 3 after
      sub-study registration.
    
  