
    
      The obesity epidemic continues to exist as nearly one third of the adult population in the
      United States is reported to be obese1. Bariatric surgery remains the most effective method
      of achieving long-term weight loss among obese individuals. The remarkable success of weight
      loss surgery in ameliorating obesity and its related comorbid conditions has been tempered by
      procedure specific side-effect profiles. Gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD), a condition
      which develops when the reflux of stomach contents causes troublesome heartburn or
      regurgitation symptoms greater than twice a week is a known complication of bariatric surgery
      and remains a controversial topic among bariatric surgeons.2 The prevalence of GERD in the
      general Western population is between 10 and 20% 3, whereas the incidence of reflux among the
      obese population has been reported to be as high as 61%. 4

      The safety and maintenance of native intestinal anatomy by the sleeve gastrectomy (SG) has
      recently made this surgery the most popular operation for weight loss in America 5. The
      operation, which was originally described as the first stage of a biliopancreatic diversion -
      duodenal switch, consists of removing approximately 60% of the native stomach. Specifically,
      the bulbous greater curvature and a portion of the antrum is removed, leaving behind a long,
      thin banana shaped reservoir with a capacity between 100 and 150 mL. 6 This new stomach
      offers excellent weight loss and also minimal anatomic rearrangement when compared to the
      traditional gastric bypass.

      Although some authors have reported an improvement in GERD symptoms after SG many studies
      have demonstrated an increase in GERD symptoms9-14. Particularly concerning is the
      development of de-novo GERD symptoms after surgery, which has recently been reported to occur
      in up to 36% of patients when measured objectively.15 In some, GERD symptoms are severe
      enough, despite medication, that corrective operations are required. The need for further
      re-operative surgery carries along with it the risk for additional perioperative morbidity
      from gastrointestinal leaks or bleeding as well as further time off work and rehabilitation.

      Various mechanisms have been proposed to explain the development of GERD after SG. Some
      authors postulate that the new shape of the stomach, increased intra-gastric pressure,
      decrease in the lower esophageal sphincter resting pressure or development of a hiatal hernia
      may lead to new or worsening GERD. The International Sleeve Gastrectomy Expert Panel
      recommend aggressively inspecting for and repairing an occult hiatal hernia to decrease the
      incidence of post-operative GERD.17 This call for "aggressive inspection" has led many
      surgeons to open the phrenoesophageal ligament and, in a sense, create a small hernia defect
      which is then sutured closed more tightly. Some believe aggressive interrogation of the
      hiatus may lead to disruption of the integrity of the sling fibers of Helvetius at the
      esophagogastric junction, thus contributing to the incidence of new or worsening
      post-operative GERD. Still, others propose that the main mechanism of GERD reduction is
      weight loss and not the re-creation of the extrinsic anti-reflux valve.

      Whether one should aggressively interrogate and subsequently repair the hiatus during a SG
      remains controversial. To our knowledge, there are no randomized studies to demonstrate
      superiority of either approach. The aim is to compare the rates of GERD (de-novo or
      worsening) in patients undergoing SG between one group receiving hiatal interrogation and
      repair and the other not having hiatal interrogation at all. Patient are randomized who
      either have a small hiatal hernia (<2cm) or do not have a hiatal hernia seen on preoperative
      testing to either hiatal interrogation with cruroplasty of the hiatus or no interrogation. By
      the end of the study, the study team will be able to provide a recommendation as to whether
      patients with no or a small hernia undergoing SG should routinely undergo simultaneous hiatal
      interrogation and repair with the goal of reducing the incidence of PPI de-novo GERD after
      surgery.
    
  