
    
      Anal cancer occurs at a rate which is 163-fold greater in young men with HIV. It is caused by
      another virus, HPV. The incidence has doubled during the HIV epidemic and is not decreasing
      despite effective antiretroviral therapy. It is important to have an anal cancer screening
      program to detect precancerous lesions; this has been done for the prevention of cervical
      cancer through the use of cervical Pap smears.We will do anal Pap smears, HPV testing and
      perform high resolution anoscopy for a magnified and detailed view of the anus. Biopsies are
      done and early treatment is initiated. It is anticipated that this approach will help to
      prevent anal cancer.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      The aim of this study is to determine the accuracy of pathology and human papillomavirus
      (HPV) testing in identifying precancerous changes in HIV positive men. The primary question
      is to determine how good the anal Pap smears are for detecting precancerous changes in the
      anus. Secondary questions involve: (a) determination of the test characteristics of the anal
      Pap smear, (b) assessment of agreement in visually detecting pre-cancers by the anoscopists
      and, (c) a determination of the viral and patient characteristics that predict pre-cancer.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a cross-sectional survey of HIV positive men with a history of anal receptive
      intercourse who are attending several Toronto HIV clinics. Relevant information is collected
      as well as anal specimens for assessment. There is a multidisciplinary team who have the
      appropriate expertise in these studies.

      OUTCOME MEASURES and STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      The primary outcome measure is the presence of pre-cancerous changes as determined by high
      resolution anoscopy. We need to screen 425 subjects in order to find 100 patients with high
      grade pre-cancerous changes.

      Secondary outcome analyses include specificity, positive predictive value and negative
      predictive value of cytology and HPV DNA testing to detect histologically confirmed
      pre-cancerous changes or cancer.
    
  