
    
      Vortioxetine is the only FDA approved medication for treating cognitive impairment in
      depression. This medication, however, takes a minimum of 6-8 weeks to take effect and is only
      effective in a subset of patients. Modafinil, has shown some benefit in off-label treatment
      of cognitive dysfunction in psychiatric disorders. The effects of modafinil on cognitive
      function in both healthy controls and treatment resistant and partially remitted individuals
      with MDD have shown promising results. To date, however, studies have focused on modafinil's
      potential as an augmenting agent for treatment resistant depressive symptoms, but have not
      examined its effects on cognitive function in depression as a primary outcome measure.
      Modafinil's ability to treat cognitive symptoms in non-treatment refractory or partially
      remitted individuals specifically struggling with cognitive impairment resulting from MDD
      have not been assessed. Further, we lack a mechanistic understanding of modafinil's effects
      on brain circuitry.

      The proposed research seeks to examine the effects of modafinil on different domains of
      cognitive function such as attention, working memory and processing speed, as well as its
      underlying effects on brain circuitry in individuals who demonstrate cognitive impairment and
      meet criteria for first episode of major depressive disorder. Specifically, this study would
      examine the effect of administering low dose modafinil, a drug that has been used off-label
      to treat cognitive dysfunction in psychiatric disorders, on cognitive function in major
      depressive disorder in a two-session double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled design.

      The primary aim of the study is to examine the effect of modafinil on domains of cognitive
      processing and function in depression as well as the neural mechanisms underlying its effects
      using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). A secondary aim of this study is to
      compare the efficacy of modafinil in treating cognitive dysfunction to that of vortioxetine
      in an optional phase 2 open-label follow up. In an optional second phase of the study,
      participants randomized to the placebo group, will have the option of enrolling in an open
      label trial of either modafinil or vortioxetine, the only currently FDA approved medication
      to treat cognitive impairment in depression. Study findings may provide the foundations for
      future work focused on treating cognitive impairment in depression.
    
  