
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxicity of gemcitabine, vinorelbine, and
           doxorubicin HCl liposome in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the complete and partial response rates of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Phase I:

        -  Patients receive vinorelbine IV over 6-10 minutes, gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes, and
           doxorubicin HCl liposome IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment continues
           every 21 days for 2-6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
           progression. Patients who respond to treatment after 2 or more courses may stop protocol
           therapy to undergo peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of vinorelbine, gemcitabine, and doxorubicin
      HCl liposome until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the
      dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.
      Once the MTD is determined, additional patients are accrued to receive treatment with
      gemcitabine, vinorelbine, and doxorubicin HCl liposome at the recommended phase II dose.

      Phase II:

        -  Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

             -  Group 1: Patients who have not undergone prior transplantation receive vinorelbine,
                gemcitabine, and doxorubicin HCl liposome as in phase I.

             -  Group 2: Patients who have undergone prior transplantation receive lower doses of
                vinorelbine, gemcitabine, and doxorubicin HCl liposome as in group 1.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 6 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 3-100 patients (3-42 for phase I and 20-58 for phase II [29
      per group]) will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  