
    
      SIGNIFICANCE AND BACKGROUND FOR THE STUDY The benefits of dual anti-platelet therapy with
      full dose aspirin and a thienopyridine have been firmly established in patients undergoing
      coronary stenting. Leon showed reduction in the combined end-point of death, myocardial
      infarction, target vessel revascularization and stent thrombosis from 3.5% with aspirin alone
      to 2.3% with aspirin and ticlopidine. This benefit was associated, however, with an increased
      rate of bleeding and vascular complications of 5.5% with aspirin+ticlopidine versus 1.8% with
      aspirin alone. Multiple other studies have evaluated the safety and efficacy of the
      thienopyridine clopidogrel in percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). In patients at
      intermediate risk (without elevation of troponin-T prior to PCI), pretreatment with
      clopidogrel several hours before the procedure reduced the event rate and obviated the need
      for additional glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibition (ISAR-REACT). In the Clopidogrel for
      the Reduction of Events During Observation (CREDO) Study, investigators showed that the
      benefit of pretreatment with 300 mg of clopidogrel was only seen when the pretreatment was
      instituted at least 12 hours pre-procedure (optimally 24 hours before the PCI). However,
      survival analysis in this study showed a cumulative event rate at 30 days of 8.3% in the
      placebo arm, 7.8% in those administered clopidogrel within 15 hours of the procedure, and
      3.5% in those administered clopidogrel more that 15 hours before the index PCI.

      Subsequently, the benefit of higher doses of clopidogrel was studied both ex vivo and in
      clinical studies (PRONTO). A 600 mg dose of clopidogrel achieved adequate platelet inhibition
      within 2 hours of administration, unlike 300 mg that required at least 3 to 6 hours to
      achieve full effect Subsequent data from the ISAR-REACT investigators in 2,159 patients
      showed that the benefit of 600 mg of clopidogrel was not time dependent. The trial focused on
      the possible additional benefit of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition in these patients who had
      all been pre-treated with 600 mg of clopidogrel. More recently, ISAR-REACT-2 showed that
      clopidogrel pretreatment in moderate to high risk PCI patients reduced the combined endpoint
      event rate (relative to placebo) from 11.7% to 5.7% in patients treated with glycoprotein
      IIb/IIIa inhibitors and from 15.5% to 7.6% in those not receiving glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
      inhibition. The recently published Assessment of the Best Loading Dose of Clopidogrel to
      Blunt Platelet Activation, Inflammation and Ongoing Necrosis (ALBION) Trial showed in a low
      risk group of patients that 600 mg and 900 mg doses of clopidogrel provide faster and greater
      platelet inhibition than 300 mg as assessed by biochemical assays. The study was underpowered
      to demonstrate clinical benefits, but it showed a trend towards reduction in troponin-I
      release as a marker of necrosis from 58% to 42% in the higher dose clopidogrel groups. There
      was no demonstrable increase in major bleeding complications (2.9% in both 300 and 900 mg
      groups), but there was a statistically insignificant increase in minor bleeding in the 900 mg
      dose group.

      Our investigation will evaluate the safety and efficacy of pre-treatment (≥2 hours) with 600
      mg of clopidogrel in 600 outpatients undergoing elective cardiac catheterization with
      coronary angiography in our institution who have no evidence of high risk features such as
      ischemic ST segment deviations, unstable angina, recent myocardial infarction, or abnormal
      troponin-T levels. The benefit of clopidogrel in patients who undergo interventions may be
      offset by the bleeding complications encountered, especially in patients who do not undergo
      coronary angioplasty. Our trial is designed to assess this potential benefit-risk trade-off.
      Unlike the ALBION trial, we will focus on clinical outcomes using a larger sample size. Our
      hypothesis is that pretreatment with 600 mg of clopidogrel will significantly reduce the
      incidence of ischemic complications in patients undergoing PCI, but with possible increase in
      hemorrhagic and vascular complications in the overall population.

      In addition, we will also examine whether the use of 5 French arterial sheaths in cases that
      do not go onto intervention offsets the increase in bleeding risk, if any, associated with
      pretreatment with 600 mg of clopidogrel. Very large diameter arterial sheaths (e.g., 10
      French) have been associated with higher vascular complication rates, but whether 5 French
      sheaths offer lower vascular complication rates than 6 French sheaths is uncertain. Nearly
      all PCIs at our institution are performed using 6 French sheaths (which have larger lumens,
      more accommodating of angioplasty equipment and higher injection rates of iodinated
      contrast). Patients who undergo PCI following diagnostic angiography using a 5 French sheath
      will require exchange for a larger 6 French arterial sheath. On the other hand, patients who
      do not need angioplasty after coronary angiography will not require any exchange of their
      arterial sheath, and those with smaller sheath sizes may well have less vascular and bleeding
      complications.

      DESCRIPTION OF RESEARCH PROTOCOL Design: This is a prospective randomized clinical trial
      comparing ischemic, hemorrhagic and vascular outcomes in outpatients undergoing elective
      cardiac catheterization with coronary angiography following 1:1 randomization to pretreatment
      with 600 mg clopidogrel vs. no pretreatment (and clopidogrel dosing post-procedure if a PCI
      is performed). Patients will provide written informed consent prior to enrollment and
      randomization. Since some operators may feel strongly about using glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
      inhibition in patients who did not receive clopidogrel well in advance of the PCI, blinding
      of the loading strategy and use of a placebo are not feasible. A separate 1:1 randomization
      will assign patients to undergo cardiac catheterization using 5 or 6 French arterial
      introducing sheaths. Since the arterial sheath sizes are color-coded, catheter sizes are
      imprinted on each catheter, and the operator must know the arterial sheath size in case
      alternate catheters are required, blinding of sheath size assignment is also not feasible.
      The investigator adjudicating and abstracting the outcomes data such as bleeding and ischemic
      complications for analysis will be blinded, however, to the clopidogrel reimen and
      randomization in order to avoid any bias.

      Hypotheses to be tested: The primary hypothesis being examined is that clopidogrel 600 mg
      given ≥2 hours prior to cardiac catheterization will reduce the frequency of post-procedural
      ischemic events in the subset of patients who undergo ad hoc coronary interventions compared
      with those who do not receive clopidogrel pre-procedure. The risk of hemorrhagic and vascular
      complications by preloading strategy will be evaluated in all patients randomized
      (encompassing those who do and those who do not undergo PCI). Additional analyses will be
      performed to see if the size of the initial arterial introducing sheath also has an effect on
      the rate of hemorrhagic and vascular complications and if there is any interaction of sheath
      size with preloading strategy on these outcomes.

      Patient population: All outpatients undergoing elective cardiac catheterization with planned
      coronary angiography with possible ad hoc PCI (if lesion anatomy suitable) and who have not
      received clopidogrel or ticlopidine during the 14 days prior to the procedure are eligible.
      Patients with high-risk clinical features, contraindications to clopidogrel, or planned
      upcoming invasive procedures will be excluded (vide infra).

      Procedural factors: The decision to perform ad hoc PCI after diagnostic coronary angiography
      (vs. medical therapy or bypass surgery) will be made by the interventional cardiologist
      performing or overseeing the cardiac catheterization, in consultation with the patient's
      clinical cardiologists. The specific angioplasty techniques, devices, equipment,
      anti-thrombin and anti-platelet pharmacological regimen to be utilized are NOT specified by
      this protocol and are at the discretion of the interventional cardiologist.

      Patients randomized to 5 French arterial sheaths and NO clopidogrel preloading will be
      allowed to ambulate 2 hours after arterial hemostasis is achieved (with delayed ambulation if
      bleeding or orthostatic hypotension occurs). All other participants (i.e., 6 French arterial
      sheaths, or 5 French arterial sheaths with clopidogrel preloading) will be allowed to
      ambulate no earlier than 4 hours after hemostasis occurs.

      Variables of interest include baseline demographic and clinical characteristics (including
      age, gender, left ventricular ejection fraction, diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
      dyslipidemia, chronic renal insufficiency, serum creatinine level, tobacco use, extent of
      coronary disease, symptom severity, prior myocardial infarction, prior PCI, prior CABG),
      angiographic lesion characteristics (e.g., bifurcation location, lesion class), procedural
      factors (e.g., pharmacological antithrombin regimen, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor use),
      and post-procedural tests (including serum creatinine, serum creatine kinase and its MB
      isoform, troponin-T, and radiological imaging studies). Information will be gleaned from the
      Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Quality Assurance Database, from electronic medical
      records, from review of the procedural angiograms, and conversations with the patient (or if
      the patient cannot be located, their family or health care providers).

      Endpoints: All endpoints will be assessed at 14 days post-procedure (and divided for
      analytical purposes into in-hospital and post-discharge events). See Endpoint section of this
      document for details.

      Follow-up: Written and electronic medical records will be reviewed to identify clinical
      events occurring during the hospitalization (through the 1st 14 days post-procedure if the
      length of stay is prolonged). Participants will have provided written informed consent for
      clinical follow-up at 14 days post-procedure prior to entry into this study, and contact
      information for the patient, his/her primary care provider, his/her cardiologist, and his/her
      next of kin will be collected before discharge. The patient, his/her physicians, or his/her
      next of kin will be contacted by telephone at 14 or more days post-procedure and asked if the
      patient was treated after discharge for any heart-related, bleeding, or vascular access site
      problems (i.e., any of the clinical events detailed above). If yes, attempts will be made,
      with the patient's authorization, to obtain more information about the event, including
      requests for documentation from other health care facilities and providers.

      Data Monitoring and Safety Plan: A independent data safety monitoring committee (DSMC)
      comprised of Murray Mittleman, MD, DrPH (BIDMC cardiovascular epidemiologist, serving as
      Chair), David J. Cohen, MD, MSc (interventional cardiologist at the Mid America Heart
      Institute), and Shiva Gautam, PhD (BIDMC biostatistician) will review the rates of the 4
      composite endpoints enumerated above after 14 day follow-up has been completed on the 1st 300
      subjects enrolled. The DSMC will advise the principal investigator whether the study should
      terminated because of concerning and striking differences in the ischemic or
      vascular/bleeding complication rates between treatment strategies or if the study should be
      allowed to continue to the planned enrollment of 600 participants. Study recruitment will be
      suspended during the DSMC's review and deliberations.

      Data Management: Much of the data required for this study is routinely collected as part of
      current clinical care, quality assurance and regulatory processes and stored in the Cardiac
      Catheterization Laboratory Quality Assurance Database (residing a commercial application
      named Apollo and manufactured by Lumedx). The fields of interest for patients randomized in
      this study will be queried form the Apollo database and transferred directly to the Access
      database that serves as the primary electronic data repository for this study. This database
      will be housed on a network server within the BIDMC firewall with restricted access (password
      and valid user identification required). Additional information (from medical records or
      patient contacts) will be collected on paper case report forms prior to entry into the Access
      database. All case report forms and paper clinical information with patient identifiers will
      be stored in a locked file drawer within a locked office. Angiograms will be reviewed using
      clinical workstations in physically secured areas, and electronic copies of angiograms will
      be made with all patient identifiers electronically removed. Medical record numbers and names
      will be removed prior to creation of final analytical dataset. All paper and electronic
      information will be destroyed in a HIPAA-compliant fashion after completion and publication
      of this study.

      Statistical Considerations Randomization: A randomization scheme will be prepared using
      1:1:1:1 ratios (for the 2 clopidogrel dosing strategies combined independently with 5 vs. 6
      French arterial sheaths) with permuted blocks of random sizes of 4 or 8. The treatment
      assignment will be designated in opaque, tamper-resistant randomization envelopes provided by
      the Statistical Department of the Harvard Clinical Research Institute.

      Statistical Analysis: All statistical analyses will be performed using SAS for Windows v9.
      The primary analysis will compare the cumulative incidence at 14 days of the primary
      composite endpoint (any death, myocardial infarction, or myocardial necrosis) in patients
      with PCI attempted between those randomized to clopidogrel loading vs. those randomized to
      standard clopidogrel administration using the Fisher's exact test. A p value of 0.05 or less
      will be required for statistical significance. The secondary endpoint of stent thrombosis
      among those who undergo stent deployment will also be evaluated using Fisher's exact test.
      The other endpoints (including vascular and bleeding) will be examined in all patients
      randomized (and not just subsets who had PCI attempted or stents deployed). Two group
      comparisons (clopidogrel loading vs. standard dosing; 5 French vs. 6 French arterial sheaths)
      and 4 group comparisons (the 4 combinations of clopidogrel dosing strategy and arterial
      sheath size; or subgroups with PCI or no PCI by clopidogrel dosing strategy) will be
      performed using Fisher's exact test, t-tests, ANOVA, or analogous non-parametric tests as
      appropriate. Since multiple exploratory analyses will be performed, p-values for everything
      other than the primary analysis delineated above must be interpreted with caution. Logistical
      regression models will also be constructed to identify pre-procedural predictors of ischemic
      and of bleeding or vascular complications.
    
  