
    
      One main concern of clinicians in malaria endemic areas is to find a simple malaria treatment
      with short treatment duration. The concept of combination therapy, which may reduce treatment
      duration and delay the spread of drug resistance in addition to an increase in efficacy, has
      been therefore introduced.

      In contrast to the outpatient treatment of malaria where emergence of resistance has lead to
      new drugs policies, the treatment of hospitalised malaria cases remains, in many endemic
      countries, intravenous quinine for 7 days. The efficacy of this regimen is well established
      throughout Africa. The effectiveness of the quinine treatment may be considerably lower
      because of discontinuation of treatment due to early discharge, the occurrence of side
      effects or because of the fact that patients feel better and stop the treatment. Therefore,
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) is often added at discharge. This regimen has been shown to be
      effective. But in Africa, where the practice seems widespread, it has been assessed in only
      two trials.

      Since resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to SP is increasing rapidly in Africa and there is
      evidence that SP monotherapy induce gametocytaemia, we hypothesize that the combination
      quinine/SP increases SP efficacy and prevents induction of gametocytaemia. In addition, since
      the use of the full course of quinine therapy may be hampered by many factors (hospital cost,
      hospitalisation duration, availability of beds, compliance and side effects), the addition of
      the long acting SP to complete a short course of quinine treatment may prevent recrudescence
      or reinfection and may increase effectiveness of malaria treatment and reduce postdischarge
      morbidity.

      The efficacy and safety of the short course of intravenous quinine (3-day treatment) plus a
      single dose of oral SP for the treatment of falciparum malaria was investigated.
    
  