
    
      Recent studies have found that loneliness has the same impact on morbidity and mortality as
      smoking cigarettes and twice that of obesity. One proposed pathway by which loneliness
      impacts morbidity and mortality is through cardiovascular disease. Loneliness is regularly
      associated with increased sympathetic nervous system and decreased parasympathetic nervous
      system engagement, both reliable biomarkers of increased risk of cardiovascular disease. One
      possible explanation for the this phenomena is that individuals who experience loneliness
      experience meaningful disruptions to the interpersonal process where they fail to disclose
      when appropriate or react to other individuals disclosure. This may result in engagement of
      nervous system regulation of social behaviors resulting in both in the moment and long term
      engagement of the sympathetic nervous system. The proposed 2-year research plan will examine
      the behaviors and nervous system reactions of individuals across loneliness levels in an
      experimental condition that manipulates the probability of engaging in relationship building
      behaviors.

      This study will recruit 60 individuals aged 18-25 who are fluent in English and report no
      history of cardiovascular or respiratory disease to participate in a study investigating
      social interactions. While a specific level of loneliness is not an inclusion variable, to
      ensure representation across loneliness levels, the investigators will screen for levels of
      loneliness and invite individuals to participate equally distributed between 4 levels of
      loneliness: 1 or more standard deviations below the mean, between 0-1 standard deviations
      below the mean, between 0-1 standard deviations above the mean, and 1 standard deviation or
      more above the mean.

      The study will then utilize a 2x2 factorial design splitting participants into reporting
      above or below the mean level of loneliness and randomizing those individuals to a behavioral
      task condition that involves answering either a high disclosure or low disclosure set of
      questions. Before engaging in the behavioral task, participants will fill out a series of
      questionnaires assessing their current social functioning. Participants will then have
      baseline levels of sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system engagement
      measured. In an ongoing way, throughout the behavioral task, participants will have their of
      sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system engagement measured. Every 15
      minutes, the behavioral task will stop and participants will complete a series of
      questionnaires assessing their evaluation of their behavior with the research assistant in
      the task, as well as feelings of connection they are experiencing with the research
      assistant. At the conclusion of the behavioral task, participants will be invited back to
      participate in the condition they had not previously completed with a new research assistant.
      All behavioral tasks will be coded by trained research assistants assessing third party
      evaluation of relationship building behaviors.
    
  