
    
      Background: Patients who have complicated conditions such as chronic kidney disease (CKD) are
      at high risk for problems related to their medications. Often these problems occur because
      doctors and patients do not communicate the right type of medication information to each
      other. This causes many prescribing errors and can lead to patient harm, emergency visits, or
      hospitalizations. To address this communication problem, hospitals now use a process called
      "medication reconciliation" to confirm the medications patients are taking when they enter
      and leave the hospital. However, the way that medication reconciliation is currently being
      done, patients are not actively engaged or given tools to effectively communicate the
      medications they are taking, changes that have been made, and what they are having trouble
      with. Directly engaging patients in this process might help solve this problem, and mobile
      technologies on smartphones may be a solution. Our study team has developed a mobile
      application (app) called eKidneyCare, which has a specific medication component to help
      patients communicate their medication information to all their doctors. This app can feed
      medication information from the clinic's medical record to the patient's smartphone, and any
      changes made to the medication list can be entered by the patient and sent back to the
      central server to notify their doctors.

      Study Design: We propose to conduct an open-label randomized controlled trial to assess the
      medication related effectiveness and stakeholders' satisfaction of the eKidneyCare mobile app
      compared to commercially available mobile apps like My MedRec for 12 months. This study will
      be conducted in the renal clinics at University Health Network who oversee the clinical
      management of advanced stage 4 to 5 CKD patients and end stage renal disease. On average,
      patients of this clinic are aged 65 years or more and take 10-15 medications per day.

      Objectives and Hypotheses Primary 1) To evaluate the effect of the eKidneyCare mobile app
      compared to a commercially available stand alone mobile app (My MedRec) on unintentional
      medication discrepancies in CKD patients. The use of the eKidneyCare app will have a greater
      reduction medication discrepancy rates by enhancing patient self-care through bidirectional
      communication of information.

      Secondary

        1. To determine the effect of the eKidneyCare mobile app compared to commercially available
           stand along mobile app (My MedRec) on CKD-specific clinical outcomes. Patients actively
           engaged in medication management will translate to improved clinical parameters such as
           better blood pressure control.

        2. To evaluate the direct costs and quality of life (QOL) associated with incorporating the
           eKidneyCare mobile app compared to commercially available stand along mobile app (My
           MedRec). Reduction in the unintentional medication discrepancy rate will offset the cost
           of using the medication self-care app and will improve patients' quality of life.

        3. To assess stakeholders' satisfaction in using the mobile app to manage CKD. Medication
           self-care app will increase satisfaction among patients.

      This study will evaluated if this app will decrease errors related to medications. It is
      hypothesized that if patients use this app to report their medications to their doctors,
      fewer errors will occur, which should eventually lead to reduced patient harm and healthcare
      use.
    
  