
    
      The purpose of this study to compare between three techniques( single- injection,
      intra-cluster -injection and double-injection) ultrasound-guided supraclavicular block of
      brachial plexus for surgery of forearm regarding onset of the block , duration, time of
      performance and possible complications

      Study population & Sample size : 36 patients undergoing elective forearm surgeries in Kasr AL
      Aini Hospital will be included in the study , patients will be allocated in three groups 12
      patient each.

      Study Design : randomized comparative study , randomization will be done through closed
      opaque envelope

      Methods :This study will be conducted at kasr al ainy Hospital Cairo university After
      obtaining ethics committee approval and written informed consent 36 patients (who will
      undergo surgery for forearm)included in the study classified into three groups Gs single
      injection technique ,Gic intra- cluster injection technique, Gd double injection technique
      For the 3 techniques , the investigator will prepare 20 gauge 10cm block needle and portable
      ultrasound machine (Siemens ACUSON X300 Ultrasound System with linear probe 8-14 MHZ).

      In the preparation room, Standard monitors will be connected ,IV peripheral cannula will be
      inserted in upper limb contra lateral to surgical site and sedative e.g. midazolam 0.02mg/kg
      will be given. Patient will be positioned semi-sitting, the transducer is positioned in the
      transverse plane immediately superior to the clavicle at approximately its midpoint. Using a
      3-cm, 27-gauge needle, 2 mL of local anesthetic is injected into the skin 1 cm lateral. In
      single-injection technique using in plane method and lateral to medial direction, local
      anesthetic (30 ml bupivacaine) is injected at the point where the subclavian artery meets the
      first rib. In intra- cluster-injection technique using in plane method and lateral to medial
      direction , the local anesthetic(30 ml bupivacaine) is injected inside main and satellite
      neural cluster.( Circumferential administration of local anesthetic rather than creating a
      single point injection ).

      In double-injection technique using in plane method and lateral to medial direction half the
      volume of local anesthetic(15 ml bupivacaine) is injected at intersection of first rib and
      subclavian artery and another half(15 ml bupivacaine) is injected supero- lateral to
      subclavian artery to assure spread of the local anesthetic solution in all planes containing
      brachial plexus. the performance time will be recorded.

      After block will be done, second investigator will examine the patient for sensory and motor
      block (every 10 minutes for 30 minutes) and for occurrence of complications. The patient will
      be ready for surgery when the score ≥14 point. At this point the onset will be determined and
      so the patient can be transferred to the operating room .

      If the patient experienced anxiety, propofol infusion (80-250 ug/kg/min) can be started. If
      the patient experienced pain during surgery the block considered failed and induction of
      general anesthesia should be started.

      After end of the surgery the second investigator will continue to assess the patient for post
      operative pain every one hour for 24 hours to determine duration of the block.

      Possible Risks to study population : 1. Intravascular injection of local anaesthetic (if tip
      of needle is seen under ultrasound screen and the investigator is injecting local anaesthetic
      but nothing seen under ultrasound screen(tellet sign)) 2. Pneumothorax (asses pleura of the
      same side by chest x-ray after 6 hours) 3. Intraneural injection (keep an image or video of
      technique and seek for another opnion) Various studies demonstrated that if intraneural
      puncture occured the needle usually took a path away from the fascicles (intraneural
      perifascicular), while intraneural transfascicular puncture seemed relatively rare and
      intraneural intrafascicular placement of the needle even more uncommon. As long as the needle
      is placed intraneurally but in an extrafascicular fashion a safe injection and the absence of
      neurologic damage can be assumed.

      4. Horner's syndrome (ptosis ,miosis ,anhydrosis may be due to involvement of cervical
      sympathetic plexus)
    
  