
    
      Dental plaque is the soft mass formed on oral surfaces including tooth surfaces. It composed
      of many species of which are commensal and other are pathogenic. The buildup of dental plaque
      starts by adhesion of floating bacteria, primary colonizers, in saliva onto oral surfaces
      such as tooth surfaces. Consequently, after adhesion, these primary bacteria provide adhesion
      sites for secondary plaque colonizers and the plaque buildup continues to achieve a mature
      dental plaque.

      The mature dental plaque initiates host immune response by its bacterial content or its
      toxins in the adjacent gingival tissues. Periodontal health is assumed to be in a state of
      balance when the host immune response resolves the bacterial challenges. In other scenario,
      the host immune response fails to overcome invader bacteria or their toxins leading to
      chronicity of aberrant immune responses. Thus, periodontal diseases and caries may be
      developed due to imbalance between dental plaque accumulation and host defense. For that
      reason, dental plaque control is essential as preventive measure for good oral health.

      Mechanical plaque control including tooth brushing and interdental aids is essential for
      preserving oral health. However, efficient mechanical control is time consuming and needs
      high manual dexterity and compliance. Therefore, chemical plaque control such as mouthwashes
      might be useful as adjunctive to mechanical control. Chlorohexidine mouthwash is the
      best-known mouthwash serving that purpose despite its side effects including tooth
      discoloration and bitter taste.

      Salvadora persica L. (Sp) root sticks and green tea (Gt), leafs of Camellia sinensis, aqueous
      extracts were reported to exert anti-microbial activity against many oral bacteria. A
      combination (Co.) of Gt aqueous extract and Sp aqueous extract at a specific concentration
      (patented, IP 2015704777) was found to exhibit significant synergistic anti-bacterial and
      anti-adherence efficacy against primary plaque colonizers in vitro. This Co. as a mouthwash
      was reported to significantly reduce plaque accumulation comparing to chlorhexidine in vivo
      for a period of 24 hours (NCT02624336 in December 3, 2015).
    
  