
    
      Pancreatic cancer is nearly universally fatal, with approximately 38,000 new cases and 34,000
      deaths expected in 2008.1 The majority of patients present with disease that is not amenable
      to curative resection. For patients with metastatic disease, one standard treatment is the
      combination of gemcitabine with the small molecule epidermal growth factor tyrosine kinase
      inhibitor erlotinib. This combination results in a modest survival benefit compared to single
      agent gemcitabine.2

      For patients presenting with localized but unresectable disease, the standard treatment
      remains controversial. Early studies demonstrated that chemotherapy and radiation was
      superior to either modality alone.3 However, recent studies of systemic therapy alone have
      typically included a small but real minority of patients with locally advanced disease,
      supporting that systemic therapy alone is a reasonable treatment option.2 Adding to the
      confusion are recent European reports that systemic therapy alone may be superior to combined
      modality therapy, at least when used initially.4 The greatest benefit of external beam
      radiotherapy may be after a period of full-dose chemotherapy alone, to ensure that rapid
      metastases do not develop.5 A limitation of beginning treatment with conventional external
      beam radiotherapy is a requirement to reduce dosing of gemcitabine by 40-50%. Given the
      safety and preclinical rationale for LDRT, we propose this phase I study to evaluate the
      safety of LDRT with standard dosing of gemcitabine and erlotinib in patients with locally
      advanced or limited metastatic pancreatic cancer. Patients will be enrolled in cohorts with
      escalating doses of low dose radiotherapy. Radiation ports will be uniform between patients
      as described in Section 5.6 below. As LDRT is administered to sites of disease in liver and
      abdominal cavity to iliac crest, patients with metastatic disease confined to these areas
      will be eligible. For patients with locally advanced disease, this protocol also has high
      rationale, as the overwhelming majority of patients develop and succumb to recurrences in
      liver and abdominal cavity,10 areas which would be covered by the proposed radiation field.
      The dose of 2880 cGy is the limit because of kidney and other upper abdominal organ potential
      for toxicity.
    
  