
    
      Rhegmatogenous retinal detachments (RRD) are a sight-threatening condition with an incidence
      of approximately 10 per 100 000 people. RRDs can be broadly classified into those with the
      macula still attached, and those with the macula detached. Visual prognosis for RRDs with
      attached macula tend to be much better than those with detached macula. Pars plana vitrectomy
      (PPV) is one of the procedures used to treat RRD. PPV is carried out in the operating room
      under regional anesthestic, and often times sedation. The retina is reattached by either
      draining the subretinal fluid through a peripheral retinal break, by draining the subretinal
      fluid through a posterior retinotomy, or by using a heavier-than-water liquid such as
      perfluorocarbon to push out the subretinal fluid. At the end of the surgery, the vitreous
      cavity is filled with a substance that will tamponade the retina to the wall of the eye.
      Tamponade agents can be temporary, such as sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and octafluoropropane
      (C3F8), or long term, such as silicone oil. After the surgery, patients are usually told to
      put their facedown allowing the tamponade agent to keep the macula attached while the
      remaining subretinal fluid is reabsorbed by the retinal pigment epithelium. Alternatively,
      some surgeons ask that their patients position according to the location of their retinal
      breaks with the aim for the buoyant gas bubble to cover the break or breaks. Patients may
      experience metamorphopsia, or image distortion, after having their RRD repaired especially
      those with a detached macula. Retinal displacement, as measured on autofluorescence
      photography, likely contributes to this distortion. Supine positioning in theory covers all
      break locations as usually breaks occur in the anterior part of the retina near the vitreous
      base. This position has the advantage of being more ergonomic than face down. Depending on
      the results, this study might provide evidence for the current standard of care, which is
      face down positioning for the first day after vitrectomy for retinal detachment. Or, if
      supine positioning demonstrates superiority in reducing the risk of retinal displacement,
      patients would be able to maintain a more comfortable position after surgery.
    
  