
    
      Studies of premenstrual syndrome (PMS) to date have demonstrated that the syndrome represents
      an abnormal response to normal physiological events. Specifically patients with PMS
      experience a dysphoric mood state in response to normal luteal phase levels of progesterone
      and additionally fail to demonstrate the augmentation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
      (HPA) axis normally seen in the luteal phase. A parsimonious explanation for the
      dysregulation of both mood and HPA axis function in PMS is that both are mediated by abnormal
      levels of or response to the progesterone neurosteriod metabolite, allopregnanolone. Both
      exposure to and withdrawal from allopregnanolone have been shown to precipitate adverse mood
      states in animal studies, presumably consequent to induced conformational changes in the
      GABA(A) receptor (increased alpha-4 subunit) that impair GABA receptor function. This
      impairment of GABA receptor function may also be associated with loss of restraint of HPA
      axis activity and hence may underlie the luteal phase increases in HPA activity in normal
      women. In this protocol, we propose to block conversion of progesterone to allopregnanolone
      in women with menstrual-related mood disorder (MRMD; equivalent in most reports to a severe
      form of PMS called premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD)) and in normal (control) women. We
      will block progesterone metabolism (and hence exposure to allopregnanolone) with a newly
      approved 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, dutasteride. We hypothesize the following: 1)
      Elimination of exposure to allopregnanolone in women with MRMD will eliminate dysphoric mood
      in the luteal phase; 2) Elimination of exposure of normal control women to allopregnanolone
      will eliminate the luteal phase enhancement of stimulated stress axis activity response.

      These hypotheses, if confirmed, will increase the precision with which we can dissect the
      pathophysiological mechanisms involved in MRMD and in menstrual-related stress physiology.

      In this protocol, our study objectives are as follows: Primary Objectives: 1) Determine
      whether suppression of neurosteroid synthesis will diminish mood symptoms in women with MRMD.
      2) Determine if suppression of neurosteroid synthesis will eliminate luteal phase-related
      increases in stimulated HPA axis activity in control women. Secondary Objectives: 1)
      Determine whether differences in response to allopregnanolone account for the divergent
      effects of menstrual cycle phase on HPA axis activity in patients with MRMD and controls. 2)
      Determine if the Dex-CRH test, like the graded stressor treadmill test, can reveal the
      effects of menstrual cycle phase on HPA axis function.
    
  