
    
      Purpose: To prospectively determine patients' quality of life (QOL) and treatment-related
      toxicity outcomes with adjuvant multimodality treatment (chemotherapy and radiation
      treatment) in women with advanced endometrial carcinoma after surgical staging.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To prospectively determine QOL after adjuvant treatment using the
           prospectively-validated FACT questionnaires at baseline, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after
           surgical staging

        2. To prospectively determine the rate of any grade 2 or higher treatment-related side
           effects: mainly bone marrow suppression, lymphedema, diarrhea, and others. Additionally,
           we will collect information about the rate of completion of planned adjuvant treatment
           (number of chemotherapy cycles, dose reduction or chemotherapy delay, radiation
           treatment interruption, etc.).

        3. To prospectively collect survival outcome endpoints after adjuvant treatment
           (recurrence-free, disease-specific and overall survival).

      Introduction and Rationale: Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic malignancy in
      the United States and ranks second in gynecologic cancer mortality following only ovarian
      cancer. More than 84% of patients present with International Federation of Gynecology and
      Obstetrics (FIGO) stage I-II disease. By definition, patients with advanced-stage uterine
      carcinoma (FIGO stages III-IV) are those with extrauterine disease and are at significant
      risk of dying from uterine cancer. They constitute a very heterogeneous group of patients
      with varying risk factors yielding highly variable clinical outcomes. Within the same FIGO
      stage, patients with disease involving multiple extrauterine sites fare worse compared to
      patients with involvement of a single site (1).

      Postoperatively, patients with advanced stage disease often require adjuvant therapy(s) to
      reduce the chance of tumor recurrence with the potential to improve survival. However, the
      optimal adjuvant therapy is yet to be established with several options available for adjuvant
      treatment.

      Rationale for multimodality treatment with chemotherapy and radiation treatment (CMT):

      Current treatment recommendations for advanced stage endometrial cancer consist of multiple
      approaches including chemotherapy alone, radiotherapy (RT) alone, or combined modality
      treatment (CMT) (2).

      GOG 122 study, which was a phase III trial, randomized patient with advanced endometrial
      carcinoma to adjuvant chemotherapy alone versus whole abdomen RT (WART). Outcomes of this
      study showed that the chemotherapy arm had an improved 5-year progression-free survival (PFS)
      and overall survival (OS) compared to RT alone. However, this trial showed that if
      chemotherapy is given alone, that rate of local recurrence approaches 20% (3).

      The safety of CMT with concurrent chemotherapy and RT (chemoRT) was explored in RTOG 9708,
      which was a phase II trial that evaluated outcomes in patients receiving concurrent chemoRT.
      All patients received adjuvant pelvic RT (45 Gy) concurrent with cisplatin followed by four
      additional cycles of cisplatin and paclitaxel. The 4-year OS and PFS for patients with stage
      III disease were 77% and 72%, respectively. Rates of grade 1 toxicity were found in 16% of
      patients, grade 2 in 41%, grade 3 in 16%, and grade 4 in 5%. This study demonstrated that
      concurrent chemoRT is safe with excellent local control (4).

      More recent studies have sought to compare chemoRT to chemotherapy or radiation alone.
      PORTEC-3 was a phase III randomized trial comparing adjuvant RT alone to concurrent chemoRT.
      The RT dose was 48.6 Gy in 27 fractions and chemotherapy was concurrent cisplatin followed by
      an additional 4 cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel. For women with stage III disease, the
      addition of chemotherapy to radiation treatment showed benefit in terms of improvement in
      FFS. An analysis of toxicity outcomes found that 60% of patients in the chemoRT arm
      experienced a grade 3 or greater adverse event compared to 12% in the RT alone arm (p<0.0001)
      (5).

      GOG 258 study was recently published and was similar to PORTEC-3 except that it compared
      concurrent chemoRT to adjuvant chemotherapy alone. Patients were randomized to receive
      concurrent chemoRT (45 Gy in 25 fractions concurrent with cisplatin followed by 4 cycles of
      carboplatin and paclitaxel) or chemotherapy alone. The results of this study showed that
      chemoRT was associated with a lower 5-year incidence of vaginal and regional lymphatic
      recurrence. However, distant recurrence rates were higher in the chemoRT arm compared to
      chemotherapy alone (6).

      The above studies helped to establish concurrent chemoRT with cisplatin followed by adjuvant
      carboplatin/paclitaxel as a valid adjuvant treatment approach for women with advanced
      endometrial carcinoma.

      A retrospective review from Washington University included 51 women with stage III-IV
      endometrial carcinoma who received CMT with carboplatin/paclitaxel-based regimen concurrent
      with RT and assessed survival and toxicity outcomes. The chemotherapy regimen given was
      carboplatin/paclitaxel for 4-6 cycles and RT was 48-51.2 Gy. Patients also received a vaginal
      brachytherapy boost. They found that 48 patients (94%) completed chemotherapy and 16 patients
      (30%) required chemotherapy dose-reduction. Thirty-four patients experienced grade 3-4
      toxicities, most of which were hematologic. Over 80% of patients required leukocyte growth
      factor injections. There were seven late grade 3-4 toxicities (4 GI, 2 GU, and 1 ongoing
      neuropathy). They found a median PFS of 42.8 months, median OS of 44.9 months, and 3-year OS
      of 80% (7). This study suggests that concurrent chemoRT using a carbotaxol-based regimen has
      favorable outcomes, a tolerable side effect profile, and the potential to reduce overall
      treatment duration.

      Building off of the results of the above retrospective study as well as the aforementioned
      randomized trials, we wish to prospectively assess outcomes of women with advanced
      endometrial carcinoma who receive the same concurrent chemoRT with a
      carboplatin/paclitaxel-based regimen.
    
  