
    
      Emotional disorders (ED) (anxiety and mood disorders) are among the most prevalent mental
      disorders, with a life prevalence of 29% and comorbidity rates that range between 40 and 80%.
      If they are not adequately treated the course is often chronic, and significantly affect
      important functioning areas such as work and social relationships. Thus, these data strongly
      suggest efficacious and efficient treatments are needed in order to address this important
      health problem. The classification and differentiation of mental disorders carried out in
      manuals like the Diagnositc and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) and the
      International Classification of Diseases (ICD) has played an important role in the emphasis
      placed on the research about the treatment of specific disorders; however, it has also been a
      problem in the dissemination of evidenced-based treatments due to the difficulties in
      training the clinicians in the variety of the available disorder-specific programs. In the
      other hand, Evidence-based psychological treatments (EBPT) have shown efficacy in the
      treatment of ED, however, less than 50 % of people with ED receive treatment and causes
      include costs, time of application and the lack of well-trained professionals. In addition,
      epidemiological studies have shown that at least 55% of people suffering from an anxiety
      disorder suffer from another anxiety disorder at the moment of the assessment, and this
      prevalence rate is up to 76% when different lifespan diagnoses are taken into account. This
      high comorbidity rate indicates that the different ED share important characteristics and it
      has been proposed that this overlapping is accounted for by common biological and
      psychological vulnerabilities that along with psychosocial stress factors leads to different
      manifestations of the same vulnerability, i. e., the different mood and anxiety disorders.
      Thus, a Transdiagnostic approach could help overcome these barriers.

      Transdiagnostic approaches have implications in the treatment of psychological disorders as a
      number of treatment protocols have been developed based on this perspective. Clark has
      distinguished three perspectives in transdiagnostic cognitive-behavioral therapy: a) The
      transdiagnostic practice, a pragmatic perspective that includes components of various
      disorder-specific intervention protocols whose aim is to determine which are the active
      components in samples with those disorders. The contributions of Norton, Andrews and Titov,
      and the study: Coordinated Anxiety Learning and Management (CALM) belong to this category. b)
      The transdiagnostic theory, that specifies a theoretical framework which outlines the common
      psychological constructs that influence the maintenance of ED. For instance, the tripartite
      model of anxiety and depression, with positive and negative affect as relevant constructs. c)
      The Unified Protocol. The Barlow's team has designed a protocol, adequate for the treatment
      of ED which focuses on four essential aspects: to increase present-focused emotional
      awareness, to identify and modify emotional avoidance patterns, to promote the cognitive
      flexibility and to facilitate exposure to avoided situations and sensations.

      Another aspect that could enhance the dissemination of evidence-based treatments as well as
      considerably reduce the costs is the use of the Internet. A number of systematic reviews has
      shown that Internet-based treatments yield similar results when compared to face-to-face
      therapy. Nevertheless, most of these programs are focused on a single disorder since very few
      transdiagostic internet-based treatments have been developed and tested by means of
      randomized controlled trials so far.

      The main objective of the treatment components of the Unified Protocol (UP) is to train
      patients in the regulation of negative emotions or negative affect (NA), but less attention
      has been paid to the inclusion of treatment components directly targeting positive affect
      (PA) regulation.

      Investigators of this research group (LabPsiTec) have developed a traditional transdiagnostic
      treatment that is partly based on the UP and it has been added a specific component of
      positive affect regulation in order to more directly target the regulation of positive
      affect. The study will include three conditions: 1) Transdiagnostic protocol (TP); 2)
      Transdiagnostic protocol + positive affect component (TP+PA); and 3) Waiting list control
      group (WL).

      The main hypothesis is that both modalities of the protocol (TP and TP+PA) will result more
      effective than the WL condition in the primary outcome measures. Investigators expect scores
      on positive affect to be higher in the TP+PA condition than in the TP condition.
    
  