
    
      Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) are at increased risk of atherothrombotic events.
      Importantly, DM is a key risk factor for the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD),
      which further enhances atherothrombotic risk. These observations underscore the importance of
      antiplatelet therapy for prevention of atherothrombotic recurrences in these high-risk
      patients. Clopidogrel is the most widely used platelet P2Y12 receptor inhibitor. However,
      despite its clinical benefit, patients with DM and CKD frequently experience recurrent
      atherothrombotic events. This may be in part due to the impaired pharmacokinetic (PK) and
      pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of clopidogrel in patients with DM and CKD. Since both DM and
      CKD represent pandemic public health problems, the prevalence of which will double over the
      next 20 years, identifying antiplatelet agents with more favorable PK/PD profiles is of key
      importance.

      Ticagrelor is an oral, reversible, non-competitive P2Y12 receptor inhibitor with more potent
      and consistent platelet inhibition than clopidogrel. In large-scale clinical investigation,
      ticagrelor significantly reduced ischemic events to a greater extent than clopidogrel, a
      finding that was consistent also among DM patients. In patients with CKD, ticagrelor led to
      an even greater relative risk reduction of ischemic events, including cardiovascular
      mortality, compared to patients without CKD. However, to date there has been no analysis on
      the efficacy of ticagrelor in DM patients according to CKD status. Moreover, although PD
      studies showed enhanced platelet inhibition associated with ticagrelor, it is unknown how
      this may be affected by CKD status. Ultimately, how PK/PD profiles of different ticagrelor
      dosing regimens may be affected by DM and CKD status is also unknown. The proposed study is
      aimed to show the impact of CKD status among patients with DM and CAD on PD and PK profiles
      of ticagrelor used at 2 doses (90mg bid and 60mg bid) in the setting of a prospective,
      randomized, cross-over trial.
    
  