
    
      This is an open, randomized controlled trial to compare a standard rate-control strategy with
      one using the Cardionet device to guide therapy for the management of atrial fibrillation.
      Patients presenting to an outpatient clinic or to the Emergency Department with atrial
      fibrillation with a ventricular rate greater than 100 bpm at rest will be enrolled.

      Treatment:

      Patients will be prescribed either a beta blocker or a calcium channel blocker, or have their
      baseline dose increased if already taking one of these agents at the discretion of the
      treating physician. This is consistent with standard outpatient treatment guidelines for rate
      control in atrial fibrillation.

      Randomization:

      At the time of enrollment, patients will be randomized to a standard rate control protocol or
      a rate-control protocol guided by the Cardionet device.

      Standard Care (Comparison Group):

      Patients randomized to standard care will have a home patient educator install the Cardionet
      device within 24 hours after enrollment. The Cardionet device will be used to adjudicate the
      primary endpoint of adequate rate control in the standard care group. The patient's treating
      physician will be blinded to the reports from the Cardionet device. These patients will have
      another office visit with the initial referring physician or a staff cardiologist within the
      first week after enrollment and weekly thereafter. At this time, adequacy of rate control
      will be assessed by a standard 12-lead electrocardiogram and patient history. Medication will
      be adjusted per protocol. The patient will be seen on a weekly basis until adequate rate
      control is thought to have been achieved.

      Rate Control using Cardionet (Study Group):

      Patients randomized to use of the Cardionet device will have a home patient educator install
      the device within 24 hours after enrollment. Electrocardiographic summaries will be reviewed
      by a research physician three times a week and treatment decisions will be made based on a
      summary of 24-hour rate control. The physician will contact the patient by telephone and make
      medication adjustments per protocol. Three-times-weekly transmissions and medication
      adjustments will continue until adequate rate control is achieved over a period of 24 hours.
    
  