
    
      In recent years, a number of innovative non-thoracotomy techniques have been introduced for
      the diagnosis of indeterminate pulmonary disease but none has had greater impact on pulmonary
      medicine than flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy. Since its introduction in 1968, fiberoptic
      bronchoscopy has become the procedure of choice for diagnosis and management of many
      bronchopulmonary disorders. It is accompanied by a low incidence of complications and can be
      performed satisfactorily by the transnasal approach without general anesthesia. Donlan et al,
      in 1978, and Ackart and colleagues, in 1983, demonstrated the safety of fiberoptic
      bronchoscopy as an outpatient procedure.

      Transbronchial biopsy was first attempted, through a rigid bronchoscope in 1965, but was
      associated with a high occurrence of pneumothorax. Reports began to appear from 1974 onwards
      of lung biopsies done for diffuse pulmonary disease using the standard fiberoptic
      bronchoscope. Forceps biopsy through flexible bronchoscopy is commonly used to make the
      cytological or histological diagnosis. Of the procedures performed through bronchoscopy,
      forceps biopsy provides the best diagnostic yield of 71% to 93%.

      A new electrocautery ''hot'' bronchoscopy biopsy forceps is now commercially available and
      may prevent bleeding following biopsy. Only one study used this device wherein the authors
      concluded that the use of hot biopsy forceps for endobronchial biopsy does not appear to have
      a negative impact on the pathological samples, and that there was a statistically significant
      (albeit clinically insignificant) reduction in bleeding score with hot biopsy forceps.
      However, limitations in this study were small sample size, use of hot and cold biopsy in the
      same patient as well as interval between the two biopsies were short due to which it is
      difficult to decide which technique has contributed to the bleeding. Therefore, a randomized
      controlled study is required in which the hot and cold biopsies are performed to evaluate the
      tissue effect of the hot biopsy forceps on histopathological diagnosis.
    
  