
    
      Acute appendicitis is one of the most common causes of abdominal pain in emergency
      departments as well as one of the most common indications for emergency abdominal surgery.
      The clinical diagnosis has been based on patient history, physical examination and laboratory
      findings as well as the "clinical eye" of the surgeon. Still the diagnosis remains
      challenging. One of the main problems is that many other disorders can mimic the clinical
      presentation of appendicitis, thus increasing the role of imaging techniques to aid in
      diagnostic accuracy. Now preoperative imaging in patients with suspected acute appendicitis
      is currently widely accepted as the gold standard and CT has been shown to clearly outperform
      US in terms of diagnostic performance. Currently CT imaging is considered the primary imaging
      modality in the diagnosis for acute appendicitis as it is appraised for its high sensitivity
      and specificity. The main disadvantage of CT imaging is exposure to radiation. Thus the
      favorable diagnostic performance of CT imaging has encouraged optimization of protocols to
      minimize exposure to radiation through the development of low-dose CT protocols. Initial
      studies have indicated that contrast enhanced low-dose CT was not inferior to standard-dose
      contrast enhanced CT with no statistical significance in negative appendectomy rates,
      appendiceal perforation rates or patients requiring additional imaging.

      This study focuses on the use of contrast enhanced low-dose CT imaging as a modality to
      differentiate between uncomplicated and complicated acute appendicitis in patients with BMI
      over 30 kg/m2. Accurate differential diagnosis allows the assessment of all available
      treatment options. Complicated acute appendicitis requires emergency appendectomy, while
      uncomplicated acute appendicitis can be safely and efficiently treated with antibiotics in
      the majority of patients. Our study group already published the results of the initial
      OPTICAP trial enrolling patients with BMI under 30 showing similar accuracy between the
      low-dose and the stadard dose CT, but a significant dose reduction associated with the
      low-dose CT. All patients will undergo both imaging protocols as the standard CT is also
      optimized for a low as possible radiation dosage and imaging sequence per patient is
      randomized due to the optimization of contrast media injection timing. All patients
      participating in this study will be treated operatively with a laparoscopic appendectomy to
      obtain histological confirmation for the diagnosis to evaluate the accuracy of the CT
      imaging. The aim of this study is to optimize a well-performing low-dose CT imaging protocol
      to use in the diagnosis of uncomplicated acute appendicitis in patients with body mass index
      over 30 kg/m2.
    
  