
    
      In recent years, severe vitamin D deficiency has resurfaced as a major public health concern.
      Nutritional rickets is widespread, and a recent report on this disease in Texas showed
      Hispanic children are at increased risk. Long-term follow-up has demonstrated that vitamin D
      deficient infants are more likely to have decreased bone mineral status in late childhood.
      Additionally, vitamin D deficiency has been linked to changes in fetal "imprinting" and
      increased susceptibility to autoimmune diseases, immune deficiency, and malignancy. At birth,
      an infant's vitamin D status is entirely dependent on the vitamin D status of the mother.
      Many studies have shown vitamin D deficiency is very common in mother-child pairs, especially
      in dark-skinned individuals. However, few data exist regarding the vitamin D status in
      Hispanic infants. Low milk intakes and decreased sun exposure with urbanization makes this a
      very high-risk group among infants in Texas.

      Potential subjects will be identified by study personnel in labor and delivery at St. Luke's
      and Ben Taub Hospitals and in the normal newborn nurseries. The parent/guardian will be
      approached and the study will be explained in full. A time for questions will be allowed.
      Once the parent/guardian agrees to his/her child's participation, an informed written consent
      form will be signed. Subject confidentiality will be maintained within limits of the law. All
      names and personal information will be accessed only by the investigators and authorized
      personnel. There will be no possibility of coercion as subjects will not have any
      relationship of dependency with the investigators.

      A cohort of Hispanic and Caucasian infants will be recruited and followed. Other ethnic
      groups will not be excluded, but will not be analyzed in terms of the primary outcome. Race
      and ethnicity will be classified according to mother's self classification. The interventions
      will not differ between the groups.

      This study includes 3 study visits:

        1. Baseline inpatient visit at birth - while hospitalized to obtain consent, obtain cord
           blood sample, and mother to complete a questionnaire

        2. 1 week after initial hospital discharge - first outpatient visit to obtain other
           baseline data (see below) and to start the vitamin D drops

        3. At 3 mo of life - second outpatient visit to obtain final data (see below) and
           discontinue vitamin D drops

      Visit 1 (Inpatient): After consent has been obtained and upon birth, cord blood will be
      obtained and analyzed using the Diasorin RIA for 25-OHD. In addition, serum ionized calcium
      and intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentration will be measured on cord blood. Mothers
      will be given a brief questionnaire to determine their risk of vitamin D deficiency (do they
      take vitamins, supplements, sun exposure). Follow-up outpatient appointments will be
      scheduled.

      Visit 2 (First Outpatient Visit): Infants will have a speed of sound ultrasound (SOS U/S) and
      whole body dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) performed at 1 week after hospital
      discharge. Supplements of 400 IU of vitamin D per day will be provided for all infants free
      of charge starting at the time of the body composition analysis (Vitamin D supplementation is
      recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics for all infants who are exclusively
      breastfeeding).

      Visit 3 (Second Outpatient Visit): Infants will return at three months of age and repeat
      measurements of serum 25-OHD, PTH, bone SOS U/S, and whole body DXA will be performed. At
      this time a second brief questionnaire will be given to the mother to assess the risks of
      vitamin D deficiency in the child. Vitamin D drops will be discontinued.

      Between visits, investigators will call the family to check on breast feeding status.

      At delivery, cord blood will be obtained and analyzed for 25-OHD, serum ionized calcium, and
      intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentration. At three months of age blood will be drawn
      for 25-OHD and PTH. The purpose of the blood draw is to assess the vitamin D status in the
      newborn infant. This is the primary aim of the study.

        -  5 cc (one teaspoon) of cord blood will be obtained at visit 1, and 5 cc (one teaspoon)
           blood will be drawn from patient at the third visit (three months of age).

        -  Total = 2 teaspoons

      There will be no study costs passed on the subject's family. Study investigations
      (laboratory, bone mineral assessment) will be paid for by the researchers. Costs for routine
      medical care, not associated with the study, but associated with delivery and hospitalization
      of the newly born child will be the responsibility of the family and their insurance company.

      A total of 60 subjects will be enrolled in the protocol. Enrollment of 30 Hispanic infants
      and 30 Caucasian infants will provide a power > 80% to demonstrate a significantly lower cord
      25-OHD concentration in Hispanic infants at p<0.05, the primary outcome.
    
  