
    
      There is a growing interest in using quality of life (QoL) data not only as relevant endpoint
      in clinical trials on cancer patients, but also in routine practice in order to improve
      patients' health during treatment. The investigators designed, implemented and evaluated an
      integrated quality of life diagnosis and therapy pathway (QoL pathway) for breast cancer
      patients (Klinkhammer-Schalke et al, 2008; 2012), guided by the UK Medical Research Council
      framework for developing and testing complex interventions. It could be demonstrated in a
      routine setting that breast cancer patients showed a benefit from tailored QoL diagnosis and
      therapy (Klinkhammer-Schalke et al, 2012).

      But there is also requirement for managing QoL deficits of patients with other cancers and to
      replicate findings of the previous trial. To achieve this aim, the QoL pathway has been
      modified for colorectal cancer patients. The Tumor Center Regensburg provides the
      infrastructure of the present project (quality circles, project groups).

      This is a two-arm randomised clinical trial with one intervention group and one control
      group. Patients' QoL is assessed with the EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR29 at 0, 3, 6, 12, and 18
      months after surgery.

      In intervention group results of the QoL-measure are transferred to a QoL-profile including
      13 dimensions on scales of 0-100 (cutoff for "diseased QoL <50). Three experts with varying
      professional background use the individual patient's QoL-profile and clinical and
      sociodemographic information in order to generate a QoL-report including therapy
      recommendation which is sent to the coordinating practitioner. Specific therapeutic options
      for the treatment of diseased QoL have been identified: pain therapy, psychotherapy, social
      support, nutrition counseling, stoma care, physiotherapy, fitness. To provide continuous
      medical education, quality circles for each therapy option have been founded. Coordinating
      practitioners receive a list with addresses of all quality circle members.

      In control group QoL is also measured but the coordinating practitioner neither receives a
      QoL-profile nor a QoL-report.

      The investigators expect that patients in the intervention group will experience a lower
      number of QoL-deficits (QoL < 50 points) in the first year after surgery compared with
      patients in the control group
    
  