
    
      Malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum continues to be a global problem with devastating
      consequences. Pregnancy malaria is associated with low birth weight, maternal anemia, and
      gestational hypertension, and both inflammation and the fetal response to infection may
      contribute to these poor outcomes. Pregnancy malaria is caused by P. falciparum-infected
      erythrocytes that bind to the placental receptor chondroitin sulfate A (CSA) and sequester in
      the placenta, where they cause disease and death for the mother and her offspring. Women
      become resistant to pregnancy malaria as they acquire antibodies that target surface proteins
      of placental parasites. Malaria vaccine candidates targeting the parasite s liver stage or
      blood stage may not protect pregnant women and their unborn children. The primary hypothesis
      in this study is that antibodies raised in animals against recombinant pregnancy malaria
      vaccine candidates will have a similar functional activity as naturally acquired antibodies.
      Up to 1500 pregnant women will be recruited into a cross sectional study that will be
      conducted in Rakai, Uganda. Women presenting for delivery and their newborns and women
      presenting for antenatal visit at Kalisizo Hospital, Rakai District will be enrolled. Samples
      collected from the women will be used in in-vitro assays to assess the functional activity of
      antisera raised against pregnancy malaria vaccine candidates as the primary outcome of this
      study. For our secondary outcomes, we will examine various factors that can lead to poor
      outcomes such as low birth weight of infants by measuring newborns for birth weight and
      physical and muscular maturity using the Dubowitz Ballard Exam for Gestational Age. We will
      also study the effects of intermittent preventive therapy during pregnancy (IPTp) on immune
      responses in the mother as well as the effect of HIV infection on the acquisition of immunity
      to pregnancy malaria. Clinical, parasitological and host response endpoints (including
      naturally acquired functional antibodies against CSA-binding parasites) will be analyzed
      using appropriate statistical methods, including adjustment for possible confounders, to
      determine factors associated with malaria infection and disease in pregnant women, as well as
      pregnancy outcomes.
    
  