
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (ARM) is a major cause of vision loss in the elderly. It is
      thought that smoking and diet may contribute to the risk of developing the condition but it
      is clear that heredity plays a major role. Variations in two genes, CFH and HTRA1/ARMS2, have
      been found to strongly contribute to the risk of developing ARM, but there are additional
      genes that influence a person's chances of having this condition and how they will progress
      to vision loss. We are investigating these genetic variations that contribute to ARM so that
      we can eventually understand the causes of this complex condition. We study the genetic
      variations (SNPs) that are shared among ARM-affected individuals within families as well as
      compare the frequencies of genetic variations in ARM-affected individuals with those in
      unaffected persons who are matched in age, gender, and exposures. We are conducting studies
      with the DNA from our previous cohort of research participants as well as developing a
      prospective study of high-risk family members and their spouses to evaluate genetic risks and
      presymptomatic retinal changes. Our long-term goals are to develop new preventive therapies
      that can slow or halt the development of this disease and to be able to provide these
      treatments to those who are at greatest risk before they experience vision-threatening
      changes.

      The goal of this study (GARM II) is to determine how the combination of genetic, dietary,
      health and exposure factors such as light, diet, and smoking contributes to one's risk of
      developing this condition. This is not a treatment study and does not involve any preventive
      therapies or direct treatments of ARM. We aim to find some insights for future preventive
      strategies through a group of people who are at a higher than normal risk for developing ARM
      (because of their family history) and their partners who represent the risk in the general
      population. Because ARM is a complex disease and is affected by many factors, we also want to
      know how other medical conditions may be associated or not with this eye condition.

      Participants will communicate with the research staff through a protected, HIPAA-compliant
      and confidential website and use this website to complete a number of questionnaires during
      the course of the study. For genetic analyses, the participants will mail in easily
      self-collected saliva samples in special containers. Eye photographs and eye health records
      are sent to the research center from local sources through the Internet. Individuals are not
      expected to come to UCLA in order to participate.

      https://jseiclinres.jsei.ucla.edu/garm/
    
  