
    
      Suboptimal blood pressure, defined as >115/75 mmHg by meta-analysis, exhibits a positive
      relationship with cardiovascular disease, and is the leading attributable risk factor for
      death. Research has illustrated that even blood pressure (BP) below the hypertensive levels
      can contribute to increased vascular mortality. It has been demonstrated that for incremental
      increases in blood pressure (every 20 mmHg systolic or 10 mmHg diastolic) there is a twofold
      increase in cardiovascular disease risk. However, mounting evidence suggests that increased
      fitness and physical activity4 may attenuate the typical age related increase in BP to
      hypertensive levels. Exercise has been recommended as the first line of treatment in
      prehypertension and suboptimal BP, and a single bout of exercise (as short at 10 min) has
      been shown to lower BP for up to 12 hours post. It is this extended bout of postexercise
      hypotension (PEH) that is thought to contribute to the anti-hypertensive effects of exercise.

      PEH is well documented in lean and overweight individuals, but there is limited data on PEH
      in obese populations of both genders. Well characterized for lean and overweight individuals
      matched for BP, how obese men and women react postexercise is largely unknown and undefined.
      Only a few published studies exist. A recent meta-analysis examined PEH, but only included
      subjects with a body mass index of < 31 kg/m2. Only one study to date included exclusively
      obese subjects (all women), but the authors only demonstrated a PEH 10 min postexercise. To
      date, we are aware of no published data examining BP matched PEH in centrally obese men and
      women to that of non-obese men and women.

      Exercise intensity has been shown to play a role in PEH as well. Data from this lab has
      demonstrated that short duration, high intensity exercise (aerobic interval exercise -AIE)
      was able to stimulate a greater duration of PEH when compared to that of a longer duration,
      moderate intensity exercise (continuous exercise- CE) or even sprint like training. One
      recently published study examines the effects on AIE training of young, obese women. No
      significant PEH was found after one hour, however, this time period may not have been long
      enough to see a significant change in PEH, hence why we are proposing a longer postexercise
      measurement period.

      The mechanism for which PEH occurs is unclear. It is thought to be from structural,
      neurohormonal, and vascular effects of exercise, however, how these variables effect PEH in
      obese vs non-obese populations has not been studied directly. Using non-invasive methods such
      as heart rate variability (HRV), cardiac output (CO), and systemic vascular resistance (SRV)
      will assist us in creating a better idea of the mechanism that which PEH occurs, and any
      clinical difference central obesity has on these factors. A prior study from this lab found
      that obese subjects had a heterogeneous response in CO and SVR (increased cardiac output and
      augmented SVR) when compared to that of non-obese matched subjects, but once more these
      subjects were only evaluated for 1 hour postexercise.
    
  