
    
      Following the adaptation, we developed a manualised family-based intervention for young
      substance misusers up to the age of 18. This was an evidence-based approach, drawing on our
      previous research, a review of the literature and the views of young substance misusers with
      experience of treatment (Phase 1).

      We aim to undertake a smallscale trial in two sites (Phase 2), to assess both the feasibility
      of the intervention and the scope for moving to a full trial of clinical and cost
      effectiveness. We also aim to evaluate the implementation of this new intervention using
      mixed methods research , monitoring randomisation procedures, treatment fidelity, staff time
      (and associated costs), engagement, retention and a range of outcome measures, reflecting the
      multiple vulnerabilities of this population. We will thereby address the brief's central aims
      of assessing the feasibility of a familybased intervention with this group and whether a
      trial could be successfully undertaken.

      Phase 1: Intervention Development Using the original Intervention structure and content as a
      platform, the overall aim was to adapt this family and social intervention in collaboration
      with those who have experience of using services in order to ensure that it is acceptable to
      young people and their families, remains focused on the important aspects that promote and
      support behaviour change and yet is realistic and deliverable in a way that maximises
      treatment engagement, taking into account young people's views and preferences. The resulting
      intervention will therefore be one in which much of the original material is oriented to a
      youth population, whilst retaining the key principles of the original Social Behaviour and
      Network Therapy. At the time of completing this ethics application, two of the three key
      sources of information which informed this process were already carried out. First, a
      Systematic Review was conducted on the already existing evidencebase on the effectiveness and
      acceptability of family based interventions in treating young people's substance abuse.
      Second, Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) was carried out by actively engaging a sample of
      young people with a history of treatment for substance abuse in a number of consultation
      processes. Third, we are yet to explore the the point of view of those who will deliver the
      intervention by drawing on a group of therapists and service managers working in child and
      adolescent addiction services. This group will comment on each stage of the intervention and
      handbook design, being invited to 'walk through' the delivery of this new intervention.

      Phase 2: Feasibility Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) The purpose of this ethics application
      is to obtain ethical approval for this specific phase of our study. For phase 2 we propose a
      prospective pragmatic randomised controlled trial to assess the feasibility and impact of the
      adapted family and social network intervention for drug and alcohol misuse in young people.
      The proposed trial will use concealed randomisation, intention to treat analysis and
      characterisation of refusers and dropouts. It will be a pragmatic trial, delivered in two
      Young People services. It involves a parallel group design comparing two conditions: (i)
      Adapted youth social network intervention (YouthSBNT) and (ii) Treatment as usual.

      For those that agree to participate, the researcher will:

        1. Obtain written consent from them to participate in the trial;

        2. Conduct a baseline assessment;

        3. Telephone the York Trials Unit Freephone randomisation service or use the online system
           to randomise the patient (hereafter referred to as the participant);

        4. Provide the participant with an appointment to see the therapist or clinician
           appropriate to their allocation.

      At baseline, information will be collected from the patient regarding their drug and alcohol
      use, emotional wellbeing, social network, family environment, quality of life, school
      attendance, selfreported crime, health care use, social services contact, and demographics.
      The same set of information will be collected at 3 months and 12 months follow up
      postrandomisation assessments. Interviews will be undertaken by the research fellows,
      covering the main and secondary outcome measures mentioned earlier. In addition, qualitative
      interviews will be used to explore the acceptability and wider context of the impact of the
      intervention to the young people and their family members/social network. Economic evaluation
      will also be conducted to inform larger definitive trial.
    
  