
    
      As of 10/23/2020: awaiting supply of study drug

      Objective: The natriuretic peptide (NP) hormonal system is well-known for its important role
      in blood pressure regulation. However, accumulating evidence suggests that the NPs have
      significant effects on metabolism as well. For instance, administration of B-type natriuretic
      peptide (BNP) to wild-type mice leads to increased energy expenditure, changes in gene
      expression in fat tissue suggestive of fat "beiging" (which may be associated with
      cardiovascular and metabolic benefits), and reduced fat accumulation. Although recent studies
      in rodents suggest that NPs have important metabolic effects, there are few prospective data
      on the metabolic effects of NPs in humans.

      Therefore, the investigators propose a physiologic, proof-of-concept study to determine the
      acute effects of b-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) on energy and fat metabolism in humans. The
      investigators' primary hypothesis is that the administration of BNP will increase energy
      expenditure in humans. The investigators' secondary hypothesis is that BNP administration
      will promote changes in gene expression in adipose tissue suggestive of a "beige" fat
      phenotype in humans.

      Research Plan: The investigators propose the following research plan to address the
      investigators' specific aims:

      Primary Aim: To investigate the acute effects of administration of BNP on energy expenditure
      in humans. The investigators propose a randomized, placebo-controlled, cross-over study in 50
      adults (25 lean and 25 obese) without significant medical problems. Subjects will be
      randomized to intravenous infusion of recombinant human BNP1-32 or normal saline (control),
      with assessment of energy expenditure and other physiologic measures. After a 7-day washout
      period, subjects will then undergo the other intervention.

      Secondary Aim: To determine the acute effects of BNP on gene expression in white adipose
      tissue in humans. The investigators will assess markers suggestive of fat beiging in
      subcutaneous white adipose tissue biopsies after BNP infusion vs. control. This secondary aim
      will allow us to explore potential mechanisms underlying the hypothesized changes in energy
      expenditure.

      Methods: In this cross-over study, each subject will receive BNP infusion at one visit and
      control at the other visit, in random order. The sequence of the treatments will be
      randomized. There will be a washout period (at least 14 days) between visits. Subjects will
      be stratified by BMI category (lean or obese). To address the Primary Aim, energy expenditure
      will be assessed via indirect calorimetry (metabolic cart). To address the Secondary Aim,
      subcutaneous fat biopsies will be performed, and tissue will be analyzed for gene expression
      of markers suggestive of fat beiging.

      Clinical Relevance: This study will generate novel human data regarding the effects of the
      NPs on energy metabolism and adipose tissue. Interventions that safely increase energy
      expenditure and promote a beige fat phenotype represent potential strategies for treating
      obesity-associated metabolic dysfunction. The overarching scientific goals of this line of
      investigation are (1) to elucidate the role of the natriuretic peptide system in
      cardiometabolic health in humans, and (2) to investigate the potential for NP directed
      therapies in obesity-associated cardiometabolic dysfunction.
    
  