
    
      Carbapenem resistance in gram-negative bacteria has become a worldwide problem and has caused
      a global epidemic that continues to grow..

      New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1 (NDM-1) enzyme that confers multi-drug resistance is
      encoded by New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1 gene (blaNDM-1)]. NDM-1inactivates major
      classes of beta-lactam antibiotics including carbapenems by cleaving b-lactam rings. NDM-1was
      reported in 11 different bacterial species including Escherichia coli, Klebsiella sp.,
      Shigella boydii and Vibrio cholera indicating the potential of horizontal gene transfer.

      Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) enzymes, belonging to class A (serine
      carbapenemases) and inhibited by boronic acid, have rapidly become a global problem among the
      Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baumannii .

      In infectious disease therapy, administration of adequate antimicrobial agents is essential
      for preventing the emergence and spread of resistant bacteria. However, conventional
      antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST), based on bacterial growth, is time consuming;
      therefore, a rapid, simple assay is needed for the timely selection of appropriate
      antibiotics in clinical laboratories such as loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP).

      LAMP, developed by the Japanese researcher Notomi, is a novel gene amplification method that
      can complete DNA amplification under isothermal conditions . LAMP is a strand displacement
      amplification technique , which utilizes a set of 4 to 6 specially designed oligonucleotide
      primers and a specific DNA polymerase (Bst). Via the process of strand displacement
      amplification, a dumbbell DNA structure is produced which serves as a template for cycle
      amplification. The lack of a need for a thermocycler, the speed of the reaction and make LAMP
      a promising platform for the development of a simple and sensitive near-patient tool for the
      molecular detection of genes in resource-limited settings.

      LAMP is the most popular and well-established nucleic acid amplification technology among
      alternatives for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) . The steps of genetic testing include
      nucleic acid extraction from the specimens, gene amplification, and detection. These steps
      require considerable skill and expensive equipment and facilities, making convenient testing
      at any given location difficult. To overcome these limitations, a new gene amplification
      method, LAMP reaction, was developed which combines rapidity, simplicity, and high
      specificity .
    
  