
    
      Background and rationale. Abdominal laparoscopic surgery is widely used. The meet good
      conditions, the surgeons need a large enough workspace. Carbonic gaz is insufflated in the
      intraperitoneal space but limited by the induced pressure which usually must not be above
      15mm mercury (Hg) because of subsequent organ failures. The relationship between pressure and
      gaz volume insufflated defines the abdominal compliance (ΔV/ΔP).

      The use of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) is often used during abdominal laparoscopic
      surgery in order to reduce abdominal tonus, create a sufficient laparoscopic workspace hence
      improving abdominal compliance. However, considering good working conditions could be
      achieved by the use of NMBA, other factors could be considered like body weight, length, BMI,
      surgical abdominal history, parity.

      Main objective : To compare the working surgical conditions and the pneumoperitoinea volume
      obtained during abdominal laparoscopic surgery with and without initial NMBA use.

      Hypothesis: The use of NMBA improve the incidence of good surgical working conditions.

      Study Design : Randomized blinded clinical trial. Two patients groups are compared, one
      receiving NMBA and one receiving a placebo. Randomisation will be realised by 1/1 ratio in
      blocks of 4.

      The primary outcome is a composite criteria : the obtention of laparoscopic workspace greater
      than 3 liters associated with an abdominal pressure lesser than 15mmHg and a good surgical
      rating scale.

      A statistical analysis reveal that 90 patients in each group need to be included from
      estimated 90% satisfying surgical conditions in NMBA group and 70% in placebo group.

      In the placebo group, when surgical conditions are not correct (insufflated volume lesser
      than 3 liters or surgeon dissatisfaction), NMBA are used. This define the secondary use of
      NMBA.

      Methods :

      Anesthesia will be induced in all patients by target controlled infusions of propofol and
      sufentanil respectively with initial targets of 6 microgram/ml and 0,4 ng/ml.

      The initial NMBA bolus in the NMBA group is 0,15 mg/kg of cisatracurium. A similar volume of
      isotonic saline serum is used in the placebo group.

      The abdomen is inflated to 5, 10 and 15 mmHg and volumes at each pressure level are measured
      in order to evaluate the abdominal compliance.

      After those measures, the anesthesiologist is unblinded of NMBA use. If the workspace volume
      is lesser than 3 liters, or, in case of surgeon dissatisfaction (using the surgical rating
      scale), NMBA can be used, defining secondary NMBA used.

      Anesthesia is maintained by continous infusions of propofol and sufentanil aiming BIS target
      of 40 to 60.

      When used, curarisation is maintained by a continuous infusion of cisatracurium (0,06 to 0,12
      mg/kg/h) targetting 0 or 1 TOF response.

      Safety issues : During anesthesia induction, if ventilation or tracheal intubation
      difficulties were to happen, the anesthesiologist is unblinded and any anesthesia protocol
      can be used.
    
  