
    
      The population to be studied will consist of neonates born to mothers presenting with
      clinical symptoms of Chikungunya within six days before and two days after childbirth. These
      neonates will therefore be exposed to a high risk of developing a severe form of Chikungunya
      infection. In most cases the reality of this risk will have been demonstrated by a positive
      CHIKV RT-PCR on maternal blood sampled before childbirth.

      References to literature and data that are relevant to the trial, and that provide background
      for the trial.

      Chikungunya virus has been detected in humans in the Caribbean area for the first time in
      November 2013 (St-Martin Island). By February 2014, the virus had spread to several other
      Caribbean islands as well as French Guyana, South America.

      During the outbreak of Chikungunya (CHIK) that affected the Reunion Island in 2005/2006, the
      neonatal forms of infections acquired by mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) during
      childbirth, were reported in 50% of viremic mothers and associated with high neonate
      morbidity. MTCT occurred only when the mother was viremic at the time of delivery. The
      viremic period begins 2 days before the onset of symptoms and lasts for six days following
      the first symptoms. In infected neonates contaminated during labor, symptoms appeared after a
      median incubation period of 4 days. All neonate CHIK cases were symptomatic and the rate of
      severe forms was about 50%; these severe forms were primarily due to damages to the central
      nervous system, often leaving permanent damage (seizures, cerebral palsy).

      Due to the severity of Chikungunya in neonates and the burden of cerebral palsy, it is
      imperative to identify a safe and effective preventive and/or curative intervention.

      We hypothesize that the administration of hyperimmune human intravenous immunoglobulins to
      neonates exposed to a high risk of severe form of Chikungunya infection is safe enough to
      justify its evaluation in an open non randomized trial aimed to confirm the safety and
      preliminary assess the effectiveness of this intervention.

      Although the primary objective of the trial is to assess the safety of hyperimmune human
      intravenous immunoglobulins in neonates, a clear potential individual benefit is expected for
      participating neonates, namely a decreased risk of development of a severe form of
      Chikungunya, especially in terms of high-burden central nervous system complications
      (seizures, cerebral palsy). This is a major issue since the first case of complicated
      neonatal Chikungunya has already occurred in Martinique in January 2014 (clinical
      manifestations included fever, pain, skin rash, and encephalopathy in a four-day-old
      neonate).

      If this trial demonstrates safety and is consistent with potential efficacy of anti-CHIKV
      hyperimmune intravenous immunoglobulins, this would pave the way to the realization of a
      phase III trial whose main objective would be to confirm the effectiveness of the strategy,
      including in other situations, particularly in individuals at risk for severe disease such as
      exposed neonates and adults with underlying conditions.

      This would also be a proof-of-concept for such a therapeutic/preventive strategy in other
      severe emerging infectious diseases such as arboviral diseases or viral hemorrhagic fevers,
      as long as no specific drug or vaccine is available.

      The risk of developing a severe form in Chikungunya is high in neonates born to CHIKV-viremic
      mothers. Central nervous system complications represent the most important concern because
      they are both frequent and frequently associated with permanent brain damages.

      To date, no effective therapeutic strategy has been identified in this situation.

      The administration of hyperimmune anti-CHICKV intravenous immunoglobulins has proven
      effective in preventing the development of Chikungunya in a neonatal mouse model.

      Several randomized clinical trials demonstrated that intravenous immunoglobulins where safe
      when administered to neonates and infants.

      The first cases of neonatal Chikungunya infection have been identified in French West Indies
      since the onset of the current outbreak and at least one case was associated with CNS
      complications.

      Pediatricians and neonatologists working in the four hospitals that will participate in the
      clinical trial have been contacted. They expressed that they are keen to provide a
      potentially effective therapy to newborns exposed to a high risk of developing of Chikungunya
      infection and they are convinced that such a treatment would be harmless to neonates, based
      on their own experience with the use of polyvalent intravenous immunoglobulins.

      No specific treatment has been identified to date for Chikungunya infection, especially for
      severe neonatal forms. While efficacy and safety of anti-CHIKV hyperimmune immunoglobulins
      have been demonstrated in neonate mice, to date no such study has been performed in humans.
      Therefore this study would be first to assess this promising therapeutic intervention.

      It is also expected that this study will provide new information on the natural history of
      Chikungunya infection in neonates as well as on the pathophysiology of viral transmission
      (transplacentally during labor or/and during fetal progression into the genital tract).
      Actually comparison of quantitative CHIKV RT PCR titers in mother's urine at delivery,
      placenta, and neonate's blood and other fluids, as well as determination of placental
      microperfusion markers (placental alkaline phosphatase on cord blood) should shed light on
      this issue.

      Primary endpoint: The primary endpoint will be evaluated in all enrolled neonates.
      Tolerability and safety of anti-CHIK IVIG will be assessed by evaluating the frequency of
      patent ductus arteriosus, necrotizing enterocolitis, pulmonary hemorrhage, tachycardia or
      hypotension during anti-CHIKV IVIG infusion, hemolytic anemia, hyponatremia and ascites.

      Secondary endpoints: Secondary endpoints will be evaluated only in neonates born to mothers
      who had a definite CHIKV-infection.

      Primary objective:

      The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the tolerability and safety of anti-CHIKV
      hyperimmune immunoglobulins given intravenously to neonates exposed to a high risk of MTCT of
      CHIKV, i.e. born to a mother with definite or possible CHIKV infection at the time of
      delivery.

      Secondary objectives:

      The secondary objective of the trial is to evaluate the efficacy of anti-CHIKV hyperimmune
      immunoglobulins given intravenously in the subgroup of neonates born to mothers with definite
      CHIKV infection.

      Neonates will be classified in one of the following 3 categories:

        -  Neonatal CHIKV clinical disease:

             -  Clinical symptoms consistent with acute CHIKV infection

             -  Demonstration of infection based on CHIKV IgM seroconversion and/or identification
                of CHIKV viremia (positive CHIKV qRT-PCR at Day 3),

        -  Neonatal CHIKV asymptomatic infection:

             -  Absence of any symptom consistent with CHIV infection

             -  Demonstration of infection based on CHIKV IgM seroconversion and/or identification
                of CHIKV viremia (positive CHIKV qRT-PCR at Day 3),

        -  Neonatal CHIKV infection excluded:

             -  Absence of CHIKV IgM seroconversion

      Social and Behavioral Science Survey:

      In parallel, we will conduct a Social and Behavioral Science survey aimed to assess the
      factors associated with the parental decision to participate or not in the clinical trial,
      given its peculiar context (emerging disease, therapeutic intervention in a neonate,
      invitation to participate in the peri-partum period, short period of time for
      decision-making.
    
  