
    
      Background:

      Depressive symptoms are the most common referral problem to integrated mental health
      providers within Veteran primary care clinics. Although there exist several empirically-based
      brief psychotherapies for depression in primary care, the most significant barrier to
      providing those psychotherapies is treatment duration (e.g., the treatments range from 6-8
      sessions of 30-50 minutes) as it does not match typical treatment formats delivered by mental
      health providers working in primary care (i.e., 1-4 15-30 minute sessions). Therefore, this
      HSR&D study titled, RCT of Behavioral Activation for Depression and Suicidality in Primary
      Care, will examine the effectiveness of a brief version of an existing efficacious longer
      treatment for depression, called behavioral activation.

      Objectives:

      The overarching objectives of this study are to: 1) examine whether a 4-session manualized
      behavioral activation intervention (BA-PC) compared to Treatment as Usual (TAU) is effective
      in reducing self-reported depressive symptoms and subjective secondary outcomes such as sleep
      impairment and quality of life; 2) examine patient satisfaction, engagement, and receptivity
      to a 4-session BA-PC; and 3) explore the impact of BA-PC on suicidal ideation.

      Methods:

      The study will achieve these objectives using a randomized, controlled trial study design
      that has two conditions (4-session BA-PC and Treatment as Usual). Veterans will be recruited
      from three VA primary care settings in the Western portion of VISN 2 (Syracuse, Rochester,
      and Buffalo). The primary inclusion criteria for the study will be a report of depressive
      symptoms by primary care patients, who are not currently engaged in psychological treatment
      for depression. A total of 136 Veterans will be targeted for randomization. All Veterans will
      be assessed every 2 weeks for changes in mood and more comprehensive assessments will be
      completed at 6, 12, and 24 weeks.

      Status:

      Recruitment has ended as of 2/26/18 with 140 participants being randomized. Follow-up will
      continue for another 24 weeks. We are preparing the data for analysis.
    
  