
    
      The increasing prevalence of eating disorders in adolescence and their frequent chronic
      course have led to the development of various programs for prevention, early detection and
      early intervention. Nevertheless, the causes of anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa
      (BN) remain a topic of much discussion and research. Evidence points to a multifactorial
      disease pattern in which intrapsychic, psychosocial and biological factors interact and
      reinforce one another. Eating disorders have been increasingly associated with signs of
      emotional and psychological disturbance. In clinical populations, personality traits are
      observed as exacerbating factors that constitute important variables for differentiation.
      While investigations have shown high comorbidity of personality disorders and eating
      disorders in adulthood, comparable studies in adolescence have not yet been undertaken.

      The proposed study will investigate whether, on the basis of personality traits and
      personality disorders as well as specific cerebral activation patterns, differentiations can
      be identified among adolescent female patients with AN (n = 50) and BN (n = 30) in comparison
      to a healthy control group (n = 30).

      Of particular interest is the potential connection between specific personality traits and
      neural correlates in the two ED:

        1. Do specific personality traits and personality disorders correlate significantly with
           particular types of ED?

        2. Do AN and BN correlate significantly with particular cerebral activation patterns
           following visual presentation of food stimuli and gustatory stimuli? 3. Can connections
           be identified between specific personality profiles and cerebral activation patterns in
           AN and BN? 4. Will changes in cerebral activation patterns be evident between the
           beginning of treatment (T1) and the end of treatment (T2)? The study will use specific
           questionnaires dealing with eating behavior (EDI & EAT) as well as clinical interviews
           for the assessment of personality disorders (SCID II). Cerebral processing will be
           evaluated using functional MRI (fMRI) and structural MRI. fMRI results from visual and
           gustatory stimuli will be correlated with structural brain morphology in MRI and with
           psychopathological parameters. The correlation of such clinical values represents a new
           approach to the investigation of eating disorders in adults and may be of significant
           relevance for data interpretation and understanding of cerebral changes due to anorexia.
           MRI measurements will be performed at begin of therapy (T1) and at end of therapy (T2).

      In this fashion, known risk factors will be supplemented with information on specific
      personality traits and cerebral activation patterns. The proposed study will thus provide
      important new insights for early detection, prevention, treatment and clinical assessment.
    
  