
    
      PURPOSE OF THE STUDY:

      HYPOTHESES:

      Noninvasive optical spectroscopic measurements of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
      (HNSCC) result in unique signatures that can differentiate between dysplasia, normal, other
      benign conditions as well as response to radiation therapy as assessed by clinical and
      histopathological methods.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

        1. Characterization of physiological and morphological features of clinical HNSCCs using a
           spectroscopy based quantitative optical sensor

        2. Evaluate the built-in pressure sensor of the probe as a means of making more
           measurements at a more consistent, narrower pressure range.

      This device will be used to compare spectroscopy measurements with histopathological
      diagnoses. Subjects will undergo optical measurements at the time of routine biopsy for a
      suspected squamous cell carcinoma of the head and/or neck . Diffuse reflectance spectroscopy
      measurements from each lesion of clinical interest, as well as distant normal tissue. Three
      to five repeated scans will be obtained at each measured site. The clinical "tumor" site will
      then be biopsied. Samples will not be collected from normal tissue for biopsy. The results of
      the spectroscopy measurements are for research purposes only and will not be used to confirm
      a subject's diagnosis.

      The optical spectrometer does not breach any skin defense barrier. As this study involves
      noninvasive optical measurements of tissues, no significant safety concerns are anticipated.
      The protocol measurements take less than one minute per site. The total amount of extended OR
      time is expected to be less than 5 minutes. No additional charges to the subject and/or
      insurance company is expected.

      Qualitative analysis will be performed to describe whether there is correlation between
      spectroscopy measurements and pathologic diagnosis.
    
  