
    
      TEE is increasingly used for perioperative diagnosis and monitoring. However, learning TEE
      may be long and difficult: guidelines suggest that learners perform and interpret hundreds of
      TEE exams during their training. Even if this learning process has been used successfully for
      many years, it has important limitations, especially in the context of an ever-increasing
      number of trainees: access to patients and TEE experts is limited, and the extensive period
      of time required to train is also a problem.

      Simulators have gained popularity as tools for teaching echocardiography, showing benefits
      mostly regarding probe handling and image acquisition. Some simulators may also be useful to
      replicate some diseases, but most simulators can only replicate a limited variety of
      diseases, and mostly typical presentations. This is an important limitation when it comes to
      teaching image interpretation. In order to develop their expertise, trainees have to be
      exposed to a wide range of normal variations and to more subtle abnormalities.

      PLMs represent an alternative modality to teach image interpretation, and are already used in
      other fields. PLMs are online tools created to enhance the development of pattern
      recognition, a skill required to efficiently interpret TEE images. With PLMs, learners
      observe a series of images or videoclips and must answer a question about each image in a
      short period of time. Each answer is followed by an immediate feedback (the correct answer).
      By observing a large number of images online and by receiving systematic and expert feedback,
      the trainee quickly learns to extract efficiently the required information from the image.

      This study will aim to evaluate the effects of a PLM on the ability of junior residents and
      medical students to correctly estimate visually the left ventricular ejection faction using
      TEE images.

      Methods:

      A team of experienced programmers will develop a Web platform, which will allow the
      identification of both participants and TEE experts, manage the consent process, host the
      tests used to assess the participants' expertise and the PLM itself, as well as manage the
      TEE images and the study data.

      The pilot study designed to assess the impact of the PLM on the visual estimation of LVEF
      will be composed of the following steps:

        1. selection and validation of TEE cases,

        2. development of two versions of a test and of the PLM,

        3. analysis of the impact of the PLM on participants' performance vs a control group.

      Each TEE case used in this study will comprise 3 short video loops containing the following
      standardised echocardiographic views:

        -  midesophageal four chamber view

        -  midesophageal two chamber view

        -  midesophageal long axis view

      Prior to inclusion in the study, each case will be anonymized and then validated by two
      cardiologists expert in TEE interpretation. Only cases where the visual estimation of the
      LVEF provided independently by the two TEE experts will differ by no more than 10% will be
      used. Two different sets of validated images will then be created.

      The first set will be comprised of two groups of 20 validated cases (total of 40 cases).
      These cases will be used to create two versions of a test used to assess participants'
      expertise in the visual estimation of LVEF at different stages in the research protocol.
      These cases will not be part of the PLM.

      The second set will be comprised of 96 validated cases destined to the PLM. The PLM is
      designed not to assess the participants' expertise, but to develop their ability to estimate
      LVEF.

      When taking a test on the platform, participants will see the three short video loops of each
      case simultaneously on the screen for a maximum of 20 seconds, and will then have to provide
      an estimation of the LVEF. Each answer will be followed immediately by another case, and no
      feedback will be provided.

      When doing the PLM, participants will see the three short video loops of each case
      simultaneously on the screen for a maximum of 20 seconds, and will then have to provide an
      estimation of the LVEF. However, each answer will be followed by feedback in the form of the
      average value of the experts' visual estimates of LVEF. This sequence of "case visualisation
      - participant estimation - expert feedback" will be repeated 96 times during this PLM.

      Residents and medical students will be randomised by the platform to a Control Group and a
      PLM group. Both groups will participate in two on-line sessions. During the first session,
      demographic and clinical experience data will be collected. All participants will also
      perform a pretest to measure their baseline ability to estimate LVEF. Then only the
      participants randomised to the PLM group will do the PLM. All participants will do a posttest
      at the end of the first session. Six months later, all participants will return for a second
      session to perform the delayed test.

      At the end of the study, participants of the Control group will be allowed to complete the
      PLM if they wish to.
    
  