
    
      Breast cancer (BC) occupies the first place among malignancy in females (29.9% of all tumors
      in female patients in Russian Federation in 2015) [1].

      One of the most perspective direction of the oncotherapy is anticancer immunotherapy -
      employment of inhibitors of immune checkpoints. Immune checkpoints inhibitors (such as
      anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies) have shown good clinical efficiency in clinical research
      to cure such malignant tumor with high mutation load, as melanoma, lung cancer, and others.

      One of the hypothesis of such effect states that, usually, more cancer neoantigens are
      synthetized in the tumors with high mutation load (driven by genome instability), causing
      severe lymphoid infiltration [2-3]. This situation is balanced by overexpression of such
      inhibitors of the immune response as PD-1 and PD-L1 [4 - 6].

      Breast cancer - is relatively heterogenic tumor, with different genetic, morphological and
      phenotypic forms.

      Despite relatively low expression of PD-L1 in BC in general, there are reasons to believe
      that genetic instability, driven by mutations in genes involved in DNA repair, can increase
      the immunogenicity and, thus, the expression of PD-L1 in BC.

      To date, it is widely accepted that 5-10% of BC cases are represented by hereditary types,
      i.e. mediated by germline pathogenic mutations in genes of DNA reparation pathways.
      Hereditary breast cancer (HBC), as well as ovarian cancer (OC), сaused by mutations in genes
      BRCA1, BRCA2, CHEK2, TP53 и PTEN, and others. Thus, one of the promising directions here is
      to understand the inter-relation among germline pathogenic mutations associated with HBC, and
      activity of PD-L1. It would allow to optimize selection of anti-PD-L1 therapy, by forming
      group of patients (matching criteria of HBC) with high level of PD-L1 expression in cancer
      cells and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes.
    
  