
    
      Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a deforming and disabling infectious disease that causes
      elephantiasis and genital deformity (especially hydroceles). The infection affects some 120
      million people in 81 countries in tropical and subtropical regions with well over 1 billion
      people at risk of acquiring the disease. LF is caused by Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia spp.
      (B. malayi and B.timori), nematode parasites that are transmitted by mosquitoes. This study
      is based on the assumption that currently used mass drug administration (MDA) regimens and
      schedules are not optimal for achieving elimination of LF. These regimens (either annual
      Albendazole (Alb) 400 mg plus diethylcarbamazine (DEC) 6 mg/kg or Alb 400 mg plus ivermectin
      (Iver) 200 µg/kg for LF) were developed more than 10 years ago.

      Drugs used for LF MDA are also active against soil transmitted helminth infections (STH,
      e.g., Ascaris, Hookworm, and Trichuris). De-worming campaigns using anthelminthics usually
      target special groups of the population, such as schoolchildren, and have limited impact on
      the transmission. Treatment of the total population and semiannual treatments may reduce
      re-infection considerably and will most likely lead to reduced infection densities and
      infection prevalences. Suppression of STH is an important ancillary benefit of MDA programs
      for filarial infections.

      Purpose: The study aims to compare the effectiveness once yearly (1X) versus twice yearly
      (2X) mass drug administration (MDA) for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis and for
      control of soil-transmitted helminths (intestinal parasites) in large populations. Mass drug
      administration will be provided by the Indonesia Ministry of Health. This project will assess
      the impact of the public health program.

      Procedures: Study procedures include collection of finger prick blood that will be tested for
      microfilaremia and for serology testing (antigenemia and antibody testing). Stool samples
      will be collected to detect STH infections. All assays will be performed in Indonesia
      (filarial serology tests, blood smears for detection of microfilariae (MF), and stool
      examinations for detection of worm eggs).

      Washington University researchers developed the protocol, will provide training and guidance
      to Indonesian researchers, and work with them to analyze the data. Indonesian researchers
      will consent the participants, obtain stool and blood specimens, perform laboratory tests on
      the specimens, and enter data on participants and lab results.
    
  