
    
      Acute appendicitis is a diagnosis with clinical findings, laboratory tests and radiological
      imaging. The main pathology of appendicitis is usually the onset of the inflammatory process
      in the appendix vermiformis in the right lower abdomen. If untreated, the inflammatory
      process may progress to the perforation of the appendix and develop peritonitis. Appendectomy
      is an emergency surgical procedure for treatments of patients diagnosed with acute
      appendicitis and is the most common surgical procedure (1). Complications of appendectomy are
      wound site infection, postoperative intestinal adhesions and obstruction, peritonitis,
      bleeding, inguinal hernia, and chronic abdominal pain.

      It is observed that pediatric patients who have undergone abdominal surgical procedure
      complained of pain and discomfort in the postoperative period (2). It should be noted that
      these complaints may affect quality of life. To the best of our knowledge, since there is no
      study in the literature, we aimed to investigate the presence of postoperative chronic
      abdominal pain and discomfort in children aged 8-18 years underwent appendectomy and their
      social and physical effects.

      After Local Ethics Committee approval had been obtained, the records of children aged 8-18
      years who underwent appendectomy, such as age, gender, American Society of Anesthesiology
      (ASA) classification score, the type of surgical procedure, and anesthetic technique were
      obtained from hospital information management system and anesthetic charts. Inclusion
      criterias were children between the ages of 8-18 years who underwent appendectomy, had ASA I
      physical score, and those who agree to participate for this research. Children who aged under
      8 and over 18 years, had ASA II and those with higher physical score, had previously
      undergone surgery from the right lower abdomen, had preoperative pain complaint over 6 month,
      had psychiatric disorders, and whose parents do not agree to participate were excluded in
      this study. By calling parents, at the 6th month after the surgical procedure, the presence
      of chronic pain and discomfort were asked via face to face or talking on the phone. The
      primary endpoint of this study is to investigate the prevalence of chronic pain and
      discomfort at the 6th month after appendectomy in pediatric patients. The secondary endpoint
      is to determine the effects of chronic pain on the children's quality of life.

      Pain was defined as the presence of intermittent or continuous hurtfully sensation.
      Discomfort was defined as an abnormal bad feeling. Children were asked whether they felt pain
      or discomfort while resting, coughing, and exercise. Pain was assessed using verbal numeric
      rating scale. Their effects on life were assessed Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory parent
      and child versions questionnaire at sixth months after surgery.
    
  