
    
      An ataxia is neurological disorder of balance and coordination resulting from dysfunctions of
      the cerebellum. Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is most common ataxia in white population, with an
      estimated prevalence of 2-4 cases per 100,000 individuals. With an average age of onset of
      10-15 years, the disease is characterized by dysarthria, deep sensory loss, hypertrophic
      cardiomyopathy, spinocerebellar ataxia, pyramidal weakness, diabetes mellitus, and skeletal
      abnormalities.

      FRDA is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by pathogenic variant/s in the FXN gene, which
      encodes the mitochondrial protein frataxin. In 98% of cases these are homozygous
      guanine-adenine-adenine (GAA) triplet repeat expansions in the ﬁrst intron of the FXN gene.
      The remaining cases are compound heterozygotes for a GAA repeat expansion plus a FXN point
      mutation or deletion. GAA repeat expansions suppress transcription of the FXN gene, leading
      to frataxin deﬁciency.

      Until now there is no FDA-approved therapy for FRDA, but potential agents for treatment are
      in developing phases. As such, especially antioxidants like idebenone are tested in clinical
      trials as FRTA medication, whereas another study identified p38 inhibitors as potential
      therapeutic agents. Various clinical rating scales including the Scale for the Assessment and
      Rating of Ataxia (SARA), Friedreich's Ataxia Rating Scale (FARS), and the International
      Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale (ICARS) have been used as trial endpoints in FRDA, but these
      measurements have limited sensitivity to disease progression over 12 months. Furthermore,
      there are no validated, objective central or peripheral nervous system biomarkers of disease
      progression for use in clinical trials as intermediate endpoints.

      It is the goal of the BioFridA study to identify, validate, and monitor FRDA biomarker/s.
    
  