
    
      This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of daily oral genistein in 24
      men initiating Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) for prostate cancer (PCa). Genistein is a
      natural supplement that comes from soy. The purpose of this study is to see if genistein has
      any effect on preventing or reducing heart disease and diabetes risk in men receiving ADT for
      PCa. A combination of nutritional measures, blood markers and imaging tools will assess body
      composition, lipid levels and insulin resistance. Information from this study will increase
      understanding of interventions which may prevent or reduce health risks during prostate
      cancer treatment.

      All participants will receive standard counseling for diet and exercise by their oncology
      care team. Participants will be asked to withhold from any additional dietary supplements
      (with the exception of 1 standard daily multivitamin) during the study period. Participants
      will also be asked to complete a food diary for three days (on two weekdays and 1 weekend
      day).

      Subjects will be randomized and stratified by diabetes status to either 60 mg/day oral
      genistein (30 mg taken twice daily), or matching placebo. The goal for randomizing based on
      diabetes status is to ensure approximately the same number of subjects who have diabetes and
      do not have diabetes receive genistein and placebo.

      During follow-up, subjects will receive weekly reminders via phone call, text, or email to
      enhance compliance and monitor for potential adverse events. The 3-month study visit will be
      scheduled to coincide with the subject's standard of care follow-up visit. Three-month
      assessments will be the same as baseline assessments.

      Investigators seek to assess indexes of insulin dynamics (insulin sensitivity and secretion)
      determined from an oral glucose tolerance test before and 12 weeks after a daily genistein or
      placebo supplement. Measures of vascular function before and 12 weeks after a daily genistein
      or placebo supplement will also be assessed via ultrasound along with other metabolic
      measures via blood draw.
    
  