
    
      Administration of (neuraxial blocks) spinal and epidural blocks is commonly achieved by first
      palpating the landmarks for midline with spinous process and iliac crest for L3-4-5
      intervertebral spaces. With an epidural block, a loss of resistance in a pressurized syringe
      is used to incrementally advance the epidural needle until identification of epidural space
      with loss of resistance in the pressurized syringe. With a spinal block, the spinal needle is
      advanced incrementally until a noted "feel" of dural puncture together with return of spinal
      fluid via the spinal needle. The palpation technique and somewhat "blind" technique to
      identify the spinal and epidural spaces become more difficult and less reliable particularly
      with the increasing prevalence of the morbid and super-morbid obese patients. Ultrasound
      devices have become common and successful with non-neuraxial blocks and venous accesses, both
      involving mostly non-bony, soft tissues. Application of conventional ultrasound for neuraxial
      blocks has been limited by its bulkiness, limited imaging for bony structures and lack of
      automated artificial intelligent algorithm for pattern recognition. Recent technological
      advancement has addressed the aforementioned limitations. Rivanna Accuro is one such device
      that has gained FDA approval and may have helped in addressing some of these issues. It is a
      handheld (pocket size) U/S device with real time pattern recognition for bony structures such
      as the spine while providing 3-D overlay for recognition of the midline spinous process and
      epidural spaces and distance. The investigators hypothesize that the Rivanna Accuro or
      similar U/S device would reduce time to success of identifying epidural and/or intrathecal
      spaces as compared to conventional palpation method. We will compare placement of neuraxial
      block between palpation method versus ultrasound method. We will compare placement of spinal
      block for cesarean delivery with palpation versus with ultrasound method, and then comparing
      placement of neuraxial analgeisa block (combined spinal epidural analgesia) for labor
      analgesia with palpation versus ultrasound method.
    
  