
    
      STUDY HYPOTHESIS

      Principal hypothesis

      - The number of painful and stressful procedures performed in the neonate admitted to
      intensive care units is still very high but it is lower than in 2005 Pain scores are lower
      when procedures are performed with a specific analgesia prior to procedure.

      Secondary hypothesis

        -  The frequency of pre-procedural analgesia is higher than in 2005

        -  Certain common procedures such as heel sticks and endotracheal intubations are carried
           out with a more frequent analgesia than in 2005

        -  The use of a continuous sedation and analgesia does not induce a reduction in specific
           pre-procedural analgesia

        -  A real-time pain assessment of painful procedures can be carried out in more than 80% of
           procedures performed in neonates in intensive care units Pain scores show that certain
           procedures which are apparently not very painful may elicit high pain scores in very
           sick neonates

        -  Certain procedures such as nursing care or weighing may induce high pain scores in
           neonates who have invasive tubes (endotracheal tubes, thoracic drainage)

        -  A continuous sedation and analgesia is given to more than 50% of ventilated neonates.

        -  Certain characteristics of neonates may influence the use of analgesics for painful
           procedures. Ex: gender, age, respiratory support

        -  Certain contextual characteristics or center may influence the use of analgesics for
           painful procedures. Ex: day or night, pain referent in the unit, night head nurse,
           written pain management guidelines.

        -  More than 80% of semi-urgent or non-urgent intubations are carried out with the use of
           premedication.

        -  Opioids are the most commonly drugs used for premedication during endotracheal
           intubations in neonates

        -  The assessment of intubating conditions and neonate tolerance show lower scores when
           intubations are performed with a premedication considered as "recommended" by the
           American Academy of Pediatrics

        -  The detailed observation of intubations in SMUR and intensive care units will enable
           initial validation of a tool assessment

        -  Too many capillary blood samples by heel sticks are carried out in neonates even in
           neonates that have normal values throughout repeated sticks.

        -  The frequency of blood gas assessments is widely variable among centers

        -  The frequency of capillary blood glycemia is widely variable among centers

      LONG-TERM EFFECTS OF PAIN AND ANALGESIC TREATMENTS

      This objective will be assessed by matching the data of the current Epippain study and
      another parallel study (Epipage 2)

      Principal hypothesis

      - After adjusting for the disease severity, neonates that undergo more painful procedures
      have a poorer neurological outcome later in infancy.

      Secondary hypothesis

        -  Higher pain scores are associated with a poorer neurological outcome later in infancy

        -  The use of central analgesics like opioid does not have a negative effect on
           neurological outcome later in infancy.

        -  The potential negative effect of numerous painful procedures during the neonatal period
           can be counteracted by the use of analgesics.

      METHODOLOGY

      This study will be carried out in neonates cared for in two settings: (i) neonatal or
      pediatric intensive care units and (ii) the medical regional pediatric transport system
      (SMUR) In the intensive care units, this study is designed as a prospective observational
      study to collect around-the-clock bedside data on all painful or stressful procedures
      performed in neonates admitted to the participating units. All 16 tertiary care centers,
      Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICUs) and Pediatric Intensive Care Units (PICUs) in the Paris
      Region will participate. Since this is an observational study no changes in the standard of
      care will be carried out. During the first 14 days of admission to the participating units,
      prospective data will be collected on all neonatal procedures causing pain, stress, or
      discomfort with the corresponding analgesic therapy. A real-time assessment of pain induced
      by each procedure will be carried out by unit staff using the DAN scale. A detailed record of
      conditions of endotracheal intubations will also be carried out.

      Demographic data, type and duration of respiratory support, sedative and analgesic drugs
      administered concomitantly or pre-procedure, and conditions related to each procedure (type,
      hour of the day, operator, parental presence) will be collected. We'll also record repeat
      procedure attempts for procedures requiring more than one attempt before successful
      completion. The use of specific pre-procedural analgesia will be noted for each procedure. If
      neonates are discharged from the units before 14 days, data collection on painful procedures
      will be stopped on the day of discharge.

      In the medical regional pediatric transport system (SMUR), neonates transported during the
      2-months study period, will have all their procedures recorded in a specific data collection
      form. Demographic data, type of respiratory support, sedative and analgesic drugs
      administered concomitantly or pre-procedure, and conditions related to each procedure (type,
      hour of the day, operator, parental presence) will be collected. We'll also record repeat
      procedure attempts for procedures requiring more than one attempt before successful
      completion. The use of specific pre-procedural analgesia will be noted for each procedure. A
      real-time assessment of pain induced by each procedure will be carried out by unit staff
      using the DAN scale. A detailed record of conditions and neonate tolerance of endotracheal
      intubations will also be carried out.
    
  