
    
      Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a clinicopathologic disorder of the esophagus triggered by
      food and/or environmental allergens and is characterized by symptoms of esophageal
      dysfunction and eosinophilia of the esophagus. Current therapy is centered on controlling
      inflammation with steroids and/or food antigen avoidance. Such treatment options have
      significant side effects and reduce quality of life, especially in children. The purpose of
      the study is to discover a way for flare-provoking foods to be reintroduced into the child's
      diet without the need for medical therapy.

      The study would involve children ages 3-17 years with biopsy-proven EoE who have a known
      flare-inducing food trigger. Following baseline blood work and esophagogastroduodenoscopy
      (EGD), the investigators will initiate oral desensitization treatment in which the child
      swallows a spray solution containing his or her specific food allergen extract in increasing
      concentrations twice daily for 4 months. The next phase of the study would involve
      reintroduction of the actual food for 4 weeks followed by repeat blood work and EGD. Success
      would be defined by having a peak eosinophil count <15 per high power field on the final
      esophageal biopsy.

      Oral food desensitization has been well-studied in patients with food allergies but never in
      patients with pre-existing EoE. In those studies, the adverse events included mild reactions,
      such as watery eyes, rhinitis, sneezing, throat pruritus, transient erythema and abdominal
      pain. These reactions usually did not require stopping desensitization and were well
      controlled by antihistamines and steroids. Benefits include children having a less restricted
      diet and eliminating the need for steroid therapy. This study should yield valuable
      information regarding the management of EoE, thereby improving the current understanding of
      its pathogenesis.
    
  