
    
      Since the first placement of a totally implantable venous access port (TIVAP) by Niederhuber
      et al in 1982 its application to provide long-term central venous access has dramatically
      increased. These systems have dramatically simplified the administration of chemotherapy and
      parenteral nutrition as well as the repetitive collection of blood samples.

      Initial retrospective studies have focused on the complications associated with different
      implantation techniques. Subsequently, major attention has been payed to the comparison of
      distinct types of TIVAPs. To date a variety of approved port systems are available. These
      devices can be either implanted using the Seldinger technique or by venous cut-down of the
      cephalic vein Despite the global use of these established implantation procedures
      prospective, randomized trials directly comparing these two approaches are still lacking. So,
      the choice, which technique to use is left to the surgeon's preference.

      The aim of this study is to directly compare the Seldinger technique versus cephalic vein cut
      down for placement of TIVAPs in respect of implantation success rate, operation time and
      perioperative morbidity.

      After an informed consent has been obtained, patients will be randomized as follows: By means
      of sealed envelopes a total of 152 patients will be allocated either to TIVAP placement using
      Seldinger technique or by venous cut down (n= 76 in each group).

      Operations will be performed in local or general anaesthesia either on an outpatient basis or
      via 24h-admission. Changes of technique due to catheter implantation failure, operation time
      and intraoperative complications will be assessed during the procedure. Postoperative
      examination will be standardized in both groups, i.e. chest radiography (to confirm catheter
      placement and to exclude pneumothorax) as well as final clinical examination at discharge or
      before patient transfer.
    
  