
    
      A significant number of patients Alzheimer's disease or related dementia diagnoses will be
      cared for in nursing homes near the end of life. Unfortunately, many of these patients
      experience unwanted and burdensome medical treatments, such as potentially avoidable
      hospitalizations, that negatively impact quality of life. Advance care planning (ACP)
      discussions with patients and family caregivers are important to explore goals in advance of
      a crisis and support informed, values-based decision-making. The ACP process helps ensure
      that preferences about treatments such as hospitalization are known, documented, and honored.
      Research indicates that ACP can reduce burdensome treatments and increase the likelihood that
      care will match documented preferences. Nursing homes are currently required by regulations
      to offer ACP to patients and families. However, there are no training requirements for
      nursing home staff and approaches to fulfilling this regulatory and ethical responsibility
      vary widely, resulting in inconsistent ACP. The "Aligning Patient Preferences - a Role
      Offering Alzheimer's patients, Caregivers, and Healthcare providers Education and Support
      (APPROACHES)" trial will test the ACP Specialist Program. Existing nursing home staff members
      will be trained to enhance care and reduce unwanted, burdensome hospitalizations through
      improved ACP procedures, standardized staff education on ACP, and systematic ACP
      facilitation. The primary trial outcome is hospital transfers (admissions and emergency
      department visits) per 1000 person-days alive. Consistent with the spirit of a pragmatic
      trial, study outcomes rely on data already collected for quality improvement, clinical or
      billing purposes. In the 18 month R21 pilot phase, the aims are to: 1) Establish the trial's
      organizational structure and processes; and 2) Pilot test the intervention in 4 nursing
      homes. In the R33 phase, a pragmatic cluster randomized clinical trial will be conducted in
      partnership with 3 nursing home corporations who operate a combined total of 206 diverse
      urban and rural facilities in 14 states. The aims of the 42 month R33 phase are to: 3)
      Evaluate the primary outcome of hospital transfers over 12 months among patients with
      dementia in intervention versus control nursing homes; and 4) Compare ACP documentation,
      measures of quality of care at the end of life, and patient and family satisfaction between
      the intervention versus control nursing homes. If successful, the ACP Specialist Program will
      be primed for rapid translation into nursing home practice to reduce unwanted, burdensome
      hospitalizations and improve quality of care for patients with dementia.
    
  