
    
      Warfarin (Coumadin) is a blood thinner used to prevent blood clot formation in patients with
      mechanical heart valves. Blood clots can block blood flow to the brain, heart, or other parts
      of the body. Mechanical heart valves increases the risk of clot so patients with a mechanical
      heart valve must take warfarin to reduce their risk of stroke and other blood clot-related
      problems.

      The degree to which warfarin 'works' varies from person to person, and so dosage is
      determined by measuring each person's response to the drug as an 'international normalized
      ratio' or INR. A patient with an INR over 1.0 has blood that takes longer to clot than
      average, and increasing INR values represent increasing time required for blood to clot.
      While an INR over 1.0 decreases clotting risk, it also increases bleeding risk. It is
      important to carefully balance these risks.

      Specific INR targets have been recommended for patients with a mechanical heart valve, but
      these recommendations differ between scientific groups and are based on low quality evidence.
      Recent studies suggest that a lower INR target range than is currently recommended can be
      used safely. A laboratory study showed that warfarin effectively prevents blood clot
      formation on mechanical heart valves as long as the INR is 1.5 or above. Two moderately-sized
      clinical studies showed that an INR target range of 1.5-2.5 resulted in less bleeding than
      the usual higher target range without increasing blood clot formation or stroke in patients
      with a newer valve model. Whether we could use a lower INR target range for patients with a
      mechanical aortic valve remains controversial.

      This study evaluates the use of a lower INR target (1.5 to 2.5) in patients with a mechanical
      heart valve in the aortic position. This study will inform physicians about whether a lower
      INR target will decrease the risk of bleeding or increase the risk of blood clot formation
      and stroke. These results have the potential to reduce the burden of bleeding in patients
      with a mechanical heart valve who require lifelong warfarin (Coumadin) treatment.
    
  