
    
      1.1 STUDY TITLE:

      Prospective, single-arm, multicenter, observational, prospective registry of use of the
      RESOLUTE-ONYX™ zotarolimus-eluting stent in percutaneous small vessel coronary intervention
      (DISCO 9 study).

      1.2 SPONSOR:

      Fundación de Investigación Sanitaria en León (FISLeón) Complejo Asistencial Universitario de
      León.

      Altos de Nava s/n 24008 León. SPAIN.

      1.3 COORDINATING RESEARCHER OF THE STUDY

      Dr. Juan Carlos Cuellas Ramón Section of Hemodynamics and Interventional Cardiology.
      Cardiology Service. Cardiology Service.

      Complejo Asistencial Universitario de León.

      1.4 OBJECTIVE:

      To evaluate the safety and efficacy of using RESOLUTE-ONYX zotarolimus-eluting stent in PCI
      in small vessels (diameter ≤2.5 mm).

      1.5 PRIMARY ENDPOINT:

      Incidence of Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) defined as a composite of: death of cardiac
      origin, target vessel-related myocardial infarction and/or new target lesion
      revascularization (percutaneous or surgical) assessed at 1 year.

      1.6 SECONDARY ENDPOINTS:

        -  Procedure success.

        -  Periprocedural myocardial infarction.

        -  Each of the separate components of the combined event: death of cardiac origin, target
           vessel-related myocardial infarction, new target lesion revascularization (percutaneous
           or surgical) assessed at 1 month, 6 months, 1 year.

        -  Acute/sub-acute thrombosis (definite/probable according to ARC definitions, Appendix 2).

        -  Bleeding unrelated to surgical revascularization. Classification of BARC bleeding .

        -  Duration of dual antiplatelet therapy.

      1.7 INCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Signed written Informed Consent.

        -  Patients over 18 years of age.

        -  Males or post-menopausal women or women under contraceptive treatment. Women of
           childbearing age must have a negative pregnancy test.

        -  Diagnosis of stable angina, silent ischemia or non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary
           syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q infarction).

        -  De novo coronary artery disease, single-vessel or multivessel, with stenosis >70%
           according to visual estimation, susceptible to treatment with intracoronary stenting.

        -  Coronary stenosis affects a vessel with diameter ≥2 mm and ≤2.5 mm.

        -  The implantation of the RESOLUTE-ONYX™ zotarolimus-eluting stent used according to the
           indications for use in routine clinical practice at the center.

      1.8 EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Acute myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation during the hospitalization in
           which the patient is included.

        -  Significant left main coronary artery stenosis.

        -  In-stent restenosis.

        -  Chronic total occlusion.

        -  Stenosis in aorto-coronary grafts of saphenous vein or mammary or radial artery.

        -  Hemorrhagic diathesis or high risk of bleeding.

        -  Treatment with oral anticoagulants.

        -  Allergy to aspirin, clopidogrel, prasugrel or ticagrelor.

        -  Known allergy to zotarolimus, nickel, chromium or cobalt.

        -  Women who are pregnant, breastfeeding or expect to become pregnant within the next year.

        -  Participation in another clinical study.

        -  Limited life expectancy (< 1 year).

        -  Planned major elective surgery.

        -  Inability to complete follow-up.

      1.9 DISEASE UNDER STUDY

      Adult patients with coronary artery disease (stable angina, silent ischemia or non-ST-segment
      elevation acute coronary syndrome) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention on vessels
      with a diameter less than or equal to 2.5 mm.

      1.10 DEVICE

      Medical device with CE marking and approved indication and commonly used in participating
      hospitals.

      1.11 TOTAL NUMBER OF PATIENTS

      Approximately 320 patients are expected to be included in the study.

      1.12 SELECTION METHOD

      Patients with coronary artery disease and stable angina, silent ischemia or non-ST-segment
      elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q infarction) who are going to
      undergo PCI and who have stenoses to be treated in vessels with a diameter equal to or less
      than 2.5mm.

      1.13 METHOD OF EVALUATION

      Major adverse cardiac events will be analyzed, which are defined as:

        -  Death of cardiac origin.

        -  Nonfatal infarction related to the target vessel. Definitions according to the third
           universal definition of myocardial infarction.

        -  New revascularization of the target lesion.

      In addition, the following will be analyzed:

        -  Stent thrombosis. Definitions according to the ARC (Academic Research Consortium).

        -  Bleeding not related to surgical revascularization. Classification of BARC bleeding

      1.14 REGISTRATION SYSTEM

      The data collection notebook (eCRD) will be in electronic format. The database with on-line
      collection will be prepared by the company in charge of managing the study (CRO). Each
      variable to be collected will have a field where the information will be entered manually or
      one of the options available for the field in question will be chosen.

      1.15 PROCEDURE

      The procedure will be performed according to each site's standard practice. The lesion will
      be treated with a RESOLUTE- ONYX™ zotarolimus-eluting stent of 2, 2.25 or 2.5 mm in diameter.
      The choice, by the operator, of stent size and length will be made according to visual
      estimation. The need for additional stents will be at the operator's discretion but they
      should always be RESOLUTE-ONYX™ in the same lesion. Direct stenting is recommended. The need
      for predilatation or postdilatation and the balloons used will be at the operator's
      discretion.

      An attempt should be made to achieve a stent to artery diameter ratio of 1.1 to 1.2 to 1.1.
      1.2 to 1. The procedure will be considered successful when the device is implanted with a
      residual stenosis of less than 20% and TIMI 3 flow in the treated vessel.

      In cases of multivessel disease, RESOLUTE-ONYX™ stents will always be used in lesions in
      vessels with diameters less than or equal to 2.5 mm, even if performed at different times. In
      the case of stenosis in vessels of 2.75 mm or more, the stents considered appropriate by the
      operator will be used, although it is recommended that if a DES is chosen, it should be
      zotarolimus-eluting.

      The access route can be radial or femoral. Antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation will be
      performed according to the clinical practice guidelines
      (http://www.escardio.org/GUIDELINES-SURVEYS/Pages/welcome.aspx) and the protocols established
      in each center. It is recommended to take into account the bleeding risk according to the
      CRUSADE scale score. Double antiplatelet therapy and its maintenance time will be performed
      according to the clinical practice guidelines and protocols of the center. Doses of
      unfractionated heparin or low molecular weight heparin during the procedure and the use of
      bivalirudin or abciximab will be at the operator's discretion. The drugs used and their
      dosage will be recorded.

      Medical treatment at discharge will be at the discretion of the corresponding cardiologist
      following clinical practice guidelines. In diabetic or prediabetic patients, fasting blood
      glucose (>8h) and glycated hemoglobin A1C will be determined during admission, according to
      hospital practice, for the management of these patients as described in the clinical practice
      guidelines.

      Clinical follow-up, once discharged, will be carried out by telephone or in person at 30
      days, 6 months and 12 months.

      1.16 STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Statistical analysis will be performed with SPSS software in the most current version
      available at the time of analysis.

      Sample size calculation

      If we estimate that the proportion of MACE per year with zotarolimus stents in small vessel
      PCI is 8-10% and the best published observed outcome, in this case with everolimus stents, is
      4%, data expected to be achieved with the stent used in this observational registry, assuming
      a risk of 5% and a ß 20% risk with a bilateral contrast and a 10% loss to follow-up, we would
      need to include 320 patients to demonstrate this difference.

      Data processing

      A study-specific data management plan will be prepared defining all aspects of data
      management and processing. This data management plan will include in detail:

        -  Validation processes.

        -  Query resolution process.

        -  Structure and fundamental parts of the study data collection application.

        -  General data considerations including validation rules and normality ranges used for the
           different parameters collected in the study.

      The data will be stored in a relational database on a MySQL server. The application will be
      duly protected by means of a SSL security certificate for the correct encryption of the
      transferred data.

      Data analysis

      Discrete variables will be described by providing frequency and percentage. For the
      description of continuous variables, the mean, median, standard deviation, minimum and
      maximum will be used. The incidence of MACE at 1 month, 6 months and 1 year, will be
      described by frequency and percentage in each of the periods indicated.

      Differences between proportions will be analyzed according to test 2. Differences between
      discrete and continuous variables according to t-Student or ANOVA (for discrete variables of
      several categories) and the comparison between two continuous variables with a regression
      model, if the distributions are normal, or the respective nonparametric tests, if they are
      not.

      Event-free survival is defined as the time elapsed from the time the patient enters the study
      until the first major cardiovascular event occurs. A Kaplan Meyer analysis will be performed
      for event-free survival presenting the number of events, censored and median event-free
      survival and its 95% confidence interval.

      A logistic regression analysis will be performed to determine those possible factors that may
      determine the occurrence of a cardiovascular event at 12 months. For the construction of the
      model, those variables considered potentially influential under clinical criteria will be
      selected.

      1.17 ADVERSE EVENTS

      For the purposes of this protocol, an adverse event is any undesirable medical episode that
      occurs in a patient. This definition is not dependent on causal relationship to the stent or
      protocol requirements.

      If it is established that an adverse event has occurred, the investigator should obtain all
      the information necessary to complete the adverse event form in the data collection form.

      Given the characteristics of this study, only those AA that, in the opinion of the
      investigator, are relevant and/or related to the therapy under study will be collected

      1.18 SERIOUS ADVERSE EVENTS (SAEs)

      All serious adverse events should be reported to the sponsor within 24 hours of the
      investigator becoming aware of the event.

      An adverse event is considered serious if:

        -  Causes death

        -  Produces a serious deterioration in the patient's health, which:

             -  Causes a life-threatening injury or illness.

             -  Causes permanent impairment of a bodily structure or function

             -  Requires hospitalization of the patient or a prolongation of hospitalization, if
                already hospitalized

             -  Requires medical or surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment of a body
                structure or function permanent impairment of a bodily structure or function

             -  In addition, any major adverse cardiac event (MACE) Requires notification within 24
                hours.

      All serious adverse events should be followed up until they are resolved (with or without
      sequelae).

      1.19 INFORMED CONSENT

      Before being admitted to the study and in accordance with current regulations, the patient
      must give written consent to participate in the study, once he/she has been informed of the
      nature, scope and possible consequences of the study in a language understandable to him/her.

      1.20 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

      In this study, the standards of good clinical practice (GCP) applicable to epidemiological
      studies will be followed to ensure that the design, conduct and communication of the data are
      reliable and that the rights and integrity of the participating subjects are protected while
      maintaining the confidentiality of their data, in accordance with EU directives, the
      Declaration of Helsinki and local regulations.

      1.21 ETHICAL COMMITTEES

      The study protocol will be submitted to the Clinical Research Ethics Committee (C.E.I.C.) of
      the Complejo Asistencial Universitario de León (CAULE) (National Coordinating Center of the
      study) for approval before initiating the study.

      The modifications of the protocol as well as those of the patient information sheet and
      informed consent will be sent to the CEIC to obtain its approval before its application.
    
  