
    
      The D&E will be performed in the usual fashion. The uterus will be sounded to the fundus.
      Once the D&E is complete, the investigator or co-investigator will check the post-enrollment
      exclusion criteria to ensure that no events during the D&E made the subject ineligible. If
      the subject remains eligible, the randomization packet will be opened.

      Immediately Post-D&E Procedure.

        1. Group 1: IUD will be placed per study protocol. The strings will be trimmed to be flush
           with the cervix. Using transabdominal sonography, the distance from the serosal surface
           of the uterine fundus to the distal tip of the IUD will be measured.

        2. Group 2: No additional procedures will be performed in the operating room.

      Post-Operative Care. The subject will then be taken to the recovery room for routine
      post-operative care.

        1. Group 1: A brief questionnaire will be administered. No additional procedures will be
           performed in the recovery room.

        2. Group 2: A brief questionnaire will be administered. The subject will be asked to start
           her previously chosen method of contraception.

        3. Subjects will be asked to call if any temperature exceeds 38°C (100.4°F). If a subject
           reports a fever (>38°C), an interim visit will be scheduled as described below.

      Day 21-42. Post-D&E Visit at 1 month (PAV 1): will be scheduled on a weekday between 8:30 am
      and 4:30 pm at the time most convenient for the subject. For Group 1, the visit may be on any
      day from day 21-42. For Group 2, the visit will be scheduled with the goal of inserting the
      LNG-IUD during the first 7 days of the menstrual cycle.

      Subjects will complete a questionnaire about symptoms since the D&E, including pain and
      bleeding and subjects' history will be collected. Subjects also will complete a set of
      visual-analog scales about pain, bleeding, and quality of life. All subjects will have a
      bimanual exam to assess uterine size, cervical motion and adnexal tenderness. Women in Group
      1 will have a speculum exam to measure and, if necessary, trim the IUD strings. The length of
      the segment trimmed will be measured and recorded. If cervicitis or vaginitis is suspected,
      further evaluation will be performed with diagnosis and treatment by CDC guidelines as
      indicated. Women in group 2 will have their IUD placed.

      Day 56-70: Post-D&E Visit at 2 months (PAV 2): may be scheduled any time within days 56-70
      but must be at least 21 days after PAV1. Subjects will complete a questionnaire and
      visual-analog scales about symptoms since the D&E, including pain, bleeding, and quality of
      life and subjects' history will be obtained. Bimanual Examination will be performed to assess
      uterine size, cervical motion and adnexal tenderness. A speculum exam will be done to measure
      the strings and trim, if necessary. The IUD-Fundal Distance will be assessed by endovaginal
      sonography.

      Day 160-200: Telephone Interview at 6 month (TI 6). A questionnaire will be administered over
      the phone. Three attempts will be made to contact the subject by telephone. A certified
      letter with the questionnaire and a postage-paid envelope will be sent if the subject is not
      contacted.
    
  