
    
      There continues to be a major gap between the global burden of persons with mental illness
      and the number of patients receiving adequate treatment. In the U.S. and other high-income
      countries, approximately 1 out of 5 persons receives minimally adequate care. In lower-middle
      income countries, it ranges from 1 out of 27 to 1 out of 100 persons. To address this gap in
      low- and middle-income countries, a key strategy has been the use of primary care health
      workers to detect and deliver of care for mental illness. The World Health Organization has
      developed the mental health Gap Action Programme to train primary care workers to detect
      mental illness and deliver evidence-supported treatment. However, research to date suggests
      that implementation strategies for mental health Gap Action Programme are inadequate as
      evidenced by low detection rates. In Nepal, fewer than half of persons with mental illness
      were correctly identified by mental health Gap Action Programme-trained primary care workers.
      A potential barrier to effective implementation of primary care detection is stigma among
      primary care workers against persons with mental illness.

      Our preliminary work suggests that reducing primary care workers' stigma against persons with
      mental illness may improve accurate detection of mental illness. A version of the mental
      health Gap Action Programme training that includes a stigma reduction component was
      developed: REducing Stigma among HealthcAre ProvidErs (RESHAPE). In RESHAPE, persons with
      mental illness (i.e., service users) are trained to share recovery stories, conduct
      myth-busting sessions, and promote mental health advocacy. A pilot cluster randomized
      controlled trial was conducted in Nepal comparing standard mental health Gap Action Programme
      training delivered psychiatrists and psychosocial specialists with a mental health Gap Action
      Programme training delivered by both specialists and service users (RESHAPE). Consistent with
      high-income country literature demonstrating that interaction with service users reduces
      stigma more effectively that only providing knowledge, stigma was lower among the RESHAPE-
      arm trained health workers. The pilot results also suggest that reducing stigma may improve
      detection of mental illness. Therefore, involvement of mental health service users in
      training primary care workers may reduce stigma, and that stigma reduction may mediate
      improved detection of mental illness. If these findings are confirmed in an appropriately
      powered cluster randomized controlled trial, this service user collaborative implementation
      strategy could make a major contribution to improving primary care detection in low- and
      middle-income countries, as well as in the U.S. A hybrid implementation-effectiveness
      (type-3) cluster randomized controlled trial will be in Nepal comparing mental health Gap
      Action Programme standard implementation with the RESHAPE implementation strategy. Our team
      of U.S. and Nepali researchers, in partnership with the Nepal Ministry of Health,
      demonstrated the feasibility of the cluster randomized controlled trial design and identified
      strategies for cost effectiveness modeling. Target conditions will be depressive disorder,
      psychotic disorders, and alcohol use disorder.

      Aim 1 - To evaluate the impact of the RESHAPE service user engagement on stigma among primary
      care workers. Hypothesis: Primary care workers in the RESHAPE arm will have less stigma
      toward persons with mental illness (measured with the Social Distance Scale) 3 months after
      training compared with primary care workers in the standard training.

      Aim 2 - To evaluate the impact of the RESHAPE training on accuracy (sensitivity and
      specificity) of detection, as measured by the proportion of true positive and true negative
      diagnoses among patients presenting to primary care facilities, as confirmed by a
      psychiatrist's structured clinical interview; and to evaluate stigma as a mediator of
      differences in accuracy. Hypothesis: Primary care workers in the RESHAPE arm will have
      greater accuracy of detecting mental illness. Secondary analyses: implementation arm
      differences in patient quality adjusted life years and cost utility will be evaluated.
    
  