
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of sirolimus in patients with HIV-related Kaposi's
           sarcoma (KS) receiving protease inhibitor (PI)-based or nonnucleoside reverse
           transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART)
           regimens.

        -  Estimate the dose(s) of this drug required to achieve target trough sirolimus plasma
           concentrations of 5-10 ng/mL in patients receiving PI-based or NNRTI-based HAART
           regimens.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the clinical response of KS in patients treated with this sirolimus.

        -  Determine the effects of this drug on mTOR-dependent signaling in peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMC) and KS tumor biopsies.

        -  Determine the serum cytokine profiles pre- and post-treatment with this drug.

        -  Determine the effects of this drug on HIV and KS-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) viral
           loads.

        -  Determine the effects of this drug on T-lymphocyte subsets.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

        -  Group 1 (patients receiving PI-based HAART regimen with ritonavir): Patients receive
           oral sirolimus 0.0015 mg/kg/day once daily on days 1-28 for 6 courses as long as KS is
           stable or the disease is continuing to respond to treatment. Patients may receive 6
           additional courses provided they meet criteria for response in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with no more than stable disease after 6
           courses are discontinued from treatment.

        -  Group 2 (patients receiving PI-based HAART regimen without ritonavir): Patients receive
           oral sirolimus 0.003 mg/kg/day as in group 1.

        -  Group 3 (patients receiving NNRTI-based HAART regimen): Patients receive oral sirolimus
           0.05 mg/kg/day as in group 1.

      Blood samples are collected periodically and analyzed for sirolimus levels via LCMSMS.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  