
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of aminopterin in patients with
      refractory leukemia and minimal previous exposure to antifolate agents. II. Determine the
      antileukemic activity of aminopterin in adults and children with acute myelogenous and acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia for whom conventional therapy has failed. III. Confirm that
      aminopterin can be administered for four consecutive weeks when followed with minimal
      leucovorin calcium rescue and determine the minimal amount of leucovorin calcium required for
      each patient. IV. Confirm bioavailability data on oral aminopterin by performing limited
      sampling pharmacokinetics. V. Correlate blast uptake of aminopterin in vitro with clinical
      response.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label study. Patients are stratified according to age and type of
      leukemia: Stratum I: Under 20 years old with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in second or
      greater relapse Stratum II: Greater than 20 years old with ALL in first or greater relapse
      Stratum III: Patients of any age with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) in first or greater
      relapse Patients receive aminopterin every 12 hours for 2 doses weekly for 4 weeks.
      Aminopterin is administered intravenously over 20 minutes for the first, second, and fourth
      doses, and orally for the third dose. The fifth and all subsequent doses are administered
      orally if bioavailability is acceptable. Patients receive oral leucovorin calcium every 12
      hours for 2 doses beginning 24 hours after the last dose of aminopterin each week. If
      toxicity is limited for 2 consecutive weeks, the dose of leucovorin calcium is decreased to 1
      dose administered 24 hours after the last dose of aminopterin each week. If this schedule is
      tolerated for 2 consecutive weeks, then leucovorin calcium is discontinued. Patients continue
      therapy for up to 15 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue a maximum of 25 patients per stratum, for a total
      of 75 patients, within 3 years.
    
  