
    
      Central venous catheters (CVCs) are often required for the care of patient admitted to the
      intensive care unit (ICU), and are now indispensable in modern-day medical practice. In the
      United States, it is estimated that 15 million CVC days occur each year in the ICU , and that
      approximately 80,000 CVC-associated bloodstream infection (BSIs) occur each year [2]. Data
      from the NNIS system indicate that approximately 40% of the BSIs are associated with a CVC in
      the ICU. This definition, however, include CVC-related BSIs (CRBSIs) and primary BSIs. In
      other multicenter surveys, primary BSIs are the leading cause of BSIs (30-35%), followed by
      CRBSIs (20-30%), and BSIs originating from pneumonia (20%) .

      The attributable mortality of CRBSIs remains debated. It ranges from no increase in mortality
      in some studies, up to an attributable mortality of 35% in others. In studies adjusting for
      severity of illness, attributable mortality ranged between 0 and 11.5%. The excess ICU length
      of stay is estimated 9-12 days.

      The cost of CRBSIs is therefore substantial, and efforts are required to reduce the incidence
      of theses infections. Several publications suggested that multiple strategies should be
      implemented concomitantly. Besides the critical importance of staff education, technology
      brings new materials that could decrease the risk for CRBSI. Several studies have
      demonstrated that antimicrobial- or antiseptic-impregnated CVCs can decrease CRBSIs in the
      ICU setting. Furthermore, cost-benefit analysis have suggested that the use of impregnated
      CVCs was beneficial

      The recent CDC Guidelines for the prevention of intravascular catheter-related infections
      recommend the use of antimicrobial- or antiseptic-impregnated CVCs in patients whose CVC is
      expected to remain in place for more than 5 days, and in ICUs where CRBSI rate remains above
      the benchmark rates, despite implementing a comprehensive strategy. This restricted
      recommended use is explained by the concern for emergence of resistance, the risk of adverse
      effects and the costs of these materials.

      CRBSI rates in France could be lower than those observed in the United States. Data from two
      surveillance networks indicate that the rates of CRBSI range between 1 and 2 CRBSI per 1000
      CVC days . Given these low rates, it is not clear that antimicrobial- or
      antiseptic-impregnated CVCs would be cost-effective.

      Since most organisms responsible for CRBSI originate from insertion site in short-term CVC,
      there was a rationale to try to decrease bacterial colonization at cutaneous insertion site.
      Among the other new materials under development, a chlorhexidine-impregnated sponge (Biopatch
      TM), to be placed over the site of catheter insertion, has been proposed. In a prospective,
      controlled, bicenter, randomized, non blinded study, dressing changes every other day
      (control group) was compared to dressing changes every 7 days with Biopatch (Biopatch group)
      (Maki and al., ICAAC 2000). 1,401 lines (either CVCs, peripheral arterial catheters or
      pulmonary artery catheters) were included in 589 patients. Both groups of patients were
      comparable. Using proportional hazard models, both CVC colonization and CRBSI were
      significantly reduced in the Biopatch group, from 29% to 16% (HR, 0.62) for catheter
      colonization, and from 3.3% to 1.2% (HR, 0.38) for CRBSI.

      This study demonstrated a significant reduction of CRBSI using Biopatch. Given the results
      presented at the ICAAC sessions, there is some concern, however, about the validity of the
      protective effect of the Biopatch.

      Firstly, the intervention group associated Biopatch and the extension of the time between
      dressing changes, from 2 to 7 days. Preliminary data from cancer patients suggest that time
      between dressing changes could be extended. In a randomized study, Benhamou et al have
      recently compared a 4-day to a 15-day catheter-dressing change frequency in children
      undergoing chemotherapy. They have shown that skin cultures (27 vs 23%) and bloodstream
      infections (11 vs 13%) rates are not different between the 4-day and the 15-day groups. It is
      therefore unclear that the reduction of CRBSI observed in the Biopatch group was only due to
      the Biopatch.

      Secondly, the control group in the Maki's study did not use a "placebo", i.e. a sponge not
      impregnated with chlorhexidine. The study was therefore not blinded for the ICU staff. It is
      strongly recommended to examine the catheter insertion site daily for local inflammatory
      signs. Biopatch impede to monitor the insertion site, with a potential for underestimation of
      local infections signs in these patients. It is possible that daily examination of the
      insertion site in the control group would conduct to remove the CVC more frequently in these
      patients, with a potential for higher rate of colonization. In addition, if a study is not
      blinded, it is useful for the validity of the results that a group of investigators, blinded
      to the randomized group, review the medical chart to classify catheter infection.

      Thirdly, the rate if CRBSI was rather high in the control group (4.45 per 1000 line days). It
      is not certain that the benefit of Biopatch will be the same in ICUs with lower rates of
      CRBSI.

      The aim of this study is therefore to evaluate the impact of Biopatch, and the impact of
      dressing changes (every 3 or 7 days) on the reduction of CVC infection
    
  