
    
      1. Design and Methods

      1.1 Study design: This will be a randomised, controlled study in which the investigators will
      prospectively provide intervention in children under the age of 5 years admitted to the Dhaka
      Hospital of ICDDR,B and fulfilling the inclusion criteria (January 2011 and December 2012),
      subject to the obtaining written informed consent from respective parents/care-givers.

      1.3 Intervention and comparators

      Children under five admitted to the SCU of ICDDR, B with pneumonia and hypoxaemia will be
      studied. This study will evaluate the proportions of deaths in children under five in three
      treatment arms.

      The investigators will use sealed envelopes to randomly assign the children to one of three
      treatment arms. In first arm, children will receive bubble CPAP; in 2nd arm, children will
      receive standard O2 supplementation by nasal cannula at 0.5 - 2 l/min; in the 3rd arm,
      children will receive humidified high flow air/O2 mix at 2 l/kg/min through nasal cannula.
      The three arms will be compared for rates of treatment failure (see below).

      During the study period, children (whether under ventilation or not) in all three study arms
      will also receive standardized hospital management for pneumonia and malnutrition.

      "Treatment failure" will be standardized, based on clinical and monitoring data.

      During the study period any child from either study group who develops the features of
      "treatment failure" (any two of three criteria in the definition below) will be managed
      according to best practice in the clinical context. "Treatment failure" is the criteria to be
      followed to decide intubation and mechanical ventilation.

      Laboratory investigations:

      Routine: Blood for total and differential count of white blood cell (WBC), haematocrit,
      culture and sensitivity, serum electrolytes and creatinine, stool culture and urine culture,
      chest radiograph (CXR).

      Protocol-specific: Arterial blood gas analysis, tuberculin skin test (TST), gastric lavage
      for acid fast bacilli (AFB) and culture for MTB.

      1.4 Measurements

      All children will be monitored for by pulse oximetry for arterial O2 saturation, respiratory
      rate, lower chest wall in-drawing, intercostal retraction, head nodding, cyanosis, tracheal
      tug, heart failure (defined by the presence of tachypnea, tachycardia, gallop rhythm,
      hepatomegaly, pedal oedema, basal crackles). Arterial or capillary blood gas analyses will be
      done for children failing to maintain saturation (>90% with allocated treatment), or if there
      is concern about hypercarbia or acidosis.

      1.5 Criteria for primary outcome

      .

      The primary outcome, by intention to treat analysis will be reached if a child:

      A. Has any two or more of the following three criteria of treatment failure (after at least
      one hour of intervention)

        1. Severe hypoxaemia (SpO2<85%) after being on one of the study arm treatments for > 1 hour

        2. Clinical signs of exhaustion, including active contraction of respiratory muscles with
           paradoxical abdominal and thoracic motion, gasping, severe chest wall in-drawing

        3. PCO2 > 80mm Hg and pH < 7.2 on capillary blood gas OR B. Receives intubation and/or
           mechanical ventilation OR C. Dies while in hospital or within 30 days of discharge OR D.
           Absconds * while still on the allocated respiratory support.

             -  If they abscond the day before they are due to be discharged and they are off
                oxygen and are well, then that's just a mother's choice to go home early, such
                children should not be put in the category of equivalent of treatment failure.

                2 Sample Size Calculation and Outcome (Primary and Secondary) Variable(s)
                Background, recent data (1st January until 31st October, 2010) from the ICU of the
                Dhaka Hospital of the ICDDR,B revealed that the approximate treatment failure from
                the management of hypoxaemia in children with pneumonia and severe malnutrition was
                30%. The investigators assumed that the new intervention would result in a
                reduction of treatment failure from 30% to 18% (i.e. a 40% absolute reduction).
                Thus to detect a difference of 40% in the death from hypoxaemia with 90% power and
                type 1 error 0.03 (the investigators are intending to do a mid-term analysis and
                for that the investigators are considering type 1 error 0.03 instead of 0.05 ), the
                sample would be 295 children in each group {sample size = [(p1×q1 + p2q2)/
                (p2-p1)2]×factor for α, β; where is the p1 is the percentage of the "treatment
                failure", q1 is the 1- p1, p2 is the percentage of the expected "treatment failure"
                from intervention; q2 is the 1- p2, α is the type 1 error and β is the type 2 error
                and factor for α, β with 90% power is 11.9}. Considering 10% drop out after
                admission in hospital, the total sample size is at least 325 in each group. So, our
                total sample size will be 325×3=975. The patients will be enrolled over a period of
                two years.
    
  