
    
      BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies have shown that a number of conditions increase the risk
      of stroke and other vascular diseases and there is compelling evidence from large randomized
      trials that treatment of these risk factors, especially hypertension and high cholesterol,
      can significantly lower future cardiovascular risk. Survivors of TIA or stroke are at high
      risk for recurrent stroke, MI, or death (22% at one year) and aggressive treatment of
      vascular risk factors can reduce the risk of recurrence by over 25%. However, vascular risk
      factors, especially hypertension and high cholesterol, are not managed optimally in patients
      after a TIA or stroke, even in those patients seen in specialized Stroke Prevention Clinics
      (SPCs). This gap between the evidence for secondary prevention of stroke and the clinical
      reality leads to sub-optimal patient outcomes. There is limited data on interventions proven
      to improve outcomes in patients with stroke or TIA.

      To improve the quality of care for any condition or patient population, one needs to address
      structure, process, and outcomes. In this study, we will be creating and testing a new
      structure for delivery of stroke prevention services - we anticipate this new structure will
      improve processes of care which in turn should lead to improved outcomes.

      Hypothesis:

      Compared with usual care, we hypothesize that a pharmacist case manager intervention will
      improve blood pressure and serum lipid levels (by employing standardized treatment protocols
      to guideline-recommended targets), the management of other risk factors,enhance medication
      adherence, and increase health-related quality of life.

      Design:

      A prospective, randomized, controlled open-label with blinded ascertainment of outcomes
      (PROBE) trial. Patients with a recent stroke or TIA evaluated in any of the 3 stroke
      prevention clinics (SPC) in Edmonton, Canada,will be randomized to usual care or the
      "pharmacist case manager intervention".

      Usual care patients will will receive the same educational materials about stroke risk
      factors and medication adherence as the "intervention" patients, will be seen monthly by a
      study nurse, will have the same number of BP measurements as "intervention" patients, and
      will have a fax sent to their family physician after each study visit reporting their BP.

      Over and above usual care, the intervention group will include intensive pharmacist
      case-management over 6 months consisting of the following:

        -  monthly follow-up visits with focus on vascular protection; these clinic visits will be
           run parallel to, but independent of, any follow-up at the SPC and will include provision
           to each patient of their individual cardiovascular disease risk profile using the the CV
           Health Manager software.

        -  Initiation, monitoring and titration of medications related to blood pressure and
           dyslipidemia, using Canadian national guideline-recommended treatment targets.

        -  Medication adherence management on an ongoing basis, including access to Dosettes®,
           blister packs, and reminder tools as deemed necessary.

        -  Independent capacity to refer to allied health services (including dieticians and weight
           loss services, diabetes education centres, and smoking cessation counselors).

        -  Regular feedback to the primary care physician and the stroke specialist of record,
           regarding all stroke prevention related activities.
    
  