
    
      Background: Americans with serious mental illnesses (SMI) die an average of 25 years earlier
      due to modifiable risk factors, medical conditions, and lack of access to quality,
      coordinated care. Strategies for addressing this disparity have amassed evidence. What
      remains to be determined is who will choose to use these evidence-based practices (EBPs) when
      implemented in routine practice, in what combinations, with what short term effects and
      health outcomes, and what else might be needed for persons for whom these strategies are not
      effective.

      Objectives: The proposed research builds upon the investigators receipt of a SAMHSA grant
      that established an integrated Wellness Center (WC) within the local mental health center
      that provides four EBPs: a) on-site primary care; b) screening of clients for modifiable risk
      factors and medical conditions; c) care coordination; and d) peer health navigation. Through
      PCORI, the investigators propose to add a comparative effectiveness dimension and a focus on
      patient-centered outcomes. The investigators specific aims are:

        1. to assess patient preferences and use of services, short-term effects, and longer term
           outcomes associated with various practices for the population and subpopulations;

        2. to identify barriers to and facilitators of access, service use, and improvements in
           traditional and patient-centered health outcomes; and

        3. to develop and pilot a peer-led, community-based intervention in enhancing access and
           choice, and improving patient-centered health outcomes, among 40 treatment-refractory
           clients of the WC.

      The investigators long-term objectives are to: a) identify which practices work for which
      persons with SMI in improving health and patient-centered outcomes, and b) provide
      stakeholders around the nation with the knowledge and tools to replicate this model
      efficiently, effectively, and broadly.

      Methods: The sample includes 360 poor, urban adults with SMI who are at risk for or have
      co-morbid medical conditions. Using participatory and mixed methodology, the investigators
      will assess Specific Aims 1 & 2 by collecting health and patient-centered outcome data on
      patients entering the WC and at 6 month follow-up intervals and analyze the data using Linear
      Mixed Models and logistic regression. Outcome data from the pilot intervention (Aim 3; N=40)
      will be compared to outcomes of a propensity matched sample of WC patients. Qualitative data
      will be collected each year through focus groups (N=48 agency stakeholders, year 1) and
      individual interviews (50 WC patients, years 2 & 3).

      Projected Patient Outcomes: Outcomes include both traditional medical/clinical outcomes
      (e.g., blood pressure, BMI, fasting plasma glucose, HbGA1c, cholesterol, triglycerides,
      alcohol and drug use, psychiatric symptoms) and a range of patient-centered outcomes to be
      identified by key stakeholders in the initial phase of research. The investigators previous
      research suggests that these outcomes are likely to include self-efficacy, quality of life,
      employment, citizenship, and social connectedness.
    
  