
    
      The sonographically measured head station, 'ITU station', was measured along the longest
      visible axis of the fetal head, between the intersections with the infra pubic line and the
      deepest bony part of the fetal head, subtracting 3 cm for the level of the ischial spines.
      This parameter is useful to determine the level of engagement of the fetal head and its
      progression throughout labor.

      The labor is divided into a latent phase (stage 0), an active phase (stage 1 and 2), and a
      third stage defined as the time period between the delivery of the baby and the delivery of
      the placenta. According to the classic definition, the onset of labor is when regular
      contractions have been established. The latent phase is characterized by painful contractions
      and cervical dilatation up to 5 cm in accordance with WHO.

      The fetal descent in the birth canal is assessed by vaginal digital examinations and related
      to the ischial spine. ACOG has defined five stations above (-5) and below (+5) the level of
      the spine (0 stations). Minus five corresponds to the pelvic inlet, zero to the level of the
      ischial spine, and plus four corresponds to the pelvic floor.

      Traditionally, labor progression has been assessed by digital examination of cervical
      dilatation and fetal descent. Recent studies, however, dispute these findings and found the
      clinical examination of fetal descent and position to be unprecise and subjective with a high
      interobserver variation. Dupuis et al. made an important contribution to this debate when he
      rigorously assessed the accuracy of station diagnosis with digital examinations. . This study
      provides evidence that digital assessment of fetal head station is unreliable.

      However, a study from 2019 found a good correlation between clinical assessments and
      ultrasound examinations when only one experienced clinician and one trained ultrasound
      examiner compared their results.

      In this study, we aim to evaluate the accuracy of and consistency between vaginal examination
      and transperineal ultrasound head station measurements.
    
  