
    
      The TVT Registry was designed to support a national surveillance system to assess the
      characteristics, treatments, and outcomes of patients receiving transcutaneous valve
      therapies. Patient-level data are submitted by participating hospitals to The Society of
      Thoracic Surgeons (STS) and American College of Cardiology Foundation's (ACCF) joint TVT
      Registry. The purposes of the TVT Registry include: (i) collecting pertinent and standardized
      data elements from participating hospitals, health care providers and others that measure and
      assess the quality of care for patients receiving TVT; (ii) providing confidential periodic
      reports to participating hospitals, health care providers and others, to evaluate and improve
      the quality of care in these areas; and (iii) permitting and fostering appropriate research
      based upon the data collected by means of the TVT Registry.

      The secondary aim of the TVT Registry is to serve as a scalable data infrastructure for post
      market studies.

      Background and Significance

      Transcatheter valve therapies are now emerging into clinical practice from the research phase
      in the United States. An Expert Consensus Document on Transcatheter Valve Therapy has
      outlined the initial technology, targeted patient population, and the multidisciplinary heart
      team and specialized facilities needed. The document also proposes the establishment of a
      national registry of patients with valvular heart disease that can collect and analyze data
      as these new valve treatment options become available. Surveillance of device performance,
      monitoring of long-term outcomes, and performance of comparative effectiveness research are
      some of the proposed uses of the registry.

      Transcatheter valve therapies have emerged because of unmet patient needs. Furthermore, TVT
      has developed at a time when degenerative heart valve diseases of both the mitral and aortic
      valves are increasing in frequency as the population ages.

      For these patients there are unique issues such as the prioritization of the health related
      quality of life versus the quantity of life, the desire to preserve independence and avoid
      becoming a burden to families, and the need to clearly understand what about their current
      condition is reversible versus irreversible and linked to other conditions and aging. These
      issues become further highlighted when considering the considerable costs and other treatment
      burdens of the TVT technologies versus the disabling symptoms and recurrent hospitalizations
      caused by untreated severe valvular heart disease.
    
  