
    
      Although research has begun to examine sleep quality within the traumatic brain injury (TBI)
      population, most of the studies found in the research literature utilize subjective,
      self-report measures that can be problematic in terms of response accuracy when used with
      populations that have known cognitive deficits (Baños, LaGory, Sawrie, Faught, Knowlton,
      Prasad, Kuzniecky and Martin, 2004). Because TBI often results in a diminished capacity for
      self-reflective awareness, obtaining reliable sleep-related information is difficult to do
      through surveys alone (Fleming, Strong, Ashton, 1996; Vanderploeg, Belanger, Duchnick, and
      Curtiss, 2007).

      A number of studies have attempted to objectify the measurement of sleep quality in TBI
      rehabilitation by having nursing staff keep an overnight log to document whether the patient
      was asleep or awake at hourly intervals (Burke, Shah, Schneider, Ahangar, & Al Aladai, 2004;
      Worthington & Melia, 2006). Because this results in only one single observation point per
      hour, it misses the nuances of the sleep/wake cycle obtained through more continuous
      measurement throughout the night and is still somewhat subjective and dependent on the
      observer's judgment.

      Polysomnography, the electrophysiological measurement of sleep, is widely used in the
      clinical setting to diagnose sleep disorders. Using this more objective measure, Masel and
      colleagues (2001) found a high prevalence of posttraumatic hypersomnia, sleep apnea-hypopnea
      syndrome and periodic limb movement disorder that was not identified through self-report
      measures (Masel, Scheibel, Kimbark, & Kuna, 2001). This illustrates the limitations of
      self-report questionnaires and highlights the need for more objective measures. However, the
      high cost and inconvenience of polysomnography, requiring multiple electrodes attached to the
      face, head, and other parts of the body, make it less practical for research studies.

      These limitations of subjective self-report measures and the cost and inconvenience of
      polysomnography suggest the need for alternative methods of measurement. With the use of an
      actigraph, a small, highly sensitive, accelerometer (motion detector) worn on the wrist over
      a period of days, a number of sleep-related variables can be derived through the analysis of
      motion and rest patterns using a computer algorithm (Coffield & Tryon, 2004). Variables such
      as sleep latency, total time asleep, and number of nocturnal awakenings derived through
      actigraphy are comparable to those obtained via polysomnography, and recent research studies
      demonstrate the validity of actigraph-based sleep/wake estimates among individuals with
      acquired brain injury (Muller, Czymmek, Thone-Otto, & Von Cramon, 2006; Tweedy & Trost, 2005;
      Schuiling, Rinkel, Walchenbach, & de Weerd, 2005). Thus, actigraphy represents a means of
      measurement that will enable the collection of objective data in the comfort of the sleeper's
      usual environment in a manner that is less invasive and more cost-effective than
      polysomnography, and more reliable than self-report measures alone.

      The most widely researched treatments for sleep disturbance are problematic for individuals
      with TBI due to their effects on cognition and risk for dependence. With a high prevalence of
      sleep/wake disorders found among individuals with TBI, Rozerem is a promising treatment
      option to improve sleep quality that is less likely to exacerbate cognitive sequelae of TBI
      and less likely to result in dependence.
    
  