
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Epidemiologic studies have demonstrated a greater prevalence of essential hypertension in
      Blacks with a disproportionately greater hypertension related mortality in Blacks. Similar
      vascular consequences occur with diabetes and obesity. These three diseases not only share a
      common outcome, but also overlap in occurrence with Blacks having greater prevalence rates in
      the three disorders. Insulin resistance has been documented in all three disorders and may
      contribute significantly to the vascular disease.

      This project originated in response to a Request for Applications on Biobehavioral Factors
      Affecting Hypertension in Blacks issued in December 1982. The original project was supported
      by the RFA for three years. The first three years of the study focussed on the hypothesis
      that sodium loading would augment cardiovascular responses of psychogenic stress in Blacks at
      high risk for hypertension. The first phase of the study examined and compared 80 Blacks and
      whites, 18-22 years of age. The second phase involved an additional 40 Black borderline
      hypertensives who were exposed to the same set of studies designed to examine possible
      interactions between neurogenic and renal controlled volume mechanisms in essential
      hypertension.

      The project was renewed as a regular research grant in 1986 and was designed to investigated
      biobehavioral factors in blood pressure control. In 1988, the study on insulin resistance was
      funded and continued through 1990.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Subjects in this project consisted of Blacks who were enrolled in the Collaborative Perinatal
      Project (CPP) at birth and who had been studied longitudinally in adolescence and young
      adulthood. Each subject brought to the study data on blood pressure, growth, and maturation
      from birth through late adolescence.

      Peripheral vascular structure was studied using measures of forearm blood flow and forearm
      vascular resistance. Measurements of peripheral vascular structure were compared to data on
      sodium sensitivity and potassium sensitivity in the population. Insulin resistance was
      studied using the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique. Variations in the activity of
      the sodium-potassium pump and sodium-hydrogen exchange in red cells were correlated with
      insulin resistance to determine if hyperinsulinemia alters cation transport rates.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  