
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To obtain preliminary data regarding the safety and tolerability of decitabine and
      venetoclax in combination with nivolumab when given for frontline therapy in TP53 mutated
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients.

      II. To obtain preliminary data regarding the rate of complete remission (CR), complete
      remission with incomplete hematological recovery (CRh), and complete remission with
      incomplete count recovery (CRi) in TP53 mutated AML who are treated with decitabine and
      venetoclax in combination with nivolumab for frontline therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To obtain preliminary data regarding
      progression free survival (PFS) for TP53 mutated AML patients receiving combination therapy.

      III. To obtain preliminary data regarding the overall survival (OS) for TP53 mutated patients
      receiving this combination therapy.

      IV. To obtain preliminary data regarding minimal residual disease through monitoring TP53
      mutational burden prior and throughout treatment.

      V. To obtain preliminary data regarding the frequency of graft versus host disease (GVHD)
      including veno-occlusive disease (VOD) in patients who subsequently receive allogeneic
      transplantation after this combination therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 15 of cycle 1
      and days 1 and 15 of subsequent cycles, decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1-10 of
      induction cycle 1 (and cycles 2 and 3 if needed), and venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD)
      on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients who achieve a CR or CRi receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1
      and 15, decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5, and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.
    
  