
    
      HCV infection disproportionately affects homeless and drug-using populations and represents a
      critical focus for effective HCV prevention at the individual and community level. Homeless
      persons have a 26 fold increase in HCV prevalence compared to the general population;
      particularly with injection drug use (IDU). In fact, 50-80% of HCV infection is among persons
      who inject drugs (PWID). Among homeless populations, risk factors for HCV include older age,
      IDU, needle sharing, previous incarceration, veteran status, fair-or-poor health status, and
      sharing toothbrushes. Among the 48% of HCV-infected homeless persons who did not inject
      drugs, correlates of HCV infection include older age, less education, use of drugs, and
      history of multiple tattoos. While HCV treatment for PWID can reduce HCV prevalence, despite
      recommended guidelines, only 1-6% of drug-using HCV-infected persons have received treatment.
      Among the homeless adults, factors associated with low HCV treatment completion include
      untreated mental illness, current substance use, unstable housing, and limited access to
      care. Although the new Direct Acting Agent (DAA) Mavyret™ is costly, cure rates have risen to
      above 98%. Yet limited research has been conducted on DAA agents among drug-using homeless
      adults. Extending HCV treatment beyond the traditional tertiary care model and involving peer
      supports can facilitate access to HCV treatment. The scientific premise of this proposal is
      that homeless HCV positive adults often do not obtain/complete HCV treatment due to
      significant psychosocial barriers. Thus, developing and testing a strategy that combines
      treatment with psychosocial support would be expected to change this outcome. To our
      knowledge, no randomized controlled trial (RCT) has yet assessed the efficacy of a
      comprehensive community-based model that incorporates HCV and substance use treatment to
      address HCV among homeless persons, despite the critical need that exists. The proposed
      treatment concept - Community Health Worker/Registered Nurse (CHW-RN) - is innovative and
      helps HCV treatment reach beyond the clinic walls, directly into the community where the
      homeless reside, reducing barriers to treatment. Guided by our community-based model, the
      CHW/RN intervention will focus on improving social support, coping skills, problem-solving,
      self-management, physical and mental health, substance use, and stable housing.

      The proposed study will contribute to our knowledge about culturally-sensitive strategies for
      HCV treatment among homeless adults, many of whom use drugs and alcohol. It will address a
      substantial health disparity in a historically underserved population, with broader
      implications for public health. While Mavyret™ has not been assessed among homeless adults
      using RCTs, homeless persons who are active drug users, in particular, have had challenges
      with uptake and compliance of other HCV treatments. To our knowledge, no study has evaluated
      the effect of a CHW/RN HCV treatment program, delivered in the community where the
      participant lives, compared to a cbSOC model to assess HCV treatment completion and Sustained
      Virologic Response (SVR) after 12 weeks of treatment completion. For further innovation, we
      will now evaluate the extent to which the pathways posed by the CHSCP and similar models,
      including the BMVP affect health outcomes by adding to Aim 3 analyses an examination of
      mechanisms of therapeutic change by the mediating effects of improved psychosocial and
      structural factors (e.g. housing, social support, etc ) on improved rates of SVR12. Improved
      understanding of the mechanisms of effect will advance the understanding of these factors and
      their role in determining health outcomes. The proposed study will pretest an RN-guided,
      CHW-delivered, program wherein a CHW/RN program will be developed and pretested with the
      community through focus group methodology. The intervention will focus on improving the
      completion of HCV treatment, reducing drug and alcohol use, reducing mental illness, and
      improving housing stability. The findings of this study can lay the groundwork for a
      subsequent larger trial to test the efficacy of the developed CHW/RN program more broadly and
      may inform health policy that could encourage enrollment of this high-risk group into HCV
      treatment. Results may also inform future cost-effective, community-based interventions that
      could be scaled-up and disseminated more broadly. Employing a treatment-as-prevention focus
      of HCV transmission in the community is urgent since HCV among the homeless represents a
      reservoir for HCV infection in the general population.
    
  