
    
      Asthma is not cured, and only well-balanced treatment can control the course and severity of
      the disease. Most clinical symptoms rise from aberrant chronic airway inflammation mostly
      eosinophilic. Eosinophils are terminally differentiated granulocytes that actively contribute
      to innate and adaptive inflammatory cascades through the production and release of diverse
      chemokines, cytokines, lipid mediators and other growth factors. IL-5 plays a fundamental
      role in eosinophils maturation in the bone marrow, their recruitment, and activation at sites
      of inflammation.

      Historically eosinophils were described as a critical player in host defense, including
      parasites, viruses, fungi, or bacteria, giving them a destructive inflammatory cell label.
      However, it became clear that steady-state eosinophils can contribute to the immunoregulation
      and tissue homeostasis as well. Studies revealed that there are distinct eosinophils subtypes
      - immunoregulatory lung-resident eosinophils (rEOS) and inflammatory eosinophils (iEOS),
      involved in immune responses. Distinct eosinophils subtypes with different functions
      determines the separate treatment. There are still only a few studies describing distinct
      eosinophils subtypes in the lungs or blood. It is the beginning of a new promising research
      area for better individualized eosinophilic asthma treatment, moreover, other eosinophilic
      diseases as well.

      Peripheral blood eosinophils studies are sufficiently relevant to the tissue eosinophils
      studies, as blood eosinophils are released into the bloodstream in a fully maturated form.
      Moreover, peripheral blood study could give additional information with possibilities to
      prevent eosinophils effects in the early stage, before migration to the airways. Furthermore,
      the existence of tissue-resident eosinophils in peripheral blood is confirmed and primary
      research for eosinophil subtypes surface markers was made according to the data of human
      blood eosinophils.

      Data about differently differently expressed microRNA (miRNA) profiles in eosinophils in
      asthma suggests, that eosinophils subtypes can be distinct in non-coding RNA (ncRNA) -
      microRNA (miRNA), piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA) and long non-coding RNA (IncRNA) profiles that
      could describe their role in asthma pathogenesis and act as biomarkers to discern asthma
      phenotypes.

      Researchers have plan to expand research by analyzing non-coding RNA (ncRNA) - miRNA, piRNA
      and lncRNA profiles of rEOS and iEOS as well as selected ncRNA signatures in blood plasma
      estimating their diagnostic value. Moreover, additional investigation of ncRNA in
      eosinophil-derived exosomes will provide important data about possible effect of eosinophils
      subtypes on airway remodeling via secreted ncRNA. ncRNAs are key regulators for gene
      transcription. However, there is evidence about their dysregulation in eosinophils during
      asthma. It will give important information about molecular signaling pathways that regulate
      the activity of distinct eosinophil subtypes during health and asthma, and provide the
      essential information about possible new therapeutic targets for their control. Additionally
      researchers will investigate the biological differences between rEOS and iEOS, including
      surface integrins and eosinophilopoietins receptors expression, adhesive properties,
      survivability, synthesized reactive oxygen species and apoptosis, as well as their effect on
      pulmonary structural cells physiological activity as proliferation, apoptosis, migration,
      contractility and proteins production, and will relate it with molecular signaling pathways,
      regulated by distinct expressed ncRNAs. ncRNAs can be stored in eosinophils exosomes and
      expressed to the surrounding environment. Information about ncRNAs in eosinophils-derived
      exosomes will demonstrate their function by affecting the other cells, especially after
      migration to airways. Moreover, ncRNAs are stable and resistant to blood RNases and
      differentially expressed in several pathologies. Researchers suppose that altered blood
      levels of ncRNAs could act as a possible new diagnostic biomarker in asthma.
    
  