
    
      The study is a randomized, 7-arm, treatment-controlled, within-subjects, 3-hour postprandial
      crossover study to evaluate the satiety and metabolic effects of pasta formulations in 2
      portion sizes on lunch intake in healthy weight women. The study design will test 3 varying
      pasta formulations (2 experimental and 1 standard control) at 2 fixed portion sizes in a
      preload plus test lunch setting in relatively healthy unrestrained women.

      This study will require one initial screening visit (approximately 1 hour) and seven study
      visits each lasting approximately 5 hours. All visits should be completed within 2 months. We
      are looking for healthy, non-smoking women older than 18 years of age with no significant
      medical history.

      The initial screening visit will determine subject eligibility through height, weight and
      waist circumference measurements, vital signs, blood glucose test (finger prick) and
      completion of a series of surveys relating to eating, health, exercise and mood.

      If willing and eligible to participate, subjects will have seven study visits. The pasta meal
      will be provided 5 hours after a standardized breakfast which is considered the usual
      breakfast for each subject at the same time of day on each study visit day. Upon arrival at
      each visit, subjects will have anthropometric measurements, vital signs and blood glucose
      finger prick. Thereafter, subjects will document subjective feelings of satiety followed by a
      blood draw. Upon completion of pre-study procedures, subjects will be asked to consume an
      entire pasta serving (with the exception of one visit, where no pasta will be served).
      Shortly thereafter, subjects will be served a buffet lunch and they may eat as desired,
      asking for more if desired. Throughout the study and after the lunch buffet, subjects will be
      followed for 3 hours assessing subjective feelings of satiety at designated time points along
      with blood draws measuring metabolic associated meal responses. During the course of the
      study, subjects will be instructed to maintain their usual level of activity and diet. Four
      day food records will be maintained throughout the course of the study.
    
  