
    
      Carotid artery stenting (CAS) recently has become an accepted method for treatment of
      patients with high-grade carotid artery stenosis, who are at an increased risk for surgical
      carotid endarterectomy (CEA). The reported rates of neurological complications of CAS
      substantially decreased during the past years, and the routine use of cerebral protection
      devices and low profile catheter systems have further increased the procedure´s safety. In
      the early 90ies large surgical trials in North America and Europe (NASCET, ECST and ACAS)
      demonstrated superiority of CEA compared to best medical treatment for symptomatic and
      asymptomatic patients. Provided that the ongoing randomized controlled trials comparing CAS
      and CEA confirm equivalence between the these methods, CAS similar to CEA is applicable to
      symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with high grade carotid stenosis. However, particularly
      in asymptomatic patients, the indication for revascularisation remains debatable. Protected
      CAS is associated with a very low rate of neurological complications, which are below the AHA
      recommendation for treating asymptomatic patients (3%). However, the introduction of new
      vascular protective medications like statins and clopidogrel during the recent years
      substantially improved the spectrum of best medical treatment, and the findings of NASCET,
      ECST and ACAS with respect to best medical treatment may therefore not be applicable any
      more.

      Given the low frequency of spontaneous neurological complications, the preferable therapeutic
      approach to patients with asymptomatic high grade ( > 80%) carotid artery stenoses is
      currently unknown. Modern best medical treatment may manage to stabilize the atherosclerotic
      plaque, while CAS has the potential of resolving the carotid stenosis. Comparative data,
      however, are not available as yet. We hypothesized that protected CAS has a beneficial effect
      on occurrence of ipsilateral neurological complications and major adverse cardiac events in
      high-risk patients with asymptomatic > 80% internal carotid artery stenosis. Therefore, the
      aim of the present randomized controlled trial was to analyze neurological and cardiovascular
      outcome of patients treated with elective CAS plus best medical treatment compared to best
      medical treatment only.

      SYNOPSIS

      BACKGROUND:

      The preferable treatment - whether revascularization or conservative - of asymptomatic
      high-risk patients with > 80% internal carotid artery stenosis (NASCET criteria) is currently
      unknown.

      STUDY HYPOTHESIS:

      We hypothesized that protected carotid artery stenting (CAS) plus best medical treatment is
      associated with reduced rates of ipsilateral neurological complications and major adverse
      cardiac events in high-risk patients with asymptomatic > 80% internal carotid artery stenosis
      compared to best medical treatment only.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      The study is designed as a randomized controlled trial with 1:1 random assignment between two
      treatment modalities including 300 patients within an scheduled inclusion period of 18
      months. The primary and secondary study endpoints are evaluated for an initial two year
      follow-up period after randomization. Secondary follow-up will be performed for 1, 1.5, 3, 5
      and 10 years post randomization.
    
  