
    
      The prevalence of self-reported DM in Aboriginal Australians is reported to be as high as
      38%. Despite gradual improvements in underlying social determinants of health, the high
      morbidity and mortality attributed to DM in Aboriginal populations indicates significant
      ongoing issues with adherence to screening and treatment regimens. The greater prevalence of
      DM in the Aboriginal Australian population would be expected to account (at least in part)
      for the observed complication rates, including DR.

      DMO is characterised by swelling of the central retina. The hypoxic retinal conditions in
      diabetic individuals result in structural changes in the vessel walls and a functional
      impairment of the blood-retinal barrier. The resultant increase in vascular permeability
      causes retinal oedema, and loss of central vision ensues when oedema involves the macula.
      Treatment is aimed at reducing visual loss by targeting factors involved in the activated
      hypoxia pathway, or with laser targeting dysfunctional blood vessels to limit leakage. Laser
      was the first treatment shown to effectively reduce DMO and improve vision; however, it
      cannot be applied to the very centre of the macula. More recently, DMO has been shown to
      respond to intraocular injections with anti-VEGF agents (bevacizumab, ranibizumab, and
      aflibercept), reducing reliance on laser treatments.

      Corticosteroids are anti-inflammatory agents with anti-VEGF and anti-proliferative effects.
      Unfortunately, the increased rates of cataract and elevated IOP are the main adverse effects
      of the IVT corticosteroid treatments, including triamcinolone, making this a less-appealing
      option than anti-VEGF agents. However, their efficacy has been demonstrated in a subgroup of
      pseudophakic patients with DMO, where triamcinolone plus laser treatment was shown to be
      superior to laser treatment alone, and equivalent to ranibizumab (alone or with laser
      treatment). First-line treatment with triamcinolone is also the most cost-effective option
      for pseudophakic patients. Thus, IVT triamcinolone is considered one of the effective adjunct
      modalities for the treatment of DMO and has emerged as an alternative therapy to anti-VEGF
      agents for persistent or refractory DMO.

      Ozurdex (Allergan, Irvine, CA, United States) is a unique biodegradable dexamethasone IVT
      implant. This slow-release preparation of dexamethasone (a highly potent steroid with a short
      half-life) has greater long-term efficacy than conventional forms of IVT triamcinolone, with
      the IVT concentration peaking within 3 months and sustained for up to 6 months post
      injection. This translates clinically to less frequent injections than conventional treatment
      with monthly IVT triamcinolone. The geography and population being studied in this trial
      create some unique challenges, which demand a more flexible study protocol. Longer-acting IVT
      agents such as Ozurdex have the potential to significantly improve DMO-associated visual
      morbidity with greater feasibility when used for Aboriginal patients with or at risk of DMO.
    
  