
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

        1. To determine the safety and tolerability of hyperpolarized 13C MR metabolic imaging as a
           new and unique tool in the evaluation of tumor burden and detecting early response to
           standard therapy in participants with PCNSL.

        2. To assess the feasibility of hyperpolarized 13C as a new and unique tool in the
           evaluation of tumor burden and detecting early response to standard therapy in PCNSL
           participants.

        3. To define the most appropriate imaging parameters for obtaining 13C data from PCNSL
           participants (Cohort 1, n=5).

        4. To evaluate changes in Cohort 2 in imaging pre- and post- high-dose methotrexate,
           temozolomide plus rituximab (MTX-R) based therapy using the parameters found in Cohort 1

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES

        1. To test the hypothesis that genetic markers of nuclear factor kappa light chain enhancer
           of activated B cells (NF-kB) activation in PCNSL diagnostic specimens correlate with
           high lactate signal on metabolic imaging and with high cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lactate
           concentration on baseline pre-treatment CSF evaluation.

        2. To test the hypothesis that genetic markers of NF-kB activation correlate with a smaller
           decrease in lactate on repeat metabolic magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and in repeat
           CSF evaluation after standard induction methotrexate-based therapy and that genetic
           markers of NF-kB activation and high lactate signals correlate with lower rate of
           complete radiographic response on conventional MRI and shorter progression-free survival
           (PFS).

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients receive hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate intravenously (IV) and undergo
      MRI at baseline.

      COHORT II: Patients receive hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate IV and undergo MRI at
      baseline, up to 2 weeks after finishing 3 cycles of standard high-dose methotrexate,
      temozolomide plus rituximab therapy, and at disease progression (if applicable).

      Participants are followed for 48 hours after injection for adverse events. After completion
      of study, patients in Cohort 2 are followed up every 3 months for 2 years after completion of
      therapy, every 6 months for the next 3 years, and then annually for the next 5 years.
    
  