
    
      Ertapenem is a new carbapenem, stable to dehydropeptidase which has a broad antibacterial
      activity. Ertapenem exhibits a bactericidal mode of action and it has a long half-life of 4.5
      hours; for this reason it can be developed as a single daily dose carbapenem.

      In literature, no cases of IgE-mediated allergy to ertapenem have been described until now.
      However, a single study put in evidence a 47% rate of cross-reactivity between
      imipenem-cilastatin and beta-lactams in a group of patients affected by IgE-mediated allergy
      to these drugs. For this reason carbapenem administration to beta-lactam allergic patients
      has always been considered potentially harmful. Other studies reported lower cross-reactivity
      rates (from 7 to 11%) between imipenem-cilastatin and beta-lactams but patients of these
      studies did not undergo any allergy testing in order to demonstrate the pathogenesis of the
      reactions.

      Recent studies put in evidence that imipenem has a very low cross-reactivity rate with other
      beta-lactams and they have a very good tolerability among patients with IgE-mediated allergy
      to beta-lactams: Romano et al. found a cross-reactivity rate of 0.9% between imipenem and
      penicillins in 112 penicillin-allergic patients (mean age 44.56 ± 15.66 ys.);
      Atanasković-Marković et al. found a cross-reactivity rate of 0.8% in 124 paediatric patients
      (age range 3-14 ys.) between imipenem and penicillins. In both groups imipenem was well
      tolerated by patients with negative allergy testing.

      Meropenem showed to have a good tolerability too in penicillin allergic patients: Romano et
      al. found a cross-reactivity rate of 0.9% between penicillins and meropenem in
      penicillin-allergic patients (mean age 47.83 ± 15.8); Atanasković-Marković et al. found a
      cross-reactivity rate of 0.8% in 109 paediatric patients (age range 3-14 ys.) between
      meropenem and penicillins. In both groups meropenem was well tolerated by patients with
      negative allergy testing.

      No data regarding the cross-reactivity of ertapenem with other beta-lactams and its
      tolerability among patients with IgE-mediated allergy beta-lactams are available in
      literature.

      Aim of the study On the basis of those data, we decided to investigate the cross-reactivity
      of ertapenem with other beta-lactams in patients suffering from IgE-mediated allergy to at
      least one beta-lactam molecule and its tolerability in a group of a patients with negative
      allergy testing with ertapenem.
    
  