
    
      Proteus syndrome is a rare mosaic overgrowth disorder caused by a somatic gain of function
      variant, c. 49G>A, p.(Glu17Lys) in the oncogene AKT1, encoding the AKT1 kinase. The disorder
      is progressive, with high morbidity and mortality - there are very few living adults with
      this disease. Tissues and cell lines from patients with Proteus syndrome harbor admixtures of
      mutant alleles that ranged from <1% - 50%. This variant causes constitutive activation of
      AKT1, through Ser473 and Thr308 phosphorylation. This activation stimulates the AKT/PI3K
      pathway, mediating processes including increased cell proliferation and decreased apoptosis.
      The progressive nature of the disorder and the mechanism of disease (gain of function) make
      AKT1 an excellent target for therapeutics, specifically repression. The AKT/PI3K pathway is
      mutated in numerous cancers as well. Because it is commonly mutated in cancer, pharmaceutical
      companies are interested in targeting this molecule with inhibitors.

      ArQule Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co., has developed a small molecule, ARQ
      092 [miransertib], that inhibits AKT, with an IC50 for AKT1, AKT2, and AKT3 that is orders of
      magnitude lower than other kinases. This agent has undergone significant development with
      animal toxicity studies and is currently in phase I trials in adult participants with
      different types of cancer. In addition, we have performed in vitrotesting with miransertib in
      cells from patients with Proteus syndrome and demonstrated reduction in AKT1 phosphorylation
      at doses in the range of achievable blood levels in humans with low toxicity. We have
      completed a phase 0/I study of miransertib in adults and older children with Proteus syndrome
      (NIH protocol 16-HG-0014). In this study, we demonstrated that 5 mg/m m^2/day was a
      well-tolerated dose which resulted in tissue drug levels consistent with our pre-clinical
      data-based pharmacodynamic target. As well, one of the participants from the phase I study
      felt so strongly about the benefits of the drug, both from a pain relief standpoint plus
      evidence of improvement in one of his skin lesions, that he and his family have requested
      continuation of the drug in that trial, as was offered to participants who felt that they had
      received significant benefit. This initial Cohort of participants was dosed at levels well
      below those tested previously in the oncology setting. In summary, with our phase 0/1trial,
      we gained invaluable experience with a number of therapeutic endpoints and showed some
      evidence of efficacy in two of six participants.

      We now propose a phase II non-randomized observation study assessing the efficacy of
      miransertib through assessment of the hallmark skin lesion of Proteus syndrome, the
      cerebriform connective tissue nevus (CCTN). The primary objective of this study is to
      determine the response rate of miransertib as measured by a change in CCTN lesion size
      relative to total plantar area from baseline, using blinded independent central review of
      lesional photography in at least 10 patients with Proteus syndrome (Cohort 1). Cohorts 2 and
      3 will enroll up to 30 additional patients whose non-plantar CCTN Proteus syndrome-
      associated lesions will be evaluated to address the secondary and exploratory study
      objectives. All participants will be treated with miransertib in continuous, 28-day cycles.
      Participants in Cohorts 1 and 2willreceivemiransertib at the starting dose of 15 mg/ m^2QD
      for the first three cycles, and then the dose will be increased to 25mg/m^2QD, provided no
      clinically significant drug-related toxicity is observed. Participants in Cohort 3 will
      receive miransertib at the dose they were on at the time of enrollment if continuing use of
      miransertib or at the starting dose for Cohorts 1 and 2 if resuming use of miransertib, not
      to exceed 25 mg/m m^2QD. Safety and toxicity data will be gathered on all participants.
      Participants will stay on treatment for up to 52 cycles. The final clinical safety follow-up
      will be performed 30 days after the last dose.
    
  