
    
      In response to an alarming rise in active shooter/hostile incidents in the United States, in
      2013 the American College of Surgeons convened a committee of multidisciplinary trauma
      experts who in collaboration with the federal government created a protocol for a national
      policy to enhance survivability from these active shooter incidents as well as other
      intentional mass casualty events. The committee's recommendations were called the Hartford
      Consensus. Among the recommendations of the Hartford Consensus was the training of first
      responders (law enforcement, EMS and fire personnel) as well as the public (so-called
      "immediate responders") in the basics of bleeding control. In October 2015, responding
      aforementioned recommendation, the White House launched the Stop the Bleed national awareness
      campaign as a "call to action". Under the auspices of the American College of Surgeons
      Committee on Trauma, a curriculum was developed teaching responders how to recognize and
      intervene in the event of catastrophic bleeding. Of the three bleeding control interventions
      promoted (external pressure, wound packing and tourniquet application) the tourniquet
      application component of the Stop the Bleed curriculum is evidence-based and provides the
      student with both didactic and psychomotor education. To date there is a paucity of data
      available to provide insight as to how long this vital skill is retained. More over there is
      no recommendation on refresher education with additional opportunities to practice this
      life-saving procedure. This study will serve as a follow-up to Stop the Bleed (also called
      Bleeding Control or B-Con) education provided by the investigator. The intent is to bring
      participants from a Bleeding Control course back to the investigator 6 months following
      initial education and assess their retention of tourniquet application skills. All
      participants will be assessed using a tourniquet simulator and their success will be measured
      in their ability to stop the bleeding using the simulator. The participants will be observed
      for proper identification of bleeding necessitating the use of a tourniquet, selection of the
      proper site of application, proper application of the device (use as described in the Stop
      the Bleed curriculum). This study will not involve the use of actual patients or human
      subjects. It is intended to be follow up assessment to skills-based education with an
      endpoint that will provide insight as to a time-frame for refresher training. Of the three
      bleeding control skills taught as part of the Stop the Bleed curriculum, the application the
      tourniquet is a universal stop the bleed intervention and most likely intervention to be used
      to stop the bleed.
    
  