
    
      Chronic, randomized, crossover, placebo-controlled and double-blind nutritional intervention
      trial.

      The 60 participants in the study will be randomly divided into two groups of 30 participants,
      as they begin the study taking the SANE or placebo for 6 weeks.

      At the end of study week 6, when the first treatment is finished, a 3-week washout period
      will be carried out, and then the treatment that will take place during another 6 weeks will
      be exchanged. Total study duration of 15 weeks.

      The dose of SANE will be 250 mg daily, presented in a tablet of 550 mg / unit. The placebo
      will be microcrystalline cellulose. The consumption of SANE and placebo will be in the form
      of tablets with the same appearance, of 550 mg / tablet, guaranteeing that the study is blind
      both for the researchers of the project and for the participants (double blind).

      The tablets will be presented in recipients of 45 units, so that with one recipient the
      participants will be able to carry out the entire intervention for each of the products.

      Adverse effects will be controlled: body odor, halitosis, flatulence, nausea, abdominal
      distension, reflux and allergic reactions.

      During the study, volunteers will perform 7 visits, according to the cross-type study design.

        -  a pre-selection visit (to check inclusion / exclusion criteria) (V0) and, in case of
           meeting the inclusion criteria,

        -  three study visits during the consumption of SANE, which will take place in weeks 1
           (start of the study), 3 and 6 (end point) (V1, V2, V3).

        -  three study visits during the consumption of the placebo, which will take place in weeks
           1 (start of the study), 3 and 6 (end point) (V4, V5, V6).

      In all the visits the participants must present themselves in fasting conditions of 8 hours
      to obtain blood. In addition, at each visit (except in the case of V0) a questionnaire will
      be conducted to determine the presence / absence of adverse effects.

      Main variable: LDL-c concentrations.

      Secondary variables:

        -  Measures of body composition (in all study visits, V0-V6):

        -  Body weight.

        -  Height.

        -  Body mass index (BMI) (Kg / m2).

        -  Waist circumference.

        -  Blood pressure (in all study visits, V0-V6):

        -  Systolic blood pressure (SBP).

        -  Diastolic blood pressure (DBP).

        -  Parameters in plasma:

        -  Total cholesterol, High density lipoproteins cholesterol (HDL-c) and triglycerides (TG)
           (in all study visits, V0-V6).

        -  From these values the atherogenic indices (AIs) will be calculated:

        -  Total cholesterol / HDL-c;

        -  LDL-c / HDL-c

        -  Plasma atherogenic index, which combines the values of triglycerides and HDL-c,
           calculated as the logarithm of the TG / HDL-c ratio, which is considered a good indirect
           indicator of the size of the LDL-c particles and of the subclinical atherosclerosis.

        -  Glucose (in all the visits of the study, V0-V6).

        -  Insulin and Non esterified free fatty acids (NEFAs) (at the beginning and end of the
           study period visits with each of the two products (SANE or placebo).

        -  From the glucose and insulin values, the Homeostatic Model Assessment for insulin
           resistance index (HOMA-IR) and the revised-Quantitative insulin sensitivity index
           (R-QUICKI) will be calculated.

        -  The pro-inflammatory cytokines Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), Interleukin 6
           (IL-6) and (Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) (at the beginning and end of the study
           period visits with each of the two products (SANE or placebo).

        -  Apolipoprotein (Apo) B, a protein present in the potentially atherogenic particles
           present in plasma and that reflects the number of particles that contain cholesterol and
           triglycerides (in the visits of the beginning and end of the study period with each of
           the two products (SANE or placebo).

        -  Apo A1, the major protein present in HDL-c and that initiates the reverse transport of
           cholesterol (in the visits of the beginning and end of the study period with each of the
           two products (SANE or placebo).

        -  Based on the ApoB and ApoA1 values, the Apo B / Apo A1 ratio will be calculated as an
           indicator of cardiovascular disease risk. This ratio reflects the balance between
           proatherogenic and CVD protective particles.

        -  Oxidized LDL-c (oxLDL) (at the beginning and end of the study period visits with each of
           the two products (SANE or placebo).

        -  Phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) (at the start and end visits of the study period
           with each of the two products (SANE or placebo).
    
  