
    
      Background Cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) that are improving clinical
      outcomes in selected heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) patients also
      collect valuable diagnostic information from continuous monitoring of several physiological
      variables such as intrathoracic electrical impedance. Intrathoracic electrical impedance
      monitoring has been used as a tool to evaluate pulmonary congestion. Intrathoracic impedance
      is inversely correlated to pulmonary volume expansion and has been linked to cardiac ﬁlling
      pressures. Decreasing in intrathoracic impedance and -derived fluid indices such as OptiVol
      Fluid Index, has been shown to predict heart failure hospitalizations and all-cause mortality
      in patients with HFrEF. Furthermore, studies also have shown the usefulness of monitoring
      impedance to initiate timely interventions preventing decompensation.

      In patients with symptomatic HFrEF, the PARADIGM-HF trial demonstrated that
      sacubitril/valsartan significantly reduced the primary endpoint of cardiovascular mortality
      and heart failure hospitalization, compared with enalapril. The rate of all-cause mortality
      was also significantly reduced. Subsequently, Sacubitril/Valsartan is recommended by current
      guidelines as foundational therapy for many patients with symptomatic HFrEF.

      However as a natriuretic agent, effects of Sacubitril/Valsartan treatment on intrathoracic
      impedance and fluid index remains unclear.

      Objective The CHILISALT Study aimed to explore the effect of angiotensin-neprilysin
      inhibition on intrathoracic impedance and fluid index values in HFrEF patients who were
      implanted with a device for cardiac resynchronization therapy and/or an implantable
      cardioverter-deﬁbrillator (ICD; Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis, MN) allowing continuous
      measurement of intrathoracic impedance and OptiVol Fluid Index. Main outcome parameters are
      the change in intrathoracic impedanceand OptiVol Index values between baseline (before
      Sacubutril/Valsartan treatment) and, 14th and 28th days of Sacubutril/Valsartan treatment.

      Material and Methods CHILISALT Study will designed as national, multicentre,
      non-interventional, observational, single arm cohort study. Study population will identified
      from dedicated CIED Clinics from participating centres. Patients will eligible if they had
      already taking Sacubitril/Valsartan for ≥2 weeks and had been implanted with CIED for ≥3
      months. Additionally, eligible patients must have a CIED before Sacubitril/Valsartan
      prescription date. Due to descriptive (proof of mechanism) design of the CHILISALT Study a
      formal population volume calculation will not be made. However, after minimum 24 patients
      included an interim analysis will be done in terms of changes in impedance values and other
      related parameters between baseline and after Sacubitril/Valsartan treatment. An independent
      data monitoring committee will decide to enrol or to finalize the study according to main
      outcome variable distribution. Main outcome parameters are the change in intrathoracic
      impedance and OptiVol Fluid index values between baseline (before Sacubutril/Valsartan
      treatment) and, 14th and 28th days of Sacubutril/Valsartan treatment. As a tool to evaluate
      pulmonary fluid status, intrathoracic impedance measuring quantiﬁes impedance changes. CIEDs
      measured intrathoracic impedance (ohms) using the RV-coil to can vector. Impedance-derived
      fluid index will obtained using a cumulative sum mathematical model that calculates the
      differences between impedance measured in ohms (measured impedance) and a reference
      impedance. OptiVol Fluid index will be expressed in ohm-days. It was demonstrated that the
      index value exceeded 60 ohm-days, the crossing of this threshold value predicted both
      increased morbidity and mortality. Other possible confounders such as change in body weight
      (kilogram), current diuretic dose (miligram per day), requirement of intravenous diuretic
      therapy (yes/no), and the change from baseline to 28th day of the treatment in the clinical
      summary score on the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ; on a scale from 0 to
      100, with higher scores indicating fewer symptoms and physical limitations associated with
      heart failure) is selected as secondary outcomes.
    
  