
    
      Problem: The appropriate approach to screening patients for early HIV-associated kidney
      disease is unknown. Recently, screening for microalbuminuria has been proposed; the clinical
      implications of finding microalbuminuria in this population are unknown, as several disease
      processes may contribute to microalbuminuria in this setting.

      Background: Renal disease is becoming more common as patients with HIV disease live longer.
      Renal diseases in this population include glomerular diseases (collapsing glomerulopathy,
      immune complex glomerulonephritis, diabetic nephropathy, and hypertensive glomerulosclerosis)
      and various tubular diseases. Systemic endothelial dysfunction, occurring as part of
      metabolic syndrome and related disorders such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and insulin
      resistance, is also associated with microalbuminuria.

      Study Objective: We wish to determine whether screening for microalbuminuria will detect
      early stage glomerular disease. We also wish to determine whether in some subjects renal
      histology is normal and microalbuminuria is a manifestation of metabolic syndrome, including
      HIV-associated lipodystrophy.

      Design: We will use a cross-sectional study design.

      Population: We will enroll 280 patients with HIV disease, to the extent practical enrolling
      consecutive patients in the NIAID Longitudinal HIV Clinic and the Washington Hospital Center
      HIV Clinic. This sample size was determined using an estimated population prevalence of
      microalbuminuria of 20%, with a 90% confidence interval of 5%. We will exclude patients with
      diabetes (as screening using urinary albumin excretion is well-established in clinical
      practice) and with established chronic kidney disease, defined as macroproteinuria (as these
      patients have been identified by a well-established screening test).

      Methods: We will collect three urine samples, at three month intervals, for urine
      albumin/creatinine and protein/creatinine ratio. We will also collect data on blood pressure,
      anthropomorphometric parameters, and various serologic testing. Patients with persistent
      microalbuminuria will undergo renal biopsy. Using frozen blood cells, we will prepare DNA for
      genetic testing.

      Analysis: We will determine the prevalence of microalbuminuria in the HIV population sample
      under study. We will determine the clinical implications of microalbuminuria, specifically
      how often HIV-associated collapsing glomerulopathy, HIV-associated glomerulonephritis, or
      other histologic disease is present. We will correlate the quantitative measure of urinary
      albumin with 1) the presence or absence of metabolic syndrome and with 2) various
      quantitative variables associated with metabolic syndrome. Finally, we will analyze kidney
      injury genes, in particular MYH9, to identify genes that predispose to microalbuminuria.

      Future Studies: If this study suggests that the presence of microalbuminuria identifies
      patients who are likely to have early glomerular disease, we will consider undertaking a
      prospective controlled trial testing whether therapy with an angiotensin blocker can revert
      microalbuminuria and reduce progression to macroproteinuria.
    
  