
    
      Facet joint syndrome has been described as a common cause of lumbar back pain. To achieve
      prolonged therapeutic effect in patients with lumbar facet joint syndrome, radiofrequency
      (RF) medial branch neurotomy is commonly performed. When performing RF neurotomy, needle
      placement in correct position is very important. For this reason, identification of sensory
      stimulation and multifidus muscle twitching by using the electrode have been commonly
      performed. However, there were no previous reports regarding relationship between prognosis
      of RF neurotomy and multifidus muscle twitching in combination of sensory stimulation. The
      purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic value of multifidus twitching when
      sensory stimulation was achieved while performing RF needle neurotomy in patients with lumbar
      facet syndrome.

      The investigators have collected data and chart from the patients who were diagnosed facet
      joint syndrome and underwent lumbar RF medial branch neurotomy between January 2009 and June
      2014.

      RF was performed using sensory stimulation and multifidus twitching to confirm the position
      of RF needle. When numeric pain intensity score decreased less than half of the initial pain
      score, the procedure was regarded as effective and the duration was followed and recorded for
      each patients.

      When multifidus twitching was observed in a voltage less than 1.0 to 2.0 times of the sensory
      stimulation (≤ 0.5V), the positioning of the RF needle will be regarded as adequate. The most
      appropriate cutoff value will be determined by univariate analysis. The patients will be
      grouped according to the adequacy of RF needle position while performing RF medial branch
      neurotomy ('complete' when all needles were placed adequately, 'partial' when one of the
      needles for a facet joint medial branch was placed inadequately, 'none' when there were both
      needles positioned inadequately for a facet joint) The relationship between the long term
      effect of RF neurotomy (longer than 6 months) and the groups will be analyzed.
    
  