
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a common and treatable condition that is
      characterised by predominately irreversible and progressive airflow limitation. COPD is a
      leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide and its prevalence is predicted to
      increase substantially in the coming decade1. In the United Kingdom (UK) alone, COPD affects
      an estimated 3 million people, with 1 million diagnosed and a further 2 million remaining
      undiagnosed2. Delays in an accurate diagnosis impacts on quality of life and healthcare
      resource utilisation. COPD is associated with a significant economic and social burden, with
      a single severe exacerbation requiring admission to hospital costing up to £1600, therefore
      having a major impact on NHS expenditure. COPD also has a personal burden, causing 24 million
      lost working days annually, costing the UK economy £3.8 billion3.

      Importance is placed on early detection of exacerbations of COPD as delays in starting
      treatment are associated with increased exacerbation severity, emergency healthcare use, a
      higher mortality and a more rapid decline in lung function. There is therefore a recognised
      need for widely accessible, easy-to-use tools to aid in the early detection of COPD
      exacerbations.

      Fourier Transform Infra-Red (FTIR) spectroscopy is an emerging field of medicine which has
      the potential to become established in the management of lung conditions. Previous studies4,5
      have shown that sputum in patients with COPD analysed with infrared (IR) gave reproducible
      biological IR spectra with distinct signatures in 5 key regions, namely Amide A, two
      signatures in the Amide I region, Amide II and in glycoproteins. The additional information
      on the spectral profiles gathered in this study on saliva and sputum from patients with COPD,
      during both stable disease and exacerbations will help establish FTIR use in the management
      of these lung conditions.

      This study will provide essential information in the development process of a hand held FTIR
      spectroscope. Phase 1 will establish the infrared spectrum required for the analysis of
      saliva and sputum, which will inform the design of the daisy chain device (a pre-prototype
      device) used in phase 2. Phase 2 will test this infrared spectrum in the pre-prototype daisy
      chain device with further saliva and sputum samples, before this spectrum is incorporated
      into the eventual hand-held FTIR spectroscope.
    
  