
    
      Rationale/Significance of Study: Acute leukemias (AL) are an aggressive and often
      debilitating cancer with increasing incidence among those with a prior history of cancer and
      older adults. Initial treatment is complex and even when remission is initially achieved,
      there is a high risk for disease relapse. Research shows that individual characteristics such
      as decreased physical function are associated with poor survival in AL. Intensive
      chemotherapy remains the standard treatment necessary for survival. Chemotherapy
      administration entails extended hospitalization for treatment and to monitor and manage
      multiple symptoms, life-threatening complications, and other adverse events which often
      necessitate intensive care unit admissions. Given the significance of this illness and its
      complications, adults with AL are commonly encouraged to rest during induction treatment.
      Unfortunately, the long periods of hospitalization and rest result in diminished physical
      function during and after treatment. In fact, patients are unable to function at pre-cancer
      levels which can delay or prevent future intensive treatments, such as hematopoietic stem
      cell transplant, that are most likely to be life-saving. Currently there are no clinical
      interventions specific to assisting adults recovering from intense induction treatment.
      However, PA programs have been shown to improve physical function and reduce symptoms in many
      other clinical/disease contexts. Specifically, the Otago home-based program, has undergone
      extensive testing internationally and has demonstrated effectiveness for improving strength,
      mobility, balance and preventing falls in vulnerable older adults. Efforts to assess the
      clinical efficacy of evidence-based PA programs for adults recovering from induction
      treatment for AL are critically needed.

      Conceptual/Theoretical Framework: The evaluation approach for this study is guided by the
      RE-AIM (reach, efficacy, adoption, implementation, maintenance) evaluation framework. The
      tailored PA intervention is guided by the information-motivation-behavioral (IMB) change
      theory.

      Main Research Variable(s): Reach: percent of eligible patients enrolled; Efficacy: physical
      function assessments; Adoption: qualitative interviews to understand what is needed to adopt
      the intervention into practice; Implementation: intervention fidelity/adherence; Maintenance:
      qualitative interviews to understand what is needed to sustain the intervention in practice.

      Design: This is a two-group randomized controlled trial (RCT) with an implementation-related
      process evaluation of the tailored PA intervention. Participants will be randomized to either
      the nurse-led PA intervention or the attention-control group.

      Setting: NCI designated Comprehensive Cancer Center Sample: Adults diagnosed with AL
      receiving consolidation/maintenance chemotherapy Methods: A longitudinal RCT over 3-months to
      evaluate the efficacy of our nurse-led tailored home-based PA program versus
      attention-control. Participants will complete physical function tests and questionnaires at
      baseline, 6-weeks and 3-months. Both quantitative and qualitative data will be collected for
      summative and formative data relevant to the reach, adoption, implementation, and maintenance
      domains of RE-AIM.

      Implications for Practice: Adults with AL experience decreased physical function and
      concurrent symptoms that negatively affects quality of life (QOL) and may increase their risk
      for further adverse events. This intervention would provide oncology nurses with tools to
      support patients to engage in behaviors that improve their QOL.
    
  