
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the percentage of patients with hematological malignancies or renal cell
           carcinoma who achieve > 90% donor T-cell chimerism at 30 days after treatment with
           reduced-intensity conditioning comprising low-dose anti-thymocyte globulin, low-dose
           cyclophosphamide, busulfan, and fludarabine phosphate followed by allogeneic peripheral
           blood progenitor cell transplantation from a matched related donor.

        -  To assess the incidence of severe (grade 3 or 4) acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)
           and extensive chronic GVHD in these patients.

        -  To assess whether this regimen is associated with reduced transplant-related toxicity
           and increased tolerability in these patients.

        -  To assess the overall safety of this conditioning regimen as measured by 6-month
           transplant-related mortality in these patients.

        -  To determine the efficacy of this regimen in inducing durable remissions in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC): Patients receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV over
           4-6 hours on day -16 and over 6-8 hours on day -15, fludarabine phosphate IV over 30
           minutes on days -7 to -3, busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -4 and -3, and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1-2 hours on day -2.

        -  Transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood progenitor cell
           transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive oral tacrolimus every 12
           hours on days -1 to 90, followed by a taper until day 150. Patients also receive
           methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacokinetic studies of anti-thymocyte
      globulin and PCR analysis for chimerism.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.
    
  