
    
      This study is a collaboration between Duke University School of Medicine Center for Applied
      Genomics and Precision Medicine (CAGPM) and the National Heart Center of Singapore (NHCS) and
      SingHealth Duke-NUS Center for Precision Medicine (PRISM). The NHCS study, Molecular and
      Imaging Studies of Cardiovascular Health and Disease ("Biobank study") is collecting genomic,
      clinical, and environmental data on a large cohort of healthy Singaporean volunteers. Data
      from the Biobank study is being deposited into a large healthy population cohort database,
      SPECTRA, organized under PRISM. The investigators will collaborate with the NHCS Biobank
      study and PRISM to integrate the Duke family history risk assessment platform, MeTree, into
      the data collection of the Biobank study cohort for in-depth analyses of FHH and genomic
      associations as well as exploration of the feasibility of MeTree implementation into the
      Singaporean clinical context. The Biobank study is a prospective observational study. It has
      already enrolled 1,000 subjects and will continue enrollment over the next year and possibly
      beyond. Previously enrolled subjects will be re-contacted for completion of MeTree as well as
      having future enrollees complete the tool prospectively. The investigators anticipate 5,000
      subjects completing MeTree over a one-year period. The investigators will evaluate the
      feasibility and effectiveness of implementing MeTree in the larger Singaporean context. The
      investigators will assess implementation related outcomes- questions/problems people have
      when completing their family histories, how complete are the FHH entered, what types of risk
      are identified and what existing programs in Singapore are designed to manage that risk. The
      completion of this project will provide a significant amount of data to better understand the
      associations between FHH and genomic data within a healthy Asian population. It also will
      result in a better understanding of an appropriate implementation strategy for MeTree within
      the Singaporean clinical setting.

      Specific Aim 1: To explore the correlation of genomic data and FHH within a healthy Asian
      population.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the clinical utility and appropriateness of a patient-entered FHH
      risk assessment tool within a Singaporean population.

      Specific Aim 3: To create an implementation strategy for broader implementation of a
      patient-driven risk assessment tool in Singapore.

      Duke University will be providing access to the MeTree Family Health History tool, storage of
      the PRISM participant data, participant and provider risk assessment reports, and education
      about the tool to PRISM study staff as needed. Duke University personnel will not be involved
      in any recruiting, consenting, or follow-up with study participants, but will have access to
      de-identified participant data housed in the MeTree research database in order to provide
      support for the study coordinators for participant account trouble-shooting and also to
      provide interim and final datasets to the PRISM statisticians. The MeTree research database
      currently sits on a DHTS server behind the Duke firewall, and is maintained and secure in
      accordance with Duke policy for patient data.
    
  