
    
      The total number of required patients would be 53 per arm (106 patients). The targeted study
      population is patients who are 18 years old or older presenting with acute sickle cell crisis
      pain either described as diffuse throughout the body or localized to extremity/back. The
      expected duration of the study is 2 years

      Prior to initiation of study, the research associates would be responsible for the
      randomization process. The goal of this study is to enroll 106 patients total (53 per arm).
      Patients will be assigned to a study arm via an online random-number generator
      (http://www.randomization.com). Each number will correlate to a sealed opaque envelope, which
      will be pulled in sequential order as patients are enrolled. Within each envelope will
      contain the particular study medication. A primary master list will be kept in a locked and
      secured cabinet in pharmacy. Only pharmacy personnel and the primary/secondary investigators
      will have access to this list. Pharmacy will use this master list to prepare study
      medications. A second master list would also be secured in the EM research room for back-up
      purposes. The secondary master list would be assessed only if the primary master list is
      lost. Only the primary and secondary investigator will have access to the secondary master
      list.

      Detailed study procedures:

      Step 1: Identification of patients with chief complaints or visit reasons of sickle cell via
      the Emergency Department's Statusboard by Research Associate or study investigators.

      Step 2: Screening of potentially eligible patients with inclusion/exclusion criteria
      checklist as per Data Collection instrument (See attached Form 1) by Research Associate or
      study investigators.

      Step 3: If patient is eligible, Research Associate or study investigators would obtain
      informed consent and explain potential risks and benefits with receiving study interventions.

      Step 4: There will be no placebo only arm. All providers, except pharmacy, will be blinded to
      whether the patient is receiving ketamine or saline. All patients will receive conventional
      standard therapy (dilaudid or morphine) which will be ordered by the emergency department
      resident or attending. Each patient will receive an IVP bolus with infusion and a separate
      IVP. Arm A will include 0.3 mg/kg IVP bolus of Ketamine followed by a 0.1 mg/kg/hr infusion
      for 3 hours along with an initial dose of standard therapy. Arm B will receive a IVP bolus of
      normal saline (utilizing the 0.3 mg/kg calculation) followed by a normal saline infusion and
      then a separate standard therapy dose.

      Step 5: An order would be placed by the medical resident, medical attending, a study
      investigator who is a physician, or a pharmacist under the permission of the attending
      physician into Allscripts for a study intervention.

      Step 6: Upon receiving the order in Allscripts, the order would be verified by the pharmacy.
      Once notified of which envelope has been pulled pharmacy will prepare a ketamine IVP bolus
      and infusion or NS IVP bolus and infusion. Conventional therapy will be pulled from the
      general ED accudose stock by the ED RN. ED personnel will obtain the infusion preparation
      from pharmacy. It will be labeled for the patient, with study number, but without other
      identifying marks. When the study medication is picked up, pharmacy will open the sealed
      envelope to confirm which medication arm was prepared in order to internally verify the
      correct preparation.

      Step 7: The nurse assigned to the patient would administer the intervention.

      Step 8: A research associate or a study investigator would approach the patient to assess and
      record primary outcomes, secondary outcomes at designed time intervals. The data will be
      recorded on the data collection instrument. If additional medication is requested by the
      patient, the orders would be placed by the medical resident or attending who are assigned to
      the patient in the ED.

      Step 9: All data retrieved from the paper data collection sheets will be transcribed into an
      encrypted and password protected electronic database by the research associate.

      • All patient identifiers would be de-identified in the database. All participants would be
      assigned a study participant number.This database would be stored in the Emergency Department
      faculty or research room. Only the research associates or study investigators would have
      access to the electronic database. The paper data collection sheets would be stored in a
      stationary and locked cabinet in the Emergency Department for safe keeping. At the end of the
      study, these records will be maintained according to the hospital's record-retention policy.

      Step 10: At the end of study enrollment, the data will be analyzed. Blinding will be removed
      for final data analysis and compilation.

      Step 11: At the conclusion of the study, the final results and conclusions would be presented
      to the IRB. All data recorded from paper would be shredded and destroyed. All data recorded
      on electronic databases would be deleted.
    
  