
    
      Overutilization is increasingly viewed within the framework of patient safety. In primary
      care, patients with acute low back pain frequently request diagnostic imaging, and primary
      and urgent care clinicians feel pressure to acquiesce to such requests to sustain patient
      trust and satisfaction. Spinal imaging in patients with acute low back pain poses risks from
      diagnostic evaluation of false-positive findings, patient labeling and anxiety, and
      unnecessary treatment (including spinal surgery) with potential downstream complications.

      Watchful waiting advice has been found an effective strategy to reduce low-value treatment
      (e.g., pediatric ear infections), and some evidence suggests a watchful waiting approach
      would be acceptable to many patients requesting tests. Meanwhile, psychological theory
      suggests that physician messages could be tailored to magnify patient acceptance of a
      watchful waiting strategy.

      The investigators will refine and evaluate a novel simulated intervention using standardized
      patients (SPs) -- or actors playing the roles of patients - to teach clinicians to endorse a
      watchful waiting approach when patients request low-value spinal imaging for low back pain.
      Specific aims are:

      Aim 1: To use key informant interviews of front-line clinicians and focus groups with primary
      care patients to refine a theory-informed standardized patient-based intervention designed to
      teach practicing clinicians how to advise watchful waiting when patients request low-value
      spinal imaging for low back pain.

      Aim 2: To test the effectiveness of standardized patient instructor (SPI)-delivered clinician
      training in the use of watchful waiting in a randomized clinical trial.

      The investigators hypothesize that the intervention will: a) reduce rates of low-value spinal
      imaging among actual patients with acute back pain seen by clinicians post-intervention
      (adjusting for pre-trial rates); b) increase clinician advice to pursue watchful waiting
      during a followup visit with an unannounced SP; c) increase clinician self-reported use and
      efficacy of advising watchful waiting with actual low back pain patients; and d) have no
      adverse impact on actual patient trust and satisfaction with physicians; and e) reduce rates
      of neck imaging (among neck pain patients) and overall diagnostic testing (among all adult
      patients).

      Aim 3: To assess whether the intervention effects generalize to other low-value imaging tests
      and diagnostic tests in general.

      The investigators hypothesize that the SP intervention will: a) decrease rates of neck
      imaging among actual patients with neck pain seen by study clinicians during the follow-up
      period (adjusting for baseline rates); b) decrease rates of overall diagnostic tests among
      all adult patient seen by study clinicians during the follow-up period (adjusting for
      baseline rates); and c) increase PCP self-reported use and efficacy of advising watchful
      waiting for patients with neck pain, other musculoskeletal pain, and other
      non-musculoskeletal somatic complaints.
    
  