
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the pathological complete response (CR) rate in resected patients assessed
           on lesions of less than or equal to 30 mm in size.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the clinical CR rate in all patients.

        -  To determine toxicity and tolerability of this regimen (pre- and postoperative
           toxicity).

        -  To evaluate perioperative safety in these patients.

        -  To determine disease-free survival (time to progression in unresected patients) and
           overall survival of the whole study population.

        -  To determine resectability in these patients.

        -  To evaluate markers that predict the occurrence of a pathological CR or a non-response
           in pathological material (resected liver metastasis) and biological material collected
           from these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29, oxaliplatin IV
      over 2 hours on days 1 and 15, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 8 and 22,
      fluorouracil IV over 24 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, leucovorin calcium IV on days 1, 8,
      15, and 22, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 5
      weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who are able to undergo liver resection receive bevacizumab on day 1 only of course
      3 and undergo liver resection 3 weeks after chemotherapy. Beginning 4 weeks after liver
      resection, patients receive 2 additional courses of chemotherapy as adjuvant therapy.

      Patients undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection periodically for biological
      studies. Samples are analyzed for markers that predict the occurrence of a complete
      pathological response (pCR) or a non-response.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for the first 2
      years and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  