
    
      Severe asthma of the child is characterized by chronic eosinophilic infiltration of the
      bronchial mucosa associated with bronchial remodeling.

      The mechanisms responsible for these phenomena are still misunderstood. Animal models suggest
      that type 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2) may be responsible for inflammation and bronchial
      remodeling in asthma. In mice, ILC2 stimulated by the pulmonary epithelium by viral
      aggression or allergenic exposure release cytokines of the TH2 type such as IL-5 and IL-13
      and amphiregulin, involved in the recruitment and differentiation of eosinophils,
      bronchoconstriction, mucus secretion and the restoration of epithelial integrity.

      In humans, ILC2 would be more abundant in the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and peripheral
      blood of asthmatic patients compared to control subjects. However, the presence of ILC2 in
      the bronchial mucosa of asthmatic patients has never been identified.

      The hypothesis tested is that ILC2 are more abundant in bronchial mucosa, BAL, and blood in
      children with severe asthma than in non-asthmatics. The results of this study would improve
      the knowledge of the mechanisms responsible for bronchial inflammation in asthma, consider
      therapies to prevent its development and modify the natural history of the disease.

      The main objectives of this study are to show that the number of ILC2 in bronchial mucosa and
      BAL is higher in asthmatic children than in non-asthmatics, that the number of ILC2 in the
      bronchial mucosa and BAL is correlated with the number of eosinophils in bronchial mucosa and
      BAL, to determine whether the number of ILC2 in lungs correlate with asthma symptoms, and to
      determine whether there is a correlation between plasma and bronchial ILC2.

      Bronchoscopy with BAL and bronchial mucosal biopsies will be performed in 20 children with
      severe asthma and 20 control subjects in the department of pediatric pulmonology and allergy
      of Necker Hospital.

      ILC2 will be identified in the BAL, in the bronchial mucosa and peripheral blood by flow
      cytometry. The median values of the number of ILC2 will be compared between asthmatic and
      non-asthmatic patients by the Mann-Whitney non-parametric test. The correlations will be
      established by the Spearman rank test. A value of p < 0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  