
    
      Lumbopelvic movement control is crucial for movement stability during high weight loading
      training, and also an important risk factor for the occurrence and recurrence of low back
      pain (LBP). Previous studies indicated that athletes with LBP had poorer lumbopelvic movement
      control, and for those athletes who have recovered from LBP, some research data still showed
      that poor lumbopelvic control remained. However, there has been no study investigating the
      effect of LBP history (LBPH) on the performance of the loaded squatting task, and lumbopelvic
      movement control in people who practice regular weight training.

      Therefore, the aims of this study are to examine the differences in lumbopelvic movement
      control, kinematics and muscle activation during the loaded squatting task in weight training
      practitioners with LBP, LBPH, and asymptomatic controls. In the next part of the study,
      investigators will further investigate the intervention effect of motor control training on
      restoring the lumbopelvic movement control and squatting performance. Methods: This is an
      exploratory, cross-sectional, and intervention study. First part: investigators plan to
      recruit 15 participants between 20-40 years old, practicing loaded squatting for 3 days a
      week for at least one year or once a week for more than two years, and having LBPH; 15
      matched participants with current LBP, and 15 controls for the study. All subjects will
      undergo a series of squatting task (4 X 10 repetitions) and the kinematics and muscle
      activation of the rectus abdominus, transverse abdominus/internal obliqus, eractor spinae,
      and gluteus maximus will be recorded and analyzed using Noraxon myoRESEARCH (Noraxon U.S.A.,
      Inc., Scottsdale, AZ, USA). A set of lumbopelvic movement control tests will also be
      conducted. The kinematics, muscle activation, and movement control test scores will be
      compared between groups. The second part, investigators plan to recruit 45 weight training
      practitioners with LBPH, randomized into three groups (core muscle training, movement control
      training, combined imagery and movement control training), and compare the effect of 4-week
      training on squatting performance and lumbopelvic movement control. Statistical analysis:
      Comparisons of all continuous variables are performed using the analysis of variance (ANOVA),
      and the intervention effect will be assessed using the repeated measures ANOVA. Chi squared
      test is used to examine the group differences in lumbopelvic movement control testing. The
      significance level is set at 0.05.
    
  