
    
      Background: Neck pain is the fourth leading cause of disability in the US, after back pain,
      depression, and joint pain, and accounts for more than 10 million medical visits per year.
      Conventional treatments (medications, physical therapy) are widely used for chronic neck
      pain, yet have modest effectiveness and may carry risks, such as the toxicities associated
      with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and opioids. As a result many patients
      live with chronic, often debilitating, pain. Patients unable to find relief frequently turn
      to complementary health approaches. Complementary therapies are exceptionally popular among
      Veterans; 82% reported use of at least one complementary therapy and nearly all (99%) were
      willing to try massage for pain relief. Neck pain is the second most common reason for using
      a complementary therapy, with massage used for neck pain more commonly than all other
      complementary therapies except chiropractic care. Of all complementary approaches, massage
      was the most preferred by Veterans. In a national survey, almost two-thirds (61%) of
      individuals with neck pain who used both complementary and conventional treatments perceived
      complementary to be more helpful, whereas only 6% perceived conventional treatments to be
      better.

      Objectives: The Trial Outcomes for Massage: Caregiver-Assisted vs. Therapist-Treated
      (TOMCATT) Study is a 2-arm, parallel group, randomized clinical trial that will last 6
      months. The TOMCATT Study will target 264 Veterans with chronic neck pain and will compare
      therapist-treated massage to a waitlist control arm on primary, secondary, and exploratory
      outcomes. There was previously an additional group staff randomized 102 Veterans and their
      Care Allies to, but are no longer randomizing into this group.

      Methods: This study sample will include 264 Veterans with chronic neck pain. Patients from
      the 5 primary care clinics at the Roudebush VA Medical Center (RVAMC) and 3 community based
      outpatient clinics (Terre Haute, Martinsville, and Bloomington) will be recruited to
      participate. The Trial Outcomes for Massage: Caregiver-Assisted vs. Therapist-Treated
      (TOMCATT) Study will be a 2-arm, parallel group, randomized clinical trial. Eligible
      participants will be randomized to one of two study arms: 1) Patients in the
      therapist-treated arm will receive 3 months of twice weekly massage delivered by certified
      massage therapists. The second and comparator arm will be a waitlist control. The trial will
      last 6 months and compare therapist-delivered massage to control on neck pain outcomes. The
      investigators will compare changes in pain-related disability (primary outcome) between the
      two groups (Aim 1) and examine secondary outcomes: pain severity, quality of life,
      depression, anxiety, and stress (Aim 2) as well as exploratory outcomes. To examine the
      implementation potential of the intervention, including facilitators and barriers, the
      investigators will conduct post-study, in-depth qualitative interviews of a subsample of
      study participants (Veteran patients and caregivers) the massage group and the no-longer
      enrolling CAM group(Aim 3). Lastly, the investigators will assess treatment fidelity and
      compare the relative intervention costs and budget impact for both interventions. The
      intervention period will last for 3 months, after which time Veterans will be followed for an
      additional 3 months.

      Innovation: The TOMCATT Study is a novel extension of the investigators' prior work, has
      strong implementation potential, and innovates by placing caregivers in a treatment delivery
      role that has the potential to reach a greater number of Veterans with chronic neck pain
      while also producing substantial cost-savings. Although studies have shown that massage is
      effective for pain, caregiver-delivered strategies have not been tested or implemented in any
      systematic way across VA.
    
  