
    
      -  Teleultrasound system

             1. We already developed the telesystem for viewing the ultrasound examinations
                performed in the emergency department (ED) by using the iPhone display
                simultaneously at the out of ED.

             2. Remote mentors can view the patient and examiner's hand holding the ultrasound
                probe while simultaneously viewing the ultrasound image in the same field of
                ultrasound display

             3. The examiner and the mentor can communicate with each other.

        -  Procedures:

             1. The residents perform the ultrasonography and the out of ED expert observe the
                practice by using the iPhone.

             2. While viewing the practice, the mentor can guide the examiner (resident) to
                manipulate the probe to get the best ultrasound image.

             3. After finishing the practice, the mentor measures the speed of used mobile network
                using the application of 'BENCHBEE' and records the predesigned registry.

             4. The registry includes the patients' information, the time and date of examination,
                the type of mobile network (3G, LTE, WiFi and etc.) and the speed of mobile
                network, used tele-displayer (iPhone, iPad, iPad mini), used probe, performed body
                organ (cardiac, lung, Hepatobiliary, vascular, genital organ, appendix and
                intestine including suspected intussusception), the examiner's level of training
                and the ultrasound experience of the examiner and the mentor.

             5. The mentor records the patient's diagnosis and the problems during this procedure.

             6. The mentor goes to the patient, perform the ultrasonography directly and confirm
                the patients' diagnosis.

             7. We will investigate the diagnostic accuracy for iPhone-based tele-ultrasonography
                comparing these diagnoses.
    
  