
    
      Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is an extremely painful and highly disabling orofacial pain
      disorder, often referred to as the "suicide disease," for which presently available therapies
      are largely ineffective or inadequate. Both the unpredictable response to treatment and
      variability in long-term clinical outcomes in TN strongly suggest that a range of peripheral
      and central mechanisms remain to be understood. The long-term goal is to identify the
      mechanisms involved in the initiation and progression of TN, and uncover rational targets for
      the safe and effective treatment of TN. The objective of this application is to explore the
      use of multimodal neuroimaging and neurophysiologic techniques in defining neural signatures
      of the disease. Additionally, the study team wants to evaluate the efficacy of transcranial
      electrical stimulation on relieving pain. The rationale for the proposed research is that
      identification of signature peripheral and central activation sites will allow for
      individualized treatment strategies for TN patients.

      To modulate brain activities the investigators will use transcranial electrical stimulation
      (tES). tES is an emerging neuromodulation technique that can be noninvasively and safely
      applied in humans. tES can help better understand the causal roles of brain networks and
      brain activities and has shown efficacy in improving pain. tES has two main variations:
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and transcranial alternating current
      stimulation (tACS). The former applies a weak direct current to the scalp whereas the latter
      applies a weak sinusoidal current to the scalp. tDCS can modulate the excitability of tissues
      under the stimulating electrodes. tACS is particularly suited for interacting with various
      oscillatory activities in the brain. tES has been used to study normal brain function and
      treat neurological and pain disorders as well. There is demonstrated efficacy in improvement
      of pain in subjects suffering from fibromyalgia and neuropathic pain. The study team will use
      different tDCS/tACS montages targeting different brain regions and observe behavior and
      neuronal activities. The current strength will be within 1mA or 2mA which has been shown to
      be safe and effective.
    
  