
    
      The drug being tested in this study was called alisertib. Alisertib in combination with
      paclitaxel was tested to find a safe and well-tolerated dose in East Asian participants. The
      study consisted of 2 parts: a dose escalation phase to determine the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) and define the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the alisertib plus paclitaxel
      combination in East Asian participants with advanced solid tumors; the second part is an
      expansion cohort at the RP2D of the alisertib plus paclitaxel in East Asian participants with
      either ovarian cancer or small cell lung cancer. This study looked at safety (lab results and
      side effects) and pharmacokinetic properties (how the drugs move throughout the body).

      This open label study enrolled 9 participants. Dose Escalation Phase: Alisertib tablets at a
      starting dose of 15 mg, orally, twice daily, 3 days on/4 days off for 3 weeks in 28 day cycle
      in combination with paclitaxel, 60 mg/m^2 intravenous on days 1, 8, and 15 in 28-day cycles
      in Cohort 1 escalated to a dose of 25 mg alisertib, orally, twice daily 3 days on/4 days off
      for 3 weeks in 28 day cycles in Cohort 2. If ≥ 2 participants experience a dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT) the dose of alisertib decreased to 20 mg. Expansion Cohort: alisertib tablets
      at the determined RP2D dose orally, twice daily 3 days on/4 days off for 3 weeks in 28 day
      cycles in combination with paclitaxel, 60 mg/m^2 intravenous. Treatment was continued until
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Alisertib 15 mg to 25 mg tablets

        -  Paclitaxel 60 mg/m^2 intravenous solution

      This multi-centre trial was conducted in Japan and Korea. The overall time to participate in
      this study was up to 24 months.

      The study was terminated early because of the sponsor's decision. Enrollment was completed in
      the dose escalation cohort, but no participants were enrolled in the dose expansion cohort.
    
  