
    
      Incidental pancreatic cysts are increasingly recognized due to the widespread use of
      cross-sectional imaging techniques such as CT and MRI. A number of lesions in the pancreas
      can form cysts, including serous cystadenomas (SCA), mucinous cystic neoplasms (MCNs),
      intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs), solid-pseudopapillary neoplasms (SPNs), and
      pseudocysts. SCAs and pseudocysts are considered benign; whereas SPNs are considered
      malignant and require surgical resection. IPMNs and MCNs are considered neoplasms with
      malignant potential, although the exact risk of malignant progression of these cysts is
      unknown. Currently, MCN are all surgically resected, whereas IPMN are resected if they have
      features suspicious for malignancy.

      However, current diagnostic tests cannot always reliably distinguish harmless from
      potentially harmful cysts. Recent studies conducted at Johns Hopkins have shown that each
      cyst type has unique genetic features that could be used as diagnostic biomarkers. In this
      study, clinical, imaging data and cyst fluid analysis of individuals with pancreatic cysts
      will be collected. In patients who undergo an endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) procedure, if a
      fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) is performed, and there is extra cyst fluid left after
      standard clinical tests have been sent, the extra cyst fluid will be submitted for molecular
      marker analysis. If an individual undergoes surgery to remove the cyst, cyst fluid will be
      collected after the cyst has been removed. In addition, a small amount of blood will be
      collected at the time of the EUS or surgical procedure.

      AIMS: The general aim is to propose and prospectively validate a diagnostic approach and
      model for prediction of mucinous versus non-mucinous, and malignant versus non-malignant,
      pancreatic cysts using a combination of clinical, radiologic, and biomarker characteristics.
    
  