
    
      Methamphetamine (MA) dependence is a significant source of deleterious consequences to
      individual and public health including HIV infection, psychological distress, and
      cardiovascular disease. Behavioral treatments, including cognitive behavioral therapy and
      contingency management are available, but are modestly effective. Although pharmacotherapy
      may improve treatment outcomes, ten years of randomized, placebo-controlled trials of
      medications for MA dependence have failed to identify a medication with a robust effect in
      generalized populations of MA users.

      Cholinergic mechanisms are important in the neurobiology of MA dependence. Varenicline is a
      α4β2 nicotinic receptor partial agonist and α7 nicotinic receptor full agonist that is
      approved for cigarette smoking cessation and shows promise for treating alcohol dependence.
      Varenicline may be effective for the treatment of MA dependence due to: (1) restoration of
      MA-related dopaminergic deficits via binding to α4β2 receptors in striatal dopaminergic (DA)
      neurons, (2) reductions in cigarette smoking and the associated nicotine-mediated
      potentiation of MA effects, (3) activation of the nicotinic cholinergic systems that mediate
      reductions in reinstatement of MA seeking seen with cannabinoid receptor antagonists and
      acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, (4) relief of MA-related glutamatergic deficits via α7
      nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor activation, and (5) reduction in MA-related cognitive
      dysfunction via the cognitive enhancing effects of cholinergic agonists.

      The investigators will enroll 90 treatment seeking, MA-dependent participants who will be
      randomly assigned to receive varenicline (n=45) or placebo (n=45), in conjunction with
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for 9 weeks followed by a 4 week follow-up period. Prior
      to enrollment in the trial, participants will complete a maximum 2 week (6 study visits)
      lead-in to complete baseline assessments, psychological and medical evaluation, and
      comprehensive assessment of drug use to determine study eligibility. Once determined to be
      eligible for the trial, participants will be randomly assigned to varenicline or placebo and
      will start study medication. Similar to smoking cessation treatment, participants will
      undergo dose escalation to varenicline 1 mg BID (or placebo BID) over one week as
      outpatients. Participants will have regular clinic visits at the UCLA Vine Street Clinic
      (UCLA VSC) for thrice-weekly study visits. At the end of the medication phase, subjects will
      complete a four-week follow up period for safety monitoring.
    
  