
    
      The study is intended for patients for whom a fine-needle aspiration biopsy of thyroid
      nodule/nodules is medically indicated for the detection of thyroid cancer. Fine-needle
      aspiration biopsy should preferably be carried out under ultrasound guidance as part of the
      patient's standard management plan. In order to limit screening bias, the investigators
      should, wherever possible, ask all patients seen consecutively to participate in the study.

      Eligible, screened patients will have been informed and will have signed a consent form prior
      to study-related activities which include notably the use and storage of some cells collected
      by fine-needle aspiration biopsy which have not been used for diagnostic purposes. The
      fine-needle aspiration biopsy samples will be collected either from the remaining material of
      FNA or there will be dedicated FNA sample in order to ensure an adequate quantity of material
      for molecular analysis, if necessary. The patients will also be invited to take part in the
      mutation study in a separate consent form.

      The samples of enrolled patients will be sent to the Diaxonhit Genomics Laboratory and
      analysed using Diaxonhit technology after checking the quantity and quality of the samples.
      Enrolled patients whose samples are inadequate in terms of quantity or quality for the
      various molecular tests will not be considered for the study. If necessary, mutation analyses
      can be carried out anonymously by an independent French laboratory and under the supervision
      of Diaxonhit.

      For each patient, the results of cytological and histological analyses or the monitoring
      program carried out by the centre will be recorded on electronic case report forms (e-CRF)
      generating an anonymous data base hosted by Clinfile - a data management company.

      All of the patients will be followed up until the malignant or benign status of their
      nodule(s) is known following fine needle aspiration biopsy, histological analysis of the
      surgical specimen or, failing that, clinical monitoring.

      Patients who have undergone surgery will be followed up until the histological results are
      obtained.

      In the case of patients who have not undergone surgery, follow-up will be carried out over a
      minimal period of 1 year (12 months), as from the patient's enrolment. Patients who have not
      undergone surgery will be clinically followed up for a maximum of 12 months after enrolment
      of the last study patient in order to benefit from the extended follow-up of patients who
      enter the study at an early stage.

      The results of the cytological and histological analyses will be confirmed by the centralised
      re-reading of the slides for statistical analysis, under blind status.

      In conjunction with validating the identified signature and in an attempt to improve
      diagnostic testing for thyroid cancers, the Diaxonhit company reserves the right to carry out
      additional exploratory analyses of all or part of the samples collected in order to identify
      new molecular signatures. These potentially new signatures will be validated in other
      protocols.

      The primary endpoint criterion will be the proportion of correct classifications for defining
      the malignant or benign nature of a fine-needle aspiration biopsy carried out in patients
      presenting with thyroid nodules and an indeterminate cytology for Bethesda categories III and
      IV. The results obtained with the signature will be compared to the histology results of the
      surgical specimen or, failing that, to the results of the monitoring program implemented by
      the clinician.

      Evaluation of the performance of previously identified transcriptome signatures will also be
      carried out on every other category, which may or may not be indeterminate according to the
      Bethesda classification. This information will be considered as the secondary endpoint
      criterion. Other secondary endpoint criteria will include the proportion of correct
      classifications obtained when the signature is linked to other predictive tests such as
      mutation tests or the TIRADS score in order to define the malignant or benign nature of a
      fine-needle aspiration biopsy carried out in patients presenting with thyroid nodules and
      having an indeterminate cytology. The results obtained with the combination of tests will be
      compared to the histological analysis of the surgical samples or otherwise to the results of
      the monitoring program implemented by the clinician. The results of other study parameters,
      essentially clinical, laboratory or demographic, will also be combined in an attempt to
      define a potential algorithmic approach for diagnosing thyroid cancer.

      The performance of the Dx15 molecular test will be determined in the target population using
      Bethesda category III and IV samples.

      The enrolment of 1000 patients is scheduled in order to achieve the necessary recruitment
      levels for categories III and IV.

      For the purposes of the study, the Dx15 test may also be applied to a sample of cohorts in
      other Bethesda categories (I: non-diagnostic, II: benign, V: SMC, and VI: malignant) in order
      to identify test performance in these other categories.

      Whenever possible, for the fine-needle aspiration samples tested with Dx15 and used to
      determine performance, the presence of a related histopathological result of the surgical
      specimen will be given priority.

      A sample eligible for assessment is one that meets the Diaxonhit quality and quantity
      criteria in order to enable the scheduled molecular analyses.

      Recruitment will be performed in centers specialized in the diagnosis and follow-up of
      thyroid cancer.
    
  