
    
      This study will involve a screening visit and two testing weeks over an approximate 3 week
      period (this includes a one week "washout" period).

      Each testing week will have a 3 day salt-controlled diet prior to testing and an approximate
      3-hour testing period on Day 4. The 3-hour testing period will include 10 minutes of a
      baseline rest, 45 minutes of mild stress (competitive video game), and 45 minutes of a
      recovery rest. A total of 4 blood and 4 urine samples will be collected during the 3-hour
      period. Each blood draw will consist of about 7 teaspoons for a total of 28 teaspoons per
      testing week.

      During the screening and testing, I will be asked to take the MoCA (the Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment) test in order to measure cognitive thinking after stress. It is a brief
      30-question test which takes around 10 minutes to complete. It measures different types of
      cognitive abilities, including orientation (the approximate position of something/someone),
      short-term memory (remember information for a short period of time), executive function
      (planning and problem solving), language abilities (assign appropriate names to appropriate
      items), and visuospatial ability (determine distance from one object to another). Each
      question is awarded a particular number of points depending on the accuracy of the answers
      given. We will be looking to see if the total number of points earned changes in response
      before and after stress.

      Screening Visit: I will come to the GPI or the CRU for a screening visit that will last about
      90 minutes. The study will be described in detail and an informed consent will be obtained.
      Vital signs will be taken (blood pressure, height, weight and BMI - Body Mass Index. A health
      history and a limited physical exam will be conducted by Dr. White (or a physician delegate)
      to insure that it is safe for me to participate in the study. A blood sample will be obtained
      from me to make sure nothing is wrong with my kidneys or liver or have any other chronic
      illness. If all lab work returns with no abnormalities, then I will be cleared to participate
      in one of the crossover studies.

      I will also select my food and drink items from a food menu for the 3-day diet prior to
      testing. The items I select will give me enough to eat and drink for the 3 days. All food and
      drink items will be packed in coolers that I will be responsible for picking up and dropping
      off daily. I am not to eat any food or drink item(s) other than those provided, except for
      water. To make sure that I am following the diet, I will be asked to return all of my food
      wrappers and drink containers to the GPI or CRU. I will also be asked to collect an overnight
      urine sample each night so that they can see how much salt I am taking in each day. My
      testing weeks will also be scheduled at this visit.

      The last thing that I will be asked to do for the screening visit, is to take the MoCA test
      which will take approximately 10 minutes. Someone from the research team will instruct me as
      to what to do for each question and I will answer each one to the best of my ability.

      Testing Week One: The week prior to my scheduled testing week, I will pick up my food coolers
      for the 3 day study diet along with my 7 ½ day prescription of either the MMF or the placebo.
      In addition, if I am female, I will have to give a urine sample so that a pregnancy test can
      be performed to make sure I am not pregnant before I start taking the medication. Should the
      pregnancy test show positive, I will not be allowed to continue participating in the study. I
      will take the study medication (either MMF or a placebo) 500 mgs twice a day for the 71/2
      days as instructed, taking my last dose the morning of testing at GPI.

      The coolers will contain the food and drink items that I selected previously at my screening
      visit. I will also receive the overnight urine collection bottles. During the diet phase of
      testing, I will collect a urine sample before I go to bed each night and record the time
      (write the time on the bottle). I will also collect a urine sample as soon as I wake up each
      morning and record the time. I will be returning the urine collection bottles and food
      coolers to GPI or CRU starting on the second day of the diet phase. This means that I will
      return my Monday cooler and urine collection bottle on Tuesday (Day 2). I will then return my
      Tuesday cooler and collection bottle on Wednesday (Day 3). On Thursday (testing day), I will
      bring back my Wednesday cooler and urine collection bottle. During the diet phase of the
      study, if I am female, a pregnancy test will be performed on each overnight urine sample to
      ensure that I am not pregnant.

      On testing day, I will bring with me my Wednesday cooler and overnight urine sample and will
      be given breakfast before testing begins. Again, if I am female, a pregnancy test will be
      performed on my last (Wednesday) overnight urine sample to ensure I am not pregnant. I will
      be taken to a private room for testing and placed into a comfortable reclining chair. A
      nurse/phlebotomist will insert a small needle attached to a plastic tube called a catheter
      into a vein in my hand or arm. This procedure will allow the nurse/phlebotomist to collect
      the 4 blood samples over the 3-hour testing period. The needle stick may cause some temporary
      pain and may result in a black and blue mark. A device that automatically takes blood
      pressure will then be put on the opposite arm. I will also be given water in order to take my
      last dose of medication before testing begins and to sip on during the duration of testing.
      During the first 10 minute baseline rest period, I will relax in a reclining chair. I can
      listen to music, read a book or magazine or watch movies to pass the time. My blood pressure
      will be taken before and after this 10 minute rest period. Once the baseline rest period is
      over, a blood and urine sample will be collected.

      During the stress period, I will play a video game against another subject for 45 minutes. My
      blood pressure will continue to be measured every 10 minutes. I will also continue to sip on
      water during this time. At the end of the game, another blood and urine sample will be
      collected. I will then be asked to complete the MoCA test a second time. It will be the same
      questions I was asked during the screening visit. A research team member will instruct me
      again as to how to answer each question and I will answer them to the best of my ability.

      The last 45 minute recovery period of relaxation will be the same as the first (reading,
      listening to music or watching movies). My blood pressure will continue to be taken every 10
      minutes. Once the 45 minutes has ended the last blood and urine sample will be collected and
      the testing day will then be completed.

      Testing Week Two: The procedures for the Testing Week 2 are the same as Week 1. I will be on
      the controlled salt diet for 3-days, will take the study medication twice a day and will do
      the 3-hour testing on the 4th day. Like the first week, there will be 10 minute baseline rest
      period, 45 minutes stress period of the competitive video game and 45 minutes recovery rest
      period. Blood and urine samples will also be collected and I will be asked to take the MoCA
      test just like during Week 1 testing. Approximately 56 teaspoons of blood will be collected
      during the entire study. This blood will be used to examine how biochemical factors (stress
      hormones) relate to blood pressure and cardiovascular (heart) health. The DNA (genetic
      material) from the blood will be studied for genes relating to high blood pressure and other
      genes that may be related to the risk of cardiovascular disease. The blood, urine and DNA
      samples may be stored and used for other similar studies by Dr. Harshfield, Dr. Harris and
      Dr. Dong. The genetic results from these studies will not be told to myself and will not be
      given to any doctor or other individual.
    
  