
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the response rate, survival, quality of life, and supportive care requirements
           with intensive versus nonintensive chemotherapy in older patients with acute myeloid
           leukemia or high risk myelodysplastic syndrome.

        -  Compare response achievement, response duration, survival, toxicity and supportive care
           requirements with differing doses of daunorubicin and cytarabine in these patients
           receiving intensive chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the efficacy of PSC 833 in enhancing the effects of daunorubicin in these
           patients receiving intensive chemotherapy.

        -  Compare relapse rate, deaths in complete remission, disease free survival, and survival
           with short versus long intensive chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Compare response achievement, response duration, survival, toxicity, quality of life,
           and resource use with hydroxyurea versus cytarabine in these patients receiving low dose
           chemotherapy.

        -  Determine response achievement, response duration, survival, toxicity, quality of life,
           and supportive care requirements with the addition of tretinoin to the nonintensive
           chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Assess the correlation between P-gp and BCL-2 in family members and treatment outcomes
           and other prognostic factors in these patients with these treatment regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized or electively
      assigned to either intensive or nonintensive chemotherapy*.

      Intensive chemotherapy

        -  Induction therapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 6 treatment arms. Patients receive 2
           courses of chemotherapy comprising 1 of 2 daunorubicin doses, 1 of 2 cytarabine doses,
           thioguanine, and with or without PSC 833.

      Patients receive daunorubicin IV once daily on days 1-3 with cytarabine IV twice daily and
      oral thioguanine once daily on days 1-10 during course 1. Treatment repeats in approximately
      31 days as in course 1 except cytarabine and thioguanine are given only on days 1-8.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive higher dose of daunorubicin, lower dose of cytarabine, and
           thioguanine.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive higher dose of daunorubicin, higher dose of cytarabine, and
           thioguanine.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive lower dose of daunorubicin, lower dose of cytarabine, and
           thioguanine.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive lower dose of daunorubicin, higher dose of cytarabine, and
           thioguanine.

        -  Arm V: Patients receive treatment as in arm III in combination with continuous infusion
           of PSC 833 beginning day 1.

        -  Arm VI: Patients receive treatment as in arm IV in combination with continuous infusion
           of PSC 833 beginning on day 1.

      Patients with refractory disease after the first course of induction chemotherapy may
      continue with the intensive protocol arm or enter the nonintensive arm*. Patients who do not
      achieve complete remission after completion of induction chemotherapy are removed from study.
      Patients in complete remission after induction therapy receive consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients in complete remission after induction are randomized to
           either short or long consolidation.

             -  Short consolidation: Patients receive mitoxantrone IV on days 1-3 and cytarabine IV
                over 2 hours twice daily on days 1-3.

             -  Long consolidation: Patients complete short consolidation and then receive
                idarubicin IV over 5 minutes once daily on days 1 and 3, cytarabine IV over 2 hours
                twice daily and etoposide IV over 1 hour once daily on days 1-3.

      Non-intensive chemotherapy*

        -  Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral hydroxyurea as necessary to control WBC count until
                treatment failure.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive hydroxyurea as in arm I and oral tretinoin daily for up to
                16 weeks.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive low dose cytarabine subcutaneously twice daily on days
                1-10 every 28 days for a minimum of 4 courses.

             -  Arm IV: Patients receive cytarabine as in arm III plus oral tretinoin daily for up
                to 16 weeks.

      NOTE: *Patients with liver function test > 2 times upper limit of normal are not eligible for
      nonintensive randomization

      Quality of life is assessed at study entry, and then at 1, 3, and 6 months.

      Patients are followed at one year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 2,000 patients (1,200 to intensive arm and 800 to
      nonintensive arm) will be accrued for this study over 5 years.
    
  