
    
      Nowadays there are no clear recommendations about treatment of coronary in patients with
      severe aortic valve stenosis eligible for percutaneous valve replacement, and those available
      rely on a "common sense", class C, level of evidence. No randomized trials debride the skein
      about the best strategy of revascularization in this complex group of patients. In
      particular, it remains unclear whether it is preferable a preventive treatment or an
      ischemia-driven revascularization and, in addition, if it is safer and better for patient's
      health a simultaneous or a staged strategy.

      The aim of this study is to compare the clinical outcome of patients with severe aortic valve
      stenosis and associated significant coronary artery disease treated with TAVI and a
      percutaneous myocardial revascularization dictated according to two different strategies.

      The Angiographically-guided strategy is that of aiming the most complete degree of
      revascularization based on angiographic evaluation (stenting all coronary stenosis of major
      branches >2.5mm, with a %DS>50% as evaluated by visual estimation).

      The Physiologically-guided strategy is that of treating only lesions with FFR ≤0.80, and
      leaving on optimal medical treatment lesions with FFR >0.80. The iFR values will be recorded
      in all patients, and verified in the core laboratory to allow a post-hoc analysis correlating
      the 0.80 FFR cut-off with different iFR cut-off values, according to recent observations and
      using the same study end-points.

      Particular attention will be dedicated to the eventual occurrence of clinical events in
      patients deferred on the bases of FFR values >0.80 that show a discrepancy with positive
      (<0.89) iFR values to investigate the reliability of the FFR in the Aortic Stenosis setting.

      Both groups will receive the same TAVI strategy and optimal medical therapy. The study is
      designed as randomized, prospective, multi.center, open label, experimental trial with
      medical device. After discharge patients will be contacted at 30 days, 6 - 12 and 24 months
      after the procedure to assess the general clinical status and at 12 months to assess the
      occurrence of events included in the primary and secondary endpoints. The duration of study
      participation is 24 months for enrolment, ad 24 months for final follow-up.
    
  