
    
      Aims

      To determine the effectiveness of Mepilex Border dressings in preventing sacral and heel
      pressure ulcer development

      To determine the cost effectiveness of Mepilex Border dressings in preventing sacral and heel
      pressure ulcers.

      Primary endpoint

      Incidence rates of pressure ulcers in ICU expressed as the total number of pressure ulcers
      developed per week in both groups

      Secondary endpoint

      Cost of trial dressings to prevent pressure ulcers Cost of the management of developed
      pressure ulcers

      Hypothesis

      Patients treated with Mepilex Border dressings will have a lower incidence rate of sacral and
      heel pressure ulcer development than patients receiving standard care.

      Subjects and Sampling

      All trauma and critically ill patients admitted to ED and defined by the ED as being trauma
      and/or critically ill. These patients will subsequently be transferred to ICU over a six (6)
      month period commencing January 2010

      Sample size

      The investigators calculate that to detect a decrease in the ICU pressure ulcer incidence
      rate of 3.5% (from 4% to 0.5%) in the intervention group with power set at 80% and alpha of
      0.05 will require a total of 220 patients per group.

      Randomisation

      Subjects will be randomised to either the intervention group or to the control group by
      allocating each subject a study number and then using a computer generated set of random
      numbers to determine group allocation. The randomisation of participants will be undertaken
      by an ED research nurse when the patient is admitted to ED and following screening to
      determine if they meet the inclusion criteria.

      Participant selection:

      The following procedure will be used by the ED Research Nurse to determine if the person is
      included in the study and to which group the individual will be allocated.

      Potential participant Meets inclusion criteria and does not meet exclusion criteria Conducts
      standard MH pressure ulcer risk screening (Braden Scale) Assigns participant a study number
      Records ED data at admission (see below) Determines group allocation by comparing participant
      study number to randomisation sequence

      If randomised to trial group:

      Applies Mepilex Border dressings to sacrum and heels Records time of dressing application

      Intervention

      Trial group patients who meet the inclusion criteria will have a Mepilex Border dressing
      applied to their sacrum and heels on admission to ED by the ED research nursing staff. It is
      necessary to apply the dressing at this point because the investigators wish to investigate
      the potential protective effects of the dressing if the patient needs to have a surgical
      procedure which may involve a long period in the OR.

      Mepilex Border Dressing Mepilex Border is an absorbent, atraumatic self-adhesive island
      dressing with a perforated soft silicone wound contact layer. The absorbent core of the
      dressing consists of three components, a thin sheet of polyurethane foam, a piece of nonwoven
      fabric and a layer of superabsorbent polyacrylate fibres. The core is located centrally upon
      a larger piece of polyurethane film and is held in place by the perforated silicone adhesive
      layer that extends to the outer margins of the dressing. This gentle adhesion also tends to
      prevent maceration by inhibiting the lateral movement of exudate from the wound on to the
      surrounding skin. The silicone layer does not adhere to the surface of a wound and therefore
      the dressing may be removed without causing pain or trauma.

      Method of use The wound contact surface of the dressing is protected with a divided plastic
      film, which must be removed before use. If clinically indicated, the wound should be cleaned
      and the surrounding skin thoroughly dried before application of the dressings. If additional
      fixation is required this should only be applied around the margins of the dressing.

      Frequency of Change The interval between changes will normally be determined by the amount of
      exudate produced by the wound, but the dressing may be left in place for several days on
      clean non-infected wounds.

      The manufacturers note that there are no absolute contra-indications to the use Mepilex
      Border dressings.

      As patients in this study will not have a wound in the areas where the dressing will be
      applied the investigators propose to change each dressing every three days or as required if
      they become soiled or dislodged. This decision will be made by members of the research team
      whao are involved with the daily assessment of each patient.

      The skin under the dressings will be observed daily by members of the research team to
      determine if any pressure related injuries have developed. Pressure related injuries are
      defined as per the Australian Wound management Association clinical guideline for the
      prediction, prevention and management of pressure ulcers. All members of the research team
      have undergone inter-rater reliability testing in September 2010 for their ability to
      recognise and stage a pressure ulcer.

      Measurement

      Patient demographics Age Wt Gender Race Pre-existing disease Charlson Comorbidity Index score
      Reason for admission Management pre admission Eg. Time on spinal board Time in Ambulance Time
      in ED ED management - ventilation ED physiological observations Number of OR procedures Time
      in OR Time in ICU Nutritional status Immobility Urinary incontinence Faecal incontinence

      Pressure ulcers:

      Pressure ulcer incidence per week

      Pressure ulcers will be staged according to the Australian Wound Management Association
      (AWMA) staging system

      Cost of trial dressings used for total duration of trial Cost of management of developed
      pressure ulcers Staff time Consumables

      Physiological data All physiological data collected in ICU Shock/SIRS Cardiac arrest Drive
      lines Spinal cord injury Mechanical ventilation Traction/external fixators

      Pharmaceutical data All drugs Sedation/Paralytics Vasopressor drugs

      Analysis

      A survival analysis will be used to determine the difference in pressure ulcer incidence
      rates per group and logistic regression will be used to investigate potential interactions
      between demographic and physiological variables between groups and incidence rates. Analysis
      will be conducted separately for sacral and heel wounds as the main analysis. The
      investigators may pool the results if there appears to be no difference between the incidence
      rates for sacral and heel wounds. All analytical procedures will be carried out by the
      Statistical Consulting Centre, University of Melbourne.

      Cost analysis will involve calculating the total treatment and prevention costs associated
      with pressure ulcers including staff time and consumables. The costing analysis will be
      carried out by a research nurse in ICU who will observe and record the total staff time by
      grade of RN spent on pressure ulcer prevention in all patients. Costs such as support
      surfaces (dynamic mattresses and overlays) will also be added to prevention costs.
      Intervention group patients will also have the costs of the Mepilex Border dressings added to
      their pressure ulcer prevention costs.

      Should a patient in either group develop a pressure ulcer the cost of managing the wound will
      be calculated based on staff time by grade, consumables such as dressings, investigations
      such as microbiological specimen collection and analysis. These costs will be determined for
      the total time that the patient remains in ICU.
    
  