
    
      Background: No approved medical treatments preventing, delaying or stopping Parkinson's
      disease (PD) exist, making identification of interventions having this potential a major
      priority. Exercise studies have demonstrated beneficial effects of aerobic exercise (AE) on
      aerobic capacity, cognition, depression and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
      (UPDRS). Animal studies show that AE can reduce α-synuclein aggregation and toxin-induced
      lesions in the nigrostriatal pathway while improving motor and cognitive function.
      Consequently, AE possesses neuroprotective potentials and thus represents a potentially
      inexpensive and easily accessible disease modifying therapy in PD. Evolving magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) techniques offer valid and reliable biomarkers to monitor disease
      progression, but no longitudinal MRI study has assessed the neuroprotective potentials of AE
      in PD.

      Aim: To investigate whether 24 weeks of AE can delay PD progression markers and improve
      motor/non-motor symptoms in PD.

      Methods: 70 PD patients will be randomized 1:1 to 24 weeks of supervised AE (60 sessions,
      moderate to high intensity) or standard care. Neuroprotective effects will be determined by
      MRI scans (R2*, quantitative susceptibility mapping, diffusion kurtosis imaging,
      neuromelanin-weighted MRI, volumetry), blood markers and Levodopa equivalents. Clinical
      (MDS-UPDRS III) and subjective (MDS-UPDRS I) outcomes are also assessed.

      Perspectives: By combining expertise from exercise physiology, radiology, endocrinology and
      neuropsychology a novel approach is taken aiming to understand the possible neuroprotective
      effects of AE in PD. This would be of high relevance to PD patients and their relatives. From
      a societal perspective it may lower disability-related costs by optimizing PD rehabilitation.
      In case of positive findings, this would provide the first convincing human evidence of a
      disease modifying effect of AE in PD potentially changing clinical practice.
    
  