
    
      CHD remains the leading cause of death in numerous developed countries and is estimated to
      cause one-third of all deaths in patients over the age of 35. 28 While CVD is preventable,
      studies suggest that a range of lifestyle factors including physical inactivity, nicotine
      abuse, and nutrition practices are increasing the prevalence of the disease in most
      countries. 28,29 Such facts highlight the importance of lifestyle interventions. Despite the
      chronic nature of cardiovascular disease, even short-term studies analyzing ad libitum
      plant-based diets reveal significantly improved changes in commonly tested biomarkers that
      predict cardiovascular disease risk. 30 While a number of studies have explored the
      lipid-lowering effects of traditional vegetarian diets, 31 few studies have explored the
      effects of a whole-food, plant-based diet despite its proposed benefits. Preliminary studies
      suggest that such a diet might facilitate weight loss and lead to improvements in lipid
      parameters.32 To this end, we propose a study to implement a whole-food, plant based diet
      intervention in the Lancaster community to quantify its ability to modify lipid, metabolic
      and inflammatory biomarkers.

      This single-arm diet pilot study seeks to determine the serologic effects of a whole-food,
      plant-based diet on primary prevention subjects in a free-range environment. Eligible
      participants will have had either an LDL-C >100 mg/dL or non-HDL-C >130 mg/dLwithout a
      current diagnosis of coronary heart disease and are willing to adhere to a whole food plant
      based diet for at least 8 weeks.

      A total of 50 subjects will be enrolled to the study. Participants enrolled in the study will
      provide fasting blood work and receive education on a whole-food, plant-based diet at a local
      Lancaster County grocery store during their first study visit. At this time, the study
      coordinator will also document the patient's height, weight, and hip and waist circumference.
      While subjects are waiting to provide a blood draw, study personnel will administer two
      baseline questionnaires to each subject. The first questionnaire will be the SF12
      quality-of-life survey. The second survey will capture pertinent elements of the patient's
      medical history and ask the patient questions on motivation, attitude, and expected
      compliance to the diet.They will be served a catered vegan breakfast and receive a lecture on
      a whole-food, plant-based diet by Dr. Christopher Wenger. Dr. Wenger also will train the
      subjects on the use of the study food record. At the end of the session, a certified
      nutritionist will give a tour of the local grocery store to show subjects how to select
      appropriate low-cost foods for the dietary intervention. Following the conclusion of the
      study visit, subjects will begin the interventional phase of the study and follow a
      whole-food, plant-based diet for eight weeks. The dietary intervention will conclude with the
      post-intervention study visit. Throughout the study, patients will have access to dietary
      counseling which will be provided by a certified nutritionist

      The post-intervention study visit (8 weeks after the initial visit) will be held at the
      conference room in the local grocery story and will comprise the same cohort which began the
      study together at the baseline study visit. Prior to distributing each subject's results,
      study personnel will administer the SF12 quality-of-life survey and measure each subject's
      weight and hip and waist circumference post-intervention. Study personnel will also
      administer a questionnaire assessing each subject's experience on the diet including
      challenges, motivation, and attitudes toward the diet. We will also capture how likely the
      patient is to continue on the diet after the conclusion of the study.

      Study personnel will then disseminate each patient's lab results pre- and post-intervention.
      At this time, subjects will be given the opportunity to discuss their results with Dr.
      Wenger. A catered vegan lunch will be served during the study visit.
    
  