
    
      The background regimen will be constructed by the investigator based on viral resistance
      testing. The fully active PI will be defined by phenotypic resistance analysis. For
      phenotypic susceptibility, fully active is defined as being below the lower clinical or
      biological cutoff. Participants are required to take their ritonavir dose based on the dosing
      schedule indicated in the prescribing information for the PI; no additional ritonavir is
      required to be taken with EVG. No other marketed PIs are allowed as part of the background
      regimen due to unknown drug interactions.

      The second agent can be one nucleoside or nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI),
      etravirine, maraviroc, or T-20. However, the second agent must not include an integrase
      inhibitor; the nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors efavirenz, nevirapine, or
      delavirdine (due to unknown drug interactions); or the fixed-dose combination therapies
      Atripla® or Trizivir® (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine/zidovudine). The second agent may or may
      not be fully active (except in Spain, where participants have to receive a fully active
      second agent, as requested by the Spanish regulatory agency).

      If the M184V/I reverse transcriptase (RT) mutation is present on the screening genotype
      report and an NRTI is used as the second agent, then either FTC or LAM may be added as a
      third agent in the background regimen to maintain the M184V/I mutation. In this situation
      only, the fixed-dose combination therapies Combivir®, Truvada®, or Epzicom/Kivexa® may be
      prescribed as the combined second and third agents of the background regimen.

      After Week 96, participants will continue to take their blinded study drug and attend visits
      until treatment assignments are unblinded, at which point they will be given the option to
      participate in an open-label EVG extension phase of the study.
    
  