
    
      Despite advances in treatment, severe mental illness (SMI) remains common, chronic and
      difficult to treat. SMI is defined as having at least one mental disorder that lasts for
      12-months and leads to substantial life interference. Sleep and circadian dysfunctions are
      among the most prominent correlates of SMI, yet have been minimally studied in ways that
      reflect the complexity of the sleep problems experienced by people with SMI. In SMI, sleep
      and circadian dysfunction undermines affect regulation, cognitive function and physical
      health, predicts onset and worsening of symptoms and is often chronic even with
      evidence-based SMI treatment. Prior treatment studies have been disorder-focused-they have
      treated a specific sleep problem (e.g., insomnia) in a specific diagnostic group (e.g.,
      depression). However, real life sleep and circadian problems are not so neatly categorized,
      particularly in SMI where features of insomnia overlap with hypersomnia, delayed sleep phase
      and irregular sleep-wake schedules. Accordingly, we aim to test the hypothesis that a
      Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction (TranS-C) will improve
      functional impairment, disorder-focused symptoms and sleep and circadian functioning. We will
      recruit participants across DSM diagnoses and across common sleep and circadian problems. The
      elements of TranS-C are efficacious across SMI in research settings with research-based
      providers. The next step is to test TranS-C in community settings with community-based
      providers. Accordingly, we propose to conduct an 'efficacy in the real world' randomized
      controlled trial within Alameda County Behavioral Health Care Services (ACBHCS), the
      community mental health center (CMHC) for Alameda County. We will recruit 120 adults
      diagnosed with SMI and sleep and circadian dysfunction within ACBHCS. Individuals will be
      randomly allocated to TranS-C (n = 60) or 6-months of Usual Care followed by Delayed
      Treatment with TranS-C (UC-DT; n = 60). TranS-C is modularized and delivered across eight to
      twelve 50-minute, weekly, individual sessions. All participants will be assessed before,
      immediately following treatment (ie. 9-14 weeks later) and again 6 months later.
    
  