
    
      Fuchs Endothelial Dystrophy (FED) is a degenerative disease affecting the corneal
      endothelium, characterized clinically by guttate excrescences on the posterior corneal
      surface and dysfunctional corneal endothelial cells. While patients are commonly asymptomatic
      in their early stages, advanced FED can be associated with significant corneal edema,
      scarring and impairment of visual function.

      Patients with mild FED are usually managed conservatively with the application of topical
      hypertonic saline eyedrops. For patients with advanced FED, endothelial keratoplasty may
      often be necessary. In 2014, FED represented the most common indication for endothelial
      keratoplasty in the United States, accounting for 47.7% (13,817 cases) of all endothelial
      keratoplasty procedures performed nationwide. In Singapore, FED was the second most common
      indication for corneal transplantation.

      Endothelial keratoplasty is associated with endothelial cell attrition in the range of 29.7%
      - 47% by the 3rd post-operative year. Additionally, the global demand for corneal graft
      material currently still far outstrips supply, critically limiting the number of patients who
      can potentially benefit from these surgical interventions. As such, there is a need explore
      alternative, sustainable strategies for the management of FED.

      In 2009, Shah et al. reported the treatment of a 34 years old patient, with the combined
      pathologies of FED and Posterior Polymorphous Corneal Dystrophy (PPMD), by primary stripping
      of the central 4-5mm of Descemet's membrane without corneal graft transplantation ('Primary
      Descemetorhexis'). Contrary to conventional expectations, there was complete repopulation of
      the posterior corneal surface by corneal endothelial cells following the surgery, with
      best-corrected-visual-acuity (BCVA) of 6/7.5 achieved by the 6th post-operative month. In
      2014, Moloney et al. published a similar report of a 54 years old patient, diagnosed with
      FED, successfully treated by Primary Descemetorhexis. Rapid endothelial recovery, as
      evidenced by a central endothelial cell count of 620 cells/mm2 and BCVA of 6/6, was achieved
      by approximately 6 weeks after the surgery. The success of these cases raised the prospect of
      Primary Descemetorhexis as a feasible alternative for the treatment of FED.

      To gain a better understanding of the factors which may affect endothelial recovery following
      Primary Descemetorhexis, investigators performed an ex vivo human corneal endothelial cell
      culture experiment in which Primary Descemetorhexis was performed on cadaveric human cornea
      buttons, followed by ex vivo culture for a duration of 2 weeks to allow for endothelial
      recovery. A less invasive approach of denuding endothelial cells from the Descemet's membrane
      (DM), while maintaining anatomical integrity of the DM, was also assessed. The investigators
      found that advanced patient age and the absence of DM were significantly associated with
      slower endothelial recovery.

      As such, the investigators hypothesized that the outcomes of Primary Descemetorhexis for the
      treatment of FED may be improved by DM transplantation following Primary Descemetorhexis ('DM
      Transplantation'). The main difference between the proposed technique of DM transplantation
      and conventional endothelial keratoplasty is that the DM transplant does not require the
      presence of a functional corneal endothelial monolayer on the graft. If successful, the
      greatest advantage of this approach would be to greatly expand the pool of donors who are
      eligible to provide cadaveric corneal graft tissue for transplantation.
    
  