
    
      Small fibre neuropathy (SFN) is caused by dysfunction of the Aδ-fibres and C-fibres. SFN is
      diagnosed if there are typical SFN symptoms together with abnormal intraepidermal nerve fibre
      density (IENFD) in skin biopsy and/or abnormal temperature thresholds in quantitative sensory
      testing (QST). A large number of disorders can underlie SFN, such as diabetes, amyloidosis,
      sarcoidosis and other systemic illnesses, vasculitis, and HIV. The proportion of idiopathic
      or cryptogenic SFN reported in literature varies between 24% and 93%. SFN is not a rare
      condition; a recent study showed a minimum prevalence of 53/100.000.

      SFN can cause severe and chronic symptoms such as burning pain in particularly the
      extremities in combination with autonomic symptoms, with a significant impact on quality of
      life. Moreover, neuropathic pain disorders are associated with anxiety, depression and sleep
      disturbances, polypharmacy and significant healthcare resource use. Therefore, neuropathic
      pain has a significant impact on society due to the high socioeconomic costs. The treatment
      of SFN still largely relies on the agents generally used for neuropathic pain relief,
      particularly derived from diabetic painful neuropathic studies, such as antidepressants
      (amitriptyline, duloxetine), anti-epileptic agents (pregabalin, gabapentin), opioids and
      topical agents (lidocain and capsaicin), but have been disappointing in SFN (clinical
      observation in > 400 patients treated). Therefore it is of major importance to develop new
      treatment options that can provide sufficient pain relief for the individual patient.

      In 1965 Melzack and Wall introduced the gate theory of pain perception. This theory offered
      new perspectives in treating neuropathic pain. In the seventies SCS was introduced. It was
      thought that the stimulation of the large myelinated fibres modulates the transmission of
      pain signals, which run through small, non-myelinated fibres. The exact mechanism of SCS is
      still unknown. Nowadays SCS is used worldwide and the global sales are estimated for more
      than 35.000 systems annually. Recently, a prospective two-centre randomized controlled trial
      was performed to investigate the effect of SCS in painful diabetic polyneuropathy. SCS was
      successful in 59% of the patients, and the effect lasted for at least 2.5 years in most
      patients.

      The current pilot study will focus on the potential effect of SCS in patients with SFN. The
      main study parameter will be the mean pain intensity as measured on a Numeric Rating Scale
      (NRS) and/or a Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) for pain and sleep measured on a
      7-point Likert scale, after 12 months of treatment in patients with SFN and intractable
      neuropathic pain in the lower limbs. Besides the primary objective, the following secondary
      aims are investigated:

        1. The effect of SCS on pain (at least 30% pain reduction, on mean daily, night, and
           maximum pain);

        2. the effect of SCS on activity and participation;

        3. the effect of SCS on and health related quality of life;

        4. the effect of SCS on mood in SFN;

        5. the effect of SCS on the reduction of pain medication.
    
  