
    
      Subjects will undergo ovarian stimulation, oocyte retrieval, IVF, and Intra Cytoplasmic Sperm
      Injection (ICSI) procedure following the center's usual procedures. The cohort of injected
      oocytes from each patient will be randomly divided between the one step and sequential
      medias: CRM (Cornell- Center for Reproductive Medicine) media (C1/C2 or C3) vs G-TL Time
      Lapse media or G-1/G-2 media. Single step or sequential media are both buffered mediums for
      culture from oocyte fertilization to blastocyst stage. Sequential media is formulated
      according to the stages of embryo development and embryos are re-cultured in medias according
      to their stage of development. Single step (time lapse) media is formulated for continuous
      culture from D0 to Day 5/6.

      Mature oocytes will be randomized via a non-bias computer program into two to four of the
      study groups: G-TL commercial single step (Vitrolife), Vitrolife's sequential media,
      Cornell's single step , and Cornell's sequential media. Oocytes will be divided randomly
      among the various media dependent upon the number of mature oocytes. I.e.: 10 oocytes
      injected = 2 media groups; 15 oocytes injected = up to 3 media groups; 20 oocytes injected =
      up to 4 media groups.

      "Best grade" embryos will be transferred regardless of media source. If embryos are
      transferred from multi-source media and if researchers are unable to determine the media
      source after transfer, the subject will not be included in the outcome data portion of the
      study- e.g pregnancy outcome.

      The Time-Lapse monitoring system will be used as standard clinical practice to observe
      development and document timing of embryo cleavages and morphology dynamics.

      Endpoints will be Day 3 and Day 5/6 embryo development, implantation and pregnancy rate. The
      study is approximately 2 months, the estimated time it takes a physician to perform one
      IVF-ART IVF- Assisted Reproductive Technology) treatment cycle. If embryos are frozen, the
      patient may be in the study until the time they choose to thaw the embryos or up to 1 year if
      they become pregnant.
    
  