
    
      Primary Objective:

        1. To assess the efficacy of Dasatinib therapy in chronic and accelerated phase BCR-ABL (+)
           (Ph + and Ph -) CML patients that undergo molecular, cytogenetic or haematological
           relapse following SCT.

      Secondary Objective(s):

        1. To assess the impact of Dasatinib therapy on patient survival after relapse post-SCT and
           the incidence of any subsequent need for 'rescue' DLI.

        2. To assess the safety of Dasatinib in this clinical context using this specific dose
           regimen

      Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) is a form of cancer that starts in cells within the bone
      marrow called haematopoietic stem cells. Stem cells are immature cells which can divide many
      times and eventually produce all the lymphocytes and myeloid cells present in the blood. They
      are produced in the bone marrow - the spongy tissue found in large bones, including the
      pelvis, sternum, limb bones and the ribs.

      Leukaemia is a cancer of the white blood cells. In CML, too many myeloid cells (one of the
      main types of white blood cells which defend the body against infectious diseases) are
      produced. The myeloid cells are released into the blood when they are immature and unable to
      work properly. These immature white blood cells are known as blasts.

      The immature cells fill up the bone marrow and prevent it from making blood cells properly.
      As the leukaemia cells do not mature, they can't do the work of normal white blood cells,
      which leads to an increased risk of infection. Because the bone marrow is overcrowded with
      immature white cells it also can't make enough healthy red cells and platelets.

      CML usually develops very slowly, which is why it is called 'chronic' myeloid leukaemia.

      The aim of this study is to assess the efficacy (indicates the capacity for beneficial change
      or therapeutic effect) of a leukaemia treatment called dasatinib (sprycel) in patients with
      relapsed Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML) following a Stem Cell Transplant (SCT) and who are
      not benefiting from other treatment, such as imatinib therapy.

      A relapse is when an illness that has seemed to be getting better, or to have been cured,
      comes back or gets worse again.

      Dasatinib works by blocking (inhibiting) signals within cancer cells that cause the cell to
      grow and divide.

      The growth of cells in our bodies is controlled by signals that switch on and off within the
      cells. When the signals for growth are switched on the cells are triggered to grow and
      multiply. People with CML have an abnormal signaling protein inside their leukaemia cells.
      This abnormal protein sends out grow-and-divide signals to the cells at all times and never
      switches off.

      Dasatinib finds the faulty protein and locks onto it. This prevents the protein from
      stimulating the cells to grow. Dasatinib is known as a signal transduction inhibitor, because
      it blocks the 'grow' signal. The chemical it blocks is called tyrosine kinase, so dasatinib
      is also known as a tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
    
  