
    
      The area to be investigated is the measurement of blood fibrinogen concentration. The aim is
      to develop a device which can give a fibrinogen level rapidly and accurately, in order to
      allow decision making quickly in emergency haemorrhage situations.

      Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is one of the leading causes of maternal mortality and morbidity
      throughout the world and is accountable for 27.1% of maternal deaths worldwide according to a
      recent WHO systematic analysis.1 The confidential enquiry into maternal deaths and morbidity
      2012 - 2014 describes 13 deaths from maternal haemorrhage.2 Fibrinogen is an component of the
      coagulation cascade. It is the principal factor for the final stage of clot formation. The
      fibrinogen level increases during pregnancy from the first through to third trimester.3
      During a PPH this level decreases rapidly, influenced by two principal mechanisms, the loss
      of the blood itself and the consumption of coagulation factors associated with coagulation
      activation. Fibrinogen level below 2g/L in the early phase of PPH correlates with subsequent
      development of severe PPH.4 The conventional laboratory tests (Clauss, PT-derived) are time
      consuming, and workload intensive for laboratory staff. This has implications in terms of
      decision making in a rapidly changing clinical environment during a massive PPH. A point of
      care test, with more rapidly available results at the patient location should improve the
      speed of decision making based on individual patient data. The focus of this study is to
      validate the fibrinogen concentration as measured by the F-point device compared to the
      laboratory standard Clauss fibrinogen. The F-Point is second generation POC device that is
      compatible with deployment within the emergency room or operating theater. By having rapid
      access to fibrinogen concentration results, early and individualized treatment can be
      implemented with the aim of improving patient outcomes, with a possible decrease in
      unnecessary administration of fibrinogen.

      We aim to show equivalent performance between the F-Point device in 3 populations.

        1. Healthy non-pregnant females presenting for elective gynaecology surgery

        2. Healthy pregnant females presenting for elective caesarean section

        3. Anonymised low fibrinogen adult samples from the laboratory

      These 3 populations have been chosen to demonstrate device performance in:

        1. Normal non-pregnant fibrinogen concentrations

        2. Normal term pregnancy fibrinogen levels

        3. Low fibrinogen concentrations By demonstrating equivalent and acceptable performance at
           these 3 fibrinogen concentration ranges, we would expect to show performance of the
           device to be acceptable for clinical use across the spectrum of patients presenting to
           maternity hospitals.
    
  