
    
      The study will investigate an early intensive rehabilitation in acute stroke for motor
      relearning, reducing ankle impairments and improving balance and mobility/locomotion
      functions.

      The acute stroke survivor will be randomly placed into two groups. Subjects in the Study
      group will receive robot-aided motor relearning under real-time feedback, stretching under
      intelligent control, sensory stimulation, and active movement training with interactive
      games. Subjects in the Control group will receive passive movement in the middle ROM without
      intelligent stretching and active movement training without robotic guidance.

      For both groups, the therapeutic training will be conducted during 5 hourly sessions
      (including breaks/transitions between tasks) each week over about 3-week hospital stay. Both
      groups will also receive the standard of care in the hospital and rehabilitation service.
      Treatment outcome measures will be obtained through blinded assessments and evaluated before
      and after training involving biomechanical, neuromuscular and clinical outcome measures.
      Carry-over effects will be further evaluated 1 month after the treatment ends.

      Aim 1: To evaluate biomechanical and neuromuscular changes as defined by the passive and
      active range of motion (ROM), flexor-extensor muscle strength, joint stiffness,
      proprioception and reflex excitability, and compare these measures between the two groups.
      The biomechanical and neuromuscular outcome measures will be obtained through blinded
      assessments and evaluated before and after training using the wearable rehabilitation robot.

      Hypothesis 1: Robot-guided motor relearning, stretching and active movement training (Study
      group) will improve the biomechanical and neuromuscular outcome measures more than those of
      the Control group.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the clinical outcome measures as defined by Fugl-Meyer score (lower
      extremity), modified Ashworth scale, Berg balance scale, 10 meter walk test, and to compare
      between the Study and Control groups.

      Hypothesis 2: The Study group will improve the clinical outcome measures more than the
      Control group.
    
  