
    
      BACKGROUND:

      ENO Breathe is a breathing and wellbeing programme developed specifically for people
      recovering from COVID-19, who are still suffering from breathlessness and associated anxiety.
      Delivered by ENO in collaboration with Imperial College Healthcare teams entirely online, the
      programme focuses on breathing re-training through singing. Initial evaluation of the project
      suggested health improvements related to participation, however a properly conducted efficacy
      study is needed.

      DESIGN: An assessor blind, parallel group, randomised controlled trial, to assess the effects
      of ENO Breathe compared to usual care on health status. The study will also evaluate the
      impact on respiratory symptoms, anxiety, depression, and breathlessness perception to
      investigate the mechanisms involved.

      RESEARCH QUESION AND OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome will be change in health status, assessed using the RAND-36 tool (RAND
      SF-36), comparing ENO Breathe and Usual Care arms.

      Additional endpoints will be: the COPD assessment test score (CAT), 0-100 Visual Analogue
      Scales (VAS) for breathlessness (at rest, walking around the house, climbing stairs, and
      running), Dyspnoea-12, anxiety (GAD-7), and depression (PHQ-9).

      Assessments: The outcomes outlined above will be recorded at baseline prior to randomisation,
      and then repeated after 6 weeks.

      POPULATION: Adult patients with recovering from COVID-19 will be recruited from specialist
      COVID-19 clinics, where participants will have been fully assessed and investigated by
      referring healthcare professionals. Participants in the active arm will attend once weekly
      ENO online workshop sessions for 6 weeks, and have access to bespoke online digital
      resources, designed to support participants between sessions. The comparison arm will receive
      usual care. Randomization will be 1:1.

      SAMPLE SIZE Sample size: Based on pilot data in people with COPD, where the standard
      deviation (SD) for change in SF-36 was 15 points, to identify a clinically relevant 10 point
      difference in SF-36 responses at a 0.05 level of significance with a 90% power would require
      48 patients in each treatment arm. Allowing for 20% dropout, we will therefore recruit 120
      patients.

      Primary analysis will be on an intention to treat basis. Change in parameters will be
      assessed comparing ENO Breathe and Usual Care, using Generalised Linear Models to estimate
      treatment effects. In order to better understand changes in the RAND-36 "anchor measure", the
      investigator will relate this to changes in measures of anxiety, depression, breathlessness,
      and other respiratory symptoms.

      An additional responder analysis will compare the proportion in each treatment arm achieving
      a clinically important (10%) improvement in RAND-36 scores.
    
  