
    
      The 8-month diet and AEx regimens used here are theoretically motivated by implementation
      science and use the best available practices to treat multisystemic disabling processes. The
      recent Centers for Disease Control (CDC) review of Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP)
      implementation literature found that 1 hour per week is the optimal length and frequency to
      balance cost and attentional demands of the participants. DPP class structure generally
      involves a 10-min weigh-in, a discussion of adherence to personal weight loss and exercise
      goals, formal DPP content delivery, and lastly a discussion of barriers to adherence. Diet
      module content focuses on calorie restriction by altering the composition of participants'
      meals. These goals include reducing trans-fats, saturated fats, sodium, and carbohydrates and
      increasing fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and fiber. Participants set weight reduction
      goals for themselves with personalized goals between 5% and 10% of total body weight
      dependent on the participant's level of obesity - effectively replacing prepared foods with
      traditional (Mediterranean) diet.

      Because cognitive abilities do not appear to change without a corresponding improvement in
      cardio respiratory (CR) fitness, the 8-month AEx module content optimizes CR fitness
      improvement with in-class walking workouts and tutorials. All health instructors at TICE and
      EOSC will have at least an Associates level degree in exercise physiology and be required to
      have personal training certification. They will always be under the direct supervision of the
      PI. Direct supervision of the participants by these health instructors will occur for all
      exercise sessions until the weekly duration target of 150 minutes a week is reached (Week 6).
      We introduce more flexibility in scheduling exercise when the participant is consistently and
      safely meeting their goals by allowing unsupervised exercise sessions at the facility when
      exercise trainers may not be available (i.e. early morning, nights, and weekends).
      Participants are still required to have at least one directly supervised exercise session per
      week to maintain contact with program staff and encourage adherence to the program.
      Unsupervised exercise sessions are conducted similarly to supervised exercise and session
      data will be reviewed by the exercise instructor at the weekly supervised session.

      Per a well-developed literature on DPP best practices,159,160 we will limit intervention
      class sizes to about 20 people. Over the course of 5 years, we will run 30 to 35 full DPP
      groups, each session meeting weekly for 20 consecutive weeks of diet-focused or AEx-focused
      intervention.

      Previous studies suggest that salivary hormones such as cortisol, alpha-amylase and
      testosterone all measure glucocorticoid (GC) sensitivity, a potent biomarker of age-related
      stress. We will measure three stress markers in spit before and after a participant exercises
      during the 6-minute walk challenge at baseline and at each follow-up visit. Because better
      fitness is believed to improve one's reaction to stressful events, changes in these hormones
      may reflect the adaptation of a person's ability to cope with emotional and physical stress
      as they become more cardiorespiratory fit.
    
  