
    
      This study will enroll approximately 3000 CP-CML patients that must have a history of at
      least 4 years of TKI treatment and at least 18 months of DMR. Events developing in patients
      after the end of discontinuation and TKI resumption will be considered as linked to the
      discontinuation if they will develop within 36 months from the end of discontinuation. This
      rule will apply also to subsequent TD attempts. In case of a second or subsequent
      discontinuation attempt after the failure of a previous one (for molecular relapse), patients
      must have re-achieved a DMR with TKI therapy resumption and must keep DMR for at least 18
      months before another TD.

      Collection of data will be retrospective and prospective, as each center will collect the
      data for 24 months. Patients who discontinued before the opening of this study will
      contribute to the retrospective cohort, while those who will discontinue after it will
      contribute to the prospective cohort. Patients who discontinued before the opening of this
      study but will continue their discontinuation after it, will contribute to both cohorts. For
      patients prospectively recruited, monitoring of disease status will be performed to assess
      the maintenance of the molecular remission during the study period.

      Patients with an atypical BCR-ABL1 fusion gene, which does not allow the use of Q-RT-PCR,
      will be monitored by qualitative PCR and will be analyzed separately. For these patients,
      negativity of nested qualitative RT-PCR will be considered a surrogate of DMR of patients
      monitored by Q-RT-PCR, while loss of negativity of first-round qualitative PCR will be
      considered a surrogate of loss of MMR (i.e. molecular relapse). Accordingly, for patients
      monitored by qualitative PCR, TKI resumption after TD will be provided in case of a new
      positivity of first-round PCR.

      .
    
  