factors influencing development of tumors in frogs .(1) study of 75 spontaneous tumors of vermont frogs showed threepathological grades of malignancy present.. aggressive renaladenocarcinoma in some 30 per cent, medium adenocarcinoma in 50 percent, and lower grade mixed with tumors of undetermined origin in theremaining 20 per cent .(2) correlation with parasite infections (trematodes) was demonstrablein only few cases in the kidney . hyperplasias and neoplasias gradinginto lung primary carcinoma have been found in the lung in r. pipiens .temperatures below 15 c. protected animals from lung as well as kidneydisease . higher temperatures disturbed the host-parasite relationshipsand led to higher incidence of malignancy . in the bullfrog, precancerwas clearly associated with the worm attachment discs .(3) other histological types of tumors in vermont frogs includedlymphosarcomas, liposarcoma, mesothelioma, epithelioma, and adrenal andcartilage tumors of uncertain malignancy .(4) improved methods of obtaining tumor filtrates allowed greaterprobability of inducing malignancy with direct renal injection . in 106frogs 37 per cent developed histologically provable cancers in theranges of three to seven months . twenty-six per cent showed somepre-cancer response and 43 per cent were negative . within the seriesreceiving filtrate from high malignancy donors one group yielded 100 percent positive, the others 50 and 38 per cent, respectively .(5) among animals injected with /low/ malignancy filtrate, fewertumors resulted . some of these were clearly vesicular carcinomas andcould be classed as lung tumors .(6) improved tissue culture methods allowed explants to live in liquidmedia under perforated cellophane up to one year . slower growth, aidedby lower temperatures (16 c.) improved the microecology of cell typesand allowed detailed daily observations of each cell's intranuclear andintranucleolar physiology for extended time-lapse cine-photography .(7) mechanisms for malignant transformation are related to increasedactivity and production of nucleolar dna and rna . the infective dnahypothesis is not classical virus theory, but it does offer detailedsupport .