1545. the effect of combined glucose and insulin infusions onthe lipoid and carbohydrate metabolism of the parturientwoman and of the fetusthe infusion of glucose with insulin during deliverywas used by the authors pri-marily in order to determine, whether the utilizationof glucose can be enhancedunder these conditions.  they wanted to investigate,whether the increase of unesteri-fied fatty acids in the cord blood which takes placeafter a sole glucose infusion inthe mother, could be caused by the low capabilityof glucose utilization in the fetus.the infusion during delivery which consisted of theapplication of 500 ml of 10%glucose and 16 u of insulin over a period of 30 min.brought about a greater decreaseof unesterified fatty acids in the parturient womanas compared with the infusion ofglucose exclusively.  the reason for this resultis thought to be due to a better utili-zation of glucose which is favorably influencedby insulin.  during the infusion ofglucose with insulin, an increase in the valuesof lactic and pyruvic acid took placein the parturient women; this was probably dueto an accelerated glycolysis and anincreased production of lactic acid, but notcaused by a higher share of the anaerobicmetabolism.  in the cord blood, there werelikewise increased values of lactic and py-ruvic acid as a reflection of the higher valuesof these substances in the mother.  theformation of these products of metabolicbreakdown by the fetus, however, was notsignificantly increased.  after infusion ofglucose with insulin, the other investigatedparameter values, including those of the levelsof unesterified fatty acids are foundin the cord blood in similar amounts as afterinfusion of glucose alone.  these re-sults cannot reliably prove the passage ofinsulin through the placenta especiallyafter a continued study of the metabolic valuesin newborns.  as a proof of the passageof insulin through the placenta could not beestablished, it is possible that after anintake of insulin the increase of unesterifiedfatty acids in the cord blood could becaused by a relative insufficiency of the insularapparatus of the fetus.  the mostprobable reason for the increase of unesterifiedfatty acids is the different depo-sition and metabolization of unesterified fattyacids in the course of intrauterinelife.