the development of social attachments in infancy .this report is devoted to the formation and development of socialattachments in infancy . it is suggested that the core of the attachmentfunction is represented by the tendency of the young to seek theproximity of certain other members of the species and that the mostsuitable operational definition may be found in the behavior of theindividual when deprived of such proximity .the study takes the form of a longitudinal follow-up, in which 60infants were investigated at four-weekly intervals from the early weekson up to the end of the first year and again at 18 months of age . withthe use of an attachment scale, based on seven everyday separationsituations, the following three main parameters were explored.. the ageat onset of specific attachments, the intensity of such attachments, andthe number of objects to whom attachments are formed . a measure offear-of-strangers was also included .results indicate that the age at onset of specific attachments isgenerally to be found in the third quarter of the first year, but thatthis is preceded by a phase of indiscriminate attachment behavior,. thatthe intensity of specific attachment increases most in the first monthfollowing onset and that thereafter fluctuations occur in individualcases which make long-term prediction difficult,. and that multiplicityof objects can be found in some instances at the very beginning of thespecific attachment phase, becoming the rule in most of the remainingcases very soon thereafter . correlations between the attachmentvariables, as well as with the fear-of-strangers measure, are presented,and an examination is also made of the conditions eliciting protest atproximity loss, of the manner in which protest is expressed, and of theconditions necessary to terminate protest .individual differences with regard to the three main parameters wereexplored in a subgroup of 36 infants . a number of variables wereexamined in relation to these individual differences, and suggestionsmade regarding the conditions which affect the manifestation of theattachment function .the data are discussed in relation to four themes which emerged fromthe findings.. the nature of the attachment function, its developmentalorigins, its developmental trends, and the influence of the socialsetting .