1770. proliferative activity of thelymphatic tissues of rats asstudied with tritium-labelledthymidinecytokinetic data are presented, employingquantitation of h3dna in the lymphatictissues of normal rats serially sacrificedafter h3tdr administration.  a markeddifference in the patterns of initial labelingand label loss was observed between thethymus and peripheral lymphatic tissue.the data are compatible with other indica-tions of rapid cell renewal in the thymus.there is suppression of initial uptake ofh3tdr into the dna of each large lymphocyticprogenitor cell in the thymus, appa-rently because of a feedback of thymidinecontaining material from small lympho-cytes in the thymus.  depletion of the thymusof small cells, as by operative stressor whole body x-ray, leads to a markedincrease in the uptake of h3tdr into thedna of large thymocytes.  this finding,which is in agreement with the previousfindings of sugino et al. suggesting transferof thymine nucleotides from small thy-mus lymphocytes to precursor cells, may ormay not be related to the apparenttransfer of dna label between thymic cells.the evidence for the latter consists ofthe curvilinear dilution of the dna label inthe thymus proliferating cell populationand the relationship between the rate of dnalabel dilution in large cells and thedna in the small cells in the thymus.  afterthe dna label in progenitor cells inthe thymus and lymph nodes has entered thesmall cell population, the subsequentdilution of grains in these dividing cells followsthe same slope as the loss of radio-activity from the entire lymph node.  there is along retention of some h3dna labelin the dividing lymph node cell population.  thissuggests that the loss of radioacti-vity from the dividing cells and from the smallcell population as a whole occurs e-qually.  this pattern prevails regardless ofwhether the percentage of large andsmall cells is altered experimentally.  thesefindings can be explained by an inter-change of the dna nuclear label between smalllymphocytes and large lymphocytes.this could occur by some process such asphagocytosis or pinocytosis, or by trans-formation of the small lymphocyte into a large,dividing cell.  the data fit best withthe latter possibility.  all or any of thesemechanisms would lead to an equilibrationof the dna label between large and smallcells.  this finding prevents the assign-ment of a finite life span to lymphocytes onthe basis of dna labeling kinetics.  ne-vertheless, there appear to be at least twodifferent types of lymphocytes.  one,the 'thymus-type' lymphocyte, is found in thethymus cortex, bone marrow and ger-minal centers of lymphoid follicles.  the othertype, found abundantly in the wide-spread peripheral lymphatic tissue, shows avery prolonged retention of dna la-bel and is believed to be recirculating,'immunologically committed' cells describedby others.  these cells do not appear toenter the thymus cortex.