
    
      Pediatric depression is a prevalent and morbid disorder estimated to affect up to 12% of
      youth in the United States by the time they reach adolescence. Recent research has documented
      that even minor symptoms of depression as captured through the Child Behavior Checklist
      (CBCL) Anxiety/Depression scale are strongly associated with the subsequent development of
      major depression. While treatments with antidepressants and psychotherapy are available,
      antidepressants can be associated with adverse effects including manic activation and
      psychosocial interventions are costly and not wide available. This state of affairs supports
      the search for safe and effective alternative treatments.

      One such opportunity is transcranial LED therapy, also known as transcranial
      photobiomodulation (tPBM). The treatment consists of exposing the frontal brain to the tPBM
      bilaterally, which is hypothesized to enhance adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production in
      depressed subjects. tPBM is a non-ionizing electromagnetic wave. It is invisible, penetrates
      the skin and skull into brain tissue, is non-invasive, is minimally dissipated as thermal
      energy, and is mainly absorbed by specific chromophores. The benefits of tPBM are wavelength
      specific. A mitochondrial enzyme, the cytochrome c oxidase, is the primary chromophore for
      the tPBM, with a wavelength around 830 nm. The energy absorbed by the cytochrome c oxidase
      leads to increased ATP production through the respiratory chain. Ultimately, the increased
      ATP is thought to lead to increased energy metabolism for the cell, and it is hypothesized
      that a signaling cascade is activated promoting cellular plasticity and cytoprotection. These
      properties of the tPBM have led to novel therapeutic applications in psychiatry. A
      preliminary open label study in 10 depressed subjects has shown that the tPBM was safe,
      effective and well tolerated in depressed adults. Further research confirmed these findings
      and shown tPBM therapy to be a promising intervention for adults with MDD. However, whether
      this non-invasive intervention may be safe and effective in pediatric depression remains
      unknown.

      To this end the investigators propose a pilot study is to evaluate whether tPBM is safe and
      effective in the treatment of pediatric depression. This study will enroll 30 youth of both
      sexes 6-17 years with active symptoms of depression as assessed through elevated scores on
      the CBCL Anxiety/depression scale. Based on the adult literature, investigators hypothesize
      that it will be safe and effective in this population.
    
  