
    
      Approximately 400 patients who have a scheduled prophylaxis, root planing and scaling dental
      appointment at the BUGSDM patient treatment center will be recruited and enrolled in the
      randomized controlled trial. Participants who complete the baseline survey will be randomized
      to either the intervention or control group. The intervention group will watch one of two
      smoking cessation videos during the appointment (depending on readiness to quit), receive a
      brochure about EBTs for smoking cessation, and participate in a 4-week tailored text message
      program designed to motivate EBT utilization. After the 4-week text message program, the
      intervention group will receive monthly assessment text messages for six months. The control
      group will watch a control video during the appointment, receive the same brochure about EBTs
      as the intervention group, and participate in an assessment-only 4-week text message program.
      All videos are approximately 10 minutes long.

      After the dental clinic appointment, all participants will complete an online questionnaire
      and begin the 4-week text message program.

      At the end of the 4-week text message program, and 3 and 6 months later, all participants
      will complete online questionnaires.

      Primary Aim 1: To test the efficacy of the intervention vs. control in increasing utilization
      of EBTs over the course of follow-up (7-months). Hypothesis 1.1: Smokers randomized to the
      intervention will be more likely to engage with (contact) EBTs. Hypothesis 1.2: Smokers
      randomized to the intervention will have greater treatment utilization (e.g., more days in
      the text message program, more days using smoking cessation medication, and more quitline
      counseling sessions, greater number of EBTs).

      Secondary Aims:

      Aim 2: To test the effect of the intervention vs. controls on quit attempts and on motivation
      to quit. Hypothesis 2: Smokers randomized to the intervention will have more quit attempts
      and higher motivation to quit.

      Aim 3: To test the efficacy of the intervention vs controls on biochemically verified
      abstinence. Hypothesis 3: Smokers randomized to the intervention will have higher quit rates
      at follow-up.

      Aim 4: To assess the mechanisms through which the intervention effects occur (social
      cognitive mediators) and to identify subpopulations for whom intervention effects differ
      (moderators, e.g., readiness to quit, gender, race/ethnicity). Hypothesis 4: The intervention
      will directly affect the putative mediators, which will in turn affect EBT utilization. The
      role of moderators will be exploratory.
    
  