
    
      This study will be a placebo-controlled study that investigates brain function with both
      electroencephalography (EEG) and TMS. On each study visit, a drink (either glucose drink or
      water) is administered after baseline assessment of fasting glucose. Changes in brain
      activity and excitability will be measured with resting-state EEG. Periodic high-density EEG
      of resting-state brain activity and activity during a working memory task will be performed
      before the administration of the drink, immediately after the administration of the drink, as
      well as 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 120 minutes, 150 minutes, and 180 minutes after the
      administration of the drink. The spectral content of the EEG signal will be investigated to
      identify the relative presence of cortical oscillations. Primarily, there will be a focus on
      theta (4-8 Hz) and alpha (8-12 Hz) oscillations.

      Previous literature indicates that theta and alpha oscillations represent an engaged and
      disengaged cortical state, respectively [1]. Alpha and theta oscillations are implicated in
      cognitive function and are altered in depression. Therefore, this study aims to identify a
      decrease in frontal theta oscillations and an increase in left frontal alpha oscillations,
      two defining features of impaired top-down control and mood regulation, in response to the
      glucose drink contrasted with the response to the placebo.

      The study will also examine how glucose levels gate neuronal excitability measured by the
      response to TMS. Cortical excitability will be measured by applying TMS pulses to the motor
      cortex and measuring the response in the form of a motor evoked potential by electromyography
      (EMG). TMS will be applied before the administration of the drink, immediately after the
      administration of the drink, as well as 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 120 minutes, 150 minutes, and
      180 minutes after the administration of the drink. Changes in blood glucose will be monitored
      over this time interval as well.
    
  