
    
      All patients over the age of 19 admitted to the tertiary palliative care unit and hospice
      residence who could meet the study requirements will be asked within 48 hours of admission
      for their interest in participating in the study. All those who interested in taking part
      will be referred to a research nurse for initial assessment for eligibility. For eligible
      patients who have consented to participate in the study, a research nurse who is not directly
      involved in the patient's care will approach the patient. A detailed subject information
      containing pertinent information on the study will be provided and ample time (up to 24
      hours) will be given for consideration. The research nurse will explain the consent form to
      the patient and obtain consent signature if he/she agrees to participate. Once formal consent
      obtained, the eligible patient will be enrolled in the study.

      Patients will be assigned randomly to one of the two arms of the study and receive nightly
      doses of melatonin 0.5 mg or placebo. Patients will be monitored for 14 days or until the
      development of delirium or the occurrence of death.

      Patients will be assessed twice a day for delirium, around the end of each nursing shift,
      i.e. every 12 hours (at 0330 & 1530h) for fourteen consecutive days or until the development
      of delirium. The diagnostic tool used to detect delirium is the Confusion Assessment Method
      (CAM).

      The primary outcome measure is incidence of delirium, defined according to the Confusion
      Assessment Method (CAM).

      Data on harm will be collected. For example, adverse effects from melatonin such as excessive
      daytime drowsiness, headaches, nausea , transient depression have been reported in the
      medical literature. Patients will also be monitored closely for the development any of these
      adverse effects during the treatment period.
    
  