
    
      Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a disease with very low 5-year survival rates. Some estimates set
      this at less than 5%. In the European Union (EU), over 85,000 deaths were projected in 2017,
      which is a rise of around 8.0% from 2012. PC can be broadly classified as locally resectable,
      borderline resectable, locally advanced, and metastatic. Treatments include surgery,
      chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and palliative care. Surgery offers curative treatment, but
      80% of patients are diagnosed in the advanced stage (locally advanced or metastatic) and are
      ineligible. However, systemic therapy (such as chemotherapy) is a palliative option for
      people with advanced pancreatic cancer (APC). "Best supportive care" (BSC), or "supportive
      care", is another option which involves symptom management and improving quality of life.

      Shared decision-making (SDM) is a process where clinicians and patients make decisions
      together using the best available evidence. SDM is recognised as a policy priority and
      ethical imperative by the National Health Service (NHS) and several healthcare regulators in
      the United Kingdom (UK), respectively. The concept of equipoise is a scenario where there is
      more than one legitimate choice of treatment for a medical condition. It offers an
      opportunity to apply SDM in discussing the choice of treatment for people with APC because
      there is no clear preference of treatment options in terms of benefits and risks for APC.
      Moreover, a systematic review in 2006 indicated, among other things, that SDM facilitated
      positive impact on the clinical process and patient outcomes. Encouraging SDM in APC
      treatment could yield similar results, including the reduction in selecting aggressive
      treatments that have little or no corresponding economic or personal benefits.

      Several tools have been developed to enhance SDM in relation to other medical conditions.
      Some of these tools are for ovarian cancer, stage IV lung cancer, and colorectal cancer.
      CONNECT ™ is a computer-based tool that was developed for the general improvement of the
      doctor-patient communication process. Additionally, a systematic review in 2015 showed that
      decision tools can improve patients' knowledge and awareness of the treatment options
      available to them. However, there is very little in literature about the use of
      evidence-based digital tools in discussing the expected outcomes of treatment for people with
      APC. Although predictive tools have been developed for PC, there is currently no web-based
      information tool that can provide clinical evidence on the treatment choices available to
      people with APC.

      However, there is an online decision aid developed for patients with APC in Canada. It has
      some useful features which can help its users make decisions about their treatment, including
      information about APC. However, its automation in comparing treatment options is basic, its
      depth of information necessary for decision-making, and its flexibility could be improved.
      Its target audience are the patients only. It also assumes that users typically have only 3
      options to choose from, although it suggested the possibility of increasing the user options.

      It is necessary that patients are fully aware of the benefits and risks associated with any
      treatment that is being proposed to them. Also, to ensure that clinicians provide the best
      available evidence-based information in an easily understandable format for the patients, the
      purpose of this study is to investigate the potential of an interactive, web-based
      information tool to facilitate the process of shared decision-making between clinicians, and
      patients and their relatives (or caregivers).

      RESEARCH RATIONALE

        1. The need for an evidence-based information tool for APC treatment options:

           There is currently no web-based, SDM tool for APC that presents information on available
           treatment options in a visual, and concise way to patients so that they and their
           clinicians can make informed choices. Acceptability and reliability are two important
           factors to be considered when developing such tools.

        2. The support for the policy priority for patient-centred care in the UK:

           In the United Kingdom, shared decision-making is viewed as a priority in patient care.
           However, effective SDM is enhanced through well-informed participants, and that is an
           objective of the proposed information tool.

        3. Enhancing clinicians' communicative skills:

           Communicative skills was identified in healthcare professionals as a requisite for
           successful SDM. Therefore, the proposed information tool is hoped to enhance clinicians'
           capacity to communicate available treatment options with their patients by presenting
           pertinent facts about APC treatment in a concise and user-friendly manner for them.

        4. Improving medical cost-effectiveness This tool could also potentially challenge the
           "more-is-better" attitude (assumption that expensive treatment equals better healthcare)
           held by the public. Evaluation of some patient decision aids showed improved
           cost-effectiveness in some medical conditions. Introducing the information tool to APC
           treatment could potentially yield similar results.

      OBJECTIVES Primary objective To investigate the potential of a web-based, interactive,
      information tool in facilitating shared decision-making in the choice of treatment for people
      with advanced pancreatic cancer

      Second objectives (i) To assess the quality of life, efficacy, and safety of chemotherapy
      treatments of APC through systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA) of randomized
      controlled trials (RCTs).

      (ii) To explore the preferences and expectations of clinicians, people with APC, and their
      relatives, when making decisions about treatment, through focus groups and semi-structured
      interviews for clinicians, and people with APC (including their relatives), respectively.

      (iii) To identify the features necessary for the design of a web-based information tool to
      facilitate SDM between clinicians and people with APC about choice of treatment.

      (iv) To evaluate the effectiveness of the developed information tool in SDM, through a pilot
      test with clinicians (doctors and nurse specialists), people with APC, and their relatives.
    
  