
    
      In 2000, de Gramont et al. and Giacchetti et al. reported that combination chemotherapy
      including modulated infusional 5-Fu plus irinotecan and oxaliplatin could achieve a response
      rate of approximately 50% and a median survival of in excess of 20 months. These encouraging
      results implied that chemotherapy is likely to play an increasingly important role in
      decreasing the size of metastasis to allow for liver resection. Interestingly, Adam and
      Bismuth et al. reported that the 5-year overall survival of 50% (95% confidence interval
      33-68%), observed in patients with resection following neoadjuvant chemotherapy, was
      comparable to patients with primarily resectable hepatic metastasis as reported by Scheele et
      al. (39%, 469 patients), Fong et al. (37%, 1001 patients), Nordlinger et al.(28%, 1568
      patients), and Fiqueras et al. (36%, 235 patients). Recently, Zelek et al. reported that
      intravenous and hepatic artery infusion of irinotecan/ 5-fluorouracil/ leucovorin could
      facilitate complete resection of initially non-resectable hepatic metastases. Pozzo et al.
      indicated that neoadjuvant treatment of unresectable liver disease with irinotecan/
      5-fluorouracil/ leucovorin enabled a significant portion of patients to undergo surgical
      resection. Alberts et al. showed that FOLFOX-4 therapy allowed for successful resection of
      disease in a portion of patients initially not judged to be optimally resectable but with a
      high recurrence rate after surgery. Masi et al. reported that neoadjuvant approach with
      irinotecan plus FOLFOX-4 had significant antitumor activity and provided a radical surgical
      resection of initially unresctable hepatic colorectal metastases with promising median
      survival of patients. However, most studies published till now are retrospective analyses
      without a control group or case series with limited patient number and/or short time of
      follow-up. Therefore, the role of surgical resection in the subset of patients with
      resectable hepatic metastases converted from initially non-resectable liver metastasis was
      still not clearly established. To further explore the oncologic results of surgical versus
      non-surgical methods for the treatment of this subset of patients, we designed and conducted
      the present randomized prospective study beginning in 2002. The present study was based on
      the following arguments against the predominant survival benefits of surgical resection in
      previous reported series: (1) The initially non-resectable liver metastasis was basically a
      disseminated disease, even though some metastases were highly responsive to chemotherapy and
      become resectable; (2) Since the evaluation of resectability was based on the imaging
      studies, it was difficult to consider the surgical resection as "curative" for the resectable
      hepatic metastases converted from non-resectable ones, given the limitation of the current
      imaging stools of high-technology; (3) The resectable hepatic metastases after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy might represent a subset of hepatic metastases biologically highly responsive to
      chemotherapy and the time-to-progression for these metastases might be fairly long after a
      response. Additionally, these metastases might be also biologically responsive to other
      cytotoxic or targeted therapies that justified the patients' continuous adoption of
      non-surgical treatment.
    
  