
    
      Tart cherries are rich in bioactive components (i.e. flavonoids) that have anti-inflammatory
      and anti-oxidant properties. Inflammation and lipid peroxidation causes damage of skeletal
      muscle membranes during intense exercise. The damage of muscle increases the amount of time
      for muscle to recover from intense exercise, and can cause muscle strength to be reduced for
      days. When tart cherries in a concentrated form (i.e. as juice or powder) are consumed in the
      days leading up to intense exercise, there is a protective effect against inflammation, and
      lipid peroxidation . This theoretically prevents damage to the lipid component of muscle
      fibre membranes and helps to preserve muscle function - when muscle is damaged by intense
      exercise (i.e. either repetitive aerobic activity or high-force muscle contraction),
      consumption of cherry juice enhances the rate of muscle strength recovery following exercise
      compared to when a placebo (i.e. non-cherry) beverage is consumed . Muscle damage may be
      protected by cherry juice consumption; however, all studies evaluating the protective effect
      of cherries have assessed muscle damage by measuring muscle proteins in the blood. This
      rather indirect measure of muscle damage is highly variable and not always an accurate
      assessment of muscle damage; this may be why some studies indicate a reduction in markers of
      muscle damage with cherry juice consumption while others do not.

      A more direct assessment of muscle damage can be obtained by applying electrical stimulation
      at different frequencies to a muscle before and after intense exercise and assessing the
      reduction in force output in response to low-frequency and high-frequency stimulation. After
      intense exercise, the force output at low frequencies of stimulation is often reduced, while
      the force output at high frequencies is maintained; a phenomenon termed "low frequency
      fatigue". When muscle is stimulated to contract (either voluntarily by the nervous system or
      involuntarily through electrical stimulation) calcium is released inside muscle. This calcium
      release leads to muscle contraction. When muscle undergoes intense exercise, there is damage
      to muscle membranes, including membranes inside muscle that are responsible for calcium
      release. This causes a lower amount of calcium to be released with each muscle contraction.
      Normally, if high frequencies of electrical stimulation are applied to muscle, a very large
      amount of calcium is released inside muscle - an amount which is "more than enough" to cause
      a high amount of muscle contraction and high force output. If muscle fibre membranes
      responsible for release of calcium are damaged, a lower amount of calcium is released, but
      because "more than enough" calcium is usually released with high frequency stimulation, the
      lower amount of calcium released with muscle damage is still enough to cause high force of
      muscle contraction. The force response to low frequencies of stimulation; however, is
      dramatically reduced when muscle is damaged - usually only a small amount of calcium is
      released when low frequencies of stimulation are delivered to muscle. Following muscle
      damage, the smaller amount of calcium released causes lower force production at low
      stimulation frequency. Low force production at low stimulation frequencies, with a relatively
      maintained force production at high stimulation frequencies therefore indicates that muscle
      damage has occurred. This lower muscle force capability at low frequencies of stimulation has
      dramatic effects on endurance performance because typical endurance performance relies on
      repeated low-force muscle contractions, as opposed to the few high-force contractions that
      might be required in other sports (i.e. short sprinting events or field events such as shot
      put).

      The study we are proposing will use this measurement (i.e. ratio of low frequency force to
      high frequency force output) as a more direct measure of muscle damage. We predict that if
      cherry juice is consumed in the days leading up to a bout of muscle-damaging endurance
      exercise, muscle damage will be lower (as indicated by a faster recovery of low-frequency
      fatigue following the bout of exercise) than when a comparison-drink (i.e. Gatorade) is
      consumed.
    
  