
    
      Cirrhotic cardiomyopathy (CMC) is defined as a chronic cardiac dysfunction in patients with
      cirrhosis. Moreover, it is characterized by an abnormal and blunted response to pathological
      or pharmacological stress in the absence of any other associated cardiac disease. The
      diagnostic criteria are: baseline increased cardiac output, attenuated myocardial contractile
      response to stress, diastolic dysfunction, and electrophysiological repolarization
      abnormalities. It is suspected that cardiac dysfunction in cirrhosis contribute to the onset
      of complications in liver disease. We will investigate the effect of metoprolol succinate in
      the reversal of cardiac dysfunction and prevention of complications of cirrhosis in patients
      with cirrhotic cardiomyopathy. Furthermore, we want to study the influence of presence of CMC
      in the evolution of cirrhotic patients. The study will be prospective, randomized,
      double-blind, and placebo-controlled. The sample consists of 125 patients aged between 18 and
      60 years old diagnosed with severe liver cirrhosis (Child B or C or MELD score above 10) with
      cirrhotic cardiomyopathy or not. Of these, 100 patients with cirrhotic cardiomyopathy will be
      randomized into two groups: group R1 (metoprolol succinate) and group R2 (placebo). Group F
      will consist of cirrhotic patients without cardiomyopathy and will not receive medication.
      Patients will be evaluated by clinical examination, resting electrocardiogram, 24-hour
      Holter, stress echocardiography and laboratory (brain natriuretic peptide (BNP),
      catecholamines, plasma renin activity, and troponin) at inclusion and after six months. The
      end points are: 1) Reversal of cardiac dysfunction in patients with cirrhotic cardiomyopathy,
      2) Development of hepatorenal syndrome, 3) Reversal of the electrophysiologic abnormalities,
      4)Changes in laboratory tests, and 5) Mortality.
    
  