
    
      From our own published local data, the prevalence of pre-frailty in North-West area is 37%
      and frailty 6.2%. Prevalence of frailty in individuals with diabetes is 12%, double that of
      general population.

      Evidence suggest that multi-component intervention may delay the onset of disability, and in
      some cases reverse frailty with the potential to avert preventable adverse events such as
      falls, fractures and reduce overall healthcare utilisation and extend health-span. There is a
      similar multi-centre trial in progress in Europe called SPRINTT. As physical exercise and
      adequate protein and energy intake are to date the only strategies of proven efficacy to
      improve muscle health, it is important that we develop locally relevant protein enriched food
      prototypes that can deliver an effective dosage of protein to the older adult and compare
      them with available protein enriched supplements. High protein diet stimulates muscle protein
      synthesis and plays a role in delaying the onset of frailty and sarcopenia. An adequate
      intake of dietary proteins is vital to maintaining muscle mass and stimulating protein
      synthesis. Older adults are at high risk for insufficient protein intake and furthermore, the
      current recommended dietary allowance for protein (0.8 g/kg/day) might not be sufficient for
      preserving muscle mass and quality in old age. It appears therefore appropriate to promote a
      protein intake of 1.0-1.2 g/kg/day, while 1.2-1.5 g/kg/day of protein may be required in
      older adults with acute or chronic diseases. Finally, older people with severe illnesses or
      overt malnutrition may need as much as 2.0 g/kg/day of protein. In addition to protein, the
      PROVIDE study also showed that sufficient levels of vitamin D and protein is necessary to
      increase muscle mass and reduce sarcopenia. While most middle aged adults and older adults
      attempt to keep up with physical activity, very few actually are aware of importance of
      protein and Vitamin D enriched diet. Exercise and increased protein intake can also
      down-regulate systemic inflammation.

      Locally, there's one small study (n=49 for nutrition and n=49 combined intervention) which
      documented reversal of frailty with multicomponent intervention, where the nutrition
      component was a commercial formula Fortisip (Nutricia Dublin). Up to now, there are no
      locally developed high protein supplements and we have no data on average protein content of
      local diet consumption in older adults. If locally produced, culturally-relevant high protein
      food prototype is widely accepted and is proven to improve function and quality of life, it
      will be an innovative solution to solving nutritional gaps and delivering an effective dose
      of protein to the elderly population in Singapore. This can especially help the elderly
      population receive protein supplementation not through commercially produced expensive
      supplements but through the foods and drinks that they consume everyday. These prototypes can
      also help the local food and beverage industry recognize the importance and value of
      investing resources into the continued development of these products to better address local
      public health needs and possibly export these products to the wider region's ageing
      population.

      In addition, the results from this study will provide the basis and baseline for a review of
      the current recommended dietary allowance for protein, especially among older adults. The
      current recommendation of 0.8 g of protein/kg/day was based on the maintenance of a healthy
      adult's nitrogen balance. It would be important to formulate a set of recommendation to meet
      the functional and physiological needs of the elderly.

      This programme will be the nutritional arm of a current study called 'HAPPY' Healthy Ageing
      Promotion Program For You, where participants are screened for frailty in the day care,
      senior activity centre's and community centre's. Participants with cognitive impairment and /
      or pre-frail are invited to participate in dual task exercise led by trainer from Japan. This
      locally produced high protein food will be trialled in these participants who have been
      identified during screening for "HAPPY". Informed consent will be obtained from participants
      to participate in the HAPPY and HOPE programmes.
    
  