
    
      Asthma is the most prevalent chronic disease of childhood with an overall prevalence of 10%.
      While effective therapies exist to control symptoms and prevent exacerbations, many asthma
      patients experience significant morbidity including limitations on daily activities as well
      as asthma exacerbations that lead to missed school (and work for care givers) and necessitate
      emergency department visits and hospitalizations. Among children from lower socioeconomic
      statues and in black and Hispanic families, asthma incidence and severity are even greater.
      Reasons for this disparity included decreased access to effective asthma care, increased
      exposure to tobacco smoke and environmental allergens, and underutilization of controller
      medicines. These groups have significantly increased resource utilization due to emergency
      department visits and hospitalizations. Optimal care for asthma patients, especially those
      with at highest risk, will therefore require new strategies for evaluating ongoing control
      and providing direct feedback to patients.

      We propose to transform the way asthma care is provided through the use of an innovative
      patient centered technology -Trivox Asthma - to improve quality of care and outcomes for
      asthma patients while reducing the cost of care. Specifically we will extend Trivox Health to
      facilitate closer monitoring of patients with asthma through the existing web platform and a
      new mobile interface. This will allow asthma patients, their parents and school nurses to
      remotely input data on asthma control through smartphones and/or tablets. We will use the
      ACT+, an expansion of a validated measure currently utilized in both primary care and
      specialty clinics, to measure both asthma control and risk.

      Effectiveness of this intervention will be measured by examining resource utilization and
      ongoing asthma control.
    
  