
    
      The goal of this project is to better understand how interacting and working with plants in a
      group gardening activities program that takes place in a greenhouse effects patterns of brain
      activity and overall health and well-being. There has been essentially no assessment of the
      effects of gardening or engaging in gardening activities on brain activity using functional
      MRI (fMRI) approaches. This study will employ visual stimuli to assess the effects of the
      gardening activities treatment on Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) responses as revealed
      by fMRI in study subjects in a comparison of responses before and after engaging in the
      gardening intervention program.

      Specifically this study seeks to determine whether engaging in gardening activities taking
      place in a greenhouse can influence brain activity and function, and result in changes in
      overall quality of life status of subjects in a wellness population.

      The total study population (N = 23) will consist of 11 healthy women in the control group,
      and 12 healthy women in the treatment group. There will be fMRI brain scans and psychometric
      pre- and post-intervention assessments administered to the study subjects. The fMRI and
      psychometric assessments will be administered within 10 days prior to the start of the
      intervention, and within 10 days following the completion of the treatment intervention. The
      control group will continue with normal daily life over a seven to eight week interval, and
      receive no other intervention. The treatment group will be divided into two groups of six
      women each that will receive the gardening intervention on different days of the week. The
      participants in the treatment group will receive an experimental intervention consisting of
      12 gardening sessions, each approximately 60 minutes in duration over a six week treatment
      period. Each gardening session will take place at the same time of day twice each week, and
      follow a standardized programming sequence to ensure equivalency of intervention across all
      gardening sessions. Ambient environmental conditions in the greenhouse during the gardening
      sessions will be monitored and recorded. The gardening activities will emphasize growing
      plants from seeds, plant propagation techniques, transplanting, and plant-mediated taste,
      visual, olfactory and touch sensory stimulation. All gardening sessions will begin with a
      short educational module introducing the plants and gardening activities taking place during
      each session. In addition to the pre- and post-intervention assessments, psychometric
      assessments will be administered for depression and mood states at specific time points
      during the gardening activities to the treatment group to evaluate any changes over time
      resulting from the intervention.
    
  