
    
      The proposed project builds on work conducted between 2013 and today. The Canadian Institutes
      of Health Research's Community Based Primary Health Care Team Grant SPOR initiative funded a
      five-year program of research (known as IMPACT: Innovative Models Promoting Access-to-Care
      Transformation, http://www.impactresearchprogram.com/). The goal of the IMPACT Project is to
      increase access to community-based primary health care for vulnerable populations. The lead
      for the Ontario arm of the IMPACT project, Simone Dahrouge, has undertaken a community
      engagement initiative within the Champlain Local Health Integration Network (LHIN) to
      understand the barriers patients face to adequately access community based health and social
      resources (CRs) and how these can be overcome. Under that funding, the team undertook an
      extensive consultation process to identify a regional priority gap, select and adapt an
      intervention, and implement and evaluate a single arm intervention. The investigators are
      currently in the last phase of that project, which is serving as a feasibility phase for the
      randomized controlled trial. The feasibility study is evaluating the acceptability, demand,
      implementation, adaption, integration, and practicality of the study intervention and related
      activities to optimize appropriate access to CRs for primary care patients. Enrolment for
      that project will be completed by March 2018. This study received ethics approval from the
      OHSN Research Ethics Board (Protocol #20160914-01H), Bruyère Continuing Care Research Ethics
      Board (Protocol #M16-1616-055), Hôpital Montfort Research Ethics Board (Protocol #
      SD-DP-27-02-17), and the University of Ottawa Research Ethics Board (Protocol #
      A05-17-04).That trial is a registered clinical trial: NCT03105635.

      During the feasibility phase the team established a regional stakeholder advisory group
      (Champlain LHIN). The composition of the advisory group has been adapted to meet the needs of
      the study. In the initial phase the composition was broad until the region identified the
      priority area and approach to addressing the gap. The committee is now composed of patients
      of various minority communities who contribute their lived experience, primary care providers
      from different care models and leaders from organizations responsible for community services
      (Community Care Access Centres and Community Health Centres) who inform the feasibility of
      the approach for each context, and best approach to integrating of the two sectors, health
      planners (the LHIN Primary Care Lead, senior integration specialist and others) who bring
      their broader context health services knowledge as well as resources (such as practice
      transformation facilitation services) to the project, as well as other stakeholders that
      inform specific components of the intervention (Ontario 211, Champlain Healthline). That
      Committee meets regularly and contributes directly to the direction of the study design,
      implementation, evaluation and dissemination. Because the committee fundamentally represents
      the interests of the region, it is often referred to in this document as 'the region".

      The initial consultative phase identified poor access to CRs as a priority access gap. The
      research team relied on a scoping review conducted for the IMPACT program and conducted
      several interviews and focus groups with community stakeholders to inform the best approach
      addressing this gap. The region selected to implement a patient navigator who can assist
      patients for whom the use of a community service is recommended by their primary care
      provider achieve access to that service. Primary care providers rarely make specific
      recommendations to access CRs; largely because they are unaware of these. They make general
      recommendations to improve healthy behaviours, but do not refer to specific types of
      services. Two realist reviews have been commissioned and completed by a team of experts to
      help us understand the critical success factors and shape our intervention. One review is
      focused on "community navigators" and the other on "primary care referral to community
      services" to help the team understand the factors that support us. This information was used
      to develop the ARC intervention. A number of themes identified in these reviews including
      training for clinical staff to identify and refer to relevant CRs to address patients' social
      barriers; implementing a champion within practice to integrate referral into usual care; use
      of electronic health records to prompt provider referral and share information between
      provider and the community; and developing a screening process and promotional material to
      prompt referral.

      As a result, the region developed the Access to Resources in the Community/Accès aux
      Resources Communautaires (ARC) intervention. The ARC project will build on this work by
      focussing on improving access to community resources in patients' language of choice and
      emphasizing access to French-language resources for Francophones in Ontario.

      PURPOSE

      The purpose of this project is to optimize appropriate access to community based services for
      socially complex primary care patients, including Franco-Ontarians living in minority
      situations, and promote the continuity of information across primary and community care.

      OBJECTIVES AND DELIVERABLES

      Objective A: Optimize equitable utilization of community based resources

      Deliverable 1: Effectiveness of a patient navigator on utilization of CRs

      Deliverable 2: Make policy recommendations to address remaining gaps

      Deliverable 3: Establish a model of navigation that is transferable and scalable.

      Objective B: Support continuity of information across Primary and Community Care

      Deliverable 4: Establish a process that support appropriate exchange of information across
      the two sectors
    
  