
    
      Before you begin participation in this study, you will be asked to provide the names and
      addresses of 3 contacts (family member/friends) who will know your current contact
      information. This is so study researchers can stay in contact with you throughout the study.
      This is in case study researchers may need to reach you in order to reschedule your
      appointment time. You will also be asked to sign a letter giving your contacts permission to
      provide your contact information to the study staff.

      If the staff is not able to reach you, they may try to locate you through telephone directory
      assistance or the internet. If the study staff is still unable to locate you, they may use a
      locator service, such as Transunion or the National Change of Address (NCOA) database, which
      is maintained by the United States Postal Service.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to come to the Behavioral Science
      Research Clinic at M. D. Anderson for up to 2 laboratory sessions. One session will be while
      you are smoking, and one session will be while you are abstinent from smoking (not smoking).

      At each of these sessions, you will have functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of your
      brain while you are looking at slides. fMRI involves a scanner that uses a large magnet,
      instead of x-rays, to take pictures of the inside of your body. The slides will include
      pictures of people, nature scenes, artwork, victims of car crashes, medical procedures (such
      as open surgery or autopsy), and nude people. You will be shown examples of these slides
      before having the fMRI, and you will be given the opportunity to withdraw from this study at
      that time. If you choose to continue on this study, you will have an fMRI taken of your
      brain. This will involve being passed into a narrow tube-shaped scanner that is open at both
      ends. During the fMRI, your brain electrical activity will be monitored. The total time for
      each lab session will last about 1.5 hours.

      You should not drink more than 2 cups of coffee or other caffeine drinks at least 2 1/2 hours
      before each session. This is because caffeine may affect brain functioning. Before one or
      both of your sessions, you may be asked to not smoke from bedtime on the day before the
      session until after the session on the next day. Before one or both of your sessions, you may
      be asked to smoke as you would regularly. Additionally, you may be asked to smoke during one
      or both of your laboratory sessions.

      At each lab session, you will be asked to blow air through a carbon monoxide (CO) measuring
      device. CO is a gas that is found (in higher levels) in the bodies of cigarette smokers. You
      will also be asked questions about your smoking habits; your health and medical condition;
      and about any medications you are taking. You will also be asked to complete some
      questionnaires that will ask about your mood and feelings. You may be asked to complete these
      questionnaires before, during, or after the fMRI.

      At the end of this study, you will be able to ask questions about the results of this study
      and about procedures you have experienced during this study.

      Your participation in this part of the study will last about 2 weeks. It will end after your
      last lab session. You will still be considered a participant in the main study (Protocol
      2003-1024) and may have additional visits, questionnaires, and other activities to complete.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 72 participants will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  