
    
      Background:

        -  Advanced breast cancer and endometrial cancer have limited treatment options. Current
           treatments provide a modest improvement in progression free survival but no treatments
           improve survival.

        -  ONC201 is the founding member of a novel class of anticancer drugs called imipridones.
           The exact mechanism of ONC201 is unknown at this time, but preclinical data suggests
           that it causes global downregulation of mitochondrial genes leading to mitochondrial
           damage and ultimately non-apoptotic cell death.

        -  Preclinical studies have demonstrated that ONC201 selectively kills various cancer
           cells, including breast cancer cells (hormone-receptor positive cell lines, HER2+ cell
           line as well as triple negative breast cancer cell lines) and endometrial cancer cells,
           while having little effect on normal cells.

        -  An on-going phase I study of ONC201 has demonstrated clinical benefit in some solid
           tumors, including endometrial cancer.

      Objectives:

        -  Cohort 1: To determine the progression free survival (PFS) at 8 months of ONC201 in
           metastatic hormone receptor positive breast cancer (HR+BC)

        -  Cohort 2: To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of ONC201 in metastatic triple
           negative breast cancer (TNBC)

        -  Cohort 3: To determine the ORR of ONC201 in advanced endometrial cancer (EC)

      Eligibility:

      Selected Inclusion Criteria

        -  Histologically confirmed metastatic breast cancer or endometrial cancer with appropriate
           IHC testing and confirmation of HER2 non-amplification required for the breast cancer
           cohorts (cohorts 1 and 2)

        -  Age 18 years or older

        -  Female and male breast cancer patients are eligible for the breast cancer cohorts

        -  ECOG 0 or 1

        -  Measurable metastatic disease with greater than or equal to 1 biopsiable lesion with
           willingness to undergo a biopsy

        -  Cohort 1 (HR+BC) requires prior treatment with greater than or equal to 2 lines of
           hormonal treatment. No prior treatment required for cohorts 2/3 (TNBC and EC).

        -  Adequate hematopoietic, hepatic and renal function

      Selected Exclusion Criteria

        -  Patients who have received chemotherapy in the previous 3 weeks (6 weeks for
           nitrosoureas or mitomycin); other investigational agents within 3 weeks or a PD1/PDL1
           agent within 4 weeks prior to first dose of study treatment.

        -  Radiotherapy less than or equal to 4 weeks before first dose of study treatment.

        -  Symptomatic CNS metastases. Asymptomatic or brain metastases treated greater than 4
           weeks from first dose of study treatment are allowed.

        -  History of invasive malignancy less than or equal to 3 years

        -  Known history of cardiac arrhythmias including uncontrolled atrial fibrillation,
           tachyarrhythmias or bradycardia.

        -  History of CHF, or MI or stroke in the previous 3 months will be excluded.

        -  Started denosumab or bisphosphonate therapy within 28 days prior to Cycle 1 Day 1

        -  HIV, Hepatitis B, or Hepatitis C infection

      Design:

        -  This is a phase II single arm study of ONC201 divided in three cohorts, each cohort with
           different type of metastatic, advanced disease:

        -  Cohort 1: HR+ breast cancer (male and female)

        -  Cohort 2: Triple negative breast cancer (male and female)

        -  Cohort 3: Endometrial cancer (female only)

        -  All patients will receive ONC201 at the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of 625mg by
           mouth every 7 days with each cycle being 28 days long. Patients will receive ONC201 as
           long as they derive clinical benefit or toxicity becomes impeditive

        -  Patients will be evaluated for toxicity every 4 weeks by CTCAE v5.0 and for response

      every two cycles (8 weeks) by RECIST 1.1.
    
  