
    
      Cancer cachexia (CC) is a devastating condition affecting up to 80% of cancer patients,
      diminishing quality of life and contributing to increased mortality. Cancer cachexia is a
      complex metabolic syndrome characterized by the loss of skeletal muscle mass and weakness.
      The muscle pathology of cancer cachexia is not only related to muscle atrophy but also to
      disruptions to the contractile apparatus of the muscle. While physiologic disruptions in
      muscle sarcomere and myofiber membrane integrity have been observed despite the lack of
      injury, the totality of the muscle specific mechanisms contributing to these phenotypes have
      not been described, nor investigated in the context of pancreatic cancer (PC) where cachexia
      is a significant clinical problem. Therefore, delineating specific mechanisms of muscle
      catabolism in PC is critical to developing clinical therapies to control wasting and improve
      patient quality of life, clinical outcomes and long-term survival.

      A variety of tumor promoting and inflammatory cell signaling pathways have been implicated in
      cancer cachexia, whereby pro-inflammatory cytokines have been implicated as a driving force.
      Remarkably, approximately half of all patients with PC demonstrate a measurable acute phase
      response, which is associated with poor clinical outcomes. Importantly, systemic elevations
      of these inflammatory mediators are due to a complex local interplay between the developing
      tumor and the immune system which subsequently leads to a systemic chronic inflammatory
      state. PC appears to manipulate the immune system to promote its survival at the expense of
      nutritional stores which results in cachexia. Therefore, understanding of the local and
      systemic inflammatory response in PC and its relation to muscle specific mechanisms is
      crucial to developing effective therapies for cancer cachexia.

      PC associated cachexia results in a significant therapeutic dilemma. Local approaches such as
      surgery for curative intent encounter a high recurrence rate which is indicative of the
      systemic nature of even very early-stage disease. Therefore, systemic therapies are necessary
      for long-term survival. Unfortunately, effective chemotherapies are only offered to patients
      with good clinical parameters such as nutritional status. In other words, if the patient is
      too weak, they are not offered effective therapies for the risk of causing more harm than
      good.
    
  