
    
      Objective: To establish the QSM-MRI-method as a part of MS-patient research protocol in TPC
      and to quantify the time and space dependent correlation of QSM-MRI signal and PET-imaging
      signal with both 11C-PK11195 and 11C-SMW139 radioligands in the brain of MS-patients with
      active disease, secondary progressive MS-patients and healthy controls.

      Background: In MS brain the inflammatory lesions change over time from active to chronic
      active and finally to chronic inactive plaques. Conventional MRI-imaging is used to detect
      the lesions but it is not able to differentiate the plaque types. The most acute lesions with
      blood-brain-barrier defect can be identified using conventional MRI and gadolinium enhancing,
      but follow-up of the later plaque development with microglial activation at plaque edge is
      not possible using MRI. Furthermore, the diffuse microglial activation in the NAWM is not
      detectable with conventional MRI.

      In previous studies it has been shown that chronic active plaques have a rim of active
      microglial cells around them. With QSM-MRI method it is possible to detect and quantify these
      iron containing active microglia cells around the chronic active plaque. Active microglial
      cells can also be detected with PET imaging and TSPO-binding radioligand 11C-PK11195 or P2X7
      binding radioligand 11C-SMW139. The investigators expect that the microglial activation
      signals detected with QSM-MRI and PET are co-localized and that these methods would help to
      differentiate the plaque types and to evaluate the MS plaque evolution.

      Study population: 10 MS-patients with acute gadolinium enhancing ≥0,5cm diameter lesion will
      be imaged at baseline and 4 and 18 months after that. For comparison 10 secondary progressive
      patients and 20 healthy controls will be imaged at baseline.

      Methods: Clinical evaluation, brain QSM-MRI and PET imaging with 11C-PK11195 radiotracer will
      be performed at baseline, 4 months and 18 months. PET imaging with 11C-CSMW139 radiotracer
      will be performed at 4 months and 18 months.

      For healthy controls, brain QSM-MRI, PET imaging with 11C-PK11195 radiotracer and PET imaging
      with 11C-SMW139 radiotracer will be performed at baseline. For 12 healthy controls a
      test-retest imaging with 11C-SMW139 radiotracer will be performed.
    
  