
    
      Flexible bronchoscopy is the diagnostic tool of choice to diagnose endobronchial
      malignancies. It allows inspection and biopsy of any endobronchial abnormalities under direct
      vision.

      One of the main goals of diagnostic bronchoscopy, besides visualization of endobronchial
      abnormalities, is obtaining an adequate tissue samples from the suspicious lesions for
      cytohistological examination. Several techniques could be applied through the working channel
      of the ﬂexible bronchoscopy such as forceps biopsy, brush, bronchial washing and
      transbronchial needle aspiration.Flexible bronchoscopy and the associated tissue sampling
      techniques are the most widespread procedures in the diagnosis of central lung cancer. Even
      though the specimens are obtained under direct vision, there is a significant failure rate,
      which therefore, requires repeated bronchoscopies. Concurrent application of different
      sampling techniques at bronchoscopy has been shown to improve the yield.

      Diagnostic bronchoscopy with endobronchial forceps biopsy is primarily practiced in patients
      with suspected thoracic malignancy and visible endobronchial.

      The major drawback of the forceps biopsy technique is the relatively small amount of tissue
      obtained, which is determined by the size of the forceps. Additionally, mechanical
      compression or crush artefacts from the instrument tip cause alterations of the tissue
      samples, which affect the quality of the histological analysis. Flexible cryoprobes were
      introduced as a new tool for bronchoscopic tissue sampling. It is used primarily for
      debulking and cryoextraction of malignant airway stenosis.

      With this technique, the sample is collected while still being frozen with the tissue
      attached on the frozen tip of the probe. By this way, larger tissue samples can be taken from
      endobronchial lesions and artifact free. The molecular markers are also ions. Tissue samples
      obtained with cryoprobes are of good quality, size better preserved and well represented.
    
  