
    
      Approximately 517,000 infants are born prematurely every year. As low birth weight and
      premature infants are surviving longer, they are at risk of developing severe retinopathy of
      prematurity (ROP).

      ROP is a disease of the eye affecting prematurely-born babies. It is thought to be caused by
      disorganized growth of retinal blood vessels which may result in scarring and retinal
      detachment. ROP can be mild and may resolve spontaneously, but it may lead to blindness in
      serious cases. ROP is the leading cause of irreversible childhood blindness in the United
      States. As such, all preterm babies are at risk for ROP, and very low birth weight is an
      important risk factor.

      Researchers have found that increasing omega-3 fatty acids and decreasing omega-6 fatty acids
      in the diet of mice with eye disease similar to ROP had reduced areas of blood vessel loss
      and abnormal blood vessel growth. These findings represent new evidence suggesting the
      possibility that omega-3 fatty acids act as protective factors in diseases that affect
      retinal blood vessels.

      Omega-3 fatty acids make compounds that protect against the growth of abnormal blood vessels
      by preventing inflammation.

      In two European studies, this treatment decreased the risk of needing laser treatment in the
      eye for ROP. This study has not yet been repeated in the United States. The purpose of this
      study is to learn how omega-3 fatty acid supplementation in low birth weight infants changes
      the blood profile of infants receiving this nutritional treatment.

      Infants are enrolled in this study shortly after birth and receive IV and/or oral
      supplementation until they are full term or the retinal blood vessels have completely
      developed, shortly after term. Once the treatment is over, these infants will continue to be
      followed for growth and development of their eyes.
    
  