
    
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE) recurrence is a common situation after stopping anticoagulant
      treatment. This recurrence requires extended anticoagulant therapy to prevent thrombosis
      progression and embolization, but given an increased bleeding risk with prolonged treatment,
      an accurate diagnosis for VTE recurrence is needed.

      Unfortunately, there is no reference standard for the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
      recurrence and objective and accurate diagnostic methods are lacking. Clinical assessment
      does not allow discriminating between a previous and a recent thrombosis and there is no
      clinical prediction rule specific to the suspicion of DVT recurrence. D-dimer assays alone
      may not be able to safely exclude the diagnosis of DVT recurrence, and they have not been
      sufficiently validated in combination with clinical probability. The same holds for imaging
      modalities because normalisation rate after proximal DVT is low and a "residual thrombosis"
      may make difficult the diagnosis of a new thrombosis episode at the same site. Phlebography
      is non-diagnostic in 33% of cases. CT-venography has never been evaluated and MRI direct
      thrombus imaging (MRDTI) although very promising is still under evaluation.

      As compression ultrasound (CUS) may be equivocal due to a residual thrombosis, a comparison
      to baseline measurements of residual vein diameter after full compression at the common
      femoral and the popliteal vein segments in cross-sectional plane has been suggested with an
      increase in diameter superior to 2 or 4 mm as a diagnosis criterion. This method has many
      major limitations related to: 1/the need for a previous measurement almost never available in
      practice, 2/ the potential for recurrence at a different site than that previously measured,
      3/ a poor inter-observer agreement or at least inconsistent inter-observer variability
      between studies, 4/ small sample sizes in diagnostic accuracy and in diagnostic management
      studies and 5/ lack of external validation. Due to these limitations, recurrent ipsilateral
      DVT is mainly diagnosed by CUS when it occurs in a new or a normalised vein segment.

      Colour Doppler ultrasound (CDUS) enables to study both the thrombus and the blood flow
      characteristics that might help to overcome the limitations of CUS and diameter measurements.
      Although CDUS has never been assessed for DVT recurrence in a study, it is used in every day
      clinical practice and seems very helpful. The diagnosis may be easily established using the
      same CDUS criteria as for a first DVT episode. Our hypothesis is that CDUS associated with
      D-Dimer can safely exclude the diagnosis of recurrent DVT while maintaining a good
      specificity.

      The strategy consists in performing first a CDUS that helps to classify patients as having
      (positive CDUS) or not having (negative CDUS) a new thrombosis. In the case of an equivocal
      (non-diagnostic) CDUS, a D-Dimer test is performed followed by repeat CDUS on D7±2 if D-dimer
      test result is abnormal. Meanwhile, patients are not treated by anticoagulants. A negative
      D-dimer test or an unchanged CDUS on D7±2 qualifies patients as free from a new DVT.
      Conversely a change in CDUS qualifies patients as having a new DVT. Only patients with a new
      DVT are treated. All patients have a 3-month follow-up for the assessment of venous
      thromboembolic and bleeding events by an independent adjudication committee.
    
  