
    
      Although therapeutic hypothermia for 72 hours reduces brain injury and improves long term
      neurodevelopmental outcomes after moderate or severe neonatal encephalopathy, the benefits
      and optimal duration of cooling therapy in mild encephalopathy is not known. Adverse
      neurodevelopmental outcomes at 2 years occur in 16% of babies with un-treated mild neonatal
      encephalopathy. In the phase I of the COMET trial, we have shown that it is feasible to
      identify and randomise babies with mild encephalopathy, and to obtain the primary outcome
      (proton MR spectroscopy levels of Thalamic N-acetyl Aspartate) accurately. The phase II of
      the COMET trial will examine the benefits and optimal duration of cooling therapy in babies
      with mild encephalopathy.

      Research questions

        1. Does whole body cooling initiated within 6 hours of birth and continued for 72 hours
           increase thalamic MR spectroscopy N-acetyl aspartate levels in babies with mild
           encephalopathy, when compared with those who are not cooled? (Cohort 1)

        2. In babies with mild encephalopathy undergoing cooling therapy as clinical care, does
           rewarming at 48 hours as opposed to 72 hours result in similar thalamic N-acetyl
           aspartate levels? (Cohort 2)

      Study Population Cohort 1: A total of 60 babies with mild encephalopathy (>36 weeks; >2Kg)
      aged less than 6 hours will be recruited from several tertiary neonatal units in the UK,
      Europe, USA and Canada, over a 2 year period. The babies will be randomised to usual care (no
      cooling) or cooling therapy (core temperature 33 to 34 C) for 72 hours within six hours of
      birth. MR imaging and spectroscopy will be performed between 4 to 14 days after birth.

      Cohort 2: A total of 80 babies will mild encephalopathy (>36 weeks; >2Kg) aged 24 to 48 hours
      and undergoing cooling therapy as a part of standard clinical care will be recruited from
      several UK cooling centres, over a 2 year period. The babies will be randomised to rewarming
      after 48 hours or 72 hours of cooling therapy. MR imaging and spectroscopy will be performed
      between 4 to 14 days after birth. The babies recruited to cohort 1 will not be eligible for
      recruitment to cohort 2.

      Primary outcome (both cohorts)

      • Proton MR spectroscopy Thalamic N-acetyl aspartate levels between 4 to 14 days of age.

      Benefits of the trial These data will inform the national and international guidelines on
      management of babies with mild neonatal encephalopathy. If a shorter duration of cooling is
      as good or better than 3 days of cooling, this will reduce the intensive care stays, opioid
      use and separation from parents.
    
  