
    
      Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is an autoimmune cholestatic liver disease characterized by
      destruction of intrahepatic bile ducts and progression to liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. The
      diagnosis of PBC is based on the presence of two of three major criteria; unexplained serum
      alkaline phosphatase (ALP) >1.5 times upper normal limit for more than 24 weeks, presence of
      anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA), and compatible liver histology.

      Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is currently the only approved drug used to treat PBC and
      patients treated with UDCA have improved survival. In Denmark all PBC patients are offered
      UDCA treatment. However, up to 40% of PBC patients may be classified as insufficient
      responders to UDCA treatment with male gender, low age, and low Vitamin D level at diagnosis
      associated with insufficient response. More precise predictors of insufficient response to
      UDCA treatment are important to find as insufficient responders have worse 10-year survival
      probability than responders. The high proportion of insufficient responders has fuelled the
      search for novel treatment options, including fibrates, budesonide, and obeticholic acid.
      Despite response to UDCA treatment, liver transplantation remains the only cure for PBC and
      patients with expected survival less than one year are potential candidates for liver
      transplantation.

      Bezafibrate Bezafibrate is a pan-peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonist.
      For decades, bezafibrate has been prescribed for various indications including
      hyperlipidemia. Thus, adverse effects are well described. Recently, a phase 3 trial showed
      promising results as an add-on therapy to UDCA in reducing ALP in PBC patients, who had
      insufficient response to UDCA alone. Hence, Danish hepatologists are starting to use
      bezafibrate as second line, add-on, therapy in PBC patients.

      Soluble CD163 and fibrosis markers In PBC, inflammation is attributed to an immune response
      to mitochondrial autoantigens followed by development of anti-mitochondrial antibodies
      (AMAs); and accompanied by inflammation of small bile ducts. The pathogenesis includes both
      CD4 and CD8 cells, which in the presence of biliary cells expressing the 2-oxo-dehydrogenase
      pathway (PDC-E2) activates macrophages via granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor.
      The activated macrophages, together with AMAs, produce a proinflammatory response with
      subsequent liver inflammation and fibrosis. Thus, macrophages seem to be involved in PBC
      disease severity and progression. The investigators recently showed that the macrophage
      activation marker soluble (s)CD163 is associated with long-term prognosis in PBC patients.
      Further, the investigators research group have shown increased levels of sCD163 in relation
      to liver fibrosis/cirrhosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis (HBV and HCV),
      non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD/NASH) and alcoholic liver disease (alcoholic
      hepatitis and cirrhosis) and liver disease severity including risk of portal hypertension and
      development of complications and mortality. Moreover, the investigators also demonstrated
      sCD163 is associated with early and long-term prognosis of patients with cirrhosis and
      acute-on-chronic liver failure.

      Fibrosis is a hallmark of liver disease progression and extracellular matrix (ECM) turnover
      is a prominent feature of chronic inflammatory liver diseases including PBC. ECM protein
      degradation and formation generate fragments reflecting aspects of the tissue turnover
      balance when quantified in the blood. PRO-C3 and PRO-C4 reflect type III and IV collagen
      formation, whereas C3M and C4M are markers for degradation of type III and IV. The
      investigators aim to investigate changes in these fibrosis markers before and after
      bezafibrate treatment, to demonstrate if these novel finger print protein biomarkers may be
      useful for treatment response in PBC patients.

      Bile acids In PBC there is intrahepatic accumulation of potentially cytotoxic bile acids
      resulting in liver damage. Further the composition of bile acids is changed, resulting in
      changes of microbiota and in the integrity of the intestinal wall, potentially allowing an
      increased flux of inflammatory metabolites to the liver. Exploration of potential changes in
      bile acid profile caused by bezafibrate treatment may improve understanding of the treatment
      effects and provide identification of specific treatment targets.
    
  