
    
      Objective: Information gathered from our laboratories suggests that cystoid macular edema
      (CME) is caused by the disequilibrium of the Jak/Stat and mTor signal transduction pathways
      in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). We wish to investigate whether stimulating the
      Jak/Stat pathway with topically applied interferon gamma-1b can be a therapeutic intervention
      for the treatment of CME secondary to uveitis. The objective of this study is to investigate
      the safety and tolerability of ocular instillations(s) of interferon gamma-1b as an effective
      treatment for CME secondary to uveitis.

      Study Population: Five participants with CME secondary to intermediate, panuveitis or
      posterior uveitis will receive a topical ocular instillation(s) of interferon gamma-1b.

      Design: This Phase I, non-randomized, prospective, uncontrolled, dose-escalation,
      single-center study will involve a one-time instillation or series of instillations of
      interferon gamma-1b on the cornea and measure the potential response with optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) . Treatment success is defined as a 25% decrease in excess central macular
      thickening at any timepoint post-instillation as compared to baseline. The first two
      participants will receive one instillation (each instillation contains 10 microg in 0.05 mL
      solution), the next two participants will receive two instillations and the final participant
      will receive three instillations. OCT will be obtained at -60 minutes, -30 minutes and just
      before the instillation(s). Repeat OCTs will be taken at +30 minutes, +60 minutes and +120
      minutes and again at the end of the day. All participants will return for a one-week safety
      visit.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the change in excess central macular thickening as
      measured by OCT in response to interferon gamma-1b as compared with baseline. Secondary
      efficacy outcomes include changes in macular volume as measured by OCT, visual acuity,
      intraocular pressure, and intraocular inflammation as graded upon slit lamp examination.
      Secondary safety outcomes include ocular surface irritation assessed by fluorescein staining
      of the cornea and conjunctiva to assess toxicity changes in subjective ocular pain
      assessments as compared to baseline, number and severity of systemic and ocular toxicities
      and adverse events and the proportion of participants with a visual loss of greater than or
      equal to 15 ETDRS letters.
    
  