
    
      Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a clinically defined condition characterized by severe
      disabling fatigue and a combination of symptoms that prominently features self-reported
      impairment of concentration and short-term memory, sleep disturbances, and musculoskeletal
      pain. Prevalence of CFS in the adult population is estimated to be 0.007% to 2.8%. No
      pathognomonic signs or diagnostic tests for this condition have been yet validated in
      scientific studies; in addition, no definitive treatments are clinically available. Suggested
      etiologies of CFS include, but are not limited to: viral or bacterial infections,
      endocrine-metabolic dysfunction, immunological imbalance, neurally-mediated hypotension and
      depressioN. EBV and HHV-6 are among the viruses frequently thought as associated with CFS.

      We recently encountered a group of patients at Stanford who were chronically infected with
      human herpes virus 6 (HHV-6) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), were suffering from debilitating
      fatigue for at least one year and experienced a significant improvement in their fatigue and
      cognitive symptoms following the administration of valganciclovir. Their antibody titers to
      both viruses were high (median antibody titer for EBV viral capsid antigen was 1:2560 and for
      HHV-6 IgG was 1:1280) despite the fact that some of them were known to have been infected
      with EBV and HHV-6 for several years. We suspected that their symptoms could be the result of
      an immune dysregulation triggered by high levels of replication of both EBV and HHV-6
      (alterations in the immune system such as an aberrant cytokine profiles have been proposed as
      the central abnormality in patients with CFS associated with other viruses such as parvovirus
      B19. At the same time, we were familiar using valganciclovir in the context of several
      clinical settings including its known indications for reactivation of viral infections in
      immunocompromised patients. We were comfortable using valganciclovir (900 mg bid for three
      weeks followed by 900 mg qd to complete 3 to 12 months of treatment) in patients with solid
      and bone marrow transplants, cancer or other immunosuppressive disorders who had developed
      CMV, EBV, or HHV-6 disease.

      We hypothesized that a long course (i.e. 6 months) of valganciclovir could effectively
      decrease or stop ongoing viral replication of both EBV and HHV-6 and that this virological
      effect could be translated in a clinical and laboratory benefit (i.e. decrease or resolution
      of lymphadenopathy, reversion of the CD4/CD8 ratio abnormalities). We were surprised to see
      that a dramatic recovery on the level of physical activity was also observed in the Stanford
      patients (from a median of 10% of energy level for daily activities at baseline to 90% after
      valganciclovir use). Of note, the drug has also been tried in patients in whom an improvement
      on their level of physical activity has not been observed. The total number of patients
      treated today is 30, 26 had "elevated titers" and 4 had "low titers". Of the 26 patients with
      "elevated titers", 25 have had a dramatic recovery. Of the 4 patients with "low titers", none
      have responded.

      We believe that our successful experience with valganciclovir in a subset of patients with
      CFS at Stanford calls for a prospective study to exclude a placebo effect. We propose to
      measure viral, immunologic, and genomic endpoints to assess whether there are objective and
      measurable changes in these parameters and whether they correlate with clinical improvement.
      Clinical improvement will be assessed by objective measurements of daily physical and
      psychological activities. This will help to elucidate the possible role of HHV-6, EBV (or a
      yet to be known virus) and/or an altered immune system as triggers for the symptoms
      experienced by patients suffering CFS and to establish whether the drug valganciclovir does
      reverse these abnormalities. This study may also shed light on a biomarker or profile of
      biomarkers associated with (or diagnostic of) CFS.

      We will be executing a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of valganciclovir in patients experiencing chronic fatigue
      syndrome with elevated antibody titres against Human Herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) and Epstein-Barr
      Virus (EBV)

      Objectives

        1. To determine whether the drug valganciclovir has a significant and real benefit on the
           central core of symptoms experienced by patients who have high titers to EBV and HHV-6
           and are experiencing long-standing fatigue and cognitive impairment (CFS).

        2. To characterize a quantifiable biological marker in these patients that will facilitate
           the identification of those likely to respond to valganciclovir and will make it
           possible to assess response to treatment.

      Design of the study A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. All
      patients will be given the active drug (20 patients) or placebo (10 patients) for 6 months
      and followed for an additional 3 months. Patients on the placebo arm will take a
      valganciclovir look-alike tablet that does not contain the active drug for the initial six
      month period. Subsequently these patients will be offered a 6 month trial of valganciclovir
      if at the end of the study (when the last enrolled patient reaches 9 months from initiating
      therapy) it is clear that there is a benefit of valganciclovir therapy and patients have not
      spontaneously improved.

      Kogelnik A, Rosso F, Hoegh-Petersen M and Montoya JG. Use of Valganciclovir in Patients
      Chronically Co-infected with Human Herpes Virus 6 (HHV-6) and Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) who
      were Experiencing Long-standing Fatigue. J Clin Virol 2006 Volume 37, Supplement 1 S33-S38

      Kerr JR, Cunniffe VS, Kelleher P, Bernstein RM and Bruce IN. Successful intravenous
      immunoglobulin therapy in 3 cases of parvovirus B19-associated chronic fatigue syndrome. Clin
      Infect Dis 2003;36:e100-6
    
  