
    
      Apical prolapse is defined as descent of the uterus and cervix, the cervix alone, or the
      post-hysterectomy vaginal cuff down to the hymen, lower vagina, or past the introitus. Among
      684,250 POP procedures that were performed in 15 Organization for Economic Co-operation and
      Development (OECD) countries in 2012, apical compartment repairs represented 20% of these
      procedures. Sacrospinous ligament suspension (SSLF) as a typical native tissue repair
      procedure is one of the most widely used vaginal procedures for correcting apical prolapse.
      SSLF is typically a suture-based attachment of the vaginal apex to the sacrospinous ligament,
      either unilaterally or bilaterally usually with specially designed equipment such as
      Deschamps ligature carrier or Miya hook. However, these instruments are expensive and are not
      yet widely applied in China. Typical Asian smaller pelvis offers us an optional repair
      procedure with conventional surgical instruments instead of special instrument. Previous
      pilot study from Peking Union Medical College Hospital showed promising curative results with
      conventional surgical instruments in Chinese female patients. The investigation may show us a
      feasible, economic and effective modified procedure for Asian patients with medium
      compartment prolapse.

      This is a multi-center, prospective clinical trial. Previous studies using conventional
      surgical instruments for 1-year follow-up showed objective cure rate was 98%, subjective
      satisfaction was 94%, Considering that the objective cure rate may decrease in multicenter
      trials, it is assumed that the objective cure rate of multicenter trials can reach 95%. When
      the sample size is at least 79 patients, 80% of the test efficiency can verify that the
      objective cure rate is higher than the target value when the bilateral α=0.05. The missing
      rate was about 10%. The incidence of SSLF failure requiring other operations method due to
      deep pelvic cavity and unsatisfactory exposure by conventional instruments was about 5%. The
      final number of cases included in this study should be 100 cases. Ischial spinous fascia
      fixation (ISFF) will be the replacement procedure if SSLF will not be accomplished by
      conventional surgical instruments due to unsatisfactory exposure of spinous fascia. The
      research units will collect perioperative data and complete unified format case report form
      (CRF) for all selected patients for further analysis. A total of at most 9 months will be
      required to complete the study after starting up.
    
  