
    
      This study will take place in Uganda at Health Centers (level II, III and IV) and District
      Hospitals, to reach 'frontline' health providers who attend births. This study will take
      place in districts meeting study criteria in two regions to demonstrate ability to implement
      in different geographic settings and potential for scale up. It is a quasi-experimental
      design with three study arms/groups that receive different levels or intensities and
      modalities of the program intervention.

      Briefly, the same simulator-based training will be provided in all three study arms. After
      the training, a simulator will be left in the health facility, and providers will be
      encouraged to practice with it regularly. In two of the study arms, specific health workers
      will be recruited to support the intervention by encouraging their colleagues to practice
      with the simulator. In one study arm, the practice will be further reinforced through mobile
      phone-based support. Following is a more detailed description of each of the three
      components.

      Component 1 (Training): Training is composed of two separate training interventions. First,
      in each study facility, Ugandan master trainers (district trainers) will conduct a single
      day, simulator-driven training on PPH prevention and treatment; all providers who attend
      births will be invited to participate. Eight weeks later, in each facility, the same trainers
      will conduct a one-day, simulator-driven training for prevention and management of asphyxia
      in the newborn. After each one-day training, simulators will be left at the facility for
      practice with a corresponding practice schedule.

      Component 2 (Peer-led Practice Sessions): On the day the first training (for PPH), 2 birth
      attendants at the facility will be selected to serve as clinical mentors (CM). The CMs will
      be trained to encourage their coworkers to participate in 15-minute practice sessions each
      week for 8 weeks, in which they will use the simulators to practice the skills learned in the
      one-day training. After the newborn asphyxia training occurs, these same CMs will be trained
      to support a similar practice schedule for the following 12 weeks - 8 weeks for newborn
      asphyxia practice and 4 weeks for combined PPH and asphyxia skills practice.

      Component 3 (Mobile phone-based support): CMs will be connected to the district trainer via
      mobile phone for weekly phone calls during the practice periods to provide reminders and
      support for practice.
    
  