
    
      The study was conducted as a longitudinal study, combining qualitative and quantitative
      perspectives, i.e. a mixed-methods design. The rationale for combining quantitative and
      qualitative methods was to provide a comprehensive exploration of the research
      question.Investigators conducted the interviews in a closed meeting room at the hospital,
      three months after the participant´s first hospital visit. The time span was set to allow the
      participants to conclude their treatments with caring touch. The interviews, which lasted up
      to 60 minutes, were conducted in Swedish, digitally recorded and transcribed verbatim by the
      investigators. An open-ended question was used to initiate the interviews. The quantitative
      primary outcome was current level of pain measured by VAS, ranging from 0 (no pain) to 100
      (worst imaginable pain). Participants rated their current VAS pain at baseline during the
      initial visit and before and after each treatment session with caring touch, and then again
      via a postal follow-up after six months. Secondary exploratory outcomes were sense of
      coherence (SOC), constructed by Antonovsky on the basis of a salutogenic model. The Sense of
      Coherence scale was of interest since this instrument capture the participants' experiences
      of comprehensibility, manageability, and meaningfulness which we assumed could be linked to
      participant recovery. SOC, a 13-item rating scale, developed using the subscales of
      comprehensibility, manageability, and meaningfulness. Total scores of 21-59 indicate low
      sense of coherence, 60-74 an average sense of coherence, and 75-91 high sense of coherence.
      Additionally, the Impact of Event Scale (IES-R) has been well used in previous trauma
      research and was decided as being an appropriate tool to explore to what extent the
      participants experienced post-traumatic stress disease. IES-R, 22-item scale shows the degree
      to which the traumatic experience is felt on a consciousness level, and if the person
      exhibits avoidant behaviour. The IES-R is based on a 4-point frequency scales (i.e., 0=not at
      all, 1= a little bit, 2= moderately, 3=quite a bit, and 4=extremely). An average of the total
      scale sum of 1.8-2.0 indicates post-traumatic stress disorder. The IES-R seems to be a solid
      measure of post-traumatic phenomena that can augment related assessment approaches in
      clinical and research contexts. The European Quality of Life (EQ-5D) instrument was employed
      to explore participants´ health-related quality of life and self-related health. The EQ-5D
      instrument was selected because of the short-form and that it has been widely used to measure
      quality of life among the County Councils of Sweden. EQ-5D is a standardized instrument for
      measuring health outcome. Participants classify their health in terms of five dimensions:
      mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each
      dimension has three levels of severity: (1) no problems, (2) moderate problems, and (3)
      severe problems. From the sum a number of total 243 combinations of health can be created.
      Each health combination generates an index value from -0.59 to 1.0, where 1.0 indicates full
      health. Additionally, the EQ-5D has a visual analogue scale for self-rated health with the
      anchors at zero (worst imaginable health) up to 100 (best imaginable health).

      Data from VAS pain ratings and questionnaires was manually transferred from paper into an
      electronic database before statistical analysis. Summary characteristics of participants were
      presented as proportions, mean, median, standard deviation and/or min-max values. Change
      scores of VAS pain ratings, SOC, IES-R and EQ-5D over time between baseline and follow-up
      after six months were analysed for patients with complete data. Considering rating scales and
      ordinal types of data, and the relatively small sample sizes, non-parametric statistical
      analysis, i.e. the Wilcoxon signed-rank test was employed for assessing change scores over
      time. All p-value calculations were conducted with a 5% significance level. An additional
      descriptive analysis was conducted for VAS pain ratings before and after each treatment
      session with caring touch. Computational software included STATA 13, StataCorp, USA and
      Microsoft Excel 2011, Microsoft, USA.
    
  