
    
      Fibromyalgia is one of the most demanding health issues nowadays due to the high level of
      suffering and the deterioration of quality of life it entails. In addition, its high
      prevalence and the great expenses it implies for social and health care systems are also
      matter of both public and politic concern.

      Previous research has shown that the personal affliction triggered by fibromyalgia is
      influenced by psychological factors, which have also an effect on the socioeconomic burden of
      this disease as a consequence. Among these factors, depressive symptoms are highlighted in
      this study not only because they exacerbate the clinical profile of this type of patients,
      but also because they decrease their response to treatment, contributing to the chronicity of
      this disease. In fact, the treatment of depressive symptoms is already one of the therapeutic
      targets included in the most recommended multicomponent (and multidisciplinary) treatment
      guidelines for fibromyalgia.

      In spite of the growing number of studies supporting the efficacy of psychological therapies
      for fibromyalgia, many issues need further development. For example, current treatment
      recommendations for this syndrome suggest that the intervention must be tailored to the
      psychosocial and functioning profile of patients. However, research is still needed in order
      to enable the identification of key factors for clinical improvement. Similarly, it is
      crucial to identify and assess idiosyncratic psychological characteristics that may allow the
      psychological intervention to be effectively adapted. In addition, an evidence-based
      description of the mechanisms involved in change at different levels (including psychological
      and physical ones) has not been developed yet.

      The aim of this project is to perform an efficacy study of Personal Construct Therapy (PCT),
      which focuses on the construction of self and others, for women diagnosed with fibromyalgia
      who have also comorbid depressive symptoms. It will be compared with Cognitive Behavioral
      Therapy (CBT), which is a well-established treatment in this area. Both interventions will be
      performed in individual format. Depressive symptoms will be measured before and after
      treatments, along with other clinical and wellbeing-related variables. The cognitive indexes
      derived from the Repertory Grid Technique, such as cognitive conflicts, polarization and
      self-construction measures, will also be assessed. Moreover, the capacity of all these
      measures for predicting differential outcomes resulting from both treatments will also be
      estimated. The relevance of these cognitive indicators for depression and fibromyalgia has
      already been proven by this research group in previous studies.

      It is expected that PCT will be more effective than standard CBT in improving clinical
      symptoms and wellbeing. Additionally, the identification of patients' cognitive
      characteristics which may have a differential response to the components of each treatment
      will allow future adaptation of psychological interventions to the characteristics of
      patients, which will contribute in turn to the improvement of the existing treatments.
    
  