
    
      In this study, a total of 24 participants with an incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI) will
      be randomly assigned to an EAW+TLS group or an EAW alone intervention group. Each group of
      subacute to chronic sensory and motor iSCI will be composed of 12 participants. On the
      average five participants will be trained per year. Each group will receive 60 minutes of
      robotic intervention training per session, for a total of 80 sessions (3 times a week, for 28
      weeks). Group 1: The EAW + TLS group will receive 60 minutes of exoskeleton-assisted walking
      overground with simultaneous TLS followed by 15 minutes of overground training without the
      exoskeleton. Group 2: The EAW alone (no stimulation) group will receive 60 minutes of
      exoskeleton-assisted walking over ground training followed by the 15 minutes of over group
      training. There is no stimulation applied to this group at any time during the
      training/walking.

      Training Paradigms.

      Group 1: EAW+TLS:

      The training protocols for the 2 groups will be exactly the same structure and timing except
      the TLS component is added during robot-assisted walking in the EAW +TLS group. After 3-5
      sessions the standardized training protocol will involve a circuit training format for 55-60
      minutes of training [5 minutes sit to stand, 15 minutes walking on flat tiled surfaces, 10
      minutes of walking on different surfaces including carpets and ceramic tiles, 15 minutes
      walking of tiled surfaces, 10 minutes of walking up and down ramps and passing through
      doorways. Throughout the training session the participant will be instructed by the PT on how
      to improve his/her standing and stepping kinematics. The duration of walking/stand training
      sessions will also be determined by participant's fatigue. Blood pressure (BP) will be taken
      at baseline seated, standing, and at regular intervals during the training session. If the
      participant complains of dizziness, light headedness, or any autonomic nervous system
      agitation the participant will rest seated (feet elevated). After 5 minutes of rest, the
      participant will recommence the standing again and blood pressure will be monitored. If a
      participant cannot tolerate training for 60 minutes, he or she will finish training and
      training time will be recorded for future analysis. Before each training session, BP will be
      evaluated (3 consecutive BP measurements within 5mmHg at 1-minute intervals). Once BP is
      stable, the participant will begin to train.

      Transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation (TLS): TLS will be applied during the EAW+TLS group
      training sessions. TLS will be applied using a pair of self-adhesive stimulating electrodes
      (5cm diameter,) placed bilaterally over the T11/T12 spinous processes. A constant-voltage
      stimulator (RT™ 50 Sage stimulators, RT therapy, Baltimore, MD) will deliver charge balanced,
      symmetric, biphasic rectangular pulses of 2 ms width (1 ms per phase). During the walking
      times in all training sessions of the EAW +TLS group, TLS at 30 Hz and ~18 V (will be
      adjusted due to individual variations), an intensity producing paraesthesias in most of the
      lower-limb dermatomes, yet below motor threshold for the lower-limb muscles (Hofstoetter et
      al. 2013).

      Note: Surface stimulators will be wireless and will operate during all aspects of EAW at sub
      threshold levels that will not illicit muscle activation during the EAW training. The
      Exoskeleton device will not interfere with surface stimulation electrode placement and
      parameters of stimulation can be modulated by the "new" notepad device that is part of the
      system.

      The investigators will also be evaluating the changes in spatial temporal characteristics,
      kinematics and muscle activation and quality of spinal cord fiber tract (SCFT) connectivity
      by high-resolution imaging as a result of the intensive training as these also influence
      recovery for iSCI.

      Group 2: EAW Training alone:

      Training will involve using a same exoskeleton device (Ekso Bionics, Berkeley, CA) for all
      the participants. Donning Device. Each participant will undergo measurement, sizing, and
      "donning" of the exoskeleton device. Each participant will then be instructed in proper use
      of the device. Initial Evaluation. All individuals will undergo a stand evaluation. A trainer
      positioned behind the participant will aid in trunk stabilization, by applying anterior
      forces at the pelvis and/or posterior forces at the shoulders, ensuring that the trunk and
      pelvis are not flexed or hyper-extended. Trainers will assist in instruction of moving the
      trunk and pelvis to facilitate the robot to step.

      During the initial 3 sessions of training, the exoskeleton device will be tethered to an
      overhead pulley system during training to allow participants to safely adapt to trunk,
      balance gait activities while walking in the exoskeleton. The overall goal of these early
      training sessions is to maintain trunk and limb control during stance and swing which
      resembles normal standing and walking.
    
  