
    
      Patients will then receive, in a randomized double-blinded fashion, levalbuterol, 1.25mg
      every 20 minutes for a total of 3 aerosolized doses combined with ipratropium, 0.5mg every 20
      minutes for a total of 3 aerosolized doses. The medication will be premixed by the pharmacy
      in a total of 3 ml of normal saline and the nebulizer will be driven with oxygen at 6 liters
      per minute. A second plasma sample for analysis of albuterol isomers will be drawn within a
      fifteen minute window following the third aerosol treatment. Spirometry will be repeated
      again at 30 and 60 minutes after the third aerosol treatment (Figure 1). All patients will
      receive prednisone, 60mg orally immediately after their first dose of aerosolized
      medications, unless contraindications to prednisone administration are present. Patients will
      not receive any other medications during the time course of the study. Vital signs and pulse
      oximetry will be repeated prior to each nebulized treatment and again 30 minutes after the
      third nebulized treatment.

      The study will terminate 60 minutes after the third aerosol administration. At that point,
      any further therapy will be at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients will be
      questioned about the occurrence of any side effects from levalbuterol treatment including
      palpitations, anxiety, nausea, vomiting or headache. Patients will also be questioned about
      the occurrence of any side effects from ipratropium, including dry mouth, dry eyes, and
      urinary retention. Patients will be withdrawn from the study at any point these side effects
      become intolerable to the patient or any time the patient so desires. Patients will also be
      withdrawn if they develop palpitations and have an ECG that demonstrates ventricular or
      supraventricular tachycardia.

      .Patients will be called 14 days after their ED visit to assess relapse or recurrence of
      acute asthma exacerbation. In addition, a chart review will be performed to assess relapse or
      recurrence of acute asthma exacerbation, as well as determine hospital length of stay in
      those patients who required admission after the initial visit.
    
  