
    
      Rationale:

      Familial gastric cancer (FGC) concerns about 10% of all gastric cancers. It has an impressive
      impact on both emotional and physical wellbeing of first degree relatives of patients with
      (early) onset of gastric cancer. FGC can in 1-3% be attributed to one single hereditary
      syndrome, the hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC). HDGC is associated with a CDH1
      mutation in about 40 % of the cases. In case there is no CDH1 mutation, referred to as
      familiar diffuse gastric cancer (FDGC), it remains uncertain how to guide and/or screen
      family members. The same applies for the rare familial intestinal type gastric cancer (FIGC).

      Aim:

      In this study we want to determine the value of endoscopic screening in members of families
      with FGC, both FDGC and FIGC. Also, we will analyze the associations of life style factors,
      including dietary habits with the development of FDGC, to be able to built preventive
      strategies. Finally, we want to assess the psychological impact of our screening protocol.

      Objective:

      Primary, to determine whether staining of the gastric mucosa increases the number of detected
      (pre)malignant foci of diffuse type gastric cancer, in individuals from families with FDGC as
      well as dysplastic, adenomatous and early intestinal cancers in individuals from families
      with FIGC. Secondary: A To determine the optimal pathological work-up the detection rate of
      (pre-)malignancy. B To determine clinical and life style factors that are associated with the
      two types of FGC. C To determine the psychosocial impact of the screening protocol in this
      population. D To develop a strategy for screening individuals from FGC families and creative
      advise for preventive measures.

      Study design:

      A randomized controlled trial included in a prospective cohort analysis.

      Study population:

      All (first degree) relatives , from 18 years and older from patients who fulfill the criteria
      for a FGC. These are; 1] all first degree relatives of an individual with diffuse gastric
      cancer, without proven CDH1 mutation, or members from families with 2] 2 or more individuals
      with gastric carcinoma, at least one < 50 yrs, or 3] 3 or more individuals with gastric
      carcinoma, any age, any type, or 4] 1 individual with any type gastric carcinoma < 40 yrs.
    
  