
    
      Dementia is frequently observed in the elderly, often associated with psychotic symptoms such
      as delusion or hallucination, or with behavioral disturbances such as aggressive behavior,
      wandering, and aimless behavior induced by the psychotic symptoms. Based on the results of
      preliminary clinical studies, risperidone can be expected to be beneficial for the treatment
      of psychotic symptoms and behavioral disturbances associated with Alzheimer's disease. This
      is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of risperidone tablets
      or placebo tablets taken twice daily over 9 weeks by patients with hallucinations and
      delusions associated with Alzheimer's disease. During the one week run-in period, patients
      take one tablet twice daily. During the 8 week double-blind period, the dose is given twice
      daily in a flexible dose regimen of 0.5 to 2 mg of risperidone per day, or placebo. The
      primary measure of effectiveness is the change in Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease
      (BEHAVE-AD) psychotic symptom cluster score from baseline and intermediate visits to study
      end (Week 9) compared with placebo. BEHAVE-AD is a scale used for global assessment of
      symptoms associated with dementia. Additional assessments of effectiveness include the
      Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI), an assessment of aggressiveness and
      non-aggressiveness, and the Clinical Global Impression - Change (CGI-C), a measure of an
      improved or aggravated condition. Safety evaluations include the incidence of adverse events,
      physical examinations, electrocardiograms (ECGs), laboratory tests (biochemistry, hematology,
      and urinalysis), and assessment of extrapyramidal symptoms. The study hypothesis is that
      treatment twice daily with risperidone is more effective than placebo on measures of the
      BEHAVE-AD psychotic symptom cluster score in patients with hallucinations and delusions
      associated with Alzheimer's disease. Oral risperidone tablets 0.25 mg or placebo tablets
      twice daily, increasing in weekly increments of 0.5 mg/day to a maximum of 2 mg/day; total
      daily dosage will be maintained for 9 weeks.
    
  