
    
      The SARS-CoV-2 belongs to the genus β which has been confirmed to be highly infectious by
      research. (https://www.who.int/emergencies/
      diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/situation-reports).

      The four major structural proteins of coronavirus are the spike surface glycoprotein (S),
      small envelope protein (E), matrix protein (M), and nucleocapsid protein (N). The spike
      protein (S) of coronavirus is a type I transmembrane glycoprotein and mediates the entrance
      to human respiratory epithelial cells by interacting with cell surface receptor
      angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) , the S protein contains distinct functional domains
      near the amino (S1) and carboxy (S2) termini, the peripheral S1 portion can independently
      bind cellular receptors while the integral membrane S2 portion is required to mediate fusion
      of viral and cellular membranes . The nucleocapsid protein (N) forms complexes with genomic
      RNA, interacts with the viral membrane protein during virion assembly and plays a critical
      role in enhancing the efficiency of virus transcription and assembly .

      The diagnosis of COVID-19 is dependent mainly on clinical characteristics, CT imaging and a
      few laboratory tests. Although some symptoms and laboratory parameters have indicative values
      in confirmed patients, they are not unique to SARSCoV-2 infection. The most used and reliable
      test for diagnosis of COVID-19 has been the RT-PCR test performed using nasopharyngeal swabs.
      A variety of RNA gene targets are used by different manufacturers, with most tests targeting
      1 or more of the envelope (env), nucleocapsid (N), spike (S), RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
      (RdRp), and ORF1 genes .

      Spread of the COVID-19 global pandemic highlights the urgent need to develop effective
      treatments or vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 infection. The identification of novel antibodies
      to neutralize the virus is one of the approaches to fight COVID-19 . In particular, detect an
      antibody against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein by building on knowledge about the existing
      structure of SARS-CoV-2 and learnings from previous SARS antibody generations. Potent
      neutralizing antibodies often target the receptor interaction site in S1, disabling receptor
      interactions. The so-called spike protein of 2019-nCoV is used by the virus to dock to human
      cells. By targeting the protein, to prevent the infection.

      COVID-19 patients developed SARS-CoV-2-specific NAbs at the convalescent phase of infection
      (SARS-CoV-2 NAbs were unable to cross-reactive with SARS-CoV virus). SARS-CoV -2 specific
      NAbs reached their peak in patients from day 10-15 after the onset of the disease and
      remained stable thereafter in the patients. Antibodies targeting on different domains of S
      protein, including S1, RBD, and S2, may all contribute to the neutralization.

      Neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) play important roles in virus clearance and have been
      considered as a key immune product for protection or treatment against viral diseases.
      Virus-specific NAbs, induced through either infection or vaccination, can block viral
      infection . NAbs confer immunity by deactivate viruses by block access to receptors used by
      the virus to enter host cells and bind to viral capsid and block uncoating of the viral
      genome .

      The level of NAbs has been used as a gold standard to evaluate the efficacy of vaccines
      against smallpox, polio and influenza viruses . Passive antibody therapy, such as plasma
      fusion, was successfully used to treat infectious viral diseases, including SARS-CoV virus,
      influenza viruses, and Ebola virus. The efficacy of passive antibody therapy was associated
      with the concentration of NAbs in plasma or antibodies of recovered donors. As the global
      pandemic of COVID-19 proceeds, transfusion of convalescent plasma or serum from recovered
      patients was also considered as a promising therapy for prophylaxis of infection or treatment
      of disease. highly variable levels of NAbs in the patients of COVID-19 indicated that
      convalescent plasma and serum from recovered donors should be titrated before use in passive
      antibody therapy, an easy task that can be performed using the PsV neutralization assay. The
      titers of NAbs were variable in different patients. Elderly patients (60-80 ys) were more
      likely to induce higher titers of NAbs than younger patients. A moderate positive correlation
      was also observed between age and Nab titers confirming the important role of age in the
      generation of Nabs. The correlation of NAbs titers with age, lymphocyte counts, and blood CRP
      levels suggested that the interplay between virus and host immune response.
    
  