
    
      Vaccines are an effective way of preventing influenza infection and transmission in humans.
      Although licensed influenza vaccines are available, ways to improve influenza vaccines
      continue to be studied. Annually, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the U.S FDA make
      recommendations on the composition of the seasonal influenza vaccine, with recommendations
      for the Northern Hemisphere (NH) and for the Southern Hemisphere (SH) considered at different
      times based on epidemiology data. The annually licensed influenza vaccines consist of 3
      components: an Influenza A (H1N1) strain, an Influenza A (H3N2) strain, and an influenza B
      strain. The current U.S. FDA-licensed influenza vaccines depend upon labor-intensive methods
      that limit manufacturing capacity and which do not induce broad immune responses to various
      strains of influenza. The vaccine composition requires frequent adjustment for emerging
      influenza strains.

      The need for influenza vaccines that are more immunogenic and able to induce a more universal
      immune response against a broad spectrum of influenza strains is well recognized. Earlier
      laboratory and clinical studies together suggest that an investigational DNA vaccine encoding
      for the influenza hemagglutinin protein(HA DNA vaccine) administered as a prime, followed by
      a boost with a traditional inactivated influenza vaccine, may induce a stronger immune
      response against various influenza strains and with improved durability. The interval of time
      between the prime vaccination and the boost vaccination is important for the strength of the
      immune response.

      This clinical trial will evaluate the safety, tolerability and immune responses to the
      investigational HA DNA vaccine prime-TIV boost schedule compared to a placebo prime-TIV boost
      schedule when the time between the prime and boost is 36 weeks.
    
  