
    
      Following inform consent form (ICF) signature, a formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE)
      tumor block (archival or a dedicated freshly collected tumor biopsy) will be collected for
      all enrolled patients and centralized at the biological resources platform of the Centre Léon
      Bérard.

      At reception, a central pathological review will be performed to confirm if quality and
      quantity of material is acceptable: all tumor sample should present at least 20 % (ideally 30
      %) of tumor cells and have a surface area > 5 mm2 (optimal condition is a surface area of
      5-25 mm2). If the quality and quantity of tumor sample do not meet the standards, patients
      will be considered as "screening failure". If standards are met, inclusion will be confirmed
      and molecular screening will be initiated as well as the translational research program.

      The molecular screening to detect NTRK1,2,3, ROS1 or ALK gene rearrangements will be a
      two-step process, consisting of :

        1. First, immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay to detect protein expression of TRKA/B/C
           (encoded by NTRK1,2,3), ROS1 or ALK. Only positive IHC samples will continued the 2nd
           step of molecular screening. Negative IHC patients do not require further NTRK, ROS or
           ALK gene rearrangement testing; however tumor samples will be further used for
           additional translational research program presented in Section VII and data about the
           clinical evolution of these patients will be collected

        2. Second, RNAseq analysis will be performed on positive IHC specimens to detect specific
           rearrangements in the NTRK1,NTRK2, NTRK3, ROS1 or ALK genes.

        3. Following molecular analyses, screening results will be immediately (within 24 hours)
           communicated to investigators, GSF-GETO Network and Ignyta representatives in order to
           recommend patients with NTRK1, NTRK2, NTRK3, ROS1 or ALK rearrangement for formal
           eligibility determination for potential enrolment in a clinical trial in particular with
           entrectinib (STARTRK-2; NCT02568267).
    
  