
    
      Ultrasound use in the assessment of medical abortion eligibility varies by practice site. The
      National Abortion Federation (NAF), the Society of Family Planning (SFP), and the World
      Health Organization (WHO) guidelines do not recommend routine use of sonography; however,
      many institutions and practices still require this as part of clinic protocol. Many
      clinicians routinely perform transvaginal sonography (TVS), a more invasive assessment than
      transabdominal ultrasound (TAS); reliance on TVS, specifically, can be cost-prohibitive due
      to high-level disinfection (HLD) requirements. Thus, routine US use can greatly decrease
      access to abortion services.

      Medical abortion accounts for an increasing proportion of abortions performed in the United
      States; as of 2012, 20.8% of all abortions were medical abortions. Routine use of
      ultrasonography and particularly TVS may be a holdover secondary to its use in early clinical
      trials of medical abortion efficacy - its use has remained a part of many providers' clinical
      practice despite evidence that it is not always necessary.

      This study, specifically, would be of value for the many clinicians who currently use TVS for
      all medical abortion patients and could support using TAS rather than TVS in a majority of
      these patients. The results could also provide guidance on how often practice settings
      without TVS and HLD would be able to provide medical abortion, and for which patients. Such
      settings could include primary care or rural clinics, any low volume clinics, or those where
      the costs and time associated with the HLD required for use of TVS prohibit or limit the
      provision of medical abortion. In addition, even high-volume specialty family planning
      clinics would benefit from a reduction in use of TVS. In the US, many providers have
      sonography available and use it routinely. However, even in the US, many clinics may seek to
      offer medical abortion without sonography, and other researchers are studying this type of
      approach. This proposed study will evaluate a more intermediate change in practice, primarily
      geared towards the large number of providers who routinely provide transvaginal ultrasound.
      For those providers, moving from TVS to TAS could be both cost effective and acceptable to
      patients.

      In detail, the study will enroll patients presenting for medical abortion at multiple
      clinical sites. These women will undergo routine intake per usual clinical protocol, then
      randomized to receive either TVS or TAS. Afterwards, routine clinical care will be provided
      by the clinician, which can include medical abortion provision or further testing to
      determine eligibility. Women will complete an acceptability survey at the conclusion of the
      visit.

      For providers, prior to participation, providers will complete a questionnaire regarding
      professional characteristics. Investigators will provide a training session for all providers
      at each site to review TAS (i.e., techniques and standardized reporting) assuming some
      providers have less experience with this when compared to TVS in early pregnancy. This
      training session will help minimize differences in TVS and TAS related to provider experience
      or variability in current practice. In addition, prior to participant enrollment, each clinic
      site will enroll 5 pilot patients, during which providers will perform only TAS to accustom
      providers and clinic staff to study protocols. Each clinician will perform TAS on at least 2
      but no more than 5 pilot patients.
    
  