
    
      Premedication will be omitted. Pre-operative baseline values of heart rate and blood pressure
      will be recorded. On arrival in the operation theatre, the routine monitoring devices (ECG,
      Pulse Oximetry & Non Invasive Blood Pressure) will be applied and base line heart rate, blood
      pressure (Systolic, diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure) and arterial Oxygen
      saturation will be recorded.

      After an intravenous line is secured, while pre-oxygenating the patient. Anaesthesia will be
      induced using fentanyl 1-2 µg/kg and sodium propofol 1.5-2.5 mg/kg according to the patient
      general condition and hemodynamics and intubation will be facilitated by using atracurium
      besylate 0.5mg/kg.

      Anaesthesia will be maintained with O2 in air (50%), sevoflurane (0.8-1.0 MAC). Muscle
      relaxation will be maintained with boluses of atracurium besylate 0.1 mg/kg. Intermittent
      positive pressure ventilation will be adjusted to maintain end tidal carbon dioxide between
      30-35mm Hg. Intravenous crystalloids (3-4 ml/kg/hr) will infused during intra-operative and
      immediate post-operative period. Intra-operatively, the following parameters will be
      monitored: ECG, blood pressure, pulse rate, end tidal carbon dioxide (ET CO2) & oxygen
      saturation (SpO2). Diclofenac sodium 1mg/kg intramuscularly to protect against Post ERCP
      Pancreatitis & Paracetamol (1gm) intravenously will be administered 15 minutes before the end
      of procedure followed by the administration of the anti-emetic prophylaxis according to group
      allocation.

      At the end, residual neuromuscular block will be antagonized using atropine and neostigmine
      and trachea will be extubated after signs of adequate neuro-muscular reversal are achieved.
      After extubation, patients will be transferred to the Post anaesthesia care unit where the
      blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and O2 saturation will be monitored continuously
      every five minutes for 60 minutes.

      If Visual Analogue Score (VAS) score is ≥3, rescue analgesia will be provided with Pethidine
      in 10mg increments / 5minutes until the VAS score is less than 3.

      Pain intensity will be assessed using VAS for the first 24 hours. Post-operative pain relief
      will be provided Paracetamol (1gm) intravenously given regularly every 8 hours for the first
      24 hours.

      Any incidence of nausea, retching or vomiting and use of any rescue medication during the
      first 24 hours at time interval of 0, 1/2, 1, 2, 6,12, 24 and 48 h will be noted, Nausea is
      defined as the subjective sensation of an urge to vomit, in the absence of expulsive muscular
      movements. Retching is defined as an unproductive effort to vomit. Vomiting is defined as the
      forcible expulsion of the gastric contents through the mouth. Retching and vomiting will be
      collectively termed emetic episodes.

      Rescue anti-emetic therapy in the form of Metoclopramide 10 mg intravenously will be provided
      for any patient suffering from an emetic episode as described above. The use of antiemetic
      rescue medication will be recorded & analysed.

      Patients will stay at the hospital post ERCP according to the discretion of the treating
      physician opinion, if any patient will be discharged before 48 hours, the data will be
      collected by telephone.
    
  