
    
      Objectives:

      Primary Objective

      Explore association between intensity of C11-AMT PET at baseline, as measured by mean
      standardized uptake value (SUVmax at each lesion), total tumor metabolic volume, measurement
      of intra-tumoral and inter-lesional heterogeneity), with objective response rate (ORR) at 12
      weeks as defined via RECIST 1.1 to pembrolizumab in patients with Programmed Death (PD)-1
      inhibitor-naïve unresectable stage III or distant metastatic (AJCC stage IV) melanoma.

      Secondary Objectives

      Estimate ORR (CR + PR) by RECIST 1.1 at 12 weeks to pembrolizumab in patients with PD-1
      inhibitor-naïve unresectable stage III or distant metastatic metastatic melanoma (AJCC stage
      III/IV).

      Estimate progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with unresectable stage III or distant
      metastatic melanoma treated with pembrolizumab as front-line therapy.

      Explore associations in SUVmax and other PET parameters (e.g. total tumor metabolic volume,
      measurement of intra-tumoral and inter-lesional heterogeneity) between C11-AMT PET and
      fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET at baseline.

      Explore associations between SUVmax, and other PET parameters (e.g. total tumor metabolic
      volume, measurement of intra-tumoral and inter-lesional heterogeneity) identified at baseline
      C11-AMT PET imaging with expression of components of the Indoleamine-pyrrole 2,3-dioxygenase
      (IDO) pathway detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or immunofluorescence (LAT1, IDO, TPH1),
      lymphocyte subtypes (CD4, cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8), FoxP3, MDSC), PD-1/PD-L1, and
      other immune checkpoint pathways (LAG3, glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor
      (GITR), TIM3) in freshly acquired tumor specimens prior to treatment with pembrolizumab.

      Assess metabolic changes at week 12 (or earlier, if patient progresses) following treatment
      with pembrolizumab using baseline and week 12 FDG PET.

      Outline:

      Screening:

      Physical exam, medical history, and laboratory tests, as per standard of care. Brain MRI and
      Whole body FDG PET/CT scan with IV contrast will be performed at least 24 hours before
      C11-AMT PET scanning. Although, the FDG PET/CT scan with IV contrast is preferred the
      following baseline measurements may be used if they have occurred within the below specified
      windows:

        1. Whole body FDG PET/CT scan without IV contrast, will be accepted for study purposes
           (i.e. correlation between baseline FDG PET scan and baseline C11-AMT scan) if it has
           occurred within 28 days before the C11-AMT PET scan. In this case, the patient will only
           be required to have a baseline CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis (also neck, if
           applicable) with IV contrast within 28 days of starting pembrolizumab.

        2. CT scan with IV contrast will be accepted for study purposes (i.e. baseline tumor
           assessment) if it has occurred within 28 days of starting pembrolizumab. In this case,
           the patient will only be required to have a baseline PET scan without CT coregistration
           28 days prior to C11-AMT. This is to correlate baseline FDG PET with baseline C11-AMT
           PET parameters.

      If eligibility criteria are met, patients will proceed to Study Related Scans and Biopsy:

      C11-AMT PET will be performed at least 24 hours before pembrolizumab treatment and at least
      24 hours after FDG PET/CT scan. A research biopsy will be performed before pembrolizumab
      treatment.

      After screening and study related scans and biopsy, treatment will consist of the following:

      Pembrolizumab 200mg IV flat dose will be administered over 30 minutes on Day 1; Pembrolizumab
      dosing will be repeated every 3 weeks until progression or subject withdrawal for other
      reasons.

      At the end of treatment:

      Whole body FDG PET/CT scan with IV contrast.

      Projected Accrual:

      Up to 25 subjects who have not received prior therapy for their recent diagnosis of distant
      metastatic melanoma.
    
  