
    
      Study Population

      Sixty women were initially included in this longitudinal, prospective study in Yuzuncu Yil
      University, Faculty of Dentistry, Department of Periodontology.

      The procedure was accepted and informed consent was signed by all participants. The material
      and method used in the trial were accepted by the Yuzuncu Yil University Ethics Committee and
      were found to conform to the guidelines issued in the Declaration of Helsinki. To standardize
      the effect of plaque accumulation on the tested parameters, subjects were given oral hygiene
      instructions before the study.

      Clinical Procedures, and Measurements

      All subjects were scheduled for periodontal measurements and GCF sampling on the specific
      days determined as follows: 1) menstruation day (MD); on days 2-3 of menstruation 2)
      ovulation day (OD); detected by saliva fertility microscope 12-14 days of menstrual cycle and
      3) premenstruation day (PmD); 22-24 days of menstruation cycle.

      The subjects evaluated the study criteria in terms of the duration of a regular menstrual
      cycle (28 ± 3 d) and were followed up for three menstrual cycles. Five participants were
      excluded from the study if their menstrual cycles were longer or shorter than 28 ± 3 d for
      the last 12 months.

      Donna ® Saliva Fertility Tester was used to detect the ovulation day. Patients also made
      their own fever measurement and confirmed the ovulation day. A small amount of saliva was
      placed onto microscope and after 5 minutes results were evaluated according to manufacturer's
      instructions. The outside of microscope lens cleaned with alcohol and a cotton swab after
      each use.

      Periodontal measurements were performed for all patients at each of the three time points
      from index teeth. Periodontal measurements were: 1) plaque index (PI) (according to Silness
      and Löe index) 9: measured at six sites around each tooth; the highest score per tooth was
      recorded; 2) gingival index (GI) (according to Löe and Silness index) 10: measured at six
      sites around each tooth; the highest score per tooth was recorded; 3) probing depth (PD):
      measured at six sites around each tooth.

      The GCF samples were obtained for 30 seconds from the mesiobuccal gingival sulcus of teeth
      using periodontal paper strips . The samples were taken 3 hours after the patients brush
      their teeth in the morning.

      To avoid irritation of the periodontal pocket epithelium, the clinical measurements were
      obtained after the GCF samples collecting. The area was isolated with cotton rolls. All paper
      strips were stored in phosphate buffered solution. Paper points contaminated with blood and
      saliva were not used for study. GCF samples were stored at -80 °C for laboratory analyses.
      GCF samples were analyzed for IL-6 and TNF-α using commercially available sandwich
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay according to the manufacturer's instructions. Results were
      reported as concentrations of IL-6 and TNF-α in GCF.
    
  