
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the timing of the clamping of the umbilical
      cord after delivery has an impact on neonatal hemoglobin and hematocrit, tests that determine
      the number of red cells in the blood and their ability to carry oxygen. The study hypothesis
      is that delaying cord clamping until cord pulsation has ceased will increase the neonatal
      blood volume and thereby increase the hemoglobin and hematocrit.

      As the communication between the placenta and fetus, the umbilical cord provides oxygen and
      nutrients until the time of delivery. Even after delivery, placental respiration continues
      for a short time and the newborn infant continues to receive blood from the placenta until
      physiologic closure of the cord vessels terminates the transfusion. While most term infants
      can tolerate variations in blood volume, those who are compromised by prematurity, cesarean
      delivery or cord compression in utero may require blood transfusions if the cord is clamped
      before pulmonary perfusion is established. Delayed cord clamping is believed to provide a
      greater supply of blood to perfuse the lungs without robbing blood from the other organs.

      In uncomplicated vaginal deliveries the umbilical cord traditionally has been clamped
      immediately after delivery, more for the doctor's convenience than for any consideration
      regarding the health of the infant. Both immediate and delayed cord clamping are accepted as
      routine standard of care at delivery, depending on the circumstances. However, some
      clinicians and researchers have suggested that by delaying the clamping of the umbilical
      cord, the placental transfusion to the newborn is maintained, optimizing blood volume and
      hemostasis.

      Several European research studies have suggested that delayed cord clamping increases newborn
      hemoglobin and hematocrit. However, these studies were not performed under properly
      controlled conditions and thus have failed to gain general acceptance.

      We propose to recruit 150 women who present for vaginal delivery at Tulsa Regional Medical
      Center. We believe this number of volunteers is possible to enroll in the allotted five
      months for data collection. A power analysis for this sample size was performed by Dr. Mark
      Payton, professor of statistics at the OSU Stillwater campus. He estimated that a difference
      of 0.3 standard deviations has a power of just over 95%.

      OSU medical students will explain the study and recruit patient volunteers during routine
      third trimester prenatal care visits at the OSU OB/Gyn resident clinic at Houston Parke.
      Study investigators Drs. Beal and Carnett will determine the eligibility of those patients
      who agree to participate. The ethnic mix of the resident clinic population is not available
      because race information is not routinely entered in the MegaWest Practice Management Program
      currently in use.

      When a volunteer presents for delivery, the resident in charge of the labor and delivery unit
      will remind the patient of her previous consent to participate and assign her to either the
      control group or the study group in an alternating fashion. Women who have agreed to
      participate in the study will have an identifying mark on their prenatal records which are
      sent from the clinic. In the control group, the umbilical cord will be clamped immediately
      after delivery. In the study group, the umbilical cord will be clamped once cord pulsation
      ceases. Patients also will be advised at this time that they can withdraw from the study at
      any time, regardless of the reason. The physician making group assignments and performing
      deliveries on a given day may not be one of the study investigators.

      The inability to mask the patients and study personnel will not affect the outcome of the
      study as strict guidelines regarding the timing of cord clamping will be applied. Immediate
      clamping will entail clamping of the umbilical cord within six seconds of delivery of the
      fetal shoulders. Delayed clamping will be performed by clamping the cord after a palpable
      pulse has ceased, or after 10 minutes. Cord pulsation generally stops within two minutes of
      delivery. The physician performing the delivery will determine when cord pulsation stops and
      the clamp times, immediate or delayed will be recorded by delivery room personnel who
      routinely record times of delivery of infant, delivery of placenta, infant weight and APGARs.
      Therefore, prior knowledge of group assignment will not affect the behavior of the patient or
      the physician at the time of delivery.

      The infants of mothers in both groups will have blood drawn for a hemoglobin and hematocrit
      at the time of the routine PKU heel stick. There will be no additional heel sticks to collect
      blood. The PKU test usually is performed within 18-24 hours of delivery. All infant study
      data will be collected at this time and no further blood draws will be necessary. The total
      amount of blood drawn from the baby will be approximately 8-10 drops, or about two teaspoons,
      which will include blood for the PKU test and the study tests. The results of the blood tests
      will then be analyzed and compared between the two groups. This comparison will also involve
      analysis of the mothers' admitting hemoglobin and hematocrit, blood type and demographic
      data, including age and smoking history, to look for possible exclusion or confounding
      factors. Maternal blood is routinely tested at the time of admission for blood type,
      hemoglobin and hematocrit. This involves the collection of approximately two test tubes of
      blood. No additional testing or blood collections will be performed on participating mothers
      other than those routinely done.

      There are no increased risks to mothers or their infants who agree to participate in the
      study. Likewise, there are no direct benefits to participation to either mothers or babies
      aside from the contribution their participation makes in furthering medical knowledge.
      Adverse events and serious adverse events will be recorded and reported to the IRB under the
      policies and procedures provided by OSUCHS.

      Our tentative timetable is to recruit 25 patients per month so that the data collection can
      be completed within five months. Tulsa Regional typically delivers about 1,000 babies
      monthly. Approximately 23 percent of these deliveries are cesarean sections. Of the remaining
      deliveries, it is reasonable to estimate that 25 patients per month could be recruited to the
      study.

      The study population will include 150 women and their newborn infants delivered at Tulsa
      Regional Medical Center. Mothers must be between the ages of 18 and 34 and be full term, 37
      to 41 weeks, with a singleton pregnancy at the time of delivery. Women will be excluded from
      the study if their delivery is complicated by non-reassuring fetal heart tones, preeclampsia,
      eclampsia, chronic hypertension, meconium-stained amniotic fluid, fetal anomalies or any
      other condition which could require immediate newborn evaluation by nursery personnel at the
      time of delivery. Infants requiring operative delivery by forceps or vacuum also will be
      excluded.

      Analysis Statistical differences between the blood counts of infants in the control and study
      groups will be compared using independent samples t tests.
    
  