
    
      After the signature of the consent form and validation of the eligibility inclusion criteria,
      patients will be randomized. Treatment will start within a maximum of 10 days after
      randomization.

      Arm A: Systemic standard treatment without DepoCyte® Arm B: Systemic standard treatment with
      DepoCyte® DepoCyte® will be slowly administered by injection (1 to 5 minutes) of 50 mg (5 mL)
      into the CSF via a lumbar puncture or a ventricular device

        -  every 14 +/- 2 days for a total of 5 cycles (induction treatment)

        -  then every 28 +/-4 days until progression (maintenance treatment) Standard systemic
           treatment by chemotherapy, targeted therapy or hormonal therapy is at the discretion of
           the investigator taking into account the breast cancer sub-type and previous treatments.
           The systemic treatment will be determined before randomization. It can be modified at
           any time according to the treating oncologist. Focal radiotherapy to symptomatic sites
           is allowed. The usual follow-up of patients treated by IT DepoCyte® of every 14 days for
           the first two months and then monthly is not modified in patients of Arm B. Evaluation
           in Arm A will be matched to Arm B, and are thus more frequent than routinely done
           because such patients are usually seen every 3 weeks. The follow-up for systemic disease
           is left at the discretion of the treating oncologist.

      Translational research Only Oscar Lambret Center will participate in this exploratory
      analysis. For patients who accept to participate, a 10 mL CSF sample will be collected at
      enrollment and once per month, just before treatment.

        -  Arm A: at monthly visit

        -  Arm B: at a IT injection, once per month, just before DepoCyte® injection Samples will
           be sent to the analysis center as soon as possible and will be destroyed at the end of
           all study-related procedures.
    
  