
    
      Background: Fall-related hospitalizations and consequent morbidity and mortality continue to
      rise despite the availability for over two decades of evidence-based fall-prevention
      programs. This is a major problem since more than 2.5 million older adults are treated
      annually for fall-related injuries in the US. Fall-prevention programs focusing on strength
      and balance exercises have been successful in facility settings but exercise programs are
      ineffective at home due to lack of adherence. Estimates indicate that only 1 in 5 individuals
      adhere to home exercise programs for fall prevention. Thus, there is an urgent need to
      improve adherence to exercise performed at home by older adults seeking to improve balance
      for the sake of fall prevention. Behavioral interventions have failed to consistently improve
      adherence to exercise. Biological reasons for poor exercise adherence, such as executive
      dysfunction, have not been explored. Adherence to long-term exercise is dependent on
      executive function (EF), which is controlled by the [dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)]
      of the brain. EF influences choices in scheduling, forgoing competing activities, enduring
      subtle costs of time and inconvenience, and the ability to delay gratification. Repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive neuromodulation increasingly used
      for neural network specific interventions. rTMS of the DLPFC improves EF, memory, motivation,
      and mental flexibility. rTMS studies to date have stimulated the motor cortex for gait and
      balance improvements. The role of DLPFC in exercise adherence has not been explored. The
      proposed study will be the first to test DLPFC stimulation for improving exercise adherence.

      Objective: The study objective is to determine the effects of rTMS treatment of the
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex compared to sham on: [1. Short-term (2-wk) changes in
      executive function;] 2. Long-term (24-wk) adherence to a home-based exercise program; 3.
      Long-term (24-wk) changes in balance and gait; and [4. Short-term (2-wk) changes in
      self-efficacy and delay discounting.]

      Methods: Sedentary community-dwelling older Veterans (age 65 years, [N=106]) will participate
      in a double-blind randomized sham-controlled three-phase study. The proposed study will use
      Nintendo Wii-Fit exercises. Phase I will include two weeks of facility-based exercise for
      safety assessment and learning the program, followed by 12 weeks of home-based exercises.
      [Subjects with poor adherence and those with good adherence with low EF] will then be
      randomized to rTMS or sham treatments. Phase II will include ten consecutive weekdays of rTMS
      or sham treatment along with exercise training for subjects with poor adherence [and for
      those with good adherence and low EF] and continuation of home-based exercises for those with
      good adherence and EF. Phase III includes 24-weeks of a home-based exercise program. All
      subjects will exercise for 45 minutes five days/week. [Objective measure of adherence
      collected from Wii-Fit console and Conner's continuous performance test for EF will be the
      primary outcome measures.] Balance and gait will be assessed. [Self-efficacy, delay
      discounting along with fear of falls, and falls incidence will be assessed. Outcome measures
      will be assessed at baseline, and at 14, 16, and 40 weeks.]

      Significance: This project will have a major impact in improving adherence to an exercise
      program and in turn, improve balance in sedentary community-dwelling older Veterans. At the
      end of the proposed project, the investigators will gain knowledge about the efficacy of rTMS
      in improving EF and exercise adherence. Knowledge gained about the adherence to home-based
      exercises would be applicable to multiple conditions such as diabetes. Since Wii-Fit and rTMS
      are readily available, translation of the study results to clinical practice would be
      expeditious.
    
  