
    
      Musculoskeletal disorders are the main reason for work absenteeism and early retirement of
      nursing stuff, low back pain (LBP) being the leading cause. When compared to other communal
      staff in Finland, disability pensions are granted earlier to nursing stuff, the average age
      being 56 years. NURSE-RCT is a multidisciplinary study combining the most recent
      biomechanical and behavioral theories aimed to prevent evolution of chronic LBP.

      NURSE-study is a randomized controlled trial aiming at prevention of chronic LBP and related
      functional disability. Volunteers, female nurses (n~1200) from wards with bed patients of two
      geriatric hospitals and the university central hospital in Tampere, Finland will be invited
      to participate in the study. Each participant (n=160) will be randomized into one of the four
      study groups after the eligibility has been determined. A method of sequentially numbered
      sealed envelopes will be used to assign participants into study groups.

      The main target for exercise intervention is to restore impairments in movement control.
      First, the participants need to learn the proper technique of each exercise, second to
      achieve movement control of lumbar neutral zone in each exercise, and finally to increase the
      challenge of exercises for balance, coordination, muscular endurance and strength. Target
      dose for exercise is twice a week, 60 minutes per session for six months.

      The objective of counseling is to change participants' understanding of LBP towards less
      fearful and negative beliefs, and to provide encouragement for usual daily activities,
      including physical activity. Advice on nursing tasks that are strenuous for low back is aimed
      to improve awareness of injury risk and provide examples of proper postures and movements.
      Target dose for counseling is 10 sessions lasting for 45 minutes. Interventions will take
      place in facilities close to participants' work sites.

      The financial feasibility of the effects of the interventions is calculated by using the
      Potential Model,[www.miljodata.se],which was created to calculate the financial feasibility
      of work health related measures. It differs from typical health economic cost-benefit
      analyses in the sense that it is aimed at simulating the economic consequences of an
      investment from a business point of view. In addition to the immediate real losses and
      sickness absences, the indirect financial consequences like effects on over time work are
      taken into account.

      The rational of this study is to discover whether neuromuscular exercise and cognitive
      behavioral counseling are effective and economically feasible in reducing LBP and its'
      recurrence, and thus preventing chronic LBP, early retirement and disability pensions.
    
  