
    
      Specific Aims are: 1) To conduct a randomized controlled trial to determine the effects of an
      online 6-month Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) intervention compared to an active
      control Stress Management Education (SME) on glucose levels in 290 adults with uncontrolled
      type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Both MBSR and SME will be delivered online by experienced
      instructors in a live interactive virtual classroom using videoconferencing. The primary
      outcome will be hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), a measure of the average glucose level over the past
      3 months. We hypothesize that between the two groups, there will be a clinically significant
      0.5% absolute difference in the mean change in HbA1c from baseline to 6-months. We will also
      look at the 2-month HbA1c, however it may be too brief a time period to fully capture the
      impact of MBSR. An absolute reduction in HbA1c of 0.5% would be expected to reduce the risk
      of any diabetes-related complication by at least 10%. Additionally, we will assess fasting
      glucose as a secondary outcome as it is linked with adverse health outcomes, and can be
      lowered with MBSR based on our pilot study; 2) To determine the effects of online MBSR
      compared to SME control on psychosocial, behavioral and physiological mechanisms potentially
      mediating the effects of MBSR and/or SME on glucose levels in adults with uncontrolled
      diabetes. Secondary outcomes include: diabetes-related distress, subjective stress, craving,
      the impact of COVID-19 on subjects' lives, subject expectancy, dietary intake, physical
      activity, and serum hsCRP as a marker of chronic inflammation. Adverse Childhood Experiences
      (ACEs) will be assessed at baseline. It is hypothesized that these measures may mediate the
      effects of MBSR and/or SME on glucose.

      The proposed study has the potential to transform current standards of care for diabetes by
      using a novel long-term MBSR intervention as a powerful adjunct intervention for diabetes.
      MBSR could impact the clinical picture of diabetes by empowering patients with skills for
      strengthening their own internal resources to promote self regulation and adaptive coping and
      reduce stress reactivity, which are all essential for implementing healthy behaviors and are
      expected to lead to improved glucose control and reduced risk of diabetes complications. This
      proposal is relevant to the mission of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
      Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) to conduct research on diabetes to improve people's health and
      quality of life.
    
  