
    
      Background:In recent years, transanal mesorectal excision (TaTME) has emerged as a promising
      surgical alternative for rectal cancer, especially for mid and low rectal cancer.
      Theoretically, TaTME holds the potential advantage of providing better access to mobilize the
      distal rectum, and thus could achieve better pathologic outcomes, such as lower involved
      circumferential margin (CRM) and incomplete resected mesorectum, which could translate into
      better oncological outcome for the patients in the long term. However, until now, the
      feasibility and the non-inferiority (compared with laparoscopic total mesorectal excision,
      LpTME) of this technique has only been validated in studies with limitations of small sample
      size, retrospective nature.

      Study Objective:This study aims to evaluate the TaTME technique compared with conventional
      laparoscopic rectal surgery, focusing on resection quality, as well as long-term survival
      results.

      Study design This study is a prospective, multi-center, randomized, open-label, parallel
      group trial. The randomisation ratio of TaTME over LpTME will be 1:1. A central electronic
      data capture (EDC) system will be utilized for randomization, electronic CRF and data
      collection. All comparative analyses will be conducted on an "intention to treat" basis.

      Sample size:The projected 3-year disease free survival rate for the conventional laparoscopic
      surgery group was 77%. According to the noninferiority design, at a randomisation ratio of
      1:1, to generate a power of 80% (based an α of 0.05 and a margin delta (δ) of 10% ) with an
      expected dropout rate of 20%, it was determined that a total of 1114 patients are required
      for inclusion for this trail (557 patients at each group).

      Study Endpoints:The primary end point of this study is 3 year disease free survival(DFS).
      Secondary endpoints include: 1) resection quality, mainly including circumferential
      involvement rate, and completeness of mesorectum. Resected specimen was pathologically
      processed and assessed at each center by trained and qualified pathologists
      independently.2)short term operative results such as morbidity and mortality, etc.; 3) long
      term oncological outcome such as local recurrence, and overall survival. Besides, functional
      outcome and quality of life are also evaluated.
    
  