
    
      In intensive care medicine, patient monitoring has become a standard that has led to a
      significant improvement in patient safety in recent decades. At the international level,
      minimum requirements for patient monitoring have been set out in guidelines and
      recommendations that represent milestones in patient safety, such as the Helsinki Declaration
      for Anaesthesiology and the Vienna Declaration for Intensive Care. With advances in digital
      health, there are new options for patient monitoring that may improve patient safety.

      The concept of the Internet of Things has recently gained in importance. While the personal
      computer (PC) was long regarded as a prerequisite for making technologies accessible to
      people, the use of computer-supported electronic infrastructures has become ubiquitous.
      Today, more and more everyday devices are equipped with electronic circuits (microchip,
      memory chip), blurring earlier boundaries between hardware and software. In an intensive care
      unit - an environment with high operational reliability - ubiquitous computing means that the
      processing and visualization of medical data must not be limited to typical workstations at
      the patient's bedside. Instead, the accessibility of data relevant to medical decisions
      should result from clinical workflows, leading to the targeted provision of information as
      needed.

      Although various remote patient monitoring systems from commercial providers are already
      available, little is known about how they can effectively support clinical processes. At the
      Charité, the working group "Data Science in Perioperative Care" of the Clinic for
      Anaesthesiology with focus on operative intensive care Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin,
      Campus Virchow and Campus Mitte is systematically evaluating the integration of such novel
      technologies with special consideration of the socio-technical dimension.

      In the pre-implementation phase, 15 ICU staff members (physicians, nurses and respiratory
      therapists) will be involved into a semi-structured interview study. Results from this
      pre-implementation study will be validated via two independent surveys involving ICU staff
      members (n>100). In the post-implementation phase, two semi-structured interview studies will
      be conducted with key stakeholders of the ICU until data saturation is reached (n=5-10). The
      focus of this post-implementation interview studies will be to analyse the usability of the
      installed remote patient monitoring system as well as the success of the implementation and
      its contributing factors.
    
  