
    
      In the Emergency Department (ED) all the patients with a diagnosis of femoral neck fracture
      that have completed the instrumental tests, will receive 0,5 mL/kg/h infusion of physiologic
      solution started through an indwelling IV catheter sited in the forearm at the opposite side
      of the fracture.

      Afterwards the orthopedic surgeon will assess whether the patient can be part of the study,
      and after having explained to the patient the study and obtaining written informed consent
      from each individual he will call the anesthesiologist to perform the cognitive tests. The
      questionnaires will be short test lasting a few minutes (5 to 10 min): the Mini Cog Test and
      the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM 3D S) run in its shortened form (14).

      This questionnaire, validated for the early detection of mental status changes, can be filled
      by the operator based on the answers provided by the patient during the execution of the Mini
      Cog test. If the tests did not highlight any cognitive impairment, the anesthesiologist will
      proceed to the placement of a femoral nerve catheter with the ultrasound-guided technique.

      The catheters will be placed using direct US visualization. A hyperechoic needle will be
      inserted (e-cath 51x83mm, Pajunk®, Germany) at the inguinal ligament lateral to the artery.
      The needle is advanced until the tip is adjacent to the nerve inside the fascia. Then, 5 mL
      of saline solution is injected to make the advancement of the catheter easier. The catheter
      will be placed medially to the nerve and secured by taping it to the skin using its own kit.
      The catheter will be used for postoperative analgesia in all patients.

      After that, using a computer-generated of random sequence number, the patients will be
      divided in two groups in a randomized manner as follow:

      Group 1 will receive 15 ml of a Ropivacaine 0,75% solution through the femoral catheter
      (femoral group = 300 Patients).

      Group 2 will receive, through the femoral catheter, the administration of an equivalent
      volume (15 ml) of a saline solution (Control group = 300 Patients).

      Randomization will be managed by a "Monitor" of the propose center. The Monitor will be a
      person skill in clinical trials management not involve in the clinical activity.

      In emergency room, after the enrollment procedures will be complete, a nurse not involve in
      further patient management call by phone the Monitor in order to achieve both randomization
      number and group. At this point, following the monitor instruction, this nurse will prepare a
      20ml syringe with the studied solution: Ropivacaine 0.75% or Saline. The syringe will be
      identified by a code including patient name initials and the randomization number. This
      syringe will be pose by hand to the anesthetist at the end of the catheter placement in order
      to be injected. The group will be reveal by the Monitor only at the end of all enrollments.

      The enrollments will have to be completed within 2 hours from patient arrival in ED. Yet, the
      surgery will take place within 48 hours from arrival at the hospital. The patient, after the
      placement of the catheter, will be evaluated once a day by an operator not involved in
      anesthetic procedures and unaware of the patient group.

      In the operating room standard monitoring will be used, including noninvasive arterial blood
      pressure, heart rate, and pulse oximetry. In both groups it will be run a new femoral nerve
      block through the catheter placed about before using 15 ml of 1% Ropivacaine solution. At
      this point all the patients will be placed in the lateral position, with the side to be
      operated up, and the anesthesiologist will proceed performing a spinal anesthesia
      (interspaces L2-L3, L3-L4) with 12 mg of plan Levobupivacaine 0.5% injected through a 25
      Gauge atraumatic needle. Data on the duration of the intervention, intra- and postoperative
      bleeding, hypotension, and any significant hemodynamic changes (30% more or less of baseline)
      will be recorded.

      Each patient will received an analgesic systemic therapy. This will begun after the admission
      of the patient in ED and will continue in the postoperative period. In all center the
      analgesic therapy protocol is: Acetaminophen 1g x 3 IV, and Tramadol 0.5 mg/kg IV (maximum
      200 mg per day) if NRS> 3.

      Postoperatively, all patients will also receive a local anesthetic infusion (Ropivacaine
      0.2%) through an electronic pump connected to the femoral catheter (basal rate 6 ml/h, bolus
      2 ml, lock out 20 minutes) and continued for the first 48 postoperative hours.Preoperative
      evaluations include monitoring and recording of the non invasive blood pressure (PA), heart
      rate (HR) and peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), NRS for pain control and the demand for
      rescue Tramadol. The same parameters will be recorded every 24 hours postoperatively until
      discharge. It will be also recorded the occurrence of any postoperative complication (nausea,
      vomiting, significant hemodynamic changes, sepsis etc). During postoperative assessments will
      also be carried out the previously described cognitive tests (Mini Cog and 3D CAM) at 24 48,
      72, 96 hours after surgery and at home discharge.

      Furthermore the elapsed time between the admission of the patient in ED and the conclusion of
      enrollment (end of catheter placement and local anesthetic or Saline injection through the
      catheter) will be recorded, as well as the time of surgery and the home discharge. The
      discharge criteria included patient mobilization (both ability to maintain sitting and stand
      up position), hemodynamic stability and stable hemoglobin, NRS <4 with oral analgesics, and
      absence of severe alteration of the cognitive state. All patients whose surgery is delayed
      more than 48 hours from the arrival in ED will be excluded.

      After home discharge all patients will be contacted by phone at month 1, 3 and 12 to assess
      complications and mortality.

      The enrollment will take for a minimum of 1 year and a maximum of two years (to complete the
      follow up).
    
  