
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer has a high mortality rate even among those who obtain complete
      remission after surgery and chemotherapy. In prostate cancer, hormonal therapies including
      androgen ablation may control the disease for variable lengths of time but progression will
      invariably occur. There is also a high rate of relapse in breast cancer patients who have
      four or more positive axillary lymph nodes and in cases of resected metastatic disease.
      Immune therapies such as therapeutic vaccination may prolong remissions in these cancers.

      Many different therapeutic vaccines have been evaluated in these diseases in phase 1, 2 and
      even phase 3 trials. Much has been learned about the principals of applying immune-based
      therapies and specifically the types of patients that may be most likely to mount an
      effective immune response. Cancer vaccines may have their greatest impact earlier in the
      disease course or in situations with minimal residual disease. Most recently an overall
      survival benefit was documented in prostate cancer patients with an immunotherapy based
      vaccine.

      ImmunoVaccine Technologies Inc. (IVT) is developing a therapeutic vaccine against various
      solid cancers based on a patented vaccine delivery and enhancement platform. The antigens
      included in DPX-0907 were identified using an innovative antigen discovery platform to
      identify proprietary signature antigens actually presented on the surface of tumor cells and
      therefore capable of stimulating a cellular immune response in the patient. One or more of
      the peptide antigens are expected to be expressed in the types of tumors included in this
      trial. The peptide antigens proposed for DPX-0907 have been previously included in a phase I
      study in a different vaccine formulation at Duke University. No vaccine-induced autoimmune
      events were reported. These encouraging results suggest that the autoimmune potential of
      these cancer-specific peptide antigens is limited. IVT's DepoVax™ (DPX) lipid-based
      formulation was designed to enhance the speed, strength and duration of the cellular immune
      response. This formulation in combination with tumor targeting antigens has produced
      favorable safety and cellular immune responses in preclinical studies. These parameters will
      be studied in this phase I trial.
    
  