
    
      Aim: To determine whether long-term treatment with oral betablocker (BB) therapy after
      myocardial infarction (MI) in patient with no heart failure reduces the composite outcome of
      death from any cause, recurrent MI, unstable angina pectoris, stroke or heart failure.

      Intervention: BB therapy versus no therapy.

      Main Inclusion Criteria: Patient that have suffered a MI, both Non-ST elevation MI and ST
      elevation MI and can be randomized within 14 days of MI with no signs of heart failure and a
      left ventricular ejection fraction>40%.

      Main Exclusion Criteria: Any indication or contraindication for BB treatment other than
      secondary prevention according to the treating cardiologist

      Primary study endpoint: The composite of all-cause mortality, recurrent non-fatal MI,
      unstable angina pectoris, stroke or heart failure

      Sample Size: A total of 3570 patients will be recruited and randomized 1:1 to BB treatment
      (type and dosage according to treating physician) or no BB treatment. Treatment must be
      initiated within 14 days of MI.

      Location: All departments of cardiology in Denmark are invited to participate. All patients
      admitted to hospital for MI will be screened for in- and exclusion criteria and contacted if
      eligible.

      Treatment Duration: Estimated (non) treatment duration of 2-4 years. Follow-up: Patients will
      be followed from the randomization date until end of follow-up with respect to the primary
      and most secondary endpoints.

      Assessment of primary study and safety end points: Serious adverse events (SAE) will be
      monitored through patient reported hospital admission by surveys every 3 months combined with
      local follow-up on patients that do not respond to surveys

      Intervention and dosage of BB treatment: The intervention will be active treatment with BB,
      type and dosage according to treating cardiologist choice and control will be standard care
      (without BB treatment). The treating cardiologist is recommended to use the highest dose
      deemed tolerable for the patient at the time of randomization. Dosage, adherence and
      cross-over will be monitored through linkage to the Danish Register of Medical Product
      Statistics.

      Sample size considerations: Assuming a hazard ratio of 1.2 for the non-treated group compared
      to the treated the DANBLOCK trial has 80% power to detect this effect with an accumulation of
      900 events of the primary endpoint. With 3570 patients randomized the investigators expect to
      reach 900 events within the study period.

      Statistical Analysis: Intention-to-treat analysis will be carried out. Additionally, a
      secondary per-protocol analysis will be performed, where compliant BB-users patients are
      considered exposed during follow-up. Outcome analysis will be assessed by using cumulative
      incidence and Cox-regressions.

      Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB): This committee consisting of two senior cardiologists
      and one trial-science statistician will overview safety and will have access to unblinded
      data. They will formally review the accumulating data every 6 months throughout the study
      period to ensure there is no avoidable increased harm to patients. The DSMB may recommend
      trial termination due to excess risk associated with no treatment with BB.

      Recruitment: All patients admitted to hospital for MI will be screened for in- and exclusion
      criteria and contacted if eligible. Logistics of identifying and contacting the patients will
      be organized locally; some hospitals will randomize patients before discharge, others will
      contact patients after discharge. Patients will be randomized 1:1.

      Publication policy: On study completion the results will be submitted for publication in an
      international medical journal. The results of this study will also be submitted to the
      Competent Authority and the Ethics Committee according to EU and Danish regulations.
    
  