
    
      When microglia become activated they express peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBR) or
      binding sites on their mitochondrial membrane. PBRs are functionally and structurally
      distinct from central benzodiazepine receptors associated with y-aminiobutric acid
      (GABA)-regulated chloride channels. PBRs are found in abundance in peripheral organs and
      hematologic cells, but are present at only very low levels in the normal central nervous
      system (Banati, 2002). CLINDE is a phenylimidazopyridine and appears to bind selectively to
      the PBR. In the absence of excessive blood in the CNS an increase CLINDE binding to PBR is a
      potential marker of microglial activation in the CNS. The increase in CLINDE binding may be
      an indicator of the transition of microglia from a resting to an activated state. When
      labeled with 123-I and used as a SPECT radiotracer, CLINDE may serve as an in vivo marker of
      microglial activation in Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease.

      The 123-I radioactive tag offers distinct advantages for large-scale clinical imaging studies
      of anti-inflammatory targeted treatments as a marker of microglial activation and efficacy of
      therapeutic intervention. The half-life (13.1 h) of 123-I permits imaging in multiple
      subjects in a single research-dedicated imaging center, with multiple research subjects per
      day. This minimizes variability introduced in multi-center quantitative imaging trials where
      different cameras, image processing methods, and QA procedures all conspire to increase the
      variance imaging biomarkers. Using this model, our group pioneered a method to evaluate the
      loss of dopamine function in Parkinson's disease using a radioactive drug 123-I β-CIT which
      binds directly to dopamine nerve terminals.

      The adaptation of imaging agents like 123-I CLINDE as a biomarker of microglial activation in
      neurodegenerative diseases requires human validation studies. Expanding upon our previous
      work with b-amyloid ligands (123I-IMPY, 123-I MNI-187) for AD and dopamine transporter
      ligands (123-I B-CIT, Altropane) for PD, we desire to develop and characterize 123-I CLINDE
      as a potential marker for microglial activation in association with neuronal damage that may
      be applicable to multiple neurodegenerative diseases. Ultimately a marker of microglial
      activation could be used for large-scale quantitative brain imaging trials in AD or PD,
      specifically to investigate the agent as an objective biomarker in treatments aimed at
      reducing inflammatory changes in these conditions. The significance of this work lies in
      applying state-of-art quantitative neuroimaging tools to develop a relevant biomarker in
      individuals with neurodegenerative diseases with the intention of using this efficiently in
      large clinical imaging trials.
    
  