
    
      This observational study is composed of two phases, and no investigational intervention
      agent. Oral iron therapy will be recommended by each subject's primary care clinician or
      his/her designate according to standard clinical care. There is no randomization. Subjects
      will be screened for enrollment by study personnel.

      Diagnostic Testing Phase (Study Visit 1). Enrolled subjects will have a study blood draw.
      Enrolled subjects will be assessed for presence of ID as defined by the reference standard:
      ID: Ferritin < 20 ng/mL.

      Enrolled subjects will be assessed for presence of anemia as defined by: Anemia - Hemoglobin
      ≤ 11 g/dL

      Those determined to have ID and/or anemia and are prescribed oral iron therapy by their
      clinician will continue to the next phase in the study. For those without ID or anemia, or
      who meet Observation of Treatment Phase exclusion criteria, study participation will be
      complete. The expected duration of subject involvement for the Diagnostic Testing Phase is 1
      week.

      Observation of Treatment Phase (Study Visits 2 and 3). Subjects identified as having ID
      and/or anemia and who have been prescribed oral iron therapy by their physician according to
      standard of care, and do not meet Observation of Treatment Phase exclusion criteria, will
      continue to the Observation of Treatment Phase of the study.

      The optimal dose, frequency, and timing of oral iron therapy are unknown and are based more
      on clinical experience than evidence. In 1998, based on expert opinion, the Centers for
      Disease Control (CDC) suggested 3 mg/kg/day of elemental iron for treatment of IDA in
      children. Patients with ID who do not have anemia (LID) should also have their iron stores
      repleted with treatment dose iron supplement. Given the effects of acute/chronic disease on
      serum ferritin and the dietary/diurnal variation of serum iron/TfSat, the absence of
      biochemical evidence of ID on a single measure does not rule out ID that may respond to
      empiric supplementation. Therefore, patients with anemia but without biochemical evidence of
      ID (AneID) may have masked ID and treatment with a finite course of supplemental iron therapy
      is unlikely to result in harm and may improve hemoglobin. Thus, we expect all subjects with
      ID and/or anemia will be recommended treatment by their clinician with ferrous sulfate at
      treatment at standard doses for adolescents and young adults of 3-5 mg elemental iron/kg/day,
      up to a maximum of 195 mg of elemental iron per day.

      Investigators will provide responsible clinicians with recommendations for ferrous sulfate
      treatment along with references to relevant clinical guidelines and research. The clinicians
      will be asked to provide the research team confirmation that the patient followed the oral
      iron treatment recommendations. If they did not, they will be asked to indicate what
      treatment, if any, they did advise for the subject.

      Subjects who continue to the Observation of Treatment Phase will have two follow-up visits
      and laboratory testing, including a study draw for hepcidin at each visit, to assess response
      to oral iron supplementation at:

        -  4-5 weeks (+/- 7 days) of therapy, and

        -  12 weeks (+/- 7 days) of therapy.
    
  