
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) poses a significant health care challenge with high annual
      incidence and low survival rates. Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) prevent SCD
      in patients with left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction. However, the critical survival
      benefit afforded by the devices is accompanied by short and long-term complications and a
      high economic burden. Moreover, in using current practice guidelines of LV ejection fraction
      (LVEF)≤35% as the main determining factor for patient selection, only a minority of patients
      actually benefit from ICD therapy (<25% in 5 years). There is an essential need for more
      robust diagnostic approaches to SCD risk stratification.

      This project examines the hypothesis that LV structural abnormalities above and beyond global
      LV dysfunction are important predictors of SCD risk since they indicate the presence of
      abnormal pathophysiologic substrate required for the ventricular arrhythmogenicity leading to
      SCD. This premise is supported by pre-clinical models and limited patient cohort studies
      examining the contribution of individual LV structural indices. However, there has been no
      prospective study of primary prevention ICD candidates in sufficiently large numbers to
      investigate the incremental value of a comprehensive assessment of LV structure on SCD risk
      over and above that of LVEF and readily available demographic and clinical variables.

      LV structure can be quantified in detail using cardiac magnetic resonance imaging with late
      gadolinium enhancement (CMR-LGE). Specifically, accurate assessment of global LV function,
      volumes, mass, geometry, and infarct/scar characteristics are feasible and obtainable
      clinically in a single examination. We aim to examine whether or not any of these CMR indices
      or combination of indices are better able to discriminate between patients with high versus
      low susceptibility to SCD within the broader population of reduced LVEF patients. If the
      results of these studies demonstrate that LV structure is an important prognostic risk
      factor, it may be then be possible to more specifically focus ICD therapy to those who are
      most likely to benefit and avoid unnecessary device implantations.
    
  