
    
      This study was designed as a multi-center, randomized, evaluator-blinded and
      placebo-comparative study. A woman aged 20-80 years scheduled for the hysteroscopy was
      eligible to participate in the study. Subject screening was conducted for the subject who
      signed an informed consent form. Subjects who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria were
      randomly assigned into either treatment or no-treatment control group. Follow-up visits were
      performed at 1 week (Visit 2) and 4 weeks (Visit 3) after the index surgery. Telephone call
      is made between 1 to 2 weeks prior to the Visit 3 for the information for the follow-up visit
      and check-up.

      At Visit 2 (at Week 1 after the index surgery, a window of ± 2 days was allowed), assessments
      to identify adverse events and general health conditions, and surgery satisfaction survey
      were performed. At Visit 3 (at Week 4 ± 4 days), adverse event assessments and general
      satisfaction survey were performed, and adhesion formations and grades were evaluated. The
      presence or absence of adhesions, and their grades at Visit 3 (at Week 4 ± 4 days) were
      assessed in an evaluator-independent manner.

      Adhesion formations rate (Primary endpoint) and adhesion grade(secondary endpoint) were
      assessed at Week 4 after the index surgery (Visit 3), based on the video clips and still
      images captured via a video monitor during a second-look hysteroscopy, by inserting the
      hysteroscope (5 -10 mm diameter) into the uterine through the vagina; and graded in an
      evaluator-blinded manner by an independent evaluator, who did not take part in the index
      surgery or application of Medicurtain®. Intrauterine adhesion grades were assessed by using
      the American Fertility Society (AFS) adhesion score established in 1988. It was classified as
      4 grading scales (0, 1, 2 and 3 grade). Grade 0 (none) means no adhesion, while Grade 1 to
      Grade 3 means there are adhesions and severity increased with the grade. Adhesion formation
      rate and grade in the treated or in the non-treated control groups were compared and
      evaluated using the Grade 0 to 3 adhesion scoring system.
    
  