
    
      34 patients will be randomly allocated into two groups. One group will be submitted to
      injection snoreplasty and another group will be submitted to daily sessions of oropharyngeal
      exercises. Researchers involved in interventions will not participate in the outcomes
      evaluation and researchers responsible for the assessment of outcomes will be blinded to the
      tested therapeutic modalities.

      All patients will be evaluated at a pre-intervention visit, when will be collected objective
      data and carried out a complete otorhinolaryngological exam. Patients will fill validated
      specific questionnaires for evaluation of snoring, apnea, daytime sleepiness, fatigue,
      presence of systemic arterial hypertension and sleep quality. The quality of sleep of the
      patients bedroom companions will be also evaluated. Patients will be randomized only after
      these evaluations.

      All patients included in the study will be submitted to a portable sleep study.
      Simultaneously, the objective assessment of snoring will be held, covering the analysis of
      snoring intensity (measured in decibels) and the snoring index (number of snores per hour of
      sleep).

      Patients allocated to group A will receive injection snoreplasty. Patient returns will be
      weekly, until the complete healing of the palate. After four weeks of treatment, the bedroom
      companion will be asked about whether the snoring remains a problem, and if so, the procedure
      is repeated, with each patient receiving up to three applications. At the end of three
      months, all evaluations will be repeated and the data obtained will be compared to baseline
      data.

      Patients allocated at group B will be evaluated by a speech therapist. Patients will undergo
      weekly oropharyngeal exercises sessions under supervision, lasting about 30 minutes each, and
      will be instructed to perform the exercises daily at home, for a period of three months. At
      the end of this period, patients will be re-evaluated and the initial data will be compared
      to the obtained final data.
    
  