
    
      INTRODUCTION Primary axillary hyperhidrosis is a condition with excessive secretion of sweat
      from the eccrine sweat glands of the armpits that affects between 1 and 5 % of the world's
      population. Numbers may be underestimated since this chronical disease debuts during
      adolescence and is unmentionable in many cultures and social environments. Hyperhidrosis may
      lead to malodour and cause large sweat patches on clothes, thus affecting dressing behaviour,
      social activities and job opportunities. As a direct consequence, many patients experience
      affected psychological and social behaviour, increased mental stress and low self-esteem.

      Several treatment modalities exist that may treat axillary hyperhidrosis. Systemic treatment
      with anticholinergic tablets is often reserved to hyperhidrosis that affects the entire body
      due to a substantial risk of adverse effects. Possible adverse effects (i.e. related to the
      intervention) include dry mouth and other mucous membranes, digestive problems, decreased
      ability to empty the bladder, visual disturbances and affected nervous system. Localised
      axillary hyperhidrosis is often treated by injections of botulinum toxin. Although this
      method is effective in many patients the procedure is painful, expensive and has to be
      repeated since the effect only last from four to nine months. Recently, heating of the sweat
      glands with microwave technology has shown promising efficacy with minimal adverse effects.
      However, this treatment is very expensive and is only available at a few sites in Denmark.
      Surgery has also been performed, yet short-term and long-term efficiency is inferior to other
      methods. Therefore, there is a need for efficient, safe, affordable and widely available
      alternatives to treat axillary hyperhidrosis.

      An alternative method that have been proposed, could be heating and destroying sweat glands
      by Neodynium Yttrium Aluminium Garnet (Nd:YAG) laser or intensed pulsed light (IPL). These
      types of non-invasive light devices are widely available at dermatological clinics in Europe
      and is well-known to treat vascular lesions and undesired hair growth. The IPL has a 640 -
      800 nm wavelength and the Nd:YAG laser a 1064 nm wavelength that penetrates deeply into the
      skin and target the melanin of the hair shaft. By adjusting the pulse length according to the
      theory of extended photo-thermolysis, light energy can be delivered through the hair shaft
      into surrounding sweat glands. A previous pilot study has demonstrated significant and
      lasting reduction of axillary hyperhidrosis in six patients treated with Nd:YAG
      laser.Treatments were reported safe and efficient without any side effects. Likewise, two
      studies of a comparable but invasive Nd:YAG laser technique reported only temporary mild
      adverse effects and significant sweat reduction for up to 43 months after treatment. A single
      prospective study without a control group demonstrated increased sweat production following
      Nd:YAG laser treatment of excessive hair growth. Targeting hair and sweat glands is however
      not directly comparable due to different pulse lengths of the delivered energy.

      Dynamic optic coherence tomography (d-OCT) is an imaging technique that utilizes infrared
      light to create two-dimensional horizontal or transverse images. Penetration depth is
      approximately 0.5 - 2 mm 11. The d-OCT technique allows in situ visualization of dynamic
      changes in blood flow and superficial skin structures in vital skin. Thus, the eccrine sweat
      glands and the surrounding blood supply can be followed over time without taking invasive
      tissue biopsies. Previous studies of histological changes after laser treatment of eccrine
      sweat glands have only been able to demonstrate limited structural changes and therefore,
      there is a need for improved imaging techniques to visualize laser-tissue-interactions.

      Aim & Objectives To assess the efficacy and safety of experimental intervention (either
      Nd:YAG laser OR IPL treatment) of an axilla with hyperhidrosis, relative to the contralateral
      untreated side, and to visualise laser-tissue interactions by Dynamic Optical Coherence
      Tomography.

      Primary efficacy objective: to assess the effect of one of the experimental interventions
      (either Nd:YAG laser or IPL) treatment on eccrine sweat production by comparing treated and
      contralateral untreated axillae in patients eligible for botulinum-toxin therapy due to
      axillary hyperhidrosis. Sweat production is to be assessed at baseline and at one-month
      follow-up primarily by the iodine-starch test and secondly by gravimetric testing and
      questionnaires.

      METHODS Patient research partners (PRPs) The study is designed without the assistance of
      PRPs. Collaboration between patients and professionals in developing and disseminating
      research projects is relatively new and the explorative nature and easily quantifiable
      outcomes chosen in this study reduces the need for the use of PRP. Should the study support
      the use of the new treatment, larger confirmatory studies will be needed and these will
      naturally include softer patient-rerouted outcomes and PRP collaboration.

      Trial design and allocation ratio In a prospective within-person randomised trial, patients
      will be randomly allocated to receive laser treatment or IPL of one axilla while the other
      serve as a control (i.e. Right-Left and Left-Right, respectively). Primary endpoint will be
      assessed after 1 month. Treatments are performed with a combined platform of non-ablative 640
      - 800 nm IPL and 1064 nm long-pulsed Nd:YAG laser (Lumenis M22 system, Lumenis Ltd.) and
      laser energy is applied according to patient skin type.

      Settings and locations where the data will be collected This project will take place from
      autumn 2019 to spring 2021 in an established research environment in the Dermatologic
      Department at Zealand University Hospital Roskilde. All patients will be included from
      January 2020 to June 2020 and will if possible be re-evaluated two years later.

      Professor, doctor in medical science and Head of Department Gregor Jemec is principal
      investigator. Daily leader will be medical doctor, PhD Elisabeth Hjardem Taudorf (EHT).
      Medical doctor and PhD-students Mattias Hennig and Linnea Thorlacius will participate in
      daily study activities. The department accounts for all study facilities and technical
      equipment. The study has been approved by the Danish Research Ethics Committee (protocol
      number: SJ-689). Before enrolling the first patient, the trial was registered with
      clinicaltrials.gov (NCT Identifier: Pending).

      Interventions The intervention under investigation is one treatment with 640 - 800 nm IPL or
      non-ablative long-pulsed 1064 nm Nd:YAG laser (Lumenis M22 systems, Lumenis Ltd). Laser or
      IPL energy will be applied according to patient skin type. Skin will be cooled during and
      after treatment to reduce inconvenience. On an optional basis, patients may also receive
      topical anesthesia by lidocaine gel prior to treatment (EMLA 5%, Astra-Zenica, København S,
      Danmark). All patients will receive one treatment and will be followed up after one month. If
      possible, patients will be contacted in order to perform a long-time follow up after 24
      months. After completion of the project, patients are offered laser or IPL treatment of the
      axilla, which served as a control in the study.

      Power and Sample size considerations A sample size calculation was performed based on the
      assumptions that the main outcome measurement (the iodine-starch test for sweat) is
      continuous in nature, fairly normally distributed, and that an additional improvement in the
      intervention side of 30%points (assumed standard deviation=25% with a correlation of 0.5)
      will be considered clinically relevant. For a paired t-test of a normal mean difference with
      a two-sided significance level of 0.05 (p< 0.05), a sample size of 8 pairs is required to
      obtain a power of at least 80% to detect a mean difference between pairs of 30% (the actual
      power is 82.8%). It was decided to include and (within-person) randomise 10 patients for each
      intervention in order to consider a potential risk of drop-outs; a sample size of 10 pairs
      has a power of 92% to detect the mean difference between pairs of 30%.

      As an extra exploratory objective, the investigators will explore whether the use of Nd:Yag
      laser or IPL treatment have a different outcome after assessing the overall benefit or "both
      of the experimental treatments". Thus, it was decided for pragmatic reasons to include 20
      patients in total; 10 of them treated with Nd:Yag laser on the experimental side, whereas the
      other 10 will receive IPL treatment on the experimental side.

      Randomization Sequence generation, allocation concealment, and implementation This is an
      intra-person study, comparing outcomes within participants. All participants will receive
      active treatment on one axilla (Active-Right|Control-Left and Control-Right|Active-Left,
      respectively). The implied subgroups of which axilla to receive active long-pulsed Nd:YAG
      treatment or IPL will also (like right/left) be selected based on a computer generated table
      of random numbers using SAS Proc Plan developed by an external biostatistician/author with no
      clinical involvement in the trial (RC). The contralateral axilla will serve as control.

      The allocation will be concealed in a password-protected computer file only accessible by the
      biostatistician. Individual allocations will be held in sealed, opaque, consecutively
      numbered digital files, and forwarded individually to the principal investigator sequentially
      as an active feedback mechanism after receiving a scanned copy of the informed consent form.
      In addition, treatment of left or right axilla with either Nd:YAG or IPL will be directly
      communicated from the data manager to the daily leader of the project (EHT) This procedure
      will ensure that participants, study staff, and outcomes assessors will remain blinded to
      subsequent treatment allocations throughout the trial.

      Statistical methods A detailed statistical analysis plan (SAP) will be developed during data
      collection. In brief, the analyses will be based on mixed linear models, with a random effect
      for participant (1, 2, 3, …, to 20) with a fixed effect for group (active or placebo), axilla
      (right or left), and the experimental intervention of secondary interest (Nd:YAG or IPL). For
      the primary analyses the type of experimental intervention (Nd:YAG or IPL) will be included
      as a main effect only; secondarily if the primary test hypothesis is rejected (p <0.05; H0:
      μActive = μPlacebo) the investigators will add a test for interaction to compare the net
      benefit for Nd:YAG vs. Placebo and IPL vs. placebo.

      PERSPECTIVES Given a successful outcome of an investigation of long-pulsed Nd:Yag laser or
      IPL treatment for axillary hyperhidrosis, the laser treatment could potentially be
      implemented in the everyday practice, since Nd:YAG lasers and IPL devices are already
      widespread in European dermatological hospital departments and clinics.

      Data will be presented and published internationally. This new treatment holds the potential
      to provide long-lasting sweat reduction in patients suffering from axillary hyperhidrosis.

      Patients may benefit from improved self-esteem, prevention of social anxiety, and better job
      opportunities, providing a positive personal development for patients, who presently suffer
      from a socially unacceptable and neglected chronic disease.
    
  