
    
      A first step to field measurement with target group is the measurement of elderly with a
      certain fall risk in a simple field condition like a nursing home.

      First fall risk is assessed in elderly using the Tinetti scale (score between 19-24) which is
      the gold standard for fall risk assessment . This scale consist of a gait and balance score.
      Only subjects who have a fall risk are included for further measurements.

        1. A gait test will be performed to analyze movement parameters. Subjects have to walk 6
           times a 20 meter distance at preferred speed while a small (56mmx61mmx15mm), light
           weight (5g) and ambulant accelerometer is attached on the sacrum with an elastic belt.
           The accelerometer measures accelerations of the body in three directions
           (antero-posterior, media-lateral and cranial-caudal) with a sample frequency of 100Hz.

        2. The balance ability will be tested by performing 4 balance tasks while the same
           accelerometer measures the movements of the body. Subjects have to stand with feet
           closed on a normal or foam surface while having the eyes open and closed.

        3. The Get Up and Go test is performed: subjects start in sitting position, have to rise,
           walk 3m, turn around, walk back and sit again. The time needed to perform this test is
           measured.

        4. 20 subjects (remaining in Scharweyerveld and Zorgboog) are monitored for one day and 20
           elderly women (>70y) (recruited at the F&O policlinic MUMC)are measured for 5 successive
           days, to investigate the mobility and more fall related movement parameters. The
           accelerometer is attached to the sacrum in the morning. First the other 2 measurements
           are performed, and then subjects wear the device during the whole day. The accelerometer
           is small, light and ambulant which is not interfering with daily activities. Subjects
           have to keep a diary to note all activities performed during that day. THis will be used
           to explain the acceleration signal.

      For the subject recruited from the F&O poli, a fall diary is kept for one year were subjects
      have to note when a fall has happened. In addition muscle strength in measured in this
      population and a questionnaire concerning quality of life (Euroqol) is completed in this
      group.

      All acceleration data will be analyzed using specific algorithms programmed in Matlab(c).
      Statistical analysis will be performed in SPSS using pearson correlation to investigate
      correlations between gait parameters, balance characteristics and the ability perform the Get
      Up and Go test. Pearson correlation will also be used to validate the objective gait and
      balance test with the Tinetti scale. Differences in function tests between elderly at risk
      (measured in this study) and healthy subjects (measured in a previous study under lab
      conditions) will be investigated using ANOVA (p< 0.005).
    
  