
    
      Background and rationale. Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is an important clinical problem
      because it is common, preventable, contributes to morbidity and mortality, and is costly. Low
      molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is the preferred anticoagulant for VTE treatment, but is
      renally excreted. Consequently, LMWH use in patients with renal insufficiency may result in
      accumulation of the anticoagulant effects and the potential for avoidable bleeding
      complications. As a result, most patients with renal insufficiency who also have VTE are
      unable to benefit from LMWH treatment. These patients are therefore generally treated in
      hospital using unfractionated heparin (UFH), since it is eliminated by extra-renal
      mechanisms. In addition to those patients with known renal insufficiency, many elderly
      patients have previously unrecognized renal insufficiency and treatment of these patients
      with LMWH can be associated with accumulation of the anticoagulant effect and avoidable
      bleeding.

      Tinzaparin, relative to other LMWHs, has a higher molecular weight and greater negative
      charge: both biochemical features that favour non-renal clearance. There is limited evidence
      to support the hypothesis that tinzaparin, unlike other LMWHs, does not accumulate in
      patients with renal insufficiency. 1) Observational studies demonstrated no increase in
      anti-Xa levels (i.e., no accumulation) when tinzaparin was used for VTE treatment in elderly
      patients with renal insufficiency. 2) One study showed undetectable LMWH anticoagulant
      activity by 24 hours after dosing in hemodialysis patients. 3) A systematic review and
      meta-analysis of the literature in this area performed by our research group found no
      difference in bleeding and thrombosis complication rates when LMWH (compared to UFH) was used
      to maintain dialysis circuit patency in patients on hemodialysis.

      The current factors which limit the use of tinzaparin in the treatment of patients with VTE
      and renal insufficiency are: 1) the true risk of accumulation is unknown in a spectrum of
      patients with varying renal function, and 2) the bleeding risk associated with tinzaparin use
      is unknown.

      Hypothesis. We hypothesize that accumulation during a 5-day course of tinzaparin will not be
      related to the degree of renal insufficiency.

      Study design and methods. We will perform a prospective cohort study of 200 patients with
      acute VTE, stratified into 4 equal-sized groups by renal function, who will receive initial
      anticoagulation with tinzaparin for 5 days concurrent with oral anticoagulants. The LMWH
      anticoagulant effect will be assessed at days 3 and 5 (+/- 1) using trough anti-Xa heparin
      levels. If accumulation occurs, defined as a trough anti-Xa level > 0.5 IU/mL, the tinzaparin
      dose will be adjusted according to a nomogram. Patients with an anti-Xa level ≤ 0.5 IU/mL
      will have no dose adjustment; patients with levels > 0.5 IU/mL will have their tinzaparin
      dose reduced.

      The primary outcome of this study is the proportion of patients in each renal function group
      with accumulation on or before day 5. We will follow the patients for 48 hours after their
      final tinzaparin injection. Secondary outcomes are bleeding, recurrent thrombosis,
      accumulation by day 3, and trough anti-Xa levels > 1.0 IU/mL at any point in the study.

      Significance. We hypothesize that tinzaparin does not accumulate in patients with renal
      insufficiency. However, if accumulation occurs, we hypothesize that dose adjustment according
      to our novel nomogram will prevent potentially-dangerous levels occurring by day 5. In either
      case, we will be able to proceed to the next stage in our research plan: an application for
      funding for a large simple randomized controlled trial examining the safety and efficacy of
      tinzaparin compared with UFH in patients with renal insufficiency. If accumulation occurs
      despite the use of the nomogram, then this surrogate outcome suggests that the use of
      therapeutic-dose tinzaparin is unlikely to be safe in patients with renal insufficiency, a
      finding which will limit the need to expend further resources on this line of research.
    
  