
    
      Antiretroviral therapy, gradually becoming the standard of care in developing countries,
      confers enormous benefits and yet substantial morbidity remains in human immunodeficiency
      virus (HIV) positive populations. Multivitamin supplements have immune-enhancing effects, and
      supplements were found to improve immunologic status and reduce morbidity and mortality among
      HIV-positive Tanzanian women in pre-highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) stages of
      disease. These supplements are thought to be required to restore adequate nutrient levels in
      the context of HIV infection.

      This study will enroll 400 men and women in the Kampala district of Uganda, who are receiving
      or have recently initiated HAART. At baseline and monthly thereafter, research physicians and
      nurses at study clinics will assess each participant's clinical status and undertake study
      procedures. Each participant will be followed for 18 months, or until his/her death or loss
      to follow-up. Home visits will be conducted if participants miss their scheduled clinic
      appointments. We will perform nutritional assessments (anthropometry and dietary intake) at
      enrollment and several follow-up points, and laboratory measurements (CD4 cell counts and
      complete blood counts) every six months.

      Importantly, all study participants will continue receiving the standard of care according to
      national guidelines for the entire study period. Multivitamins could be a low-cost, adjunct
      therapy for helping to alleviate disease burden and elevate quality of life in HIV-infected
      individuals on HAART. At the same time, their efficacy could help preserve limited drug
      regimens in developing settings by postponing the need for switches to second line regimens
      of HAART.

      Our proposal represents a collaboration between the Harvard School of Public Health,
      Infectious Disease Institute and Makerere University School of Public Health in Kampala,
      Uganda.
    
  