
    
      The defining feature of hemiparetic cerebral palsy is motor impairments primarily on one side
      of the body. Robotic rehabilitation and non-invasive brain stimulation are both emerging
      technologies that may be beneficial in improving motor performance in individuals with
      hemiparetic cerebral palsy. Robotic rehabilitation can allow for hundreds of arm movements in
      the span of an hour, a level of concentrated repetitions that is not possible in traditional
      rehabilitation. Additionally, robotics can target specific deficits, such as coordinating
      both arms together, improving accuracy of reaching movements, or improving proprioception,
      while simultaneously giving the therapist and patient quantitative feedback on performance.
      Non-invasive brain stimulation using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can
      safely modulate activity in regions of the brain and has emerged as a tool to enhance motor
      learning in typically developing children and augment therapy in children with hemiparetic
      cerebral palsy.

      Children with hemiparetic cerebral palsy will be randomized to receive robotic rehabilitation
      with tDCS or robotic rehabilitation with sham-tDCS. Participants and the assessors will be
      blinded to the treatment. All children will complete 10 sessions within 3 weeks of 1.5 hours
      of robotic rehabilitation. The Kinarm Exoskeleton Robot will be used and children will play
      games with their affected arm or both arms to target different aspects of sensorimotor
      control. Children will simultaneously receive real or sham tDCS for the first 20 minutes of
      the session. tDCS will consist of 1 mA current with the cathode applied over the
      contralesional M1 area. All children will be assessed before and after the 10 session
      intervention period using robotic and clinical measures of motor and sensory performance, and
      at a 3 month follow up.
    
  