
    
      Background:

        -  Worldwide, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common malignancy with a
           median survival of 6-9 months. The Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) study
           established Sorafenib as a standard consideration in this disease and set the bar for
           future studies of systemic therapy. There is no standard therapy for patients whose
           disease has progressed despite Sorafenib therapy.

        -  TRC105 is a chimeric, anti-angiogenic monoclonal antibody that binds CD105, a
           transmembrane receptor overexpressed by proliferating endothelial cells. TRC105 binds to
           CD105-expressing endothelial cells and mediates growth inhibition, apoptosis and
           antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC).

      Objectives:

      Primary:

      -To evaluate time to tumor progression (TTP) for TRC105 in HCC.

      Secondary:

        -  To evaluate safety of TRC105 in HCC.

        -  To evaluate the immunogenicity of TRC105 as measured by human antichimeric antibody
           (HACA) and human antimouse antibody formation.

        -  To evaluate anti-tumor response as determined by standard and European Association for
           the Study of the Liver (EASL) -modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
           (RECIST) response criteria.

        -  To perform correlative studies assessing potential biomarkers of response to TRC105.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of HCC.

        -  Childs-Pugh A or B (7 points) cirrhosis only is allowed.

        -  Patients must have disease that is not amenable to potentially curative resection.

        -  Patients must have progressed on or been intolerant of prior sorafenib therapy.

        -  No history of bleeding varices (unless subsequent liver transplant). All patients must
           have had endoscopic evaluation within 6 months of starting study.

        -  No history of bleeding varices in previous 1 year (unless subsequent liver transplant).
           No anti-coagulation (except low-dose aspirin).

      Design:

        -  This is a single-arm phase II study of TRC105 in patients with HCC.

        -  TRC105 will be administered as an intravenous infusion every two weeks. Patients will be
           re-staged every 8 weeks.

        -  The primary endpoint of the study will be Time to Tumor Progression (TTP). The primary
           purpose of this study is to evaluate the ability of TRC105 as a second line treatment to
           improve upon the time to progression (TTP) of patients with refractory HCC.
    
  