
    
      Iron deficiency (ID) is the most common micronutrient deficiency globally. Pregnant women and
      young children are at risk of ID. During pregnancy, there is an increased demand for iron to
      accommodate the needs of the fetal-placental unit. This increase in physiologic demand for
      iron renders pregnant women vulnerable to ID. In fact, ID is the major cause of anemia in
      pregnancy and can increase the perinatal maternal morbidity and mortality. Iron is also an
      essential micronutrient for fetal and infant brain development. ID in early life is
      associated with worse cognitive, motor, social emotional as well as neurophysiological
      development. Besides neurodevelopment, iron is also essential for proper immune function
      affecting both innate and adaptive cell, and has implications for childhood atopic diseases.

      Globally, there is an increasing trend of breastfeeding especially in developed countries.In
      Hong Kong, the government's continuing effort to promote breastfeeding has successfully
      boosted the rate of babies being breastfed. This encouraging information means more children
      will benefit from the many advantages of breast milk over formula milk, yet exclusive
      breastfeeding, particularly in the context of maternal ID and late weaning, may be a risk
      factor of ID in the infants. In view of the adverse impact of fetal and infant ID on
      neurocognitive development, it is important to evaluate the iron status of young infants, the
      effect of feeding practices on development of ID and the risk factors of ID in early infancy.

      Maternal ID is prevalent worldwide varying from 20% to 90%. Previous investigation performed
      in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Prince of Wales Hospital, concurred a
      significant prevalence (39%) of ID (serum ferritin < 15 microgram/L) among 100 asymptomatic
      pregnant women. Most fetal iron needed for infant growth is acquired in the third trimester
      from maternal iron store, in preparation for the high growth rate in the first 6 months of
      life. Iron status at birth is therefore critical and impaired iron status may persist into
      early childhood. However, low maternal prenatal iron levels measured as serum ferritin have
      not been consistently linked with low cord blood serum ferritin (CBSF) concentrations. Some
      studies reported that there was no correlation between serum ferritin of mothers and babies.
      However, others found that maternal ID or anemia, especially the severe type, adversely
      affected cord blood or infant iron status. Further studies are needed to evaluate how
      prenatal maternal iron status affects newborn's ferritin level at birth. Such data is
      necessary to guide future recommendations regarding the need of iron supplement in pregnant
      or lactating women and/or their infants. Hence, this study aimed to examine the associations
      between maternal prenatal ferritin levels with CBSF and to compare the ferritin levels with
      different feeding practices in early infancy at 3 months of age.
    
  