
    
      There are a many reasons for gastrointestinal (GI) tract surgery and following surgery the
      aim is to efficiently establish infants on enteral feeds and wean them off of parenteral
      nutrition. Neonates may lose their body resources after surgery due to inadequate nutrient
      intake and undergoing long periods of fasting after surgery. Nil peroral (NPO)/nil by mouth
      has been the most commonly practiced convention in post-operative period. Misplaced fear of
      aspiration, prevent nausea, vomiting and anastomotic complications led to routine
      prescription of "NPO." The duration of postoperative fasting is variable but can range from 0
      to 5 days depending on the operation. The ramiﬁcations of this period of fasting are not
      insigniﬁcant and may include prolonged length of stay, increased use of parenteral nutrition
      (PN), social effects and signiﬁcant costs to the health system.

      Starvation leads to disuse atrophy of villi, decrease disaccharide activity, decreased
      intestinal mucosa mass, and loss of DNA of enterocyte. This malfunctioning enterocyte leads
      to increase the permeability of intestinal mucosa to antigen and macromolecules. This
      starvation-induced gut mucosal injury leads to decrease the production of Vitamin K due to
      the absence of normal colonic flora. This also leads to decreased growth factors and bile
      acid metabolism. This compounded effect of starved gut and abnormal colonic bacterial
      environment leads to colonization of pathological bacteria and might lead to sepsis and
      sequelae. In addition, starvation leads to decreased immune cells of intestine gut-associated
      lymphoid tissue. This decreased gut immunity leads to increased uptake of toxins and
      decreased immune response to foreign antigen. This leads to bacterial translocation
      Traditionally after abdominal surgery, presence of bowel sounds or passage of flatus or
      stools has been the clinical evidence of restoration of bowel activity and indicators for
      starting oral diet. Bowel sounds are poor markers of bowel function as uncoordinated and
      antegrade peristalsis can be heard as bowel sounds. Currently, there is no good marker for
      return of bowel sounds, and even in the presence of prolonged ileus, the bowel moves .

      Cochrane reviews have shown no advantage in keeping patients "nil by mouth" following
      gastrointestinal surgery and support early commencement of enteral feeding .

      In neonates and infants there are additional issues with delayed feeding including
      cholestatic jaundice, sepsis, delayed gut development, and metabolic disease. Early trophic
      feeds may improve recovery time by increasing gut blood flow, improving motility and limiting
      the impact of starvation on the structure of the gut and its ability to absorb nutrients.
      Early introduction of enteral nutrition improves intestinal adaptation, reducing the risk of
      intestinal failure-associated liver disease (IFALD).

      ESPEN guidelines recommend early initiation of enteral feeding within 24 h after
      gastrointestinal surgery, but also state that it needs to be adapted according to the
      individual tolerance and type of surgery .

      So this study aims to evaluate the effect of early vs late enteral feeding after abdominal
      surgery on neonatal outcome after surgery, weight gain, length of hospital stay, time to
      reach full enteral feeding, time to pass first stool, surgical site infections, sepsis and
      electrolyte disturbances and will include all neonates who undergoing abdominal surgery and
      admitted in neonatal intensive care unit in Assiut University Children Hospital for one year.

      The study will include 2 groups group A :start enteral feeding within 2 days postoperative
      and group B :start enteral feeding after 2 days postoperative according to clinician
      discretion based on clinical progress(ranging from 1-5 days after passage of flatus or stool.
    
  