
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, multinational, multicenter, active-control, parallel
      two-group Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of TRS003 plus
      paclitaxel-carboplatin versus China-approved bevacizumab plus paclitaxel-carboplatin in
      patients with unresectable, locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic non-squamous NSCLC.
      Approximately 608 subjects will be enrolled into this study from America, Europe and Asia.
      Patients who sign the informed consent and meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized
      (1:1) to receive either TRS003 or China-approved bevacizumab in combination with
      paclitaxel-carboplatin for 4 to 6 cycles. Patients will be stratified by region (Asia, Europe
      and America), gender, and cigarette smoking habit (previous smoker, smoker and non-smoker).

      Patients will receive either TRS003 (Arm A), or China-approved bevacizumab (Arm B) first
      followed by the administration of paclitaxel and carboplatin. TRS003 or China-approved
      bevacizumab will be administered at 15 mg/kg by intravenous (IV) infusion on Day 1 of each
      cycle (every 3 weeks, Q3W). Paclitaxel will be administered at a dose of 200 mg/m^2 by IV
      infusion (over 3 hours) Q3W on Day 1 of each cycle and carboplatin will be administered at an
      area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) 6 mg/mL/ min (the maximum dose capped at
      900 mg) by IV infusion (over 15 - 30 minutes) Q3W on Day 1 of each cycle. Each cycle is 3
      weeks. Treatments will continue until disease progression, death, intolerable toxicity,
      withdrawal of consent, investigator decision, or completion of 4-6 cycles of therapy.
      Maintenance therapy may be given at the discretion of the patient's primary oncologist.

      Efficacy will be evaluated by the investigator per RECIST v1.1 (Eisenhauer et al., 2009).
      Efficacy evaluation will be performed at baseline and every 6 weeks ± 7 days during the 4-6
      cycle combination treatment periods. After completion of combination treatments, efficacy
      evaluations will be performed every 9 weeks ± 7 days (if patients received maintenance
      therapy). The analysis of Investigator-determined objective response rate (ORR) (RECIST v1.1)
      will be based on information obtained prior to Week 19. Investigator-determined duration of
      response (DOR) and progression-free survival (PFS) will also be evaluated according to RECIST
      v1.1. Data on overall survival (OS) will be collected. Central radiology review will not be
      required. However, for the purpose of quality control, the Sponsor may elect to have some or
      all tumor assessments to be reviewed by an independent imaging vendor.

      Safety will be evaluated throughout the study. Adverse events will be recorded from the time
      of informed consent. Safety will be assessed based on periodically physical examination
      findings, vital signs, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status,
      laboratory variables (hematology, coagulation tests, serum chemistries, urinalysis and
      pregnancy tests), and electrocardiogram (ECG) findings. Adverse events and laboratories will
      be graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE v5.0.

      Immunogenicity will be assessed in all patients who received at least one dose of TRS003 or
      China-approved bevacizumab. Samples will be assessed for the development of antidrug
      antibodies to either TRS003, or China-approved bevacizumab. Neutralizing antibodies (NAb)
      will assessed in samples that are antidrug antibody (ADA) positive. Trough pharmacokinetics
      (PK) samples will be collected and will be analyzed for interpretation of immunogenicity data
      and exploratory analysis when needed.
    
  