
    
      Protocol:

      In this study, the demographic information (age, gender, body mass index, education level,
      occupation, etc.) of all participants will be recorded first. In the first evaluation, the
      participants' gait parameters will be determined by using the 10-meter walking test and the
      wearable sensors. Balance is evaluated by Functional Reach Test, One Leg Stand Test and
      Tinetti Balance and Gait Assessment. Cognitive skills will be evaluated by using Mini Mental
      Test and Stroop Test. After the first evaluations of the participants, the participants will
      be given single or dual task training for 6 weeks, 2 times a week, not on consecutive days.
      If participants are absent for any training session, a compensation training session will be
      organized for them. After completing the single and / or dual task training, the final
      evaluations will be made. Randomization will be performed according to age, gender and body
      mass index of participants. After the randomization, participants' training group will be
      determined. Warm-up and cooling exercises will be carried out between 5-10 minutes before and
      after each training. Each training will consist of approximately 45-60 minutes including
      warm-up and cooling exercise periods. Each exercise starts with 5 repetitions and proceeds to
      10 repetitions. To reduce the effects of fatigue and to draw attention, a break time that
      consists of approximately 1-2 minutes will be given.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The effect size obtained in the reference study was strong (d = 1.16). As a result of the
      power analysis using the effect size value in the reference study for the study, it was
      calculated that 80% power could be obtained at 95% confidence level when at least 20 people
      (10 people per group) were included the study. The data will be analyzed with Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) package program. Continuous variables will be given as
      mean ± standard deviation and categorical variables as number and percentage. In the
      independent group comparisons, if the parametrical test assumptions are obtained, independent
      samples t-test will be used if the parametric test assumptions are not obtained Mann Whitney
      U test will be used. In the dependent group comparisons, when the parametric test assumptions
      are obtained, paired samples t-test; if not obtained Wilcoxon tests will be used.
    
  