
    
      Current treatment of high-grade glioma combining surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy has
      enhanced overall survival during the past 10 years, notably thanks to the " Stupp " protocol
      using Temozolomide. At tumor evaluation and post-treatment follow-up, decisions regarding
      management (change, discontinuation or continuation of treatment) are discussed during
      multidisciplinary case conferences (MCC) between neurooncology specialists and are generally
      based primarily on MRI data. New treatment strategies are more effective on tumor tissue but
      also affect the adjacent healthy tissue. These phenomena give rise to complex MRI changes
      which can make it more difficult to perform differential diagnoses between tumor recurrence
      and treatment sequellae, such as radionecrosis and pseudoprogression. Alternatively, they can
      conceal effective tumor progression (appearance of pseudoresponse under antiangiogenics).
      Classical MRI interpretation criteria have evolved to take these phenomena into account (RANO
      criteria) and are now supplemented by new MRI data (perfusion and diffusion imaging,
      spectroscopy). Nonetheless, cases involving an uncertain recurrence diagnosis are still
      frequent. PET imaging has also shown very good results in differential diagnosis between
      posttreatment changes. Fluorodeoxyglucose-18-F (18FDG) can be used for glioma follow-up
      (Varrone EJNMMI 2009) but produces false positives during follow-up. In this setting,
      over-expression of amino acid transporter LAT-1 in brain tumors makes amino acids or marked
      analogs more suitable for PET imaging of glial tumors. C-11 methionine and 18F-FET can be
      used, but 18F-FDOPA is currently the only radiopharmaceutical agent to have received
      marketing authorization in France. Recently, the UCLA group demonstrated that 18F-FDOPA could
      modify the intended management of 41% of patients with brain tumors . The present projects
      aims to assess the impact of 18F-FDOPA PET imaging on decisions taken by neurooncology MCCs
      for the management of patients already treated for high-grade gliomas.

      Expected benefits for patients and in terms of Public Health High-grade gliomas are the
      commonest and most aggressive brain tumors. Current therapy combining several treatments
      (surgery, radiotherapy, radiosurgery and chemotherapy) has improved overall patient survival
      during the past 10 years. Nevertheless, tumor recurrence accounts for a median survival of
      approximately only 15 months.
    
  