
    
      Permanent supportive housing (PSH) using a housing first approach is an evidence-based
      intervention to end chronic homelessness by providing low-barrier affordable housing paired
      with flexible health and social services. In Los Angeles County (LAC), where the number of
      PSH units is expected to increase dramatically over the next 10 years, clinical guidelines
      and/or standards for support services are lacking. This is especially problematic given the
      that the target population is older and prematurely aging. The chronically homeless
      population in the United States has an average age approaching 60 years old and experiences
      accelerated aging, including an elevated prevalence of geriatric syndromes such as functional
      impairment, falls, and urinary incontinence that can jeopardize PSH tenants' ability to live
      independently and age in place. Current support services are not equipped to address these
      needs, which ultimately jeopardizes the success of PSH to maintain high rates of housing
      stability while tenants "age in place."

      The investigators propose conducting a pilot project to implement the CAPABLE model in PSH.
      CAPABLE, which stands for "Community Aging in Place-Advancing Better Living for Elders" is a
      client-directed home-based intervention that consists of time-limited services (no more than
      6-months) from an occupational therapist, a nurse, and a handyman working collaboratively
      with the older adult client. CAPABLE was developed to target older adults who are returning
      to independent living after hospitalization and has been shown to improve functioning
      (activities of daily living - ADLs and instrumental activities of daily living - IADLs),
      decrease falls and nursing home admissions, and reduce healthcare costs based on multiple
      studies including several randomized control trials. CAPABLE has the potential to be used in
      PSH as a model of support services that can address needs of prematurely aging tenants, which
      could help transform PSH from an intervention that ends homeless to an intervention that
      addresses homelessness and supports successful aging in place.

      The specific aims of this study are to:

        1. Examine the impact of CAPABLE on PSH client outcomes (e.g. ADLs, IADLs, falls). This aim
           will be accomplished using a pre-/post-design with a wait-list control group.

        2. Determine what adaptations, if any, need to be made to implement CAPABLE in PSH. The
           investigators will accomplish this aim using the Dynamic Adaptation Process (DAP)
           implementation approach, which was designed to allow for an evidenced-based practice to
           be adapted in a planned and considered, rather than ad hoc, manner.
    
  