
    
      The study aims to determine if treating pediatric patients (age 7-18) for four weeks with
      omeprazole prior to tonsillectomy will decrease post tonsillectomy pain. The hypothesis is
      that many patients have silent laryngopharyngeal reflux and by reducing the acid entrance
      into the oropharynx, patients will have less post tonsillectomy pain due to decreased acid
      irritation of the surgical wound (tonsil fossas).

      The study will be a prospective double blind randomized study. Participants will be invited
      to participate in the study by giving the study information at the preoperative assessment,
      when the decision is made to have a tonsillectomy performed. If the patient agrees to
      participate in the study, a written consent and child assent will be obtained and the patient
      will be randomly assigned to a treatment versus control group based on the randomly assigned
      participant number.

      The treatment group will then be given a four week course of omeprazole or placebo to be
      taken for the four weeks prior to tonsillectomy. The investigators will be blinded to the
      intervention. The medication will be kept in a locked drawer at the ENT Associates office.
      The patient will take the medication 20 mg orally once a day for 28 days prior to the
      procedure with day 28 being the day before the tonsillectomy. The patient will be provided
      with a calender that is marked with the start date of the medication. The patient is to
      document any missed doses on the calender. On the day of surgery, the patient will return the
      remainder of the medication in an opaque bag along with the calender and this will be given
      back to the research pharmacist to account for the medication.

      The patient will be given a post tonsillectomy assessment form. The form looks at
      postoperative pain (using a visual analog scale 1-10) as well as oral intake at postoperative
      day 0,1,3,5,7,10, and 14. The form will be turned in at the postoperative visit (2 weeks
      after the surgery) or mailed in.

      The pain level and oral intake between the two groups to will be compared to determine if
      antireflux control helps decrease the postoperative pain after tonsillectomy.

      Other variables collected will be patient age, gender, method of surgery, pain medication
      prescribed, and indication for procedure. The data will be stored in a password protected
      computer files and the patient will only be identified by study number.
    
  