
    
      Kidney disease patients have abnormal protein (bone collagen) modifications in their bone
      that may increase the risk of breaking a bone (fracture). Preventing bone collagen from
      becoming abnormal may decrease the risk of breaking a bone, such as the spine or hip.
      Currently, the effect of abnormal bone collagen on bone strength is not fully defined, and
      there are no methods to measure the abnormal protein content without a bone biopsy. The
      purpose of this study is to define the effects of bone collagen on bone strength and to
      identify non-invasive markers that will tell us how much abnormal collagen is in the bone. If
      the investigators are able to identify a non-invasive marker of abnormal bone protein then
      they may be able to prevent the build-up of this protein and lower the risk of a fracture.

      If the participant chooses to be in the study, the investigators will get information from
      the participant's medical records such as diagnosis, the medicines and treatments prescribed
      by the participant's doctor, and the participant's lab test results.

      There will be two study visits, each lasting about 3 hours.

      Visit 1: At the baseline visit, study procedures include:

        -  Completing medical history, physical activity level, and dietary questionnaires for
           calcium and vitamin D.

        -  Blood sample

        -  Bone Imaging will: dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to measure bone mineral
           density, high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HRpQCT) to measure
           bone quality, and back x-rays to assess for the presence of spine fractures.Females who
           are able to become pregnant will also provide a urine specimen for pregnancy testing. (A
           negative pregnancy test is required prior to bone imaging.)

        -  Measure levels of Advanced Glycation End products (AGEs) in the skin of the
           participant's forearm and also in the participant's bone by bone biopsy. Advance
           Glycation End products may play a role in the development of weakened bone due to
           chronic kidney disease.

      Visit 2: The participant's second visit will occur within 6-months of enrollment. At this
      visit, the participant will undergo a bone and muscle biopsy at the hip area under conscious
      sedation and a localized pain numbing medicine. The bone biopsy provides detailed information
      about the quality of the participant's bone that cannot be obtained through other tests like
      x-rays or blood tests. The investigators will use the bone biopsy to determine the amount of
      abnormal protein in the participant's bone. The muscle biopsy informs about the health of the
      participant's muscle fibers and allows us to detect any muscle mass wasting associated to
      chronic kidney disease. Since the piece of muscle is taken form the bone biopsy, no extra
      incision is needed.

      The duration of the participant's participation from start of antibiotics through the actual
      bone biopsy will be approximately 3 weeks and 5 days (26 days).
    
  