
    
      The NICHD interview protocol was designed to aid forensic interviewers in adhering to best
      standards of practice when interviewing children. Field studies evaluating its use have
      demonstrated improvements in both interviewer behavior, and the amount and quality of
      information obtained from children, compared to interviews conducted prior to its
      implementation in test sites. Because field studies were conducted in forensic settings,
      however, it has not been possible to evaluate the protocol's effect on the accuracy of
      information reported by children. This present study therefore aims to evaluate the accuracy
      of information obtained using the NICHD interview protocol in an analog study. In addition
      the study is designed to explore children's willingness to provide details of a suggested,
      non-experienced event, and the effectiveness of including a human figure drawing as an
      auxiliary technique for eliciting further information. Furthermore, we will explore the
      importance of the pre-substantive/rapport-building phase of interviews, and the impact this
      has on children's reports of experienced and suggested events. Finally, we will explore the
      effectiveness of the interview protocol with children when a long delay has occurred between
      the event and the interview.

      Children will take part, individually, in a staged event at their school, and approximately
      six weeks later, be interviewed at the university about what they experienced. In addition,
      children will be asked to talk about a suggested fictitious event (one that has not
      happened). The order of the interviews will be counter-balanced across children and
      rapport-building conditions. Some children will be interviewed with an open-ended script that
      includes practice in episodic memory, some with a script made up of direct questions,
      including a practice in episodic memory, and some with one that uses open-ended questions but
      does not provide practice in talking about an event from episodic memory. Approximately one
      year later children will be interviewed again, so that we can examine children's reports in
      protocol interviews over a long delay. Children's reports will be analyzed for both overall
      amount and accuracy of information reported, as well as in response to the different cues and
      props given in the course of the interview. It is not anticipated that the study will pose
      any risks to the children involved, and we expect that both the staged event and the
      interviews will be enjoyable and stimulating. We expect that the results of the study will
      provide further support for the use of NICHD interview as a safe and effective means of
      interviewing children about past experiences. In addition to general information on
      children's eyewitness capabilities, the study is expected to supplement field studies by
      contributing knowledge about the accuracy of children's memory using the NICHD interview
      protocol.
    
  