
    
      Lesions within the ventricular system present a challenge to neurosurgeons (1). Their deep
      location and proximity to eloquent neurovascular anatomy complicate surgical approach and
      resection (2). Microsurgery remains the gold standard for the treatment of intraventricular
      tumors, but microsurgical approaches are not without limitations (3). With the use of the
      operative microscope, most lesions of the lateral and third ventricles are accessed by a
      craniotomy and either a transcortical or interhemispheric transcallosal approach. These
      approaches are associated with brain retraction that can result in seizures, focal neurologic
      deficits, and cognitive impairment (1). Also with standard microsurgical techniques, complete
      resection is sometimes not achieved either because of nonvisualization of hidden parts of the
      tumor or requirement of significant retraction of the neurovascular structures which is
      potentially hazardous (4). The addition of the endoscope for resection of intraventricular
      lesions has been described and represents a minimally invasive approach that limits brain
      retraction and provides direct lesion visualization (1,5,6). The recent development of
      endoscopic instrumentation has greatly enhanced microsurgical access to the ventricular
      system and would allow enhanced microsurgical access, minimize the size of the transcortical
      corridor, and reduce brain retraction during removal of challenging intraventricular lesions
      performed with the surgical microscope (7). The application of the endoscope can be used in
      the treatment of intraventricular lesions as arachnoid cyst with intraventricular extensions,
      colloid cysts, biopsies and intraventricular brain tumor removal (8). Reestablishment of CSF
      communication pathways is also possible endoscopically when patients develop obstructive
      hydrocephalus due to their intraventricular pathology (1). The biggest issues when it comes
      to a pure endoscopic approach concern the size and extent of the lesion, possibility of
      complete cure or at least long-term control of the disease, and the presence of remnants that
      were not completely excised (8) , However, The desire for a less invasive technique and an
      effective surgical approach to intraventricular pathology has directed the attention of many
      in the neurosurgical community towards the introduction of the endoscope as an adjuvant to or
      even a replacement for the microscope in intraventricular surgery (5) and consequently,
      neuroendoscopy has grown rapidly in the last 25 years as a therapeutic modality in the
      treatment of intraventricular pathologies (9,10).
    
  