
    
      Nowadays, colorectal liver metastasis (CLM) is gaining wide population from
      multi-disciplinary doctors including gastroenterologists, oncologists, and hepatic doctors
      for its increasing incidence and poor prognosis. Nearly, 15%-25% of colorectal cancer
      patients present with simultaneous liver metastasis at the time of diagnosis and 20%-35%
      patients are evaluated with primary tumor and liver metastasis resectable synchronously.
      Although the use of chemotherapy regimen has been certified favorable outcomes, surgical
      resection is still recommended as the optional treatment for CLM patients. However, there are
      two main concerns for resectable colorectal liver metastasis which remain controversial:
      surgical time and surgical type. As for the former, a latest evidence shows synchronous
      resection of primary colorectal tumor and liver metastasis, with the reason of fare overall
      survival rate and absence of a second surgery. Moreover, an increasing number of surgeons
      favor synchronous resection from their initial experience and they believe it will bring
      benefits to CLM patients.

      With regard to surgical type, although laparoscopic liver resection has been proven feasible,
      safe and efficient in management of liver metastasis, this procedure is limited in selected
      patients such as tumor size less than 10 centimeters or located in left liver. In addition,
      laparoscopic liver resection is technically difficult which is applied in most medical
      centers. So open liver resection may be the optimum choice for CLM patients no matter what
      the metastasis profile is. In the management of primary tumor, laparoscopic procedure is
      mature in surgical skill and has been evidenced equivalent overall survival rate compared
      with open resection. A research conducted by Arezzo also confirms lower 30-day morbidity of
      laparoscopic colorectal cancer resection. Unlike liver metastasis resection, primary
      colorectal tumor resection could be either open or laparoscopic procedure.

      Therefore, the investigators team conducted the controlled trial to compare two surgical
      procedures in treatment of resectable colorectal liver metastasis. Patients will be randomly
      assigned into conventional laparotomy group for simultaneously resection of both primary
      colorectal tumor and liver metastasis, or laparoscopic-assisted small-incision group for
      resection of laparoscopic colorectal tumor combined with synchronously small-incision open
      resection of liver metastasis. The aim of this trial is to observing short-term operative
      effects after surgeries.
    
  