
    
      The power analysis of this study was calculated based on the sample size studies of previous
      studies. The difference of d = 3 units between the two means is to have a standard deviation
      of 6 units. The sample size 200 required to detect with 95% power in the 95% confidence
      interval to detect.

      This study covers 324 patients. All patients were selected according to predefined and
      established inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Inclusion criteria were: stage 1-2-3 symptomatic OA patients according to Kellgren / Lawrence
      staging, age between 18 and 80 years, mean Visual Analogue Score (VAS) of >4 of 10 (worst
      possible pain) over the course of 7 days during the previous month were included on a
      voluntary basis. Only one knee injection was made to the patients.

      Exclusion criteria were OA secondary to joint inflammatory diseases; patients with
      generalized OA, metabolic diseases of the bone, coexisting backache, the presence of
      hematological disease (coagulopathy), bilateral symptomatic lesions and advanced stages
      (grade 4) of OA; patients who had received intra-articular injections within three months or
      arthroscopic lavage in the previous one year or who were receiving immunosuppressive;
      patients with current use of anticoagulant medications or NSAIDs used in the five days before
      blood donation, major axis deviation (more than 15 degree of varus or more than 5 degree of
      valgus deviation); and patients with a hemoglobin level less than 11.5 g/dL and platelets
      level less than 100,000/μL or associated co-morbidities, infection, tumor, crystal
      arthropathies, anemia, tense joint effusion and pregnancy or possibility of pregnancy.

      The voluntary patients included in this study were divided into four different groups with a
      computer-assisted randomization program. This groups; group A (n:67) were given a single
      injection of PRP, group B (n:69) were given a single injection of normal saline
      (physiological control/placebo), group C (n:66) were given three injection (one per month) of
      PRP, group D (n:65) were given three injection of normal saline (one per month)
      (physiological control/placebo).

      All patients were evaluated by a blinded researcher with VAS, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis
      Outcome Score (KOOS), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC),
      KUJALA, knee range of motion (ROM) and knee circumference measurement at 1st, 3rd, 6th, 12th
      and 24th months after treatment.
    
  