
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The investigator originally applied for the grant in response to an NHLBI initiative on "CVD
      Nutrition Education for Low Literacy Skills". The initiative originated within the Prevention
      and Demonstration Branch of the DECA, was approved by the September 1988 National Heart,
      Lung, and Blood Advisory Council, and released in July 1990. However, the grant was not
      awarded as part of the RFA.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The overall goal was to achieve a significant increase in the proportion of African Americans
      consuming a low fat, low salt "prudent" diet and to increase the proportion with optimal
      levels of blood pressure and total blood cholesterol. The specific aims were to: 1) assess
      the eating patterns and attendant nutrition literacy issues in urban African Americans, 2)
      determine the effectiveness of a lay volunteer-mediated multimodal culturally-specific
      church-based intervention compared with a strategy using solely written and visual self-help
      materials, 3) determine the impact of an intensive culturally-specific nutrition education
      intervention on the selection of "prudent" low fat, low salt alternatives when compared with
      the usual approaches to influencing food selection in major markets and fast-food
      restaurants, and 4) develop a process module which allowed generalization of this
      community-based technique to other low literacy high cultural-specificity groups.

      The study had three phases and utilized a social-marketing approach. Phase I, the first year
      of the study, was a community diagnosis consisting of a population-based random-digit-dialing
      survey and a series of focus groups to define eating patterns and nutrient intake in their
      social context in the African American population. Community focus groups were conducted to
      design culturally-specific nutrition education modules to be used in two subsequent
      randomized trials. Phase I also consisted of the adaptation of existing instruments to
      determine nutrition literacy levels, comprehension and the readability specifically in this
      population.

      Phase II, in years two, three and the first six months of year four of the study, was
      comprised of a randomized trial of a nutrition education module administered through trained
      lay nutrition counselors in East Baltimore churches compared with churches which received
      only self-help materials designed for the literacy level. Outcomes included assessment of
      total calories from fat, from saturated fat, cholesterol in mg/day and blood pressure and
      blood cholesterol levels measured one, six and 12 months after the intervention.

      Phase III, conducted in year four, consisted of a randomized trial of an intensive nutrition
      intervention which was designed for the culture and was compared with usual advertising and
      food-selection influence techniques in eight fast food restaurants and four large food
      markets in East Baltimore. Outcomes included the shift in sales from high to low fat and salt
      alternatives (as determined by computerized sales and inventory data) during the intervention
      and two weeks following the intervention. All interventions in Phase II and III evolved from
      the focus groups and survey work performed in Phase I.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  