
    
      The "Doha agreement meeting on terminology and definitions" aimed to simplify the
      heterogeneous taxonomy of groin injuries by creating a straightforward classification system
      based on patient history and clinical examination. Following this classification system,
      groin pain can be divided into four defined clinical entities (adductor-, inguinal-,
      iliopsoas- and/or pubic-related groin pain), hip related groin pain, and/or other causes for
      groin pain.

      In the Doha classification, pain on palpation, resistance and/or stretching are the key
      clinical findings for categorizing in the four clinical entities. However, this
      classification does not describe how these clinical tests should be performed and if these
      tests are reproducible.

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the inter-examiner reproducibility of clinical
      palpation, resistance and stretch tests for longstanding groin pain in athletes. The
      secondary aim is to identify the proportion of positive clinical tests for each clinical
      entity diagnosis.

      Two blinded examiners (a physiotherapist and a general surgeon, both specialized in groin
      injuries with >10 years experience) will assess each athlete with longstanding groin pain
      following a standardized examination protocol. Prior to clinical examination, participants
      will be requested to complete a standardized form for patient/injury characteristics and
      injury history, the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) and the Oslo Sports Trauma
      Research Center (OSTRC) overuse injury questionnaire. The HAGOS is a patient-reported outcome
      measure, which quantifies a patient's current subjective perception of their hip and groin
      pain within the last week on six subscales, each with a score between 0 and 100.The OSTRC
      overuse injury questionnaire has a focus on groin problems within the last week.

      The standardized clinical examination protocol consists of palpation, resistance and
      stretch-tests and are used to categorize athletes into defined clinical entities. A score on
      the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (0-10) will be asked to the patient for each test, where pain
      during the test has to correspond to the injury pain. Each score from 1-10 will be considered
      as positive for analysis. If the pain is just from palpation and not related to the injury,
      the test will be considered negative.

      Inter-examiner reliability will be analysed using Cohen's Kappa statistic (κ), including 95%
      confidence intervals for dichotomous variables. Linear weighted κ will be calculated for
      ordinal variables. Additionally, the absolute positive agreement and negative agreement
      between the two examiners and bias index will be calculated. The mean prevalence of each
      positive clinical tests of both clinicians will be reported for each entity diagnosis.
      Furthermore, agreement analysis for the palpation tests of the four defined clinical entities
      of groin pain will also be grouped: adductor-, iliopsoas-, inguinal- (with and without
      invagination) and pubic palpation.

      For the 3 main defined clinical entities (adductor-, inguinal- and iliopsoas-related groin
      pain), a prevalence is expected between 30-60% in our research population. Assuming that
      approximately 4 out of every 5 tests (80%) targeting each entity will be positive, we expect
      a prevalence of positive tests of approximately 24-48% in the whole sample. With an expected
      Kappa of at least 0.8, with a 95% confidence interval lower limit of 0.4, using a 2-tailed
      test and assuming no bias between examiners, at least 60 affected sides will be needed for
      this study. A lower prevalence of positive tests for pubic-related groin pain and subsequent
      less robust results for clinical tests of this entity will be accepted. No dropout is
      expected due to the cross-sectional character of the study. We will continue inclusion until
      we have 60 full data sets.
    
  