
    
      Safe sleep and health literacy are priorities at national, state, and local levels. While
      greatly improved since the launch of the Back to Sleep campaign in the 1990s, the rate of
      sleep-related infant deaths, notably Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), has been stagnant
      for over a decade. While printed materials are widely distributed for SIDS education, to date
      none have been proven effective, and overall satisfaction has been low. Reasons include
      passive delivery, unappealing content, and excessively high reading level, especially for
      low-socioeconomic status populations. Evidence suggests that an ideal strategy involves
      printed materials combining simplicity, emotional appeal, cultural sensitivity, and low
      reading level, conveyed by health care practitioners and reviewed multiple times. Children's
      books are a potentially ideal medium for this, combining pictures and text to invoke emotion
      and inspire a shared parent-child experience that is valued and repeated.

      This is a randomized controlled trial involving a population of at-risk, low-socioeconomic
      status, first-time mothers enrolled in an early intervention home visitation program, Every
      Child Succeeds (ECS). ECS home visitors from 9 agencies will be randomly assigned to utilize
      either a specially-designed children's book (intervention) or standard brochures (control)
      for safe sleep education. Our target enrollment is 230 mothers. Trained ECS home visitors
      will obtain consent, distribute the book or brochures, and perform baseline assessment of
      health literacy (via the REALM-R screen), safe sleep knowledge, and home literacy orientation
      during a third trimester, prenatal home visit. Outcomes data will be collected by the same
      visitor during subsequent home visits at 1 week old, when infant sleep routines are being
      established, and 2 months old, at onset of peak SIDS risk. At each visit, the book or
      brochures will be reviewed.

      Outcomes will be compared between intervention and control groups in the following
      categories: 1) maternal safe sleep knowledge, 2) maternal adherence to safe sleep guidelines
      (observed), 3) maternal and provider satisfaction with materials utilized to convey safe
      sleep guidelines, and 4) the degree to which utilizing a children's book for health education
      impacts home literacy orientation (i.e. attitudes towards reading).
    
  