
    
      Rationale:

      One of the most common post-operative complications of surgical procedures remains surgical
      site infection, which causes significant morbidity and healthcare costs (estimated at $1.5
      billion per year) among hospitalized patients. Surgical wounds for lower extremity
      revascularization are particularly prone to infection and dehiscence, with rates in some
      series as high as 44%(Kent, Bartek et al. 1996). Currently, the Guideline for Prevention of
      Surgical Site Infection recommends the use of sterile dressing to protect closed incisions
      for 24 to 48 hour postoperatively. However, no evidence-based recommendations are made with
      regards to dressing types for use in post-operative incision care.

      A plethora of wound dressings are available in the market, with silver-based dressing among
      these recent innovations. Topical silver treatment is an effective bactericidal agent that
      does not induce bacterial resistance when used in therapeutic levels. Acticoat
      Absorbent®(Smith and Nephew, Inc.), an antimicrobial barrier dressing is coated with
      nanocrystalline silver that delivers a controlled, sustained (up to three days) dose of
      silver ions. Additionally, this dressing absorbs moisture (minimizing wound maceration), and
      is safe and effective against a broad range of microorganisms. Acticoat Absorbent® (Acticoat)
      is indicated for surgical wounds, chronic wounds, and burn wounds; however, data are lacking
      regarding in its potential role in postoperative surgical incision wound infection
      prophylaxis.

      The Principal Investigator recently completed a non-concurrent, single-institution study of
      patients who received conventional non-silver containing dressing with Acticoat as
      post-operative dressing following defined lower extremity revascularizations(Childress,
      Berceli et al. 2007). The study population comprised 216 patients who underwent 248 cases
      that met inclusion criteria. Both groups were similar with regards to age at the time of
      first procedure, gender, race, diabetes, hypertension, current smoking, and renal
      insufficiency (creatinine >1.5 mg/L). Furthermore, both groups had tissue loss as the most
      common indication for the lower extremity revascularization procedure, with 47% (55/118) for
      the control group and 38% (49/130) for the treatment group. Moreover, autogenous vein bypass
      graft was the most common procedure performed for the control (65/118, 55% of procedures) and
      treatment (54/130, 42% of procedures) groups.

      The surgeons and other providers found the dressing regimen easy to apply and care for
      post-operatively. Revascularization pulses could be palpated through the dressing, and the
      low profile permitted identification of post-operative soft tissue changes such as hematomas.
      Compressive ace bandages could be applied without disturbing the original dressing.

      Regarding the primary findings, no substantial dressing material specific complications were
      noted, including no apparent allergic reactions. The wound complication rate for the control
      group was 14% (17/118), and for the treatment group was 5% (7/130). Over the intervention
      phase, the wound overall complication rate fell by 64% (c2 = 5.76, df = 1, p = 0.016).

      These findings provide clinical evidence that an Acticoat based dressing system offers a
      potentially efficacious, cost-effective adjunct to reduce surgical site infections for lower
      extremity revascularization. Based on this data, we believe that further investigation via
      multi-center randomized clinical trial is warranted. Thus for the current proposal we
      hypothesize that immediate application of Acticoat Absorbent® as a post-operative dressing
      would reduce closed incisional wound complications in patients undergoing lower extremity
      revascularizations involving infrainguinal skin incisions will result in a clinically
      significant reduction in wound complication rates compared to standard non-silver eluting
      dressing material.

      Procedure:

        -  Patient randomized in OR after wound closure completed

        -  Wound closure technique at the discretion of the surgeon (Dermabond is a dressing and
           can not be utilized)

        -  Final OR dressing is test (silver vs standard) dressing, secured per surgeon preference

        -  Original OR dressing stays in place until gross soiling impairs standard wound hygiene,
           clinical need to remove, or POD#3, whichever comes first

        -  Subsequent dressings, wound care at the discretion of providers

        -  Visual wound checks at least at 2 and 4 weeks (+/- 5 days)

      Clinical, economic, patient quality of life, and resource utilization data is then collected
      at standard clinical encounters

      Primary Endpoint: Any wound complication within 30 days

      Power and Sample Size Calculations:

        -  Current endpoint rate at least 25%(Kent, Bartek et al. 1996; Nguyen, Brahmanandam et al.
           2007)

        -  Anticipate 10% absolute (40% relative) wound complication rate reduction(Childress,
           Berceli et al. 2007)

        -  Power 0.8

        -  alpha 0.05

        -  control event rate of 0.25

        -  treatment event rate of 0.15

        -  1:1 randomization

        -  -->total study sample size 250 per group (500 total).
    
  