
    
      Cervical dystonia (CD) is the most common adult onset dystonia. Abnormal sensorimotor
      integration and maladaptive plasticity have been proposed as possible mechanisms. Currently,
      there is no definite way to assess and modify this dysfunctional network. Deep brain
      stimulation (DBS) is one possible way, but it is invasive and being used in highly selected
      patients. Intramuscular injections of botulinum toxin injection (BoNT-A) are successful.
      However, 30% patients discontinue due to lack of efficacy, side effects like muscle atrophy
      and dysphagia and the effect may wear off by week 8. Importantly, injections don't change the
      abnormal networks, as patients need life-long treatment.

      Noninvasive brain stimulation (NIBS) is an evolving therapeutic option. Repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has already been used in network modulation in CD.
      Although effective, cost, lack of portability and side effects remain issues of rTMS.
      Portable, better tolerated and cheaper options using transcranial direct current stimulation
      (tDCS) in Parkinson's disease, dystonia, tremor, ataxia and transcranial pulsed current
      stimulation (tPCS) in Parkinson's disease are exciting new options. However, with these
      methods of NIS, many challenges remain - dysfunctional network localization, selecting
      parameters to use, providing adequate stimulation to alter the network consistently, maintain
      the therapeutic benefit chronically and have consistent adoption by the patient and clinician
      community. These variables make this exciting approach high risk, yet high yield if
      successful.

      In this study, the investigators will use a new quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG)
      technique to first localize global network dysfunction in CD. Kinematic analysis of the
      biomechanics of CD will be recorded. The efficacy of acute NIBS will be evaluated in those CD
      patients who are already on 3 monthly BoNT-A therapy but the effect of BoNT-A is wearing off
      in 8 weeks.The effect will be measured using qEEG and kinematics pre and post stimulation.

      Noninvasive stimulation will be delivered through a pair of saline-soaked (0.9% NaCl) surface
      sponge electrodes. Stimulation will be given for 20 mins, single session. For the sham
      condition, the electrode placement will be same, but the electric current will be ramped down
      in 5 seconds after the beginning of the stimulation.

      Neurophysiological EEG signals will be recorded, eyes-closed, no-task, using g.Nautilus g.tec
      wireless system. The g.tech system uses earclip reference sensors. The subject will be in a
      quiet place with less light or electromagnetic perturbations. During the resting state
      recordings, patients are seated in a comfortable arm chair and will be instructed to keep
      relaxed, with their eyes closed for 5 mins.

      A paired t test will be used to compare baseline data and post tPCS data. Descriptive
      analysis of the neurological examination findings will be provided.
    
  