
    
      In context of an increase of bacterial infections in people who inject psychoactive
      substances (PS) all around the world and a lack of available scientific data, the
      investigators decided to set up a descriptive study on bacterial infection types and
      determinants in Injection Drug Users (IDUs).

      Through a multidisciplinary approach between hospital departments (e.g. infectious diseases,
      emergency and addictology), the local addiction management and liaison team (ELSA) and the
      regional addictovigilance center, data were collected on appearance and course of bacterial
      infections in IDUs hospitalized at Montpellier University Hospital, France.

      This study aims to provide medical data in order to better understand those infections and
      their determinants and provide information for potential future more specific observational
      studies.

      The regional addictovigilance center is a member of the French Addictovigilance Network,
      which was established to monitor the potential for abuse and dependence of PS, and to provide
      information on the risk of addiction and advice for public health decision making, under the
      supervision of the French National Agency for Medicines and Health Products Safety. This
      surveillance system is principally based on spontaneous reporting by healthcare professionals
      and patients that is regulated by law. Collected data were extracted from those spontaneous
      reports (composed by data from the medical file*, DxCare or notification by medical team).
      First data were collected in 2012.

      In addition, the investigators offered patients to fill in an anonymous questionnaire** on
      hygiene habits which was not mandatory and had no influence on treatment, and was offered
      during the ELSA team intervention (questions from the questionnaire are classical risk
      reduction question on injection and hygiene practices).

      Main results are the description of the infections and injection practices. There is no
      control group per se as all included patients are IDUs and have a bacterial infection. But
      the investigators infection (such as abscess or skin and soft tissue) and those with a
      systemic infection. The two groups were established after the recruitment was completed. This
      comparative analysis is only performed in order to better understand the development of
      infections. Descriptive and comparative analyses was performed by the Department of Medical
      Information.

      *Data collected :

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Past history of bacterial infection linked to injection of a psychoactive substance

        -  HIV and HCV status

        -  Injected psychoactive substance

        -  Injection practices (frequency, route, location)

        -  Diagnosis

        -  Bacterial analysis

        -  Treatments and course

             -  Hygiene questionnaire (attached file)
    
  