
    
      The need for mechanical ventilation (MV) secondary to sepsis is the leading cause of
      admission to the intensive care unit, often necessitating sedation for patient safety and
      comfort. Recently, we have learned that these sedative medications contribute to iatrogenic
      injury, such as prolonging ventilator time and ICU length of stay and exacerbating acute
      brain dysfunction. This acute brain dysfunction, manifested as delirium and coma, occurs in
      50%-70% of MV septic patients and is a significant contributor not only to death but also to
      functional and cognitive decline, which can persist for years after recovery of lung and
      other organ function, levying significant costs to patients and society. Despite advances in
      the management of acute respiratory failure and sepsis, few clinical trials have examined the
      effects that supportive therapies, like sedation, may have on both short- and long-term
      outcomes in this vulnerable population. The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic
      benzodiazepines, in particular, have been shown to increase brain dysfunction, promote
      infection, and prolong MV. Therefore, the short-acting GABA-ergic sedative propofol and the
      alpha2 agonist dexmedetomidine are becoming widely used to sedate septic MV patients. There
      are only a few randomized trials, however, to guide clinicians when selecting between these
      and other sedatives, and none have explored the mechanisms underlying the differences in
      outcomes, though some data indicate that GABA-ergic and alpha2 agonist agents have very
      different effects on innate immunity, apoptosis, arousability, and respiratory drive. In
      early animal and human studies, dexmedetomidine had more anti-inflammatory effects than the
      GABA-ergic agents; dexmedetomidine improved bacterial clearance, whereas propofol impaired
      it. In addition, sedation with dexmedetomidine instead of benzodiazepines reduces delirium by
      20%-30% and improves arousability, cognition, and attentiveness in ventilated patients.
      Alpha2 agonists induce unconsciousness at the brainstem-more akin to natural sleep-which may
      improve autonomic function and immunity. All these factors converge to suggest that sedation
      with an alpha2 agonist rather than a GABAergic agent may improve outcomes, including brain
      function, MV, and survival, for septic MV patients. We therefore propose the MENDS2
      (Maximizing the Efficacy of Sedation and Reducing Neurological Dysfunction and Mortality in
      Septic Patients with Acute Respiratory Failure) study, in which we will test the hypotheses
      that sedation of MV severely septic patients with an alpha2 agonist (dexmedetomidine) rather
      than a GABAergic agent (propofol) will (Aim 1A) increase days alive without delirium or coma,
      (Aim 1B) increase ventilator-free days, (Aim 2A) improve 90-day survival, (Aim 2B) decrease
      long-term cognitive impairment, and (Aim 3) reduce the pro-inflammatory cytokine cascade
      following sepsis. We will randomize 420 ventilated, severely septic patients requiring
      goal-directed sedation with dexmedetomidine or propofol, giving the study 85% power to detect
      a difference of 1.5 delirium/coma-free days and an absolute difference in mortality of 12%
      between the two groups.
    
  