
    
      In this project we will study two diverse groups of subjects. Group 1 will be subjects who
      are sedentary, insulin resistant, and have the Metabolic Syndrome. These subjects will be
      tested for insulin sensitivity at the whole body level, and for key changes in skeletal
      muscle metabolism at baseline, following 12 weeks of exercise training, and during an acute
      (1-3 days) period of time following the cessation of exercise training. The design allows us
      to study the effects of exercise on improving insulin sensitivity and make direct comparisons
      to a period when insulin sensitivity quickly decreases because of the removal of exercise
      training. Metformin is a drug commonly prescribed to control insulin resistance and type 2
      diabetes. Metformin is thought to have exercise like effects on muscle metabolism and is
      known to activate a molecule that is de-activated during inactivity. Thus, half of the
      Metabolic Syndrome subjects will cease exercise training with no treatment while another half
      will quite exercise training while taking the drug Metformin.

      Group 2 subjects will be highly trained endurance athletes. Endurance athletes display high
      levels of insulin sensitivity that can drop in the hours and days following the cessation of
      exercise. Thus we will take the same measurements in endurance athletes at baseline during
      their normal training regimen and in the acute (1-3 days) period following the cessation of
      exercise training. Again, half of the subjects will be take Metformin during the cessation of
      exercise in the same fashion as done in group 1.

      Studies in both groups seek to determine the event(s) which cause insulin resistance in
      skeletal muscle following a decrease in physical activity levels. Comparisons between
      healthy, active individuals and sedentary Metabolic Syndrome subjects may provide additional
      information about the underlying events that cause insulin resistance.
    
  