
    
      Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response to infection, which leads to acute organ
      dysfunction and shock. Current therapies are aimed at normalizing hemodynamic parameters
      during early sepsis resuscitation to reduce mortality. The investigators hypothesize that
      future strategies should be personalized, and should target the mediators of the septic
      response on an individual patient basis. One of these mediators is HDL which works by
      facilitating clearance of bacterial toxins, maintaining the integrity of the endothelium, and
      preventing inflammation, a function performed by Apo-A1. The association of HDL with
      cardiovascular health has been well-studied in the Caucasian and Asian populations, where
      research has demonstrated that HDL can become pro-inflammatory and thus may not perform its
      functions of being anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic and anti-oxidant. Such HDL is called
      Dys-HDL. Dys-HDL or pro-inflammatory HDL may play a pivotal role in sepsis, an area that has
      not been fully studied. The mechanism by which HDL becomes dysfunctional is one of debate,
      but the main hypothesis is through polymorphisms of Apo-A1, possibly via the myeloperoxidase
      enzyme, and each polymorphism produces different HDL levels and activity. These alterations
      can lead to increased susceptibility to septic death due to inability to neutralize
      lipopolysaccharide, loss of thymocyte apoptosis (critical for protection against sepsis) and
      endogenous corticosteroid release, and loss of the ability to preserve HDLs antioxidant
      properties. Dys-HDL has also been demonstrated in early sepsis and may serve as a potential
      early disease marker. For these reasons, the investigators believe that Dys-HDL may play a
      pivotal role in the sepsis cascade which leads to organ dysfunction and death. Aim 1.
      Determine the presence of Dys-HDL in adult patients with early severe sepsis who present to
      the ED. Aim 2. Examine the relationship between Dys-HDL and cumulative organ dysfunction as
      measured by the sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score, a validated measure of
      organ dysfunction in severe sepsis.
    
  