
    
      The design of this study is two-fold. The main study will be a prospective, single blind,
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). Patients will be randomized to either (1) non-operative
      treatment or (2) locking plate open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF).

      The second component of this study will be a prospective, cohort study. This option will be
      presented to patients who do not want to enroll in the RCT because they prefer one treatment
      option over the other, and do not wish to be randomized to a treatment. Patients who choose
      either non-operative treatment or ORIF for their proximal humerus fracture will be followed
      for 2 years post injury.

      Study Objectives:

      Objective 1: Does a difference exist in the functional outcome between non-operative
      management and locking plate surgical fixation of low-energy displaced two-part, three-part,
      and four-part proximal humerus fractures in the elderly population based on the Constant
      functional outcome score over a 2-year follow-up period? Objective 2: Does a difference exist
      between non-operative management and locking plate surgical fixation of low-energy displaced
      two-part, three-part, and four-part proximal humerus fractures in the elderly population
      based on the ASES functional outcome score, the short form Patient Reported Outcomes
      Measurement Information System (PROMIS) upper extremity score, the International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) for the elderly, and the EuroQol EQ-5D-5L Health Questionnaire
      Quality of Life (QoL) functional outcome score over a 2-year follow-up period? What is the
      incidence of complications of non-operative management and locking plate surgical fixation of
      low-energy displaced two-part, three-part, and four-part proximal humerus fractures in the
      elderly population based on infection, nerve injury, intra-articular screw penetration and
      bleeding (hematoma), reoperation rate, or hospital readmission over a 2-year follow-up
      period? Objective 3: Does a difference exist between non-operative management and locking
      plate surgical fixation of low-energy displaced two-part, three-part, and four-part proximal
      humerus fractures in the elderly population based on radiographic outcomes including
      non-union, malunion, and joint arthrosis? Objective 4: Does the degree of initial
      displacement or angulation of the fracture fragments correlate with final functional outcome
      measures? Objective 5: Does the quality of the surgical reduction correlate with final
      functional outcome measures?
    
  