
    
      The study is monocentric, realised in University Hospital of Clermont-Ferrand, France, using
      the CT GE Revolution dedicated to the emergency service.

      For each patient with suspicion of pulmonary embolism, regarding the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria (explained later), investigators realise the same protocol.

      Patients are divided into 2 groups of weight : <30 kg/m2, > 30 kg/m2. There is no change in
      the management of patients, who benefit from an angioscan for pulmonary embolism, with an
      optimized protocol for patients under 100 kg and validated by the literature (Megyeri et al.
      , 2015) for patients over 100 kilos, with no loss of diagnostic chance and with an
      improvement over the irradiation compared to the usual protocols used (over-irradiation in
      the obese, up to 140 kV).

      Concerning the CT protocol, a voltage of 100 kV is applied (irradiation 40% lower than a 120
      kV test), with a modulation of the intensity of the current according to the Z axis and use
      of different levels of iterative reconstructions on images obtained to improve diagnostic
      performance.

      Regarding the injection protocol, the same product with high concentration of iodine is
      injected to all patients (IOMERON 400), with a quantity relative to the weight of 1 mL / kg
      of patient weight, a maximum of 90 mL, a rate of 4 mL / s and rinsing with 30 mL of saline
      solution at 3 mL / sec

      The session physician first carries out diagnostic work by searching for pulmonary embolism
      or an alternative diagnosis to explain the symptoms.

      Secondly, the research work is carried out and the analyzed data with evaluation of the
      objective diagnostic quality, placing regions of circular interest or ROI (for regions of
      interest), in the pulmonary arteries, up to the sub-segmental branches.

      The subjective quality is evaluated by two double-blind readers by a subjective quality
      scale.

      The different elements are then compared according to two different groups of weights and
      BMIs. Intermediate statistical analyzes are planned for all 30 patients.

      The study started on March 21st, for an estimated duration of 6 months initially. 65
    
  