
    
      Intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents, including ranibizumab and
      aflibercept, remain the standard of care treatment for neovascular age-related macular
      degeneration (AMD). Various treatment modalities using these agents have been proposed,
      including monthly, pro re nata, and treat-and-extend regimens. Despite frequent and
      consistent treatment with anti-VEGF therapy, there is a subset of patients who are incomplete
      responders and have persistent exudation, including intraretinal edema, subretinal fluid
      (SRF), and/or retinal pigment epithelial detachment (PED) on spectral-domain optical
      coherence tomography (SD-OCT). While clearance of intravitreal anti-VEGF drugs is not
      completely understood, some studies have suggested that outflow through the anterior chamber
      may play a role. We hypothesized that by decreasing aqueous production, outflow may also be
      reduced which could subsequently slow the clearance of intravitreal drugs. In a prior pilot
      study with 10 eyes of 10 patients who were incomplete responders with neovascular AMD, the
      effect of topical dorzolamide-timolol in combination with continued intravitreal anti-VEGF
      injections was explored. Patients were kept on the same anti-VEGF drug as well as the same
      interval between injections for the 2 visits before enrollment and through the course of the
      pilot study in order to minimize the chances that any changes noted might be the result of
      altering one of these variables. The mean central subfield thickness (CST) decreased from
      419.7 μm at enrollment to 334.1 μm at the final visit (p=0.012). Mean maximum subretinal
      fluid (SRF) height decreased from 126.6 μm at enrollment to 56.5 μm at the final visit
      (p=0.020). This decrease in mean CST and SRF was significant beginning at the first visit
      after initiation of the drops. Based on this initial pilot data, dorzolamide-timolol appears
      to be a promising adjuvant treatment in combination with anti-VEGF injections for incomplete
      anti-VEGF responders with neovascular AMD. However, since there was no control group in the
      pilot study, it is possible that the decreased exudation seen was a result of the continued
      anti-VEGF therapy alone rather than an effect of the topical therapy. As a result, a
      randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial will be better able to assess the efficacy of
      dorzolamide-timolol in this setting.
    
  