
    
      Acute on chronic liver failure (ACLF) lacks a consensus definition and definitive management
      approaches. The various management strategies include treatment of acute insult, support of
      multiple organ systems and disease-specific medications such as antivirals for hepatitis B,
      steroids for alcoholic hepatitis, and autoimmune hepatitis. Despite aggressive clinical care,
      only half of the patients could survive an episode of ACLF. ACLF is a dynamic condition and
      has specific time-related disease course. Majority of patients of the patients attain their
      final grade of ACLF between 3 rd and 7th day and makes it an ideal time to assess the
      prognosis. Recently, liver transplantation option also explored in patients not responding to
      standard medical care and appeared promising. Early liver transplantation is considered if
      the baseline model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score > 28, Asia pacific association
      for the study of the liver (APASL) ACLF Research Consortium (AARC) score of > 10, advanced
      hepatic encephalopathy in the absence of organ failures or overt sepsis. However, liver
      transplantation is feasible only in 25% cases and approximately 67% waitlist mortality.
      Treating ACLF patients early in the disease course, i.e., window period, may prevent
      multiorgan dysfunction and improve outcomes. Therefore, these alternative modalities can act
      as bridging to liver transplantation and hasten the spontaneous liver regeneration and hence,
      transplant-free recovery in some patients.

      Plasma exchange has been shown to reduce cytokines, inflammatory mediators, and
      damage-associated molecular patterns. The early experience of therapeutic plasma exchange in
      patients with hepatitis B ACLF shows a survival benefit compared to standard of care. Changes
      in albumin quantity and quality are noted in patients with cirrhosis. An increase in oxidized
      albumin, ischemia-modified albumin, and albumin dimerization is observed ACLF patients and
      changes are more pronounced compared to cirrhotic patients. These changes are well correlated
      with short and long term mortality.

      Hence the investigators hypothesized that the early treatment with therapeutic plasma
      exchange with plasma and albumin in ACLF patients improves overall survival in carefully
      selected patients.
    
  