
    
      In addition, distinctive imaging patterns pointing to amyloidosis may also be documented by
      other imaging techniques although insufficiently specific (e.g. decreased cardiac uptake of
      metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), evocative pattern of delayed retention at Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI) or at strain echocardiography. Specific markers of amyloid plaques have been
      developed for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and were initially labeled with carbon-11
      and more recently, with fluor-18. Most of these markers have already been the subject of
      feasibility studies on limited numbers of amyloidosis patients (max 10) but with favorable
      results. In a previous pilot study, one of these tracers, the 18F-Florbetaben used in the
      present study-protocol, exhibited particularly slow kinetics, with differences in cardiac
      uptake between patients and controls still being documented as late as 80-min following
      injection. This uptake was also found to be somewhat lower in the 5 ATTR patients
      comparatively to the 5 AL patients (Low WP and al, J Nucl Med 2016).

      It may be hypothesized that 18F-Florbetaben has sufficiently slow and prolonged binding
      kinetics at the level of the amyloid plaques to allow: (i) achieving whole-body PET
      recordings with current recording times of 20 to 30 min and thus, (ii) identifying not only
      cardiac amyloidosis but also extracardiac binding sites, particularly those readily
      accessible to biopsy sampling. This hypothesis has just been strengthened by a recent case
      report, published by investigators involved in the present project and illustrating the
      ability of whole-body 18F-Florbetaben-PET to image not only cardiac but also various
      extracardiac sites of amyloid deposits (D'Estanque E. and al, Clin Nucl Med 2017).

      The proposed study would be the first in which the sample size would be sufficient to provide
      a credible assessment of the ability of PET, using an amyloid plaque tracer, to identify
      cardiac amyloidosis and with a possible separate analysis of ATTR and AL forms. Moreover, it
      would also constitute the first study involving an extensive use of whole-body PET imaging to
      assess the benefit of amyloidosis detection, not only at the cardiac level, but also at
      peripheral sites, especially those accessible for biopsy (tongue, rectum, salivary glands,
      carpal tunnel, liver, subcutaneous tissue, thyroid,...).

      Being able to confirm or invalidate the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis in a non-invasive
      manner and by guiding biopsy sampling to the most active extracardiac sites would be a major
      step forward for these patients whose diagnosis is most often established too late, i.e. at
      an advanced stage of heart failure.

      In the longer term,18F-Florbetaben whole-body PET could be helpful for the non-invasive
      monitoring of the evolution of cardiac as well as extracardiac sites of amyloid deposits
      under dedicated specific treatments (chemotherapies in AL forms and specific treatments
      currently under investigation for the AL forms). Such monitoring is still impossible today.
    
  