
    
      PROCEDURES DURING PREGNANCY

      During the first antenatal care visit the mother will have a gestational dating ultrasound to
      determine the accurate gestational age. During all antenatal care visits information about
      the mother will be collected as part of standard obstetric care:

        -  Ethnicity

        -  Age

        -  Medical history

             -  Blood transfusion in history

             -  Chronic diseases

        -  Obstetric history

             -  Parity and gravida

             -  Previous neonatal deaths and reason of death

             -  Previous preterm delivery

             -  Previous child with neonatal hyperbilirubinemia

        -  Pregnancy

             -  Gestational dating ultrasound

             -  Obstetric problems

             -  Malaria and morbidity episodes during pregnancy

             -  BMI, MUAC and weightgain

             -  Laboratory results

                  -  Hepatitis B status*

                  -  HIV status*

                  -  Syphilis serology*

                  -  G6PD status

                  -  Hemoglobinopathy

                  -  ABO blood group

                  -  Rhesus D blood group

      Testing for STD and HIV is routine practice at the SMRU clinics. Before the screening
      permission from the mother is requested. Life-long antiretroviral triple therapy is available
      in case of a positive HIV test.

      To assess the knowledge and beliefs on neonatal jaundice among the mothers we will perform a
      short questionnaire. This questionnaire will help the study team to assess the level of
      knowledge and the misbeliefs on neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. The study team will also ask the
      subjects about the use of naphthalene containing moth balls and explain them the danger in
      case the subject's baby will be G6PD deficient.

      PROCEDURES AT BIRTH

      Eligibility:

      At birth the neonate will be excluded if the gestational age is < 28 weeks.

      Questionnaire:

      Detailed data about the delivery will be collected:

        -  Duration of maternal membrane rupture before delivery

        -  Mode of delivery

        -  Presence of maternal fever in labour and use of antibiotics

        -  Use of oxytocin

        -  Complications

        -  Gestational age

             -  Confirmed by ultrasound if presenting < 24 weeks (CRL < 14 weeks, HC 14-23+6) or,
                in case of late ultrasound, determined with the Dubowitz gestational age assessment
                (performed 6-72 hours after birth)

        -  Apgar score and need for resuscitation

        -  Gender

      Laboratory Investigations:

      Umbilical cord blood will be obtained for laboratory investigations as below;

      ABO and Rhesus D blood group 0.1 ml., G6PD fluorescent test 0.005 ml., G6PD
      spectrophotometric assay 0.05 ml., G6PD flow cytometric assay 0.05 ml., Coomb's test (Direct
      Antiglobulin Test) 3 ml., Albumin 3 ml., Genotyping (G6PD, SAO, UGT1A1 mutations) 2 ml.,

      Total volume 8.205 ml (For practical reason we will take 9 ml.)

      Clinical assessment:

      Birthweight, length and head circumference will be determined. The body composition will be
      measured using air-displacement plethysmography (PeaPod) . A newborn physical examination
      (including vital signs) will be performed within the first 24 hours, as part of normal
      neonatal care:

      Observations:

        -  skin colour (pale/cyanosed/jaundiced/normal),

        -  skin rash

        -  description of anterior fontanelle (raised/normal/depressed),

        -  bruising on the body: location

        -  swelling on the head

             -  2 diameters will be measured

             -  swelling crossing the scalp sutures

             -  diagnose: caput succedaneum, cephalhematoma or subgaleal hemorrhage

        -  abnormality of the face

        -  abnormality of palate, mouth

        -  abnormality of limbs, fingers or toes

      Cardiovascular examination: heart rate(per minute), heart sounds, femoral pulses

      Respiratory examination: respiratory rate (per minute), lung sounds, signs of respiratory
      distress (chest indrawing/nasal flaring/head bobbing)

      Abdominal examination: abdominal mass, enlarged liver or spleen, genitalia, anus

      Neurological examination: muscle tone, moving of limbs, eye red reflex

      PROCEDURES DURING NEONATAL FOLLOW-UP

      In the first week after birth there are four moments when the neonate will be assessed. This
      will be 24 hours [range 22-26 hours], 48 hours [range 36-60 hours], 84 hours [range 70-96
      hours] and on day 6 [range day 5-8]. After this week the mother will be asked to come back
      for weekly follow-up until the age of one month. At one month of age the body composition
      will be measured using PeaPod.

      Questionnaire:

      The mother will be asked questions:

      First 24 hours after delivery:

        -  Age (in hours) of initiation of feeding

        -  Feeding:

             -  How is the baby being fed (exclusive breastmilk, supplementary or mixed feeding)

             -  If supplementary feeding, what is the reason for this?

             -  Does the baby suck well?

        -  Use of drugs or herbal medicine by mother in first 24 hours

        -  Use of herbal preparations for neonate

        -  Age (in hours) at passage of first stool and urine

        -  Use of napthalene balls for storing of baby clothes

      During every follow-up the mother the questions about feeding will be repeated.

      Laboratory Investigations:

      During every neonatal follow-up until the visit on day 6 [range day 5-8], a SBR and
      haematocrit will be measured. The SBR result will be plotted, by age on a jaundice treatment
      graph specific for the gestational age and the need for phototherapy or more intense
      follow-up will be determined. During weekly follow-up after the age of 8 days, only a SBR and
      hematocrit will be measured in case of visible jaundice. At the age of one month, a
      hematocrit will be measured for anemia screening and the G6PD fluorescent test will be
      repeated as below.

      Serum bilirubin 0.05 ml. x 5, Haematocrit 0.05 ml. x 5, G6PD fluorescent test 0.005 ml.

      Total 0.205 ml.

      Clinical assessment:

      A physical examination (including vital signs) will be performed at every visit and the
      weight will be measured. Weightloss or -increase will be calculated and if there is ≥ 10%
      weightloss, the neonate will be reviewed carefully for any underlying cause of this
      weightloss and supplementary feeding (expressed breastmilk or powdermilk) will be started.

      PROCEDURES WHEN DELIVERY OUTSIDE SMRU

      In case of delivery in another clinic or at home, but the mother and neonate visit a SMRU
      clinic within the first 48 hours after delivery, the neonate can still be included in the
      study.

      If a neonate is born outside SMRU and does not visit the clinic within 48 hours after
      delivery, but presents with neonatal hyperbilirubinemia in the first 8 days of life, this
      neonate can be included in the study as well. Because no umbilical cord blood was taken, a
      limited set of laboratory investigations will be performed, as described as below;.

      ABO and Rhesus D bloodgroup 0.075 ml., G6PD fluorescent test 0.005 ml., G6PD
      spectrophotometric assay 0.05 ml., G6PD flow cytometric assay 0.05 ml., Serum bilirubin 0.05
      ml., Haematocrit 0.05 ml., Genotyping 2 ml.,

      Total volume 2.23 ml.

      PROCEDURES DURING INFANT FOLLOW-UP

      Infant follow-up will take place every month until the age of 12 months.

      Questionnaire:

      At every visit the mother will be asked about feeding practices and after the age of 6 months
      about neurodevelopmental milestones.

      Laboratory investigations:

      Due to the problems of anaemia in this population (50% of the infants are reported to have a
      haematocrit of < 33% at the age of 6 months; personal communication Dr. Rose McGready)
      haematocrit will be measured monthly, by finger prick, and anaemia will be treated if
      necessary. At the age of one year a stool test for parasitology screening will be taken and
      the infant will be treated if necessary. Finally at one year of age the infant will be
      screened for hemoglobinopathy due to contradictory reports of the association between
      neonatal hyperbilirubinemia and hemoglobinopathy as below:

      Haematocrit 0.05 ml. x11, Hemoglobin typing 3 ml.

      Total volume 3.55 ml.

      Clinical assessment:

      A physical examination (including vital signs) will be performed at every visit and the
      weight will be measured. At the age of 2 and 3 month a body composition will be measured
      using PeaPod. At 3, 6, 9 and 12 months the length and head circumference will be measured.

      At the age of 3, 6 months and 12 months the infant will be assessed with the Shoklo
      Developmental Test 53 and the results compared to age specific norms developed for this
      population.
    
  