
    
      This is a single centre, proof of concept clinical trial. The investigators want to recruit
      healthy volunteers, patients with diaphragmatic weakness and patients with COPD whose lungs
      are hyperinflated. Half the investigators are clinicians and have asked their patient whether
      such a study would interest them, and patients have been very supportive. This study
      addresses an unanswered clinical question.

      The participants will be adults, men and women, who can give informed consent, and can
      cooperate with the study procedures. As the participants will be scanned using MRI, people
      who are unsuitable for MRI scanning, for example those with a pacemaker, will be excluded
      from the study for safety reasons.The participant will be observed by a clinical investigator
      throughout the study visit.

      As for side effects / risks, no medicinal products will be administered in this study. Some
      participants may experience anxiety while undergoing MRI scan. It is expected that some
      patients may not be able to lie flat in the scanner, in which case they will be asked only to
      undergo scans that they are able to tolerate.

      In addition to being scanned using an upright MRI and a conventional MRI, the following
      measurements will be takes: weight, height, blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation,
      respiratory rate, and spirometry. The participants will be asked to fill a St George's
      Respiratory Questionnaire and an MRC (Medical Research Council) Dyspnoea Scale. A detailed
      medical history will be taken.

      The participants will be assigned unique codes, and their data will be anonymised.
      Participants' medical reports will only be accessed for study purposes and will be treated as
      confidential.

      The investigators will aim to use the data to plan future studies, and the data from this
      study may contribute to publications and presentations. Participants will not be identified
      in any publications arising from the research. The data obtained will be published without
      any identifying information..
    
  