
    
      Investigators plan a single-center, 36 month prospective observational study of 50 patients
      presenting with moderate to severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) at R Adams Cowley Shock
      Trauma Center who require intracranial pressure monitoring. This is an interventional device
      study utilizing the EVD/IVC and the IPM/Camino to provide and evaluate data for optimized
      treatment for the control of elevated ICP and CCP in patients with severe TBI. Enrolled
      patients will be randomized to one of two study groups listed below following the consent
      process. Once a potential participant has consented to the study, we will use the excel
      random number generator function (randbetween(0,1)) to generate random numbers between 0 and
      1 for each participant. If 0 is generated participants will be placed in Group 1 (Hourly EVD
      closures) and if 1 is generated, participants will be placed in Group 2 (EVD closure every 12
      hours). There is no placebo or control group.

      Standard of Care (25 patients): Standard EVD management with therapeutic drainage as
      appropriate and hourly EVD ICP measurements with simultaneous IPM/Camino ICP measurements
      collected.

      Experimental (25 patients): Therapeutic CSF drainage as appropriate, with EVD closure and ICP
      assessment every 12 hours with simultaneous IPM/Camino ICP measurements collected.

      Data will be collected on age, mechanism of injury, time interval between injury and MRI,
      past medical history, admission hemodynamics, admission component GCS, post-resuscitation
      component GCS, injury severity score, abbreviated injury score for head injury, blunt carotid
      or vertebral artery injury, and therapeutic interventions. Continuous vital signs streams
      will be collected.

      In addition, if available, video surveillance from the patient's stay in the Neurotrauma
      Critical Care Unit will be collected and be stored with the patients study data.
    
  