
    
      Patients and survivors of breast cancer present impaired physical fitness and various
      complications including acute and chronic pain, severe fatigue, limited range of motion, and
      bone loss attributable to anticancer treatments. Therefore, regular exercise during and
      following cancer treatments has been recommended to enhance physical capabilities and relieve
      side-effect severities, leading to an improved quality of life. Despite the known general
      benefits to patients with cancer, the effects of exercise on cancer-related biomarkers and
      their modulators remain unclear.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether a 12-week exercise intervention will improve components of
      health-related physical fitness by measuring cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular exercise
      capacity and flexibility in breast cancer survivors.

      II. To determine whether a 12-week exercise intervention will improve risk parameters of
      metabolic disease by measuring changes in body composition, waist circumference, blood
      pressure, and circulating levels of glucose, insulin, lipids components and C-reactive
      protein in breast cancer survivors.

      III. To determine whether a 12-week exercise intervention will conduce to changes of
      cancer-related biomarker by measuring in serum levels of dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1),
      secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1), sclerostin, osteoprotegerin, osteopontin, growth
      differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), and IGFBP-3 in
      breast cancer survivors.

      IV. To determine whether a 12-week exercise intervention will result in a improvement in
      inflammatory cytokines and adipokines by measuring in serum levels of interleukin 1 beta
      (IL-1β), IL-10, IL-11, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), leptin and adiponectin in breast
      cancer survivors.

      V. To determine whether a 12-week exercise intervention will conduce to changes of myokines
      by measuring in serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), IL-8, IL-15, fatty
      acid-binding protein 3 (FABP3), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), follistatin, fractalkine,
      fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF-21), osteonectin and irisin in breast cancer survivors.
    
  