
    
      Various anti-viral treatments are being tested in clinical trials worldwide. The World Health
      Organization (WHO) launched a simple,pragmatic worldwide open-label trial to test Remdesivir,
      Lopinavir/Ritonavir, Interferon and Hydroxychloroquine or Chloroquine.The most important
      complication of COVID-19 severe cases is respiratory failure from severe acute respiratory
      syndrome (SARS), the leading cause of mortality. Accumulating evidence suggests that patients
      with severe COVID-19 might have a cytokine storm syndrome, a hyperinflammatory syndrome
      characterized by a fulminant and fatal hypercytokinemia and multiorgan failure.

      The proposed pathophysiological mechanism of cytokine storm and inflammatory cascade
      activation is based on evidence collected primarily during the SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV
      epidemics (with a significant increase in IL1B, IL6, IL12, IFNγ, IP10, TNFα, IL15, and IL17
      among others). The data collected during the pandemic with COVID-19 also shows a significant
      increase in inflammatory cytokines (GCSF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNFα, among others) in
      sicker patients admitted to intensive care. In the absence of effective treatments for the
      management of patients with COVID-19 and respiratory failure, the immunomodulatory and
      anti-inflammatory effect of colchicine on cytokines involved in the hyper-inflammatory state
      is postulated. Several lines of research worldwide are testing powerful anti-inflammatory
      drugs for the pandemic, with different options including steroids, cytokine blockers, and
      other potent anti-inflammatory agents. Steroids are partially contraindicated in viral
      infections.

      Colchicine is a powerful anti-inflammatory drug approved for the treatment or prevention of
      gout and Familial Mediterranean Fever at doses ranging between 0.3 mg and 2.4 mg/day. Its
      mechanism of action is through the inhibition of tubulin polymerization, as well as through
      potential effects on cellular adhesion molecules and inflammatory chemokines. It might also
      have direct anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting key inflammatory signalling networks
      known as inflammasome and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Additionally, evidence suggests that
      colchicine exerts a direct anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting the synthesis of tumor
      necrosis factor alpha and IL-6, monocyte migration, and the secretion of matrix
      metalloproteinase-9. Through the disruption of the cytoskeleton, colchicine is believed to
      suppress secretion of cytokines and chemokines as well as in vitro platelet aggregation. All
      these are potentially beneficial effects that might diminish or ameliorate the COVID-19
      inflammatory storm associated with severe forms of the disease. Importantly, in one
      contemporary trial low-dose colchicine administered to patients who survived from acute
      coronary syndrome shows a statistically significantly reduction of cardiovascular
      complications.

      We have therefore designed in a simple, pragmatic randomized controlled trial to test the
      effects of colchicine on severe hospitalized COVID-19 cases with the aim of reducing
      mortality.

      Sample size calculation:

      A minimum sample size of 1200 patients will provide 80% power to detect a relative risk
      reduction of approximately 30% in the treated group if the assumed composite rate (new
      requirement of intubation and / or death) in the control group is about 24%.

      The ECLA PHRI COLCOVID Trial allows randomization to another trial, specifically patients
      included in the trial might be (or not) randomized to an antithrombotic strategy.
    
  