
    
      Postoperative hoarseness, sore throat, and vocal cord injuries are common complications after
      general anesthesia. The incidence of postoperative hoarseness is as frequent as 50% after
      short-term tracheal intubation. In the past, several risk factors for postoperative
      hoarseness and laryngeal injury have been identified, including demographic factors, quality
      of tracheal intubation and technical factors such as endotracheal tube size. One-lung
      ventilation during thoracotomy can be achieved via two basic techniques: (1) use of a
      double-lumen endotracheal tube (DLT) consisting of an endotracheal and an endobronchial lumen
      allowing independent single-lung ventilation ; or (2) use of an endobronchial blocker such as
      the Arndt blocker, which allows lung collapse distal to the occlusion. It has been recently
      demonstrated that DLT and endobronchial blocker are similar in their efficacy to achieve lung
      isolation for elective thoracic surgery. No data are available yet about the influence of the
      chosen technique on postoperative hoarseness, vocal cord injuries, sore throat, and bronchial
      injuries. Published data of Stout et al. imply that the incidence of postoperative hoarseness
      and vocal cord injury might be directly correlated with size of the used endotracheal tube.
      During thoracoscope assisted mitral valve replacement cardiac surgery, excellent lung
      isolated was not required. One-lung ventilation with the other lung collapsed is used to
      achieve a better exposure and assist the surgery. During the cardiac surgery under
      cardiopulmonary bypass, heparinization will lead to uncontrolled hemorrhage if there is
      endotracheal tube insertion associated injury. In addition, DLTs need to be exchanged for a
      single-lumen tube before the patient transferring to cardiac care unit for postoperative
      ventilatory support. This may result in second time injury. Investigators hypothesized that
      using a bronchial blocker to achieve one-lung ventilation may result in a lower incidence of
      clinically relevant laryngeal and bronchial morbidity after thoracoscope assisted mitral
      valve replacement cardiac surgery compared with a control group intubated with a DLT.
    
  