
    
      Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAH) includes a heterogeneous group of clinical entities
      sharing similar clinical and pathological features that have been subcategorized as
      idiopathic PAH (IPAH, formerly known as "primary pulmonary hypertension" or PPH), familial
      PAH, pulmonary hypertension related to connective tissue diseases (such as systemic
      sclerosis), portopulmonary hypertension and pulmonary hypertension related to HIV infection,
      drugs and toxins (10). PAH is clinically defined by a resting mean pulmonary artery pressure
      ≥ 25 mmHg and pulmonary artery wedge pressure ≤ 15 mmHg in the absence of left heart disease,
      underlying parenchymal lung disease, thromboembolic disease or other causes of pulmonary
      hypertension.

      PAH is characterized by increased pulmonary vascular resistance due to remodeling and
      occlusion of the pulmonary arterioles. Left untreated, PAH leads irremediably to right
      ventricular (RV) hypertrophy, pressure overload and dilation resulting in death within 2-3
      years (11). For the past two decades, it has been appreciated that the integrity of the RV
      function, rather than the degree of pulmonary vascular injury, is the major determinant of
      symptoms and mortality in patients with PAH. RV dysfunction at time of presentation, as
      reflected by an elevation in right atrial pressure (RAP), the presence of pericardial
      effusion or depressed cardiac output (CO), is a powerful prognosticator of death (12).

      Current PAH therapies consist of prostacyclin analogues, endothelin receptor antagonists
      (ETRA) and phosphodiesterase type V (PDE V) inhibitors (13). All have been shown to be
      effective in improving exercise capacity as measured by the 6 MWD in short term (12 - 16
      week) randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. However, the clinical response is
      highly variable and mortality remains high (14). Moreover, the majority of subjects enrolled
      in these trials have had IPAH. Over the past 10 years, the Johns Hopkins Pulmonary
      Hypertension Program and Scleroderma Center have worked closely to address the daunting
      clinical challenge of PAH associated with scleroderma or systemic sclerosis (PAH-SSc).
      Previous work from our group (15;16) and others (17-19) has clearly demonstrated a markedly
      worse prognosis in PAH-SSc compared with IPAH despite similar treatments. An intriguing and
      consistent finding when comparing these two groups is that whereas mPAP is, on average, lower
      in PAH-SSc, markers of RV dysfunction (e.g. CO and RAP) are similar, raising the possibility
      of maladaptive RV response to pressure overload and/or intrinsic myocardial disease. Current
      PAH therapies target pathways that have been implicated in the remodeling of the pulmonary
      vasculature (PV). However, there is no clear evidence that these therapies have altered PV
      and/or RV remodeling or offered significant beneficial effects in patients with PAH-SSc in
      whom mortality remains exceedingly high. In addition, their effects on RV dysfunction and
      RV-PV interaction remain poorly characterized.

      We hypothesize that improvement in PAH-SSc will only be achieved with therapy directly
      targeted at RV-PV dysfunction. Sildenafil and tadalafil inhibit phosphodiesterase type 5
      (PDE5) which is abundant in the lung and is the main enzyme responsible for cyclic Guanosine
      MonoPhosphate (cGMP) hydrolysis. The resulting increase in cGMP probably mediates the
      relaxant and anti-hypertrophic actions of nitric oxide and natriuretic peptides in vascular
      tissues, and exerts a direct anti-hypertrophic action on cardiac muscle as demonstrated in
      compelling preliminary experiments by investigators of the NHLBI-funded Hopkins Scientific
      Center of Clinically Oriented Research (SCCOR) in Pulmonary Vascular Disease. In these
      experiments, sildenafil was capable of preventing and reversing RV hypertrophy and
      dysfunction in a model of pulmonary artery banding, similar to its effects on the left
      ventricle with aortic banding (20), indicating a direct beneficial action on RV remodeling.

      Both sildenafil (21) and tadalafil (22) have been demonstrated to be effective in PAH and are
      FDA approved for this indication. The endothelin-receptor antagonists, bosentan (23) and
      ambrisentan (24), are also FDA-labeled for this indication and represent alternative options
      for oral therapy of PAH (25). A small randomized study comparing sildenafil with bosentan
      suggested that sildenafil was superior in reducing RV mass and improving exercise capacity in
      patients with PAH (26). Recently, the results of a large multi-center randomized, controlled
      trial of tadalafil therapy for PAH have been presented. The data indicate, that similar to
      sildenafil, tadalafil at doses of 20 and 40 mg per day, improved exercise capacity. In
      addition, tadalafil 40 mg per day improved pulmonary hemodynamics, quality of life and
      reduced the incidence of clinical worsening.

      This study aims to compare the effects of upfront combination therapy with tadalafil and
      ambrisentan in PAH-SSc on PVR and RV mass. It will also assess novel markers of RV function
      by cardiac MRI and echocardiography, as well as the conventional endpoints, including 6 MWD
      and functional class. The trial is unique in that it will enroll only PAH-SSc patients, the
      PAH subgroup with the poorest outcomes and will be considerably longer in duration (36 weeks)
      than previous studies.
    
  