
    
      Obesity is associated with different chronic disorders such as metabolic syndrome,
      non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM2). It can be
      classified into mild, moderate and severe using different cut-off values of body mass index
      (BMI). Many interventions and treatments against obesity have been proposed. Patients with
      mild to moderate obesity are suggested to undergo lifestyle monitoring or intervention
      programs while patients with severe or morbid obesity may be suggested to undergo bariatric
      surgery. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is a specific type of adipose tissue with unique ability
      to produce heat by non-shivering thermogenesis. It increases energy expenditure and lower
      blood glucose levels and therefore it is suggested to be a potential therapy against obesity,
      NAFLD, DM2 etc.

      Research studies demonstrated that obesity is strongly associated with NAFLD. From our
      previous observation, most obese individuals suffer from NAFLD. Nevertheless, a small portion
      of them are protected from NAFLD. We try to understand why and how this small portion of
      severe obese patients can keep themselves protected from NAFLD while some lean individual
      suffers from it. We would also like to test whether the amount of BAT is a biomarker for
      NAFLD. Besides, we would like to validate the accuracy of liver inflammation and fibrosis
      (LIF) scores with liver biopsy results.

      The change of adipose tissues (i.e. brown, subcutaneous, visceral), triglyceride in liver and
      pancreas and cholesterol (i.e. HDL and LDL) in bloodstream would be measured in patients with
      NAFLD who undergo either bariatric surgery or lifestyle intervention. 40 subjects will be
      recruited. Half of them for the lifestyle intervention group while half for the bariatric
      group. Baseline MRI and blood test will be performed before the start of their treatments and
      two follow-up scans as well as blood tests in six-month and twelve-month intervals.

      This study allows objective measurement to evaluate efficacy of different treatments against
      obesity and the response of NAFLD after weight loss. Furthermore, this study provides
      quantitative measurement of BAT and tests whether BAT is associated with NAFLD or other
      metabolites disorders such as DM2 and hyperlipidemia.

      b) Research plan and methodology Subjects Eighty volunteers will be recruited for this
      project. 40 of them with mild-moderate obesity and the other 40 subjects with morbid obesity.

      Morbid obesity subjects will be further divided into bariatric group (those who gave consent
      for surgery i.e. 20 subjects and 20 for lifestyle intervention group.

      The mild- moderate obesity group will also be divided into two subgroups (20 in each group)
      through a randomization process in a 1:1 ratio to participate in the dietitian led life style
      modification program or receive usual care. The computer will be used to generate a list of
      random numbers for randomization of the two groups and this will be done in blocks of six by
      Nursing officers working in the clinic. The treatment assignments will be concealed in
      numbered sealed envelopes which will only be opened sequentially upon patient enrollment.
      Blinding methods to treatment assignments will be employed to both clinicians and
      radiographers during analysis and patient assessments. Inclusion criteria involve individuals
      between the age of 18-65, BMI ≥ 25-30 kg/m2 for mild-moderate obesity, BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2 with
      metabolic syndrome or BMI ≥ 35 kg/m2 for morbid obesity, who have been diagnosed with NAFLD.
      Exclusion criteria include other kind of hepatic diseases or under medications that are known
      to affect liver fat accumulation, weight≥250 kg, waist circumference≥150 cm. The maximum
      weight and waist circumference are set due to the tolerance of the scanner and its bore size.
      Written informed consents will be obtained from all volunteers.

      Protocol The protocol in this part of the study will be as described by Wong et al. At the
      commencement of the study, all the 80 patients will initially be assessed by the dietitian
      and relevant individual recommendations will be provided. This will include complete
      behavioral change assessments, covering important areas such as the patient's current eating
      habits, lifestyles patterns etc.

      Surgical group (bariatric surgery) The surgical group will be identified from the surgical
      team and will be enrolled by the surgical team accordingly.

      Lifestyle Modification Group Patients randomized to the intervention group will participate
      in a dietitian-led lifestyle modification programme for 12 months. The programme will be held
      at 2 urban centres that are open to the public for the management of obesity and related
      disorders. The programme will be based on a strategy of increasing energy expenditure and
      reducing caloric intake using lifestyle behavioral change to achieve long-lasting impact. The
      patients will attend dietary consultation sessions weekly in the first 4 months, and monthly
      in the following 8 months. At the first session (about 1 h), the dietitian will carry out a
      complete behavioral assessment, covering important areas such as the patient's current eating
      and lifestyle patterns, specific eating-related behaviors, knowledge of risks associated with
      current eating patterns, concerns and feelings about specific lifestyle changes. The
      dietitian will also discuss the expected duration and specific dietary and lifestyle advices
      to achieve a desirable weight status with the patients.

      In the follow-up sessions (about 20 minutes), the dietitian will review the patient's dietary
      practice and provide recommendations. Each patient will be given an individualized menu plan.
      The dietary component and portion sizes of the menu plan will be based on the recommendations
      of the American Dietetic Association . A varied balanced diet with an emphasis on fruit and
      vegetables, and moderate-carbohydrate, low-fat, low-glycemic index (GI) and low calorific
      products in appropriate portions will be encouraged. This diet will result in a relative
      increase in energy consumption from proteins, which also will promote satiety. Each patient
      will be provided with two booklets, one for food portion size exchange and tips for eating
      out, and another listing the low-GI food options and meal plans (GI <55). Furthermore,
      techniques for coping at-risk situations such as parties and festival celebrations will be
      taught. Recipes will also be provided to the patients to encourage healthy cooking. Adherence
      to dietary intervention will be assessed by calculating the percentage attendance to the
      intervention sessions and evaluating the dietary intakes and meal patterns using a weekly
      food record.

      Besides, patients will be encouraged to see an exercise instructor at least once during the
      lifestyle modification programme. During the first exercise consultation (about 30 min), the
      exercise instructor will review the patient's medical history and exercise habits, and design
      a suitable exercise regime for the patient. The patients will first be instructed to do
      moderate intensity aerobic exercise for 30 min, 3 to 5 days a week and encouraged to increase
      daily physical activities.

      During subsequent appointments, the exercise instructor will evaluate the patient's exercise
      progress on aerobic exercise and stretching during follow-ups. When the patients will be able
      to develop a routine exercise habit, they will be instructed to perform resistance training
      to increase their muscle endurance and strength for better aerobic performance and liver fat
      reduction (30). The intensity of exercise will be gradually increased to 30 minutes every
      day. The target will be a reduction of body mass index (BMI) towards 23 kg/m2.

      Control group Patients in the control group will receive routine care at the medical clinic
      of the Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong. At baseline, a clinician will explain the
      laboratory test results and the natural history of NAFLD to the patients. The patients will
      be encouraged to reduce carbohydrate and fat intake, and to exercise for at least 3 times per
      week, 30 minutes per session.

      Follow up assessments in all groups The patients will attend the clinic at months 4 and 12
      for metabolic assessment, and receive further advice from a clinician as appropriate. Before
      each visit, patients will be asked to fast overnight for at least 8 hours, then blood samples
      will be taken for liver biochemistry, glucose, insulin and lipids. Insulin resistance will be
      estimated using the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA-IR) calculated as fasting plasma
      glucose (mmol/L) x insulin (mIU/L) / 22.5 and quantitative insulin-sensitivity check index
      (QUICKI), calculated as 1/ [log fasting insulin (μU/mL) +log fasting glucose (mg/dL)]).
      Alanine aminotransferase (IU/L), fasting glucose (mmol/L), hemoglobin A1c (%), total
      cholesterol LDL, HDL(mmol/L) and triglycerides (mmol/L) will also be measured. Additionally,
      Weight, height will be measured during their clinical visit before each of their MRI scan and
      BMI will be calculated by weight (kg) / height^2 (m). Waist circumference will be measured at
      a level midway between the lower rib margin and iliac crest with the tape all around the body
      in the horizontal position. Physical activities will be recorded as the total duration of
      active exercise (min) per week.

      Image Acquisition Subjects from all the groups will undergo MRI at baseline before their
      intervention and two follow-up scans at 4-months and 12-months intervals. All scanning will
      be performed using a Philips Achieva 3.0 Tesla MRI Scanner (Philips Medical System, Best, The
      Netherlands). Chemical-shift water-fat images will be acquired by the 3D spoiled multi-echo
      modified DIXON sequence with a 16-channel SENSE-XL-Torso array also from Philips Healthcare.
      Imaging parameters as follow: Repetition Time(TR) = 5.7-5.9 (ms), Echo time (TE)/echo spacing
      = 1.2-1.4 (ms) / 1.0-1.2 (ms), number of echoes = 6, flip angle = 3°, SENSE acceleration = 2,
      reconstructed slice thickness/number of slices = 3.0 mm / 50 to yield co-registered water,
      fat, fat-fraction and T2* image series. Non-breath-hold acquisition will be performed from
      the base of the skull to the base of the thoracic cavity for BAT measurement and breath-hold
      acquisition will be performed from the dome of the diaphragm to the pubic symphysis for
      abdominal SAT and VAT measurements.

      T1 liver images will be acquired using 3D T1-fast-field echo (FFE) sequence, 2-echoes:
      TE1=1.8 msec, TE2=4.0 msec, TR=5.2 msec, flip angle=15, SENSE parallel imaging with
      acceleration factor 2.0 in phase-encoding direction.

      In vivo quantification of liver fat will be performed using single voxel STEAM spectroscopy
      (TE=15 ms, TR=5000 ms, Number of signal avaregaes (NSA)=24, spectral width=2000 Hz, no water
      suppression). A 30×30×30-mm^3 (27 mL) voxel will be located on the right liver lobe to avoid
      major vessels according to the institutional protocol for hepatic fat measurement. Short TE
      and long TR will be selected to minimize T2 and T1 effects. Non-breath hold scan will be
      carried out and the acquisition time will be approximately 2 min.

      Quantitative Measurement of Brown and Abdominal White Adipose Tissues Volume Brown adipose
      tissue (BAT) will be extracted from MR images using an in-house algorithm that has been
      validated and published in a recognized domain journal. This method utilizes the unique
      features of fat-fraction and T2* values in BAT to segment the tissue. Volume of BAT will be
      measured in mm^3 and be converted to mL.

      Abdominal white adipose tissue will be separated into subcutaneous and visceral adipose
      tissues (SAT and VAT) using another in-house algorithm which has also been validated and
      published in a domain journal. Volume will be measured in mililitre (ml) and region of
      interest will be covered from the dome of diaphragm to the pubic symphysis.

      Spectrum Analysis for Intrahepatic Triglycerides (IHTG). Magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRS) data will be exported for offline time-domain analysis using the AMARES algorithm with
      Gaussian line shapes fitting in jMRUI software package. IHTG will be measured for relative
      fat signal integrals in terms of a percentage of the total signal amplitude. IHTG content is
      calculated as [signal Intensity of fat/(Signal Intensity of fat+Signal Intensity of water)] x
      100. The definition of NAFLD will be based on liver fat content higher than the threshold of
      5.5%.

      Liver Inflammation and Fibrosis Liver inflammation and fibrosis (LIF) scores based on
      iron-corrected T1 (cT1) and T2* values will be calculated using LiverMultiScan™ (LMS,
      Perspectum Diagnostics, Oxford, UK). LIF scores range from 0-4 which 0 indicates the least
      severe and 4 as the most severe as show in figure 3. To validate the LIF scores, liver biopsy
      will be performed during the bariatric surgeries for assessment of degree of inflammation and
      fibrosis within the liver in association with NAFLD.

      Statistical Analysis Within groups comparison will be measured using repeated measures ANOVA
      for results acquired from 3 different time points (baseline, Month 4 and Month 12). Variables
      with significant differences will be carried forward for pairwise comparison with bonferroni
      correction. Between groups comparison (life-style intervention and bariatric groups) will be
      measured in relative changes between baseline to Month 4 and Month 4 to Month12. Statistical
      analyses will be conducted using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) 25 (IBM,
      New York , USA). Significant level is selected at p < 0.05 (2-tailed).
    
  