
    
      Interactive, computer-based education has the potential to greatly increase interest, because
      the learner actively participates in the learning process (Fox, 2009). In addition, the
      involvement of auditory, visual, and interactive learning strategies can increase recall of
      information. Computer-assisted educational programs may incorporate features that promote
      ease of use, be written in multiple languages, be scripted at a level that addresses the
      needs of low literacy learners, and be viewed as often as needed by a patient (Fox, 2009).

      Several studies reported results of using computer technology in educating elderly patients
      about health conditions. Stromberg et al (2006) used a single-session, interactive
      computer-based educational program about chronic heart failure in elderly patients. They
      demonstrated that interactive computer-mediated education may be effectively used to increase
      patients' knowledge, about heart failure. Another study, conducted by Lin et al (2009),
      evaluated the usability of a touch-screen-enabled personal education program (PEP). The
      results showed that the system was evaluated as usable and useful, and older adults were
      satisfied with their experience. Similar findings were reported by Neafsey et al (2008) who
      also evaluated a patient-centered computer-mediated program using touch screen computers.
      Authors reported high satisfaction of the older adult users, increased knowledge and
      self-efficacy for avoiding adverse self-medication behaviors.

      Elderly patients are less likely than younger patients to seek incidental information on
      their condition via internet. (Tian & Robinson, 2008) Elderly patients therefore are less
      likely to navigate internet looking for information about evidence or treatment guidelines
      for their conditions. More targeted efforts may be needed to reach such populations.
      Disseminating information via combination of high technology media along with traditional
      media that are easily usable is helpful (Longo, 2005). A recent review of barriers and
      drivers of health IT use by elderly, very ill, and underserved, revealed that such technology
      can play a role in offering effective interventions. The consumer perceptions on benefits
      from use of system, convenience of use, and familiar technology were all important factors
      for intervention success (Jimison et al., 2008).
    
  