
    
      During the last two decades, cardiac surgical techniques changed dramatically. Evidence for
      good short and long-term outcome after endovascular and minimally invasive procedures is
      rising. The goal of avoiding sternotomy is earlier patient recovery without compromising
      safety. Therefore, enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols have been implemented to
      aim for early extubation and ambulation. Analgesic regimens after cardiac surgery did not
      change significant however. Opioids remain the cornerstone of analgesia in the postoperative
      cardiac surgical care units, despite known side effects as nausea, constipation and risk for
      addiction. Neuraxial anesthetic techniques after cardiac surgery have been studied and
      validated to reduce opioid consumption. Their implementation in clinical practice however
      remains limited for two reasons. First, heparinization is required for cardiac surgery, which
      increases the risk neuraxial hematoma after neuraxial anesthesia, leading to deleterious
      complications as paraplegia. Secondly, neuraxial anesthesia induces orthosympathicolysis,
      enhancing vasoplegia after cardiac surgery. However, fascial plane blocks in cardiac surgery
      since peripheral blocks do not induce sympathicolysis and consequences of chest wall hematoma
      are limited.

      In 2013, Blanco described the serratus anterior plane (SAP) block as an analgesic option for
      chest wall surgery. In this fascial plane block, local anesthetics are injected in the plane
      beneath the anterior serratus muscle and in the plane between latissimus dorsi and serratus
      anterior in an ultrasound guided manner. SAP block provides analgesia in dermatomes T2-T9.
      Recently, successful analgesia after SAP block has been demonstrated for soft tissue chest
      wall surgery, thoracotomy and rib fractures. No major side effects were reported. More
      specifically, no sympatholytic effects or chest wall hematoma were observed. However, up to
      now no prospective studies assessing the analgesic efficacy of SAP block after cardiac
      surgery are published. Two retrospective studies show conflicting results. Berthoud et al.
      retrospectively compared SAP block to continuous wound infusion after different types of
      minimally invasive cardiac surgery (MICS) and found reduced morphine consumption as well as
      shorter intensive care and hospital length of stay after SAP block. In contrast, Moll et al.
      found no difference in opioid consumption between SAP block and no block in patients after
      robotic coronary artery bypass grafting (rCABG). The authors comment they only performed the
      deep component of the SAP block, and some surgical entry points were outside dermatomes
      T2-T7.

      Totally endoscopic aortic valve replacement (AVR) is a novel minimally invasive
      cardiosurgical technique. Surgical incision is made anteriorly in intercostal space two on
      the right hemithorax. Since intercostal space two is innervated by dermatomes T2-T3, somatic
      analgesia can be obtained with SAP block. In addition with a favorable safety profile and a
      minimal/non-existent risk of evoking sympatholytic effects, a SAP block may be a suitable
      analgesic technique to prevent/minimize postoperative pain after totally endoscopic AVR
      surgery.
    
  