
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the difference between conventional versus experimental follow-up
           schedules, in terms of patient well-being, expressed health-related quality of life,
           level of anxiety, and satisfaction with the follow-up schedule in patients with newly
           diagnosed stage IB or II cutaneous melanoma.

        -  To determine the ability of these schedules to detect recurrences and second primary
           melanomas in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to AJCC stage (I vs II). Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 follow-up arms.

        -  Arm I (experimental follow-up schedule): Patients undergo a thorough history and
           physical examination periodically for 5 years. Patients are followed up according to the
           experimental schedule:

             -  For stage IB disease: Patients are followed up annually for 5 years.

             -  For stage IIA disease: Patients are followed up biannually for years 1 and 2 and
                annually for years 3, 4, and 5.

             -  For stage IIB or IIC disease: Patients are followed up every 4 months during years
                1 and 2, every 6 months during year 3, and annually during years 4 and 5.

        -  Arm II: (conventional follow-up schedule): Patients undergo a thorough history and
           physical examination periodically for 5 years. Patients are followed up according to the
           conventional schedule:

             -  For all stage disease: Patients are followed up every 3 months for year 1, every 4
                months for year 2, and every 6 months for years 3-5.

      In both arms, patient well-being is measured at 0, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months after
      primary diagnosis, using the following questionnaires: the health-related quality of life
      questionnaire (RAND-36), the anxiety questionnaire (STAI version DY-1 [state] and DY-2
      [trait]), the Cancer Worry Scale, and Follow-up Satisfaction questionnaire, and the
      self-designed specific questions regarding self-examination and follow-up satisfaction.

      All patients are instructed at primary diagnosis and receive the
      Melanoma-Patient-Education-Package (MPEP), which consists of information on melanoma (KWF
      folder "melanoma") and additional instruction on self-examination. Data on type of recurrence
      (locoregional versus distant), the person detecting the recurrence, progression of recurrence
      at time of detection, the way the recurrence was detected (e.g., self-examination,
      accidentally, or at follow-up by physical examination or imaging) and information regarding
      treatment and further follow-up are collected at each follow-up visit and the outcomes are
      compared in both groups. Outcomes of independent questionnaires are also compared in both
      groups.
    
  