
    
      Purpose:

      To carry out a prospective randomised controlled clinical trial to compare the efficacy of
      vibration in reducing the pain of local anaesthetic injections into the upper eyelid.

      Hypothesis:

      Vibration of the adjacent soft tissue reduces the pain of anaesthetic injections in upper
      eyelid surgery.

      Justification:

      In many surgical procedures performed under local anaesthetic, the most frightening and
      painful aspect of the procedure for patients is the anaesthetic injection, and various
      techniques have been advocated to address this.

      Explaining to the patient beforehand what to expect, talking during the injection and
      hand-holding can be helpful in relaxing and distracting some patients; however, this alone is
      unlikely to be sufficient to relieve the pain of the injection in most cases.

      Simple measures that reduce the pain of anaesthetic injection and are widely practised
      include administering the injection slowly and using a fine-bore needle (30 Gauge). Other
      techniques that have been shown to be effective include warming or buffering the local
      anaesthetic [1-6]. The use of 0.9% bacteriostatic saline solution in conjunction with
      lidocaine has been demonstrated to significantly reduce patients' perceived pain during the
      injection and operative procedure in eyelid surgery [7].

      Cooling the skin immediately prior to treatment has been shown to reduce the pain of
      dermatological laser procedures [8-10] although this might be difficult to perform around the
      eyes because of the risk of injuring the cornea. Similarly, topical anaesthetic agents, such
      as EMLA (eutectic mixture of local anaesthetics) cream, which are applied to the skin one
      hour prior to injection are commonly employed for use on the limbs of infants and children
      but are not safe for use around the eyes since inadvertent ocular application causes corneal
      de-epithelisation [11].

      Sedative agents, such as midazolam may be useful in anxious patients, but this requires the
      input of an anaesthetist and it is often difficult to finely control the level of sedation;
      it is usually preferable not to have patients sedated during eyelid surgery when patient
      cooperation is required intra-operatively to assess the height of the eyelids, for example in
      ptosis surgery.

      Vibration, pinching or the application of pressure has long been recognised as a method of
      reducing concurrent pain. In 1965 Melzack and Wall published their gate control theory of
      pain in which they asserted that the stimulation of vibration or touch receptors in the skin
      causes stimulation of inhibitory interneurons in the spinal cord which can in turn inhibit
      the transmission of pain signals to the brain.[12] Other hypotheses to explain the mechanism
      of action of hyper-stimulatory anaesthesia relate to an acupuncture-type effect, distraction,
      self-hypnosis or suggestion in credulous patients, but the consensus view is that the gate
      theory is at least in part relevant in the explanation. [13, 14] There is much anecdotal
      evidence of the use of such techniques to reduce the pain of anaesthetic injection, mostly in
      dentistry and dermatology [14-17] but there is a dearth of evidence from randomised
      controlled trials; a recent randomised clinical study in paediatric dental patients found
      that counterstimulation, using the thumb to vibrate the soft tissue adjacent to the injection
      site, in conjunction with a distraction exercise (lifting alternate legs in turn) effectively
      reduced the pain of anaesthetic injection. [18] There are no reports of vibration anaesthesia
      in an ophthalmic setting.

      Objectives:

      The aim of this study is to carry out a randomised controlled study to investigate the effect
      of vibration-assisted anaesthesia in reducing the pain of local anaesthetic injection for
      upper eyelid surgery.

      A pilot study carried out prior to this proposal investigated the feasibility and potential
      benefits of this trial with very promising results.

      Prior to the pilot study various different vibrating devices (including tuning forks of two
      different frequencies, an electric toothbrush (with a soft rubber cap instead of a brush
      head) and several models of handheld massagers) were trialled by the investigators on
      themselves and colleagues to find the optimal device. Once the preferred instrument (a
      handheld massager) was selected it was tested on various different sites (including midbrow,
      mid forehead, over the supraorbital notch, lower eyelid, thumbnail and palm) by
      verbally-consenting patients undergoing bilateral eyelid surgery in order to find the optimal
      site. The patients received the massager during injection on one side but not the other (some
      first eye, some second eye) and were asked to verbally rate the pain scores of the two sides.
      The consensus opinion was that the greatest effect was produced by vibration in the middle of
      the forehead.

      The pilot study was then conducted on 15 verbally consenting patients undergoing bilateral
      upper eyelid surgery; during the anaesthetic injection on one side they received vibration
      and the other side received no vibration. Patients were asked to rate the pain of both
      injections verbally on a scale of 0 to 10. 12 out of 15 patients found the anaesthetic
      injection on the side with vibration to be less painful than the side without.

      Research Methods:

      The study will be a prospective, interventional, randomised, controlled clinical trial.

      All patients who fit the inclusion criteria will be offered participation in the trial on the
      day their surgery is booked. They will be given an information leaflet about the trial,
      explaining the aim of the study without describing the effect of the vibrating device and
      placebo in order to reduce the risk of biasing their perception. They will be advised that
      non-participation will not affect their care in anyway.

      The intervention is of no risk to the patient and will not affect the surgical procedure in
      any way. Any questions that the patient has will be addressed beforehand and they will be
      required to sign a consent form prior to inclusion in the trial.

      They will be advised beforehand that they will be required to verbally rate their pain score
      on a scale of 0 to 10 immediately after both sides have been anaesthetised, with 0 being no
      pain and 10 being the worst imaginable pain.

      All participants included in the study will undergo bilateral surgery and will therefore act
      as their own controls: the vibrating device will only be applied whilst the anaesthetic is
      being injected into one side; a placebo will be applied to the other side. The placebo
      consists of a switched-off vibrating device applied to the test site and a second identical
      switched-on vibrating device held close (but not touching) the first, which will therefore
      make the same sound. Care will be taken to ensure that the devices are out of the
      participants' view. The test and placebo will be randomly assigned to either the first or
      second eyelid; the right eyelid will be injected first in all patients, as is our routine
      practice. Computer-generated sequential binary randomisation will be used. Allocation will be
      concealed from the surgeon until immediately prior to the anaesthetic injection.

      All anaesthetic injections will consist of xylocaine 1% with 1:100,000 adrenaline and will be
      administered through a short 30 Gauge needle at a constant slow speed at multiple (6-7) sites
      along the upper lid by a single oculoplastic consultant.

      The vibration device and placebo will be operated by a single oculoplastics fellow. The
      vibrating device / placebo will be placed on the middle of the forehead 1 cm above the
      mid-brow point 1 second before the anaesthetic injection is commenced. It will be lifted off
      the skin every time the injection needle exits the skin and it will be replaced on the same
      point 1 second before the needle reenters the skin at a new injection site.

      Patients' verbal pain scores will be elicited and documented immediately by the oculoplastic
      fellow.

      Statistical analysis:

      From a pilot study which involved asking 15 patients undergoing upper eyelid surgery to rate
      the pain they experienced on injection of the local anaesthetic on a scale of 0 to 10, we
      found pain scores to be sufficiently Normal for an estimation of the sample size to be based
      on a Normal distribution.

      A comparison of the pain scores between the side receiving vibration and the side receiving
      placebo will be made using the paired t-test.

      Planned sample size On a scale of 0 to 10 a difference in pain score of 1.5 may be considered
      to be clinically significant. The power calculation for a paired t-test with 90% power and
      p=0.05 demonstrated that a sample size of 80 patients to be more than sufficient to detect a
      significant difference.

      The results will be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed ophthalmological journal and
      presentation at international ophthalmological meetings.
    
  