
    
      Very few youth with drug abuse or dependence in the United States receive treatment. This
      population of untreated youth represents a massive "treatment gap" in adolescent health care
      that renders impotent a potentially important avenue for preventing chronic drug abuse and
      related difficulties. The lack of motivation for treatment characterizing most adolescent
      drug abusers significantly decreases the likelihood these youth will enter treatment, barring
      mandates from the legal system or other social institutions. Efficacy studies have
      demonstrated that Community Reinforcement Training (CRT), an approach that involves teaching
      parents how to engage their youth into treatment, can work to recruit 60-80% of these
      treatment-elusive youth. CRT is traditionally provided in an individual therapy format to one
      or both parents. This study will improve upon our prior work by using a group format to
      provide a less costly procedure for engaging youth into treatment and to make it more
      portable to treatment agencies, schools, juvenile justice, and other community organizations
      seeking to offer support to parents or engage youth in treatment, thus significantly
      increasing the adoption and sustainability of the approach.

      This study will examine the efficacy of the group format (G-CRT) for helping parents engage
      their unmotivated, resistant youth in treatment compared to the traditional individual format
      (I-CRT). Parents (n = 60) will be randomly assigned to G-CRT or to I-CRT. We will evaluate
      the differential efficacy of G-CRT, relative to I-CRT, on rates of adolescent engagement in
      treatment. We expect that G-CRT, compared to I-CRT, will also be associated with greater
      parent encouragement of adolescent sobriety, perceived social support, and family
      functioning. We also predict that changes on these process variables will predict increased
      success in engaging adolescents. We will also examine treatment outcomes for youth engaged in
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy as a function of parental involvement in G-CRT or I-CRT. We
      predict enhanced support received by parents in G-CRT will result in greater reductions in
      drug use and lower levels of HIV-risk behaviors, outcomes hypothesized to be mediated by
      motivation to change and sessions attendance. Finally, we will conduct an informal
      cost-effectiveness analysis to derive preliminary estimates of the relative costs of each
      treatment modality per outcome unit and hypothesize that G-CRT will be more cost effective
      than I-CRT by virtue of having higher clinical effectiveness and lower costs. Successful
      outcomes here will provide the basis for a full clinical trial with larger samples.
    
  