
    
      Background:

      Physical activity interventions after stroke are needed because stroke survivors are
      under-active; their average physical fitness level is about 50% of sedentary healthy
      controls. This adversely affects vascular risk factor profiles, disability and participation,
      problems that are all likely to be exacerbated in stroke survivors who are unable to walk.
      Fitness can be improved after stroke through cardiorespiratory training. This also improves
      psychosocial functioning and adaptation to life after stroke. Community-based services for
      exercise after stroke are developing throughout the UK. However, current evidence, associated
      guidelines and exercise professional training mainly pertain to ambulatory stroke survivors;
      non-ambulatory stroke survivors have hardly been involved in this area of research. In this
      study, we define "non-ambulatory" as requiring at least "continuous or intermittent support
      of one person to help with balance or coordination" (i.e. Functional Ambulatory Category ≤
      2).

      Study aim:

      The aim of this study is to design a physical activity programme for non-ambulatory stroke
      survivors (delivered via either community-based groups or a home-based individual programme)
      and evaluate its feasibility, acceptability, preliminary and adverse effects. The study will
      also explore the views of non-ambulatory stroke survivors and their carers on: needs,
      personal goals, barriers, and motivators, experiences of programme participated in and
      preferred format (i.e. home-based individual/ community-based groups).

      Study design:

      Mixed-methods, observational feasibility study. This study will incorporate qualitative
      interviews/focus groups to explore the experiences of the programme participants are taking
      part in and their thoughts and views of PA after stroke. Interviews and focus groups will be
      conducted throughout the physical activity programme.

      Participant recruitment:

      Participants will be recruited by the Scottish Stroke Research Network (SRN) via: databases
      and electronic patient medical/nursing/AHP notes, records of discharges from acute stroke
      wards to off-site rehabilitation units and word of mouth among AHPs., within NHS Lanarkshire.

      Participants will also be recruited via non-NHS sites: local community stroke groups, social
      media, stroke charities, press releases and related media and care homes.

      Study setting:

      Glasgow Caledonian University will be used for the community-based group programme and focus
      groups/interviews.

      Participants' own home setting will be used for the home-based, individual programme and
      interviews.

      Study participants:

      Non-ambulatory stroke survivors and their carers (where applicable) living at home or in care
      homes.

      Study outcomes:

      Outcomes will include measures of disability, ADL, strength, anxiety and depression,
      sedentary behaviour, self-efficacy, health status, attainment of individual goals, as well as
      carer burden (where appropriate).

      Feasibility will be assessed by numbers of participants invited to participate, accepting and
      being recruited into the study, completing the intervention, programme adherence and drop
      outs. Safety data will be examined using data on adverse effects reported by participants.

      Study duration: 12 months.
    
  