
    
      Participants (i.e., 9 elite weightlifters) performed-as part of their habitual training
      program from 08h:00 to 09h:45- two training sessions using respectively, PLA and POMj
      supplementations (500ml), with a recovery period of 48 h in between. Upon arrival for their
      first test session, each participant's body mass and height were recorded. Moreover, before
      and after each tested training session, oral temperature was recorded with a calibrated
      digital clinical thermometer (Omron, Paris, France; accuracy: 0.05°C) inserted sublingually
      for at least 3 min with the subjects in a seated resting position for at least 15 min. Also,
      before and after each training session, fasting blood samples (blood sample 2, 3, 4 and 5,
      Figure1) were collected and heart rate (HR) and systolic arterial pressure (SAP) were
      recorded using a heart rate monitor and a manual sphygmomanometer. Additionally, to assess
      the recovery kinetic of the biological parameters, blood sample, temperature, HR and SAP were
      collected at resting state (i.e., after 10 days of recovery, blood sample 6) and immediately
      (3min) after the training session which proceed the PLA session (blood sample 1). Given that
      values of markers of muscle damage remain raised for at least 7 days following intensive
      weightlifting exercises, a recovery period of 10 days was chosen to evaluate the biological
      resting state. Additionally, given that (i) using randomized order in this study will results
      in consuming POMj then PLA supplementations (after 48h) for some participant and (ii) the
      delayed effect of POMj (which we expect) could alter the results of PLA supplementation, in
      the present study investigators choose to avoid randomized order and to evaluate the PLA at
      first then the POMj effect using all the participant together. Supplements (1500ml) of
      placebo (PLA) or pomegrenate juice (POMj) were taken three times daily in the 48h which
      proceed the first and the second tested training sessions respectively (i.e. 250ml × 6 times
      with 8-h intervals between it). Moreover, during these tested sessions, subject consumed an
      additional 500ml of PLA and 500ml of POMj, respectively. The tested quantity of the natural
      POMj were prepared from a fresh pomegranate fruit 48h before the beginning of the
      experimentation and were shipped frozen and stored at -4°C. No additional chemical products
      were added to the natural POMj. Each 500-mL of the tested POMj contained 2.56g of total
      polyphenol, 1.08g of ortho-diphenols, 292.59mg of flavonoids and 46.75mg of flavonols.
      Subjects were reminded verbally through phone communication to consume at the required times
      their supplements. Placebo juice consisted of an Pomegranate-flavored commercial drink
      contained water, citric acid, natural flavor and natural identical flavor (Pomegranate),
      sweeteners (aspartame × (0.3g/l), acesulfame K (0.16g/l)), stabilizers (Arabic gum) and
      lacked antioxidants, fruit and vegetable extracts or vitamins. Placebo juice contains no
      polyphenols.
    
  