
    
      Patients will be seen in clinic at new diagnosis of Crohn's disease or a flare of existing
      disease. Potential subjects will be screened with for eligibility, followed by a baseline
      assessment by the clinic provider. Subjects who wish to participate will undergo further
      discussion with one of the study staff. At enrollment, a member of the study staff will
      explain the study to the prospective participant (for consent and/or assent, if applicable
      given patient's age).

      The SCD will be started in addition to previous maintenance medication therapy or with short
      course of corticosteroids 1-2mg/kg/day (up to 60mg maximum). Steroid induction based on
      clinical need.

      We anticipate improvement in clinical symptoms, laboratory values and/or a decline in PCDAI
      of 12.5 points (pediatric patients) or decline in CDAI of 70 points (adult patients) after 4
      weeks. Patients who do not reach remission by 4 weeks will be excluded from the study.
      Patients who require additional medications for disease control will be excluded from the
      study.

      Patients will be seen in clinic at diagnosis, 2 weeks (if required by clinical symptoms), 1
      month, 3 months and 6 months.

      Assessment at initial enrollment and at all follow-up visits includes:

        1. History of symptoms

        2. Physical exam including height, weight, BMI, Tanner staging

        3. Calculation of Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index (PCDAI) for pediatric patients
           or the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) score for adult patients.

        4. Dietary assessment and nutritional counseling

        5. Completion of validated quality of life measurement (IMPACT III for pediatric patients
           and SIBDQ in adult patients)

        6. Adverse event monitoring (record of symptoms and review of laboratory surveillance)

        7. Laboratory assessment including: CBC with differential, basic metabolic panel, liver
           function tests, albumin, ESR, CRP, stool calprotectin and stool lactoferrin

        8. Serum sample for cytokine studies

        9. Stool studies for microbiota studies
    
  