
    
      All eligible patients admitted for septic shock in resuscitation at Nimes will be included in
      the study, after verification of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria and with their
      agreement.

      This is an observational study with no impact on the quality of care provided. All study data
      will be entered into an electronic CRF (e-CRF) directly or from the paper version of the
      scorecard.

      The entry into the e-CRF is controlled and formatted to prohibit the input of out-of-bounds
      or outliers. In case of modification of data entry, traceability and monitoring of activities
      is ensured. An electronic signature committing the responsibility of the investigator of each
      center will allow the validation of the visit and the e-CRF.

      Only those persons participating in the research project and identified will have access to
      the software allowing this entry: Redcap.

      Redcap software that allows you to generate electronic CRFs (e-CRF), electronically capture
      data, manage it and restore it. It also makes it possible to follow the progress of studies
      in terms of data entry and to manage them. It is open source software that is extensible,
      modular and based on international standards.

      Redcap software allows:

        -  Data entry, validation and annotation by clinicians and research associates

        -  Data extraction, filtering and analysis by investigators

        -  Study management by study coordinators

        -  Monitoring, auditing, configuration and reporting by administrators The electronic
           observation notebook creation software is hosted on a website within the CHU of Nîmes.
           Access to this application is secure and is via a password. Data collected through this
           software is backed up daily on a secure network. The network is connected to the
           internet, the access is protected by a firewall.

      The clinical data of the study will be stored on a specific directory of the server. Only the
      network administrators and the authorized persons of the clinical research unit of the
      medical information department can have access to this directory.

      IT arrangements made to enforce the confidentiality commitment

        -  The technical resources are located in the IT department whose access is controlled and
           secure.

        -  The data is stored on a server hosted in a secure room at the CHU Nîmes.
    
  