
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform early phase clinical trial assessing safety and clinical toxicity of
      immunization, and as well as to establish an optimal biological dose (OBD) of combination
      vaccines with n-muramyldipeptide derivative (nor-MDP) as adjuvant emulsified in Montanide
      (ISA 720).

      II. To establish whether an OBD of two combination vaccines is achieved. III. To measure both
      humoral and cellular immune responses including the specificity, class and kinetics of
      anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER-2) peptide.

      IV. To evaluate whether the combination of HER-2 epitopes show therapeutic benefit, provide
      synergistic and/or additive effects and to enumerate mechanisms of action.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect and analyze post-immune sera and peripheral blood cells for additional six
      months post the last injection.

      II. To document any clinical responses that may occur.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive a HER2/neu peptide vaccine comprising measles virus epitope MVF-HER-2
      (266-296) and MVF-HER-2 (597-626) emulsified with nor-MDP in ISA 720 intramuscularly (IM) on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.

      OUTLINE: EXTENSION TRIAL AT OBD

      The dose-escalation (4 cohorts) has successfully completed with the accrual of 24 patients
      and the Optimum biological dose (OBD) has been determined as the dose at cohort level 2.

      The next phase of the study progresses directly into an extension trial at the OBD. 12
      patients will be accrued at that level. The extension cohort will be open to only HER-2
      and/or EGFR overexpressing cancers. Patients (all gastrointestinal,ovarian and breast must
      have received no more than three prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens in the last two years
      after standard therapy. Patients (breast, ovarian and gastrointestinal cancers) must have
      received no more than three prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens in the last two years after
      standard therapy.
    
  