
    
      Moderate aplastic anemia (MAA) is a blood disease which can be effectively treated with
      immunosuppressive drug regimens. However, a significant number of patients have persistent
      cytopenias. Currently, the treatment of these patients is regular transfusion, which are
      expensive, inconvenient, and associated with serious side effects related to iron overload,
      or cytokines such as erythropoietin or G-CSF, which are expensive, and not effective in many
      patients.

      Thrombopoietin (TPO) is a protein made by the body that is important for normal production of
      platelets by the bone marrow. TPO may also be able to stimulate bone marrow stem cells to
      produce red cells and white cells. TPO cannot be given by mouth, and as an alternative, a
      drug, eltrombopag, has been designed that acts in the same way as TPO but is stable and
      active when given by mouth. Eltrombopag has been shown to safely increase platelet numbers in
      healthy volunteers and in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). It has
      been recently granted accelerated approval by FDA on November 20, 2008 for the treatment of
      patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) who have had an insufficient
      response to standard therapies.

      We have previously shown encouraging results when eltrombopag is used to treat patients with
      severe aplastic anemia, with some patients responding with increases in platelets, red cells
      and white cells. Given these encouraging early preliminary results in our clinical trial
      using eltrombopag in Severe Aplastic Anemia (SAA), and low toxicity and ease of
      administration of this drug, we now propose a non-randomized pilot phase II study of
      eltrombopag in moderate aplastic anemia patients with clinically significant thrombocytopenia
      or anemia. Patients with MAA may not reach criteria for SAA, but none the less may be
      transfusion-dependent or have significant symptoms from cytopenias. We hypothesize that
      patients with MAA as compared to SAA may have a better chance of response, due to better
      residual marrow function in MAA patients compared to SAA.

      Eligible patients can have treated or untreated MAA, as well as counts meeting criteria for
      MAA following a partial response to treatment with immunosuppression for SAA. We will also
      include patients with bone marrow failure and unilineage cytopenia. Treatment response for
      the platelet lineage is defined as platelet count increases to 20,000/microL above baseline
      at 16 to 20 weeks, or freedom from platelet transfusions for greater than or equal to 8 weeks
      in transfusion-dependent patients. For patients with anemia (untransfused hemoglobin less
      than or equal to 8.5 g/dL), a treatment response will be an increase in Hb by greater than or
      equal to 1.5g/dl at four months, measured on at least 2 serial measurements and sustained for
      1 month or more without transfusion support OR for transfusion dependent patients, reduction
      of units of RCC transfused by 50 percent/8 weeks compared with the pretreatment transfusion
      number in the previous 8 weeks or transfusion independence (no transfusions for greater than
      or equal to 8 weeks). Subjects with evidence for a clinical response in any lineage at 16
      weeks but not yet meeting full primary endpoint response criteria, and who are tolerating
      investigational treatment, may receive an additional 4 weeks of eltrombopag and be reassessed
      after 20 weeks. At that time, if they meet primary endpoint response criteria, they will be
      eligible to enter the extended access part of the study. If they do not meet primary endpoint
      response criteria, eltrombopag will be discontinued.

      The primary objective is to assess the safety and efficacy of the oral thrombopoietin
      receptor agonist (TPO-R agonist) eltrombopag in moderate aplastic anemia patients or patients
      with bone marrow failure and unilineage cytopenia. Secondary objectives include the analysis
      of the incidence and severity of bleeding, clonal evolution to PNH, clonal chromosomal
      population in bone marrow, myelodysplasia by morphology, or acute leukemia and the impact on
      quality of life.
    
  