
    
      Childhood epilepsy disorders are particular frequent in low income countries and especially
      common in the area around Mahenge, Ulanga region, southern Tanzania, with an epilepsy
      prevalence of up to 39 per 1000 inhabitants. Therefore, in 1959 Prof. Louise Jilek-Aall
      founded the Mahenge Epilepsy Clinic to provide basic care to people suffering from convulsive
      disorders and to enable further in-depth investigations regarding epilepsy. In the summer of
      2005, a multinational a team of researchers including the founder of the clinic, Prof. Louise
      Jilek-Aall, Prof. Erich Schmutzhard, Dr. Andrea Winkler and Prof. William Matuja performed
      several in-depth etiological investigations. In intensive field research they were able to
      examine a large number of clinic patients and healthy controls, perform
      electro-encephalographic and magnetic resonance studies and collect biological materials,
      such as blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and skin samples for further sophisticated
      laboratory tests in Europe. Among others, the studies confirmed the presence of a new type of
      childhood epilepsy with repetitive head nodding episodes and often progressive cognitive
      dysfunction. Even though the disease termed Nodding Syndrome (NS) affects thousands in
      Tanzania, Uganda and South-Sudan, clinical, metabolic and EEG phenotypes are still
      imprecisely described, and etiology and pathogenesis remain obscure. The high familial
      occurrence and clustering within circumscribed villages and tribes suggests that genetic
      traits might play a role. Epidemiological associations with Onchocerca volvulus and
      Mansonella spp. were noted at different African sites. Despite lacking evidence for the
      presence of O. volvulus in the CSF the association to NS remains robust.

      This is basis for the present study where the investigators aim to examine if and how O.
      volvulus and/or Mansonella spp. contribute to the pathology of NS, elucidate associated
      genetic traits, further specify the clinical, metabolic and EEG phenotypes. The investigators
      will use a cross-sectional observational design including children with NS and epilepsy in
      order to describe the clinical characteristics and a case-control design to evaluate
      associated factors.

      It is intended to enroll 250 patients and controls between 3 and 18 years of age (I: people
      with NS, n=50 (inclusion according to the WHO case definition from the first "International
      Conference on Nodding Syndrome", Kampala, Uganda, July 2012); II: people with epilepsy (PWE)
      and onchocerciasis, n=50; III: PWE without onchocerciasis, n=50; IV: controls with
      onchocerciasis but otherwise healthy, n= 50; healthy controls without evidence for
      onchocerciasis, n= 50). Patients with cardiovascular or renal comorbidities, a history of
      birth or traumatic brain injuries, lacking or withdrawing consent will be excluded. Groups II
      to V will be matched to Group I for age, gender and social status.

      The investigators intend to analyze the filarial infection and host immune response in
      affected children compared to unaffected controls. PCR assays will be performed to
      characterize Onchocerca and Mansonella spp. strains found in patients with NS/PWE and
      determine Wolbachia loads and features. A novel unique biomarker,
      N-acetyltyramine-O,ß-glucuronide (NATOG) will be determined to quantify infection with O.
      volvulus and correlated with other markers that define the host immune response and immune
      regulation (e.g. regulatory T cells (Treg), cytokines). As polymorphisms in the
      multidrug-resistance gene 1 (MDR-1) that alter p-glycoprotein expression or function may
      enhance neurotoxicity of widely used antihelmintic drugs, single nucleotide polymorphism
      (SNP)-arrays will be determined to investigate if specific polymorphisms might be associated
      with NS. In addition, the investigators aim to define the clinical picture and course of NS
      and conduct further EEG investigations and validated neuropsychological tests, follow up
      patients of previous studies and perform metabolic analyses to specify the metabolic
      characteristics of NS. A genetic workup that includes whole-exome sequencing (WES) to
      identify traits predisposing to epilepsy, NS or specific immune responses is scheduled.

      In summary, the study aims to elucidate factors that contribute to the high prevalence of NS
      and epilepsy in the Mahenge area in Southern Tanzania. Also, the research project will have
      immediate benefits for the population under investigation as people newly diagnosed with
      epilepsy will be offered treatment at the Mahenge Epilepsy Clinic and staff, patients and
      relatives will receive further education regarding epilepsy, thereby contributing to
      sustainability of a standardized approach to care for children with NS and PWE. Conclusions
      drawn from our study will not only relate to the Mahenge area, but may be applicable to vast
      numbers of children with NS (northern Uganda and South Sudan) and PWE in other areas.
      Dissemination of the data through scientific meetings and publications may stimulate further
      research regarding risk factors for epilepsy in the low income countries.
    
  