
    
      The investigators propose a unique, multimodal prospective study that will allow
      investigators to identify for the first time the structural and functional brain
      contributions to LUTS in men with BPH and BOO at baseline and post procedure. For this, The
      investigators will recruit three different groups of patients:

      Group 1: Patients with BPH and significant improvement in the storage symptoms following BOO
      procedures.

      Group 2: Patients with BPH who have persistent storage symptoms following BOO procedures.

      Group 3 (CONTROL GROUP): Men without LUTS who are planning to undergo radical prostatectomy.

      Each participant will provide a detailed history, undergo a complete physical examination and
      will have the following assessments: IPSS, IPSS Quality of life, Incontinence Severity Index
      (ISI), Patient Global impression of severity (PGI-S) and improvement (PGI-I)19, 20,
      International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5), MRI Safety Screening Questionnaire. A post
      void residual volume will be measured and a urine sample will be obtained for urinalysis
      (patients and controls). A two-day bladder diary will also be obtained from the participants.
      Participants in group 1 and 2 will undergo a clinical urodynamic study within a year prior to
      the neuroimaging scan. All participants will be followed up at one, three and six months
      after the BOO procedures (Transurethral resection/ablation of prostate and simple
      prostatectomy) and radical prostatectomy in the control group. On each visit, the
      investigators will gather the following data: Uroflow and PVR assessment, bladder diary, and
      all questionnaires will be repeated in all patients at one, three, and six months.
      Participants with persistent storage LUTS at six months will have a repeat UDS to ensure BOO
      is resolved. Group 1 and 2 will undergo simultaneous fMRI/UDS scanning twice during this
      study: First before BOO procedures and at the second one at six months. The control group
      will undergo baseline fMRI/UDS.

      Investigators' established platform for simultaneous urodynamic study and functional MRI
      scanning will allow investigators to detect structural changes during the micturition cycle.
      Providing 3D structural images and functional images to have a better understanding of the
      brain effect on LUTS. By correlating the bold signal changes, structural markers and
      participant's clinical data, investigators will provide scientific rationale for subsequent
      studies in the field of neurourology.
    
  