
    
      Prostate cancer screening with Prostate specific antigen (PSA) has resulted in an increase in
      the diagnosis of localized prostate cancer. The traditional approach for treating low-risk
      and intermediate-risk prostate cancer includes definitive treatment with either radical
      prostatectomy or radiotherapy, both of which are associated with considerable morbidity
      mainly in the area of genitourinary and bowel complications. Active surveillance is one of
      the options for early low grade prostate cancers, but about half of these men would convert
      to radical treatment in 10 years' time. In the case of localized intermediate risk prostate
      cancer, active surveillance is not a good option as it is associated with inferior
      oncological outcomes in subsequent radical treatment

      Focal therapy for localized prostate cancer is the middle ground between active surveillance
      and radical treatment like prostatectomy or radiotherapy. Instead of monitoring a tumor to
      see when it is going to progress, focal therapy ablates the target lesion with the aim to
      reduce or avoid radical treatment. Although the efficacy of focal therapy appeared to be
      inferior to radical treatment with higher recurrence rates of 20-50%, repeated focal
      treatment is feasible and the complication profile of focal therapy was significantly better.
      A recent publication showed that in men with majority intermediate risk prostate cancer, 5
      and 8-year freedom from radical treatment was 91% and 81%. This avoids the majority of
      patients with localized prostate cancer from receiving a radical treatment with potential
      complications. A recent consensus panel agreed that focal therapy should be defined as
      ablation of the dominant or index lesion only .

      Numerous energy modalities have been utilized for focal therapy of prostate cancers,
      including High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), Cryotherapy, Photodynamic therapy (PDT),
      Focal laser ablation (FLA), irreversible electroporation (IRE), and focal brachytherapy. All
      of them are still being considered experimental according to the latest international
      guideline due to inferior oncological outcomes (high recurrence and retreatment rates) and
      lack of long term data. The targeting mechanisms during focal therapies are largely cognitive
      after the operator read the MRI, resulting in limited precision and possible over or
      under-treatment. Under-treatment would result in residual disease and treatment failure,
      while over-treatment might result in complications similar to that in radical treatment. The
      limitation of MRI in revealing all significant tumors in the prostate and the inability to
      treat MRI-invisible tumors using existing focal therapy platforms also contributed to
      treatment failure. However, there is still a significant amount of focal therapies being
      performed worldwide due to its lower overall morbidity than radical treatment, feasibility of
      repeated focal treatment, and feasibility to proceed to radical treatment in
      treatment-failure cases.

      Microwave treatment to prostate, Transurethral microwave therapy (TUMT), has been performed
      since more than 20 years ago for benign prostatic hyperplasia as an office procedure under
      local anaesthesia. It has not been used in prostate cancer treatment until recently a group
      in France conducted a single arm pilot study using organ-based tracking (OBT) MRI-Ultrasound
      fusion-guided microwave therapy using Koelis system for focal treatment of prostate cancer.
      (Clinical Trials number: NCT03023345) The treatment was done in 10 patients using microwave
      needles via transrectal route under general anaesthesia, with the primary outcome of complete
      necrosis of the index tumour on prostate MRI on day 7. The results were being reported in a
      conference paper, showing 80% (8/10) cases with complete necrosis of index tumor on day-7
      MRI, and 20% (1/5) targeted biopsy of tumor showing residual low grade cancer at 6 months. No
      adverse event or complication occurred in all 10 cases.

      MRI-Ultrasound fusion-guided prostate needle biopsy has been performed transperineally in
      Prince of Wales Hospital under routine basis. In this study, we plan to investigate
      oncological outcome of fusion-guided microwave needle therapy using transperineal (TP)
      approach under general anaesthesia. Most focal therapy modalities treat lesion that can be
      seen on MRI and confirmed on biopsy. In cases where significant cancer was located only on
      systematic biopsy but not on MRI, half or whole gland treatment is usually needed. In the
      microwave needle ablation guided by organ-based tracking (OBT) MRI-Ultrasound fusion using
      Koelis system, the positive systematic cores that is not visible on MRI can be accurately
      localized at the time of biopsy using Koelis system and treated subsequently.
    
  