
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a progressive disease characterized by degeneration of the articular
      cartilage, caused with the release of proinflammatory cytokines and metalloproteinases. Knee
      osteoarthritis is the most common form. OA accounts for about 2% of public health problems
      and leads to a reduction in production, resulting in indirect costs. Regardless of the
      etiology (age, trauma, overuse, autoimmune arthritis, infection, etc.), the recovery is very
      slow, the damage is not fully recovered, and the result is secondary fibrosis healing.
      Therefore, the degeneration process continues and no treatment modality does not completely
      eliminate this process. Various methods are used in the treatment of OA. The most commonly
      used of these methods are the physical and educational therapy offered by the American
      Society of Orthopedic Surgeons (AAOS), symptomatic treatment with acetaminophen and
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and steroid injection. In patients with end-stage OA
      who do not benefit from these treatment methods, total joint replacement is performed.
      Mesenchymal stem cells are multiple potent progenitor cells. In recent years, there have been
      promising developments in the treatment of patients who cannot be cured by stem cell therapy.
      Mesenchymal stem cells have been used in clinical and experimental animal studies due to
      their immunosuppressive effects, limited immunogenetic effects, their ability to be produced
      in culture and their multilevel structure. At the same time, studies have shown that
      mesenchymal stem cells have potential to differentiate into osteocytes, chondrocytes, muscle
      cells and nerve cells. Because of these features, mesenchymal stem cells have been used
      clinically for OA treatment. In addition, studies have shown that mesenchymal stem cells can
      be obtained from bone marrow, periosteum, trabecular bone, fat tissue, synovia, muscle
      tissue, milk tooth, umbilical cord and Wharton gel. Wharton gel is a mucous connective tissue
      in the umbilical cord and consists of myofibroblast-like stromal cells, collagen fibers,
      proteoglycans and hyaluronic acid. Because of these properties, it can be used as a source of
      stem cells.

      dipocytokines are cytokines secreted from adipose tissue and act as intercellular signal
      proteins. These cytokines include adipose tissue and cells nutrient uptake, regulation of
      energy balance, insulin activation, lipid and glucose metabolism, angiogenesis, regulation of
      blood pressure, coagulation, immunostimulation, pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory
      effects.

      Stem cell applications are now widely used in different tissues. In the recovery of chondral
      damage; Since cells have little capacity for regeneration and proliferation, stem cell
      derived differentiation is needed. In this study, it will be tried to show that chondral
      damage can be treated with wharton gel-derived stem cells.
    
  