
    
      Osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) is a common degenerative disease caused by a variety
      of factors, such as trauma, alcoholism, use of corticosteroids, and systemic lupus
      erythematosus. In ONFH, the overall mechanical properties of the femoral head change over
      time, and collapse of the femoral head results in severe pain and disability.

      Although there are numerous strategies for treating ONFH, conservative treatments are often
      ineffective. Once collapse of the femoral head occurs, hip replacement is the only option for
      ONFH patients. Therefore, it is important to reduce osteonecrotic weakening of the femoral
      head in the early stage of ONFH to prevent subsequent head collapse. Studies have shown that
      bisphosphonates inhibit osteoclast activity, reduce bone resorption, retain bone trabeculae,
      reduce apoptosis of osteoblasts and osteocytes, and promote new bone formation. Therefore,
      investigators have chosen to use bisphosphonates for preventing collapse of the osteonecrotic
      femoral head. Zoledronic acid is the most potent bisphosphonate for the treatment of ONFH. It
      can reduce bone resorption and preserve the shape of the femoral head. In most cases,
      bisphosphonates are given intravenously or orally. However, systemic administration is
      associated with many complications, including osteonecrosis of the mandible and atypical
      femur fractures. As previously reported, poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) acts as a drug carrier
      to facilitate the local release of zoledronic acid, and it has been found to promote bone
      formation and help avoid the complications caused by systemic administration. Using this
      method of administration, zoledronic acid can reach locally therapeutic levels, thereby
      preventing femoral head collapse.

      ONFH reduces the viability of bone marrow hematopoietic cells and bone cells to varying
      degrees, and can even induce cell death. Adult red bone marrow has two distinct parts; a
      hematopoietic section containing hematopoietic stem cells, and a mesenchymal section
      containing mesenchymal stem cells that promote bone regeneration. Core decompression
      technology can reduce intraosseous pressure, improve venous return, promote revascularization
      of the femoral head, and effectively reduce the symptoms of osteonecrosis; however, clinical
      efficacy is currently unsatisfactory, probably because of insufficient bone formation and
      repair. In recent years, the use of bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMCs) has shown good
      short-term clinical efficacy in the treatment of ONFH. However, the long-term outcome is
      unknown, and it is not known whether combined therapy with platelet-rich plasma may be
      effective for the treatment of femoral head collapse in the early stage of ONFH.

      Here, investigators propose a prospective, randomized controlled trial to assess the clinical
      efficacy of local administration of enriched BMMCs, platelets and zoledronic acid for
      preventing femoral head collapse in the early stage of ONFH.

      Safety assessment During the trial, inspectors will be responsible for monitoring adverse
      reactions in the patients. If any adverse reaction is observed during the follow-up, the
      patient will be urged to call their doctor for assistance. Predicted complications include
      fever, joint pain, joint snapping, joint noise, joint swelling, limited mobility, and itchy
      skin. Patients will be urged to inform their family members or close friends to observe for
      these symptoms and that they are participating in a clinical trial. If a patient has
      questions about participating in this trial, they will be informed how to contact their
      doctor. All serious adverse events will be recorded in detail-including the date of
      occurrence, duration, treatments, and possible relationships with the therapeutic
      procedures-and reported to the research director and the ethics committee within 24 hours.

      Data collection and management All the data will be collected on a case report form,
      including demographic information, disease diagnosis, and concomitant diseases. Data will be
      recorded electronically using a double-data entry strategy. After the follow-up, all the data
      will be checked and locked by the principal investigator. The locked data, which cannot be
      modified, will be saved for subsequent analysis. All the data relevant to this clinical trial
      will be saved by the Chinese PLA General Hospital. Then, the data will be statistically
      analyzed by professional statisticians, and the statistical results will be reported to the
      principle investigator who will be responsible for writing the research report. The Data
      Monitoring Committee (IDMC) will be responsible for data monitoring and management throughout
      the entire trial, to ensure scientific accuracy, authenticity, and integrity.

      Statistical analysis Data will be statistically analyzed using SPSS 22.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY,
      USA). Measurement data that are normally distributed will be expressed as mean, standard
      deviation, minimum value and maximum value. Data that are non-normally distributed will be
      expressed as the lower quartile (q1), median and upper quartile (q3). Count data will be
      expressed as a percentage (%).

      Where appropriate, two-tailed tests will be used, with statistical significance set at P <
      0.05. Baseline data will be compared between groups, and statistically analyzed using
      two-tailed tests at α = 0.05. Count data will be compared between groups using chi-square
      test or Fisher exact test. Measurement data will be compared between groups using t-tests,
      and nonparametric variables will be compared between groups using the rank sum test.
    
  