
    
      The screening visit takes place 3 months to 3 days before the baseline visit. Patient will be
      informed of the study protocol by the surgeon who will perform the flexible ureteroscopy. As
      usual in clinical practice, a CT scan will be routinely performed. CT-scan interpretation
      will be centralized and performed blindly.

      At the ureteroscopy day (baseline visit), inclusion and exclusion criteria will be checked by
      the surgeon. A second information on the study protocol will be given and the protocol
      consent will be signed.

      The day of hospital admission, blood and urine will be collected by a nurse in order to
      define stone risk factors and other comorbidities after informed consent of the patients.
      Then patients will undergo ureteroscopy.

      Stone fragments will be sent for analysis to the stone centre Laboratory (Tenon Hospital,
      Paris) with images of the stones during surgery (morphoconstitutional analysis).

      Patients will be randomized for treatment after F-URS when they leave recovery room before
      discharge, after verification of randomization criteria. If the randomisation criteria are
      not completed, the patient will end its participation to the study.

      Else, the patient is randomized and treatment for 3 months (placebo or citrate salts,
      blinded) will be delivered by the investigational site and administration will begin the day
      following surgery, thus discharge. A 33 cl glass will be provided for the administration of
      the treatment. Furthermore 24-hour urine collection will be explained and patients will be
      given the vessel in order to collect urine at M3 visit.

      The end of study visit will take place at 3 months +/- 10 days after ureteroscopy visit.

      Medical check-up by the urologist in charge, including a CT-scan and blood and urine
      biological tests under randomized treatment.

      Randomized treatment will be stopped the day of this M3 visit. Adverse events (including drug
      tolerance, urinary symptoms) and date of stent removal if any will be collected. Compliance
      will be assessed, using a log book.
    
  