
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety of pressurized intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy (PIPAC) in 2
      groups of patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC), either due to primary ovarian,
      uterine, appendiceal, or gastric carcinoma (Arm 1) or to primary colorectal carcinoma (Arm
      2), based on treatment-related adverse events reported by National Cancer Institute (NCI)
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Efficacy will be assessed by:

      Ia. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), if available, version 1.1 via
      computed tomography (CT) scan at baseline, following the second cycle (week 10), and 6 weeks
      after completing treatment (at 18 weeks/off study).

      Ib. Peritoneal regression grading score (PRGS) via biopsy at each cycle (both preoperative
      and postoperative peritoneal samples will be obtained).

      Ic. Peritoneal carcinomatosis index (PCI) at the time of laparoscopy. II. Post-operative
      surgical complications by Claven-Dindo classification evaluated at 4, 10, and 16 weeks (4
      weeks after each PIPAC).

      III. Progression-free survival. IV. PIPAC technical failure rate. V. Patient-reported health
      state/quality of life and symptoms before treatment and at 6, 12, and 18 weeks/off study, as
      measured by the European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire
      (EQ-5D-5L) and MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI).

      VI. Functional status, as measured by the number of daily steps before and after treatments
      (Vivofit 4 wristband pedometer - Garmin Company).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Correlative/translational studies to characterize the tumor microenvironment, subclonal
      evolution, genomics, and pharmacokinetics of peritoneal tumors.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients with ovarian, uterine, appendiceal or gastric cancer, undergo PIPAC with
      cisplatin, followed by doxorubicin. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients with colorectal cancer undergo PIPAC with oxaliplatin. For cycles 2 and 3,
      patients receive leucovorin intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes and fluorouracil IV over 15
      minutes 1-24 hours before undergoing PIPAC. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 3
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 3
      years.
    
  