
    
      Anal incontinence is frequent and treatment is difficult. One of the most important reasons
      is traumatic delivery. 10 % of women develop anal incontinence after first delivery. This
      incidence is higher after second vaginal delivery, particularly if the first delivery caused
      break in the anal sphincter. One possibility to avoid anal incontinence is the caesarean
      section.

      So, do the investigators have to recommend caesarean section for second delivery if the first
      was traumatic? But caesarean section had a morbidity. Actually, the choice between the
      delivery modalities is very subjective. It seems to be very useful to compare, in randomized
      controlled study, global morbidity of caesarean section and vaginal delivery for second
      delivery if the first had to be traumatic after forceps with anal sphincter rupture diagnosed
      with anal endosonography. In start of study, all women were included, for randomisation
      ("section cesarean prophylactic" versus "vaginal delivery") if an anal sphincter rupture is
      diagnosed with anal endosonography before second delivery. . Currently, in case of refusal
      randomisation, women are proposed to participate to the ancillary study (cohort study).

      The primary endpoint is comparison of median incontinence score of VAISEY in the two arms
      after 6 months. The secondary endpoints are urinary incontinence, quality of life and global
      morbidity between the two arms after second delivery. The investigators estimated, needing
      123 women in each arm.

      Hospital investigators are: BICHAT Claude Bernard (Pr LUTON), Armand Trousseau (Pr BENIFLA),
      Jean VERDIER (Pr CARBILLON), BEAUJON (Pr LUTON), Louis MOURIER (Pr MANDELBROT), Versailles
      (Dr PANEL). Inclusion will be for 6 years and 9 months. Women will be included during the
      last trimester and evaluation will be perform on 8 weeks, 6 and 12 month after delivery.
    
  