
    
      Peer violence and depressive symptoms have mutual, reinforcing negative impacts on teens'
      emotional and behavioral regulation strategies.

      The emergency department (ED) is the primary source of care for many high-risk teens. It
      provides an opportunity to initiate preventive interventions, to complement existing mental
      health treatment or to stand alone for those who may lack access to formal care. Personalized
      text-message interventions are accessible, feasible, and may be effective with these
      adolescents.

      The purpose of this study is to expand on the PI's pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of
      iDOVE (K23 MH095866; PI: Ranney) by testing the efficacy of "iDOVE2" (a brief emergency
      department introductory session and longitudinal automated text-message depression prevention
      program for high-risk teens). The investigators will use a 2x2 factorial design to determine
      the most potent and parsimonious combination of intervention components for preventing peer
      violence and depressive symptoms among at-risk youth.

      Participants will be identified in the course of usual clinical care in the ED. If eligible,
      parents will be consented and participants assented. Participants will complete a baseline
      assessment and will be randomized to one of four groups: Brief ED Intervention (BI) + Text;
      BI + No Text; No BI + Text; or No BI + No Text. Youth in the Text arm who show no signal of
      improvement at 7 days, per daily self-reported mood ratings, will be re-randomized to
      additional "LiveText" (once-weekly real-time micro-counseling via text) or to continue with
      standard, automated Text intervention curriculum.

      At baseline and follow-ups at 2 months, 4 months, and 8 months, participants will complete
      assessments on depressive symptoms, violence, cognitive/behavioral skill-sets, and resource
      utilization.
    
  