
    
      The use of potassium supplementation is commonplace in the critical care environment.
      Patients often have abnormal serum potassium levels due to active disease processes.
      Conditions such as acute renal failure and metabolic acidosis precipitate hyperkalaemia, with
      ileus and insensible losses causing hypokalaemia. Both hypo- and hyperkalaemia can cause
      life-threatening arrythmias so it is prudent to rectify aberrant levels.

      The standard treatment of hypokalaemia in intensive care units is by intravenous
      administration of potassium chloride. This can be given either as a dilute solution as
      maintenance intravenous fluid therapy, or as a concentrated solution by intermittent
      infusion. Alternatively potassium can be given as a concentrated solution by continuous
      infusion. All techniques require regular monitoring of the patient's serum potassium level
      with appropriate alterations to the administration regime.

      From a theoretical standpoint it would make sense to give potassium by continuous infusion as
      this allow slow but steady correction of hypokalaemia. A continuous infusion should prevent
      rapid fluctuations in the serum level that could be caused by intermittent infusions, which
      may precipitate arrhythmia. However continuous infusions require vigilant monitoring to
      ensure that hyperkalaemia does not occur and must be given into a central vein to avoid the
      risk of phlebitis.

      The use of intermittent infusions has been used safely in the critical care setting under
      physician guidance. A retrospective review reported the outcomes of the administration of 495
      infusion sets to 190 individuals. While they identified 2 instances of post-infusion
      hyperkalaemia, neither was associated with any adverse sequelae. Analysis showed a no
      correlation between serum potassium increase post-infusion and serum creatinine, thus
      advocating the use of this therapy in patients with renal failure. In light of this valuable
      safety data, they proceeded with a prospective cohort study involving 40 patients on their
      Intensive Care Unit. Again the outcomes were favourable with a mean increase of 0.48mmol/L
      after administration of 20mmol in 100ml of saline over 1 hour. They reported no instances of
      hyperkalaemia, and data suggested a decreased instance of ectopic beats versus control
      patients.

      The use of a variable dose regime dictated by serum potassium concentration has also been
      assessed. In a prospective cohort study 20, 30 or 40mmol was administered over 1 hour to 48
      patients based on their initial measured potassium level. They only reported 2 instances of
      hyperkalaemia but neither patient experienced any complications. Usefully they found that
      patients with oliguric renal failure (creatinine 283 ± 127 micromol/L) had no greater mean
      increase in potassium level after infusion than patients with normal creatinine clearance.

      Two other methods have been suggested. The first, assessed on a paediatric intensive care
      unit, administered potassium at a rate of 0.25mmol/kg/hr to patients with serum potassium <
      3.5mmol/L and ECG abnormalities. The infusion was continued until the ECG abnormalities were
      corrected. Serum potassium wasn't measured until after completing the infusion, and although
      the mean increase was only 0.75mmol/L, this method did expose patients to a risk of
      unmonitored hyperkalaemia. The other involves use of a feedback system with a
      computer-algorithm driven protocol. This method was not developed into a full production
      model due to lack of cost-effectiveness.

      We were unable to find any trials assessing the efficacy and safety of continuous potassium
      infusions in the critical care population, so felt it was time this was rectified. Critically
      ill patients are often hypokalaemic due to insensible losses, inadequate supplementation
      prior to admission, and use of diuretics and beta-agonists. At the same time they often have
      acute and/or chronic renal failure or may have a metabolic acidosis that will hamper normal
      potassium sequestration or excretion. Thus they are at risk of rapidly developing
      life-threatening hyperkalaemia if supplementation is not carefully titrated against serial
      monitoring. Continuous infusions administered with due vigilance should allow for correction
      of hypokalaemia in a safe and precise manner.

      Our department used to supplement potassium by intermittent infusion, but after internal
      discussion we have successfully implemented a continuous infusion protocol. We propose that
      continuous infusions administered by accredited nurses under physician direction can safely
      deliver potassium and correct abnormal levels.
    
  