
    
      In the past decade, the number of studies concerning the connections between neuroscience and
      cognitive science has been growing dramatically. The findings might inform us how learners
      find a better way to learn. However, it has been proven that it is difficult to apply these
      findings to the real classrooms (Bruer, 1997; Goswami, 2006). This is mainly because learning
      behavior requires interactions among various cognitive abilities, yet most
      neuroscience-related research stressed only on a cognitive ability or microstructure alone.
      In other words, neuroscience research often focuses on microstructure of cells, while
      cognitive research focuses on systematic integrations. Generally speaking, a single-neuron
      cell is insufficient for behavior development.

      Based on the statement, "whole does not equal to sum of every single part", simply examining
      a microstructure will not lead to an understanding of behavior that produced by cell
      assembly/synergy. The current neuroscience technology for detecting activities in two or more
      cells simultaneously is still in progress, and issues on how cells can work harmoniously have
      been seriously considered recently. Clearly, educators do not study learning at the level of
      the cell. A successful learning depends on the curriculum, the teacher, context provided by
      the classroom and the family, and the context of the school and the wider community. All of
      these factors synergistically interact with the characteristics of individual brains. For
      example, children with high levels of the monoamine oxidise A who experience maltreatment and
      adverse family environments seemed to be protected from developing antisocial behavior
      (Caspi, et al., 2002), possibly via moderating effects on their neural response to stress.
      Diet is also reported to affect the brain. A child whose diet is poor will not be able to
      respond to excellent teaching in the same way as a child whose brain is well-nourished. It is
      already possible to study the effects of various medications on cognitive function.
      Methylphenidate (Ritalin) has been shown to improve stimulus recognition in children with
      ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder) (Seifert, et al., 2003). Neuroimaging
      techniques also offer the potential to study the effects of different diets, food additives
      and potential toxins on educational performance. In our opinion, applying neuroscience
      findings to actual classroom will be beneficial to students in learning. It will be of value
      if studies about the connections between neuroscience and education can be extended to other
      related topics, such as practical mechanisms, which will result in a meaningful integration.
      Therefore, exploring the behavior-cognitive-neuron-gene system (BCNG system) (Fig 1) and
      developing science educational theories from neuroscience-related studies will be the main
      objectives and long-term goads as a result of our future research.

      The BCNG system includes two main categories, namely "science education" and "neuroscience".
      Currently, science education research including our previous endeavors emphasizes how
      cognitive abilities affects learners' academic achievement and performance (for example,
      Wang, Chang, & Li, published online; Chang et. al., 2006) while neuroscience stresses on the
      relationships between individual's cognitive ability and neurophysiology/ biochemistry
      mechanism. Currently, there are ten aspects about cognitive ability, including intelligence,
      attention, memory, linguistic ability, spatial ordering, higher order cognition, ordering
      system, action system, social interaction system and emotion. These aspects can be divided
      further into sub-topics.

      Changes on cognitive ability are caused both by innate, genetic inherence of learning ability
      and acquired ability enforced by learning. However, researchers have not yet clearly
      understood the extent that innate and acquired factors influence an individual's cognitive
      abilities.

      In learning process, students who do not perform well in academic as other students due to
      poor cognitive ability will affect their willingness to learn. In other words, low cognitive
      ability will affect students' willingness to learn. Deficiencies in linguistic system(
      includes defects in listening, speaking, reading and writing), elements that affect language
      skills (containing disabilities in phonemes, morphemes and syntax), and disagreements in
      activities of muscles (which cause messy in writing) will make students considered to be
      clumsy and indolent or teased by peers and lead to decreased learning motivation. Therefore,
      Livan(2001) asserts that educationists should first understand each student's innate
      cognitive ability, and then give a priority to develop a subject that matches a student's
      cognitive ability, so that a student's learning interest and achievement outcome will be
      raised, and eventually this model/strategy will also work for the subjects that do not
      actually match student's cognitive ability. This suggestion is, to some extent, in alignment
      with our previous work (Chang and Tsai, 2005), which we found that teacher-centered
      instructional approach seemed to enhance more positive attitudes of less
      constructivist-oriented learning preferences students, whereas the student-centered method
      was more beneficial to more constructivist-oriented learning preferences students on their
      attitudes toward earth science in a computer-assisted learning environment. In the process of
      developing and undertaking the BCNG system, this research project starts with innate factors
      that might affect learners' cognitive ability. Based on the understanding of relationships
      existed between cognitive ability and genotypes of possible cognition-related genes,
      appropriate instructional models or strategies might be appropriately developed to better
      assist/match students' learning.

        1. Using existing test batteries to understand subjects' intellectual functioning,
           memory,visual-spatial and perceptual function, executivefunction, attention and science
           problem-solving ability.

        2. Identifying genetic polymorphism of human COMT, BDNF, 5-HT6 and other genes in Taiwan by
           investigating single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) of the genes among Taiwanese
           subjects using PCR and DNA sequencing.

        3. Screening and comparing the allelic distribution of each SNP among tested subjects and
           exploring if there is cognitive-associated SNP(s) in these gene.
    
  