
    
      Postoperative bed rest increases the risk of complications such as thromboembolism and
      intestinal adhesion. Encouraging early mobilization after surgery should be important,
      although actual effects of early mobilization still need randomized control trails to prove.
      The aim of this randomized controlled trial is to investigate the effect of walking out from
      operating room (very early mobilization after surgery) on the postoperative recovery of
      patients undergoing laparoscopic colorectal surgery.

      A sample size of 300 patients in each group will be selected by a prior power analysis on the
      basis of the following assumptions: (1) an absolute reduction in the length of the hospital
      stay by 1 day ( 9 days in intervention group and 8 days in control group), (2) standard
      deviation 3 days, (3) α=0.05, (4) power 80% and .(5) missed follow-up rate 5%.

      Patients will receive written and verbal information about the trial before written consent
      is obtained. The randomization will take place before the day of the surgery and the patients
      will be assigned to either intervention (return to ward by walking) or control group (return
      to ward by lying on the transporting bed ). A stratified randomization with three factors
      including sex(female or male), tumor site (colon or rectum) and age (18-40 or 41-65 years old
      ) will be performed to ensure an even spread. The randomization is performed using concealed
      allocation where envelopes are prepared externally using a randomization list prepared by a
      statistician.

      The patients will receive general anesthesia combined with epidural analgesia. After surgery,
      the patients will be evaluated whether fulfilling the criteria for mobilization including
      stable physiological parameters, consciousness, normal level of orientation and muscle
      strength, and painlessness every ten minutes. If patients fulfill the criteria, they will
      receive different methods of returning to the ward based on the grouping. In the control
      group, the patient will return to the ward by lying on the transporting bed. In the
      intervention group, the patients will be raised to a sitting position for five minutes. If
      the patients do not complain any discomfort and have stable physiological parameters, they
      will be encouraged to stand. If standing do not cause any discomfort, they will be encouraged
      to walk within the range of 5-meter long and 60-centimeter wide. If patients can walk within
      the range, they will return to the surgical ward by walking under the protection of medical
      staffs.

      Then, all study patients will be subject to the same management such as the guidance of drink
      and diet recovery, the guidance of mobilization in the ward (the duration and distance of
      walking in the ward will be recorded every day), nutrition supplement after surgery, and the
      criteria of drainage removal and hospital discharge. The outcomes such as the length of
      hospital stay after surgery will be recorded and analyzed to evaluate the effects of walking
      out from the operating room. The analysis of Intention-to-treat and Per-protocol-sets will be
      both performed by statisticians.

      Summary statistics of mean (SD) for normally distributed data or median (IQR) for skewed data
      will be generated for continuous variables, and frequency (percentage) will be generated for
      categorical or ordinal variables. Continuous variables will be analyzed by Student's t test
      or Mann-Whitney U test or Repeated Measures Analysis of Variance, and categorical outcomes
      will be analyzed by χ² test.
    
  