
    
      Patients that meet both inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomized by the study
      clinical center. Patients will be randomized 1:1:1 into one of the following arms:

        -  PVI with additional total left atrial low voltage-directed ablation.

        -  PVI with posterior wall low voltage quantification and isolation

        -  PVI alone without low voltage quantification.

      All patients will receive the best conventional medical therapy and anticoagulation use based
      upon HRS consensus recommendations taking into account their baseline risk factors for
      stroke. The need for interruption of anticoagulation and antiarrhythmic drug therapy for the
      procedure will be determined by the operator and their center guidelines.

      The trial requires continuous monitoring for atrial arrhythmias. Investigators will recommend
      the use of implantable loop recorders (ILR) but continuous 30 day monitoring with
      auto-trigger function may be substituted at the 6, 9 and 12 month time points. The ILR device
      will be implanted under sterile conditions at the manufacture's recommended site on the
      precordium for arrhythmia monitoring. Implantation will occur between 1 month prior and 3
      months post ablation since there will be a 3 month post ablation blanking period. If a dual
      chamber device is already present, implantation will not be required.

      One year follow-up is planned. Post procedure care is per standard of care with follow-up at
      1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months. ECG at every follow-up is performed.
      Download of arrhythmia data will occur at each of these visits as well. Investigators will
      use the typical post ablation blanking period for recurrence of atrial fibrillation of 3
      months. Antiarrhythmic medications can be used during the typical "blanking period" of 3
      months post procedure. But per protocol are stopped at 3 months post procedure (2 months post
      procedure in case of amiodarone).

      Investigators will compare time freedom from first arrhythmia event, defined as a sustained
      episode of atrial fibrillation or atrial tachycardia. Secondary endpoints will be compared as
      well (see secondary end point defined). Re-initiation of an antiarrhythmic drug after 3
      months will be considered a failure of primary endpoint of arrhythmia free survival. However,
      Anti-arrhythmic medication use after the blanking period for ventricular arrhythmias will not
      be included as an event. Anticoagulation is continued and monitored based on previous
      guidelines with use stratified by baseline stroke risk. A recording (CD) of the mapping
      during the procedure is to be obtained and retained for possible future analysis.
    
  