
    
      Participants will be treated in an open-label, non-randomized phase I trial to determine the
      safety, dose-limiting toxicities, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of cabozantinib
      combined with 13-cis-retinoic acid in children with relapsed or refractory solid tumors.

      Eligible Participants must have a histologically confirmed solid tumor at time of initial
      diagnosis, and have either progressive, recurrent, or refractory disease. Cabozantinib will
      be given orally once every day with cycles repeated every 4 weeks (28 days, +/- 3 days), with
      no rest periods between cycles, combined with 13-cis-retinoic acid at 80mg/m2/dose twice
      daily for two consecutive weeks (14 days) out of every four weeks (28 days, +/- 3 days).
      Participants with disease response or stable disease at the end of each cycle will be allowed
      to continue treatment, and patients may continue to receive therapy until there is evidence
      of clinical or radiographic disease progression.

      The investigator will perform a phase I trial to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      cabozantinib in combination with 13-cis-retinoic acid using the standard 3+3 study design.
      Cohorts of patients will be enrolled at doses determined as detailed below. The first cycle
      will be used to determine the dose-limiting toxicities. Toxicity will be summarized by dose
      levels. Response rates will be estimated. Kaplan-Meier curves will be plotted to graphically
      present time to progression (PFS) and other time-to-event endpoints. Median PFS and the
      corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be reported.

      Cabozantinib dosing will be started and modified, if necessary, during the course of the
      trial as detailed below. The tablet formulation of the drug will be used with doses in 20mg
      increments.

      Baseline evaluation to determine eligibility will include medical history (including a review
      of current medications), physical examination, blood count with differential, chemistry panel
      blood or urine pregnancy test for women of child-bearing potential (not post-menopausal for
      at least 12 months and not surgically sterile), echocardiogram, electrocardiogram, and
      disease evaluation (appropriate for disease). Samples for correlative studies will be
      collected accordingly.

      Participants will be evaluated weekly (+/- three days) during the first cycle. The interim
      evaluations will consist of interval history (with a review of current medications), physical
      examination, blood count with differential, and chemistry panel. Pregnancy tests will be
      performed prior to each cycle in women of childbearing potential. After the first cycle,
      patients will be evaluated monthly (+/- seven days).

      Participants who have had therapy discontinued will undergo end-of-therapy evaluations and
      will continue to be monitored with interval histories, physical examinations, and laboratory
      evaluations every three months (+/- seven days), with disease evaluations every three months
      (+/- 28 days) until they fulfill criteria for removal from study or the study is completed
    
  