
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of doxorubicin, dexamethasone, and high-dose melphalan with versus
           without thalidomide, in terms of event-free survival, of patients with multiple myeloma.

        -  Determine the response rate, complete response rate, overall survival, and
           progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of thalidomide in combination with intensive
           chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Assess the value of prognostic factors at diagnosis in individual patients treated with
           these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center and treatment policy (1 course vs 2 courses of high-dose melphalan).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I:

        -  Patients receive induction chemotherapy (AD) comprising doxorubicin IV on days 1-4 and
           oral dexamethasone on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20. Patients receive oral thalidomide daily
           beginning on day 1 and continuing until 2 weeks before start of stem cell mobilization.
           Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Patients receive stem cell mobilization with chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV
           on day 1 and doxorubicin IV and oral dexamethasone on days 1-4 (CAD). Patients also
           receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 5 and continuing until
           last apheresis.

        -  Beginning 8-10 weeks after stem cell collection, patients receive low-dose oral
           thalidomide daily and high-dose melphalan IV on days -3 and -2 as intensification.
           Patients undergo stem cell infusion on day 0. Patients may receive a second course of
           high-dose melphalan 2-3 months after the first course, in which case, stem cell infusion
           follows the second course of melphalan.

        -  Patients receive maintenance therapy with oral thalidomide daily until disease
           progression or after 3 months if no response.

        -  Beginning 2 months after the last course, patients with an HLA-identical sibling donor
           undergo nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation after radiotherapy.

      Arm II:

        -  Patients receive induction chemotherapy (VAD) comprising vincristine IV and doxorubicin
           IV on days 1-4 and dexamethasone on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20. Treatment repeats every
           28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Patients receive stem cell mobilization with CAD chemotherapy as in arm I. G-CSF is
           given as in arm I.

        -  Patients receive high-dose melphalan and undergo stem cell infusion as in arm I.

        -  Patients receive maintenance therapy with interferon alfa SC 3 times weekly until
           progression or after 3 months if no partial response.

        -  Beginning 2 months after the last course, patients with an HLA-identical sibling donor
           undergo nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation after radiotherapy.

      All patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 450 patients (225 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  