
    
      Rotational knee stability is a topic with great interest among Anterior Cruciate Ligament
      (ACL) Reconstruction experts. Previous papers have questioned whether current ACL
      reconstruction techniques may provide adequate rotational stability in all ACL-deficient
      individuals, considering their broad spectrum of clinical presentations (Logan 2004, Ristanis
      2005). Persistent rotational instability after standard ACL reconstruction have been
      extensively described, and it has been shown to keep straight correlation with worse outcomes
      post-operatively (Chouliaras 2007, Kocher 2004). Besides, lack of knee stability could lead
      to further chondral and meniscal lesions, which could enhance development of knee
      osteoarthritis (Stergiou 2007).

      This discussion has gained increased attention after recent publications regarding the
      Anterolateral ligament (ALL), described as a structure whose lesion seems to worsen
      rotational instability when associated to ACL ruptures. (Claes 2013, Helito 2013, etc).
      Segond first described this ligament in 1897 as a "resistant fibrous band" located in the
      anterolateral knee compartment with a singular characteristic of tensioning in forced
      internal rotation (Segond 1879). Afterwards, some authors referred to this structure as a
      capsular thickening (Hughston 1976). More recently, various anatomical publications brought
      up this controversy, defining the ALL as a distinct ligament (Claes 2013, Dodds 2014, Helito
      2015). Biomechanical data have shown straight correlation between its rupture and worsening
      of rotational stability, defined with a presence of an obvious positive pivot shift test
      (Claes 2013, Monaco 2012). Lack of consensus still exists regarding the validity of these
      findings, but many authors proposed the association of ACL and ALL reconstruction in selected
      ACL-deficient individuals, considering the theoretical biomechanical advantage of this
      procedure in promoting combined anteroposterior and rotational stability (Sonnery-Cottet
      2015, Sonnery-Cottet 2017, Dodds 2014, Marcacci 2009). In a recent meta-analysis of
      randomized controlled trials, isolated ACL reconstruction techniques were compared to
      combined ACL and extra-articular reconstruction techniques and, although Lachman and pivot
      shift tests were superior in the combined ACL reconstruction group, functional scores were
      similar (Rezende 2015). Knee stiffness and infection, were also similar between groups,
      despite previous publications suggesting increased rates in the combined procedure (Anderson
      2001, Sonnery-Cottet 2011). However, considering the lack of improvement of knee scores
      tests, the authors concluded it is still uncertain whether this increased stability surpasses
      the morbidity of adding an extra-articular procedure (Rezende 2015). In contrast to the
      obsolete extra-articular techniques included in the latter meta-analyses, anatomical ALL
      reconstruction techniques have been proposed to better replicate the anatomy of the
      anterolateral compartment (Sonnery-Cottet 2015). Promising results have been published in a
      recent prospective cohort study comparing combined ALL and ACL reconstruction with isolated
      ACL reconstruction techniques, using either hamstrings and bone-patellar-tendon bone grafts.
      Re-rupture rates were 3.1 times fold less in combined ACL and ALL procedure compared to
      isolated ACL with hamstrings and 2.3 times fold less compared to isolated ACL with
      bone-patellar-bone graft . The percutaneous ALL reconstruction technique described in this
      study not just reproduces more reliably the anatomy of the anterolateral compartment, but it
      is also less invasive diminishing the morbidity associated with the non-anatomic
      extra-articular reconstruction techniques, such as the iliotibial band tenodesis
      (Sonnery-Cottet 2017).

      Many controversy still predominates among ACL experts not just regarding ALL in vitro
      studies, but also the debate about the reliability of the combined ACL and ALL procedure when
      bringing it to the clinical setting (Guenther D 2016, Kittl C 2016). Concerns have been
      raised about some aspects of the combined ACL and ALL procedure, in particular its
      theoretical potential in leading to an excessive knee constriction, as demonstrated in some
      biomechanical papers (Schon JM 2016). Experts opinions diverge about the potential long-term
      consequences of the combined ACL and ALL procedure; while defenders state that improved
      rotational instability should minimize degenerative consequences of a "sub-optimal" knee
      joint stability supposedly provided by an isolated intra-articular reconstruction, many other
      surgeons argue that knee osteoarthritis might the evolution of the abnormal kinematics of an
      overconstrained knee (Inderhaug E 2017, Schon JM 2016, Sonnery-Cottet B 2017). In order to
      resolve such lack of consensus, clinical trials with high level of evidence should be the
      priority in this field, with a long term follow-up, aiming to compare functional scores, knee
      stability tests and complications rates between isolated ACL and combined ACL and ALL
      reconstruction techniques.

      So, the present study aims to compare the effectiveness of the combined ACL and ALL
      reconstruction with isolated ACL reconstruction in individuals with high risk of ACL
      re-rupture, through a randomized controlled trial.
    
  