
    
      Aortic stenosis (AS) is the most common valve disease among the adult population, in the
      majority of the cases it only requires treatment in advanced age. Surgical aortic valve
      replacement (SAVR) is very often refused because of advanced age and poor general condition.
      These patients used to receive only medical treatment which is less favorable compared to
      SAVR. Nowadays transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has become available as an
      alternative treatment for very high risk or even inoperable patients who are suffering from
      symptomatic aortic stenosis (1). Between 2012 and 2014 TAVI has been used extensively,
      accumulating over 100,000 procedures performed worldwide since 2002 (2). TAVI was originally
      developed for those patients who were considered too frail to undergo SAVR (3). Recently, we
      are able to perform TAVI in almost all patients with high procedure success rate and achieve
      good hemodynamic results. Despite these promising results, the one year outcome is not so
      evident. Until now it has been learnt that there are a group of patients who are in a very
      bad condition and who are so frail that they do not benefit from TAVI. These patients have
      worse survival rate and more importantly poor quality of life in spite of a successful
      procedure. Cardiac surgery risk scores like Society of Thoracic surgery score (STS) and
      EUROSCORE are less accurate in aging high risk people (4). Advanced age is often accompanied
      with frail general conditions and, the estimated morbidity and mortality values do not
      correlate well with the postoperative outcomes. In these risk scores very important relevant
      factors like frailty and disability are not taken into account. In elderly it is principal to
      make differentiation between utility and futility. Frailty is a clinical syndrome that
      reflects impaired physiologic reserve and increased vulnerability to stressors (5). However
      frailty as a geriatric concept has existed for a long time, its importance has recently
      gained high priority in the concept of older adults especially who undergo TAVI(1). By today
      frailty scores have increasing importance and are used more frequently by several
      investigators. Slow 5m gait speed has evidently proven unfavorable outcomes (6, 7), other
      frailty assessment tools like handgrip strength test, activities of daily living (ADL),
      instrumental activities of daily living (iADL), nutritional assessment, mini-mental status,
      etc. has been being investigated continuously.

      On the other hand, beside frailty status the main barrier to TAVI is the risk of neurological
      impairment. The TAVI candidate patients have specific central nervous system (CNS) issues
      because of neurobiological changes of aging, e.g. decreased brain weight and volume,
      decreased neurotransmitter system function, decreased neuronal gene expression and Alzheimer
      type changes (8). Neurological injury and impairment in TAVI can occur as cerebrovascular
      event (CVE) and/or neurocognitive dysfunction. Both forms might be clinically apparent and
      detected, clinically apparent but undetected and clinically silent and undetected. The two
      neurocognitive dysfunctions - post-operative delirium (POD) and post-operative cognitive
      dysfunction (POCD) - most cases remain undetected although clinically could be apparent or
      silent (9). POD is defined by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth
      Edition (DSM-5). POCD is defined by Kappetein et al., as "deterioration of intellectual
      function presenting as impaired memory or concentration presenting with temporal association
      to surgery" (9, 10). The neurological injury can be observed and/or detected by neuroimaging
      techniques and cognitive trajectories. Some insult caused by TAVI might remain in the
      clinically silent area and might be observed only as slight neurocognitive dysfunction.
      Analization of the incidence and underlying etiology of the neurological events may lead to
      identification of recently non-recognized techniques or neuroprotective strategies, devices.
      The most elevated incidence of CVEs is within 24 hours of TAVI. This risk of further events
      might be high for up to two months (11). One fifth of health-related quality of life (HRQOL)
      is characterized by cognitive functions. Studies and reports on cognitive, psychiatric,
      and/or neurological events following TAVI have focused on major and well-marked
      complications, e.g., stroke, TIA, and post-operative delirium (12). Meantime TAVI is
      associated with a high incidence (73%-84%) of silent cerebral embolism as detected by
      diffusion-weighted MRI (13).

      Chronological age does not always reflect biological age and there is a wide range between
      fit to frail (14). A well established and validated frailty score based on relatively simple
      and feasible tests could help in our everyday practice to evaluate the prognosis of elderly
      people undergoing TAVI and to determine those patients who really benefit from the procedure.
      Post-Operative Cognitive Dysfunction (POCD) in patients undergoing TAVI (and/or SAVR) was
      examined in only a few studies published during the last 10 years. Examinations and
      investigation of finer, long-term and possibly positive post-operative cognitive outcomes
      following TAVI (and SAVR) are significantly under-represented in the current medical
      literature (15).

      Hypothesis:

      There is a significant correlation between the Hungarian Frailty Score (HFS) and post
      procedure outcomes and quality of life preservation. HFS score would be a useful tool to
      estimate those who will benefit from TAVI. We also hypothesize that cognitive performance
      will be preserved, and will improve at the end of 12th month after TAVI due to better
      cerebral circulation.

      Objectives and aims

        1. Generate and validate a new risk score system called the Hungarian Frailty Score (HFS),
           which represents an objective tool for evaluation of the frailty syndrome in patients
           undergoing TAVI procedure.

        2. To determine the changes and to prove that there is no cognitive decline in patients
           undergoing TAVI if so any (pre and post TAVI cognitive function will be assessed).

      Primary aims:

      To estimate the correlation between the HFS, and the in-hospital stay, 30 day and 1-year
      outcomes evaluated according to the VARC 2 Criteria. The benefit of this study is to conclude
      exact data about quality of life and provide a comprehensive investigation of pre- and
      post-TAVI cognitive outcomes. We plan to define that apart from the incidence of possible
      neurological signs and the radiological evidences of neurogical injury and POCD, there is no
      decline in long term cognitive functions and there is improvement in the long term quality of
      life (QoL).

      Secondary aims:

      Find correlation and differences between HFS, QoL, eyeball test, and cognitive outcomes.
      Additional impact is to assess whether POD and POCD are a part of same condition, spectrum,
      and what can we do to prevent them.

      Expected results:

      To generate a simple and useable risk score system adopted to the Hungarian population for
      evaluating patients who undergo TAVI and collect data about post TAVI QoL and cognitive
      functions, and to register changes in the pre and post procedure frailty score. Non-diagnosed
      preoperative cognitive impairments and CVEs of the patient will be detected at baseline.
    
  