
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if addition of Bortezomib to the mobilization protocol will result with an
      increase in the levels of circulating peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) by >= 2-fold in
      blood and in the apheresis collections in up to 4-days collection protocol.

      II. To achieve median neutrophil engraftment of 12 days.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To test for co-mobilization of lymphoma or myeloma cells by bortezomib and G-CSF using
      real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) patients and by flow
      cytometry (cluster of differentiation [CD]38+/CD138+ cell) for multiple myeloma (MM)
      patients.

      II. To determine the effect of Bortezomib on the extent of mobilization of dendritic cells
      subsets, plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC)1 and pDC2 and DC1/DC2 ratio by flow cytometry.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-9 and begin apheresis on
      day 5. Patients undergo apheresis for up to 2 days, and receive bortezomib intravenously (IV)
      over 3-5 seconds after target collection is obtained with filgrastim alone or on the first
      day of collection with the Bortezomib plus filgrastim mobilization, prior to receiving the
      administration of filgrastim. Second apheresis will continue until target stem cell dose is
      reached or for maximum 4 days. Patients undergo autologous hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation after receiving high dose chemotherapy and peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC)
      infusion following standard of care procedures.

      GROUP B: Patients receive filgrastim SC on days 1-8 and receive bortezomib IV over 3-5
      seconds on days 4 and day 7, before administration of filgrastim. Patients undergo apheresis
      on days 5-8. Within 2 months after mobilization, patients undergo autologous hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation after receiving high dose chemotherapy and PBSC infusion as is the
      standard of care.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month and 6 months.
    
  