
    
      Study Description:

      This will be a within-subject, controlled, proof-of-mechanism study.

      Objectives:

      The study aims to evaluate the relationship between local GABA concentration, structural and
      functional network connectivity and MEG measures of auditory and language processing in
      adolescents with ASD and the acute impact of a single session of continuous theta burst
      stimulation over left posterior superior temporal cortex (pSTC) on these measures. We
      hypothesize that GABA concentrations, DTI measures of tissue microstructure and fcMRI
      obtained BOLD correlations within the language network will significantly contribute to the
      prediction model for MEG indices of auditory and language processing. Participation in the
      study involves five study visits.

      Primary Objective: The overall goal of the current study is to 1) Characterize the
      relationship between an individual's baseline local cortical GABA concentration, DTI measures
      of auditory and language network tissue microstructure, and fcMRI indices of local and
      long-range network functional connectivity (predictor variables) and MEG indices of auditory
      and language processing (dependent variables).

      Secondary Objectives: 2) Evaluate the impact of a single session of cTBS over the left pSTC
      on these MRS and MEG indices in adolescents (age 14-17) with ASD.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoints:

        1. MEG: Evoked fields and Spectral Power

        2. MRS: GABA+/Cr concentrations in the left pSTC

        3. DTI: Diffusion tensor derived parameters in the auditory radiations and arcuate
           fasciculus.

        4. fcMRI: BOLD correlations across pre-defined ROIs.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. MEG: Inter-trial gamma-band coherence (ITC) and resting state alpha to gamma
           phase-amplitude coupling.

        2. SRS-2, CELF-5, EVT, PPVT, ADOS-2, ADI-R, VABS-III, WASI- II.

      Study Population:

      In the pilot phase of the study, we aim to enroll up to 20 healthy control adult
      participants. These healthy control young adult participants (age 18-25) will undergo imaging
      scans, cTBS, and MEG. They will additionally receive a medical history, brief neurological
      and physical exam; and complete an IQ assessment and the SRS-2 self-report. As the aim of the
      healthy control young adult portion of the study involves piloting procedures and tasks and
      confirming target engagement of active stimulation, the healthy control young adults
      participation will involve only 3 visits: An enrollment/screening/baseline visit and two cTBS
      visits (one with MRS/fMRI immediately before and after and one with MEG immediately before
      and after).

      In the main phase of the study, we aim to collect a sample of 55 adolescents age 14-17 with
      ASD with complete data. In order to account for screen failures and participant attrition, we
      will recruit a total of 86 individuals (56% above the goal enrollment).

      Phase: N/A

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      All visits will be outpatient and take place in the Clinical Center (Building 10) on NIH
      campus.

      Description of Study Intervention:

      Continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) will be applied using a MagPro X100 (MagVenture,
      Inc. Alpharetta, GA). The cTBS protocol consists of bursts of three pulses of 50 Hz
      stimulation repeated at 200 ms intervals (5 times per second) for 40 seconds (for a total of
      600 pulses). Stimulation will be applied at an intensity of 80% of active motor threshold
      (AMT). Brainsight (Rogue Research) frameless neuronavigation system will be used to target
      the specific structural MRI-defined region of stimulation.

      Study Duration: 36 months

      Participant Duration: 2 months
    
  