
    
      This study focuses on human exposure to glyphosate, the single most commonly applied
      agricultural chemical in the world. Glyphosate is an herbicide, and is most commonly known as
      the active ingredient in "Round Up". Glyphosate has been declared a probable human carcinogen
      by the International Agency for Research on Cancer and multiple toxicological studies have
      further suggested potential neurological and developmental effects of glyphosate exposure at
      environmentally-relevant levels. However, despite its extensive use, frequent presence in
      food and environmental media, and potential toxicity, current exposure levels in human
      populations are not well documented. This proposed study aims to assess glyphosate exposure
      among a cohort of pregnant women and to quantify the relative contribution of agricultural
      and dietary sources of this exposure. Specifically, this project has two main aims. Under Aim
      1, a cohort of 40 pregnant women will be recruited from urban areas >10 miles from the
      nearest glyphosate-treated field and agricultural areas <1 mile from the nearest
      glyphosate-treated field. Urinary analysis from these women will be used to indicate the
      number of repeated spot urine samples necessary to characterize glyphosate exposure over one
      trimester of pregnancy, and to quantify the effect of residential proximity to
      glyphosate-treated fields on exposure. Under Aim 2, these same 40 participants will then take
      part in a two week-long randomized cross-over design dietary intervention, during which
      participants will receive one week of exclusively organic food (grown without the use of
      synthetic pesticides, including glyphosate) and one week of exclusively conventional food, in
      random order. During the intervention, the researchers will collect daily spot urine samples
      from each participant to analyze for glyphosate exposure. The researchers hypothesize that
      during the time of year when glyphosate is actively applied, women living near
      glyphosate-treated fields will have higher exposures than those living further away. They
      also hypothesize that glyphosate exposure will be reduced among participants during
      randomization to the organic diet, but that this decrease will be larger among urban women
      than among those living near glyphosate-treated fields. The researchers have taken extra
      precautions to eliminate all COVID-specific risks. There will be no face-to-face contact
      between research staff and study participants throughout the entire study. Interactions
      between researchers and study participants will take place through videos, emails, texts,
      and/or phone calls. All urine samples will be left for researchers to pick up at a
      predetermined location and time, and all groceries will be delivered to participants' home
      and left at their front door.
    
  