
    
      In daily practice, the upper airway evaluation is performed by the ENT physician with
      flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy while the patients are awake one day before thyroidectomy.
      This evaluation will be done by the same ENT physician (EDG). Each patient will be kept in
      the neutral position and at the level of soft palate, the larynx will be observed by the
      flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy and the laryngeal view and MCL score of these patients will
      be recorded.

      The same patients will be taken to the preoperative care unit on the morning of operation and
      20 G intravenous cannulation will be performed on the left hand. Patients' neck circumference
      and Mallampati score and presence of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome will be recorded.
      Patients will be taken to the operation theatre and standard monitoring will be performed
      consisting of electrocardiography (ECG), non-invasive blood pressure (BP) and peripheral O2
      saturation. After induction of general anesthesia, the same anesthesiologist (CAB) will
      perform direct laryngoscopy by using Macintosh laryngoscope the MCL score will be recorded.
      The anesthesiologist will not know the MCL score that was previously evaluated by ENT
      physician during awake fiberoptic flexible laryngoscopy. Female and male patients will be
      intubated orotracheally with 7.5-8 internal diameter endotracheal tube, respectively. It will
      be recorded if the backward, upward, right, lateral pressure Maneuver (BURP) is applied
      during intubation. The maintenance of general anesthesia will be provided with 2% Sevoflurane
      in a 40% oxygen-air mixture.

      After thyroidectomy is over patients will be extubated. The primary endpoint of the study was
      to evaluate the relationship between the MCL score, which was evaluated preoperatively, and
      the MCL score during direct laryngoscopy during intraoperative general anesthesia in awake
      patients.
    
  