
    
      Typhoid is an enteric disease caused by the bacterium Salmonella Typhi; it is estimated that
      11 to 20 million people contract typhoid each year and 128 000 to 161 000 die from the
      disease; children under 5 are at higher risk of contracting the disease.

      Typhoid endemic areas are located mainly in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa and is
      transmitted through contaminated water and food. The disease is treatable with a specific
      antibiotics regimen, however antimicrobial resistance has been reported in several countries,
      particularly in Pakistan.Several vaccines have been developed but their uptake has been low,
      partly due to limited information on the exact burden of the disease in endemic countries.

      The symptoms of typhoid are similar to other undifferentiated febrile illnesses and typhoid
      can be mistaken with vector borne febrile illnesses such as scrub typhus.

      Blood and bone marrow cultures are considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of typhoid.
      Those methods require specific infrastructure and skilled staff that are not always available
      in LMICs and are not adequate for rapid patient management. In addition, although very
      specific, blood culture sensitivity is impacted by misuse of antibiotics that lower the
      bacterial load to undetectable levels in patients' blood.

      As a consequence, alternatives to blood culture have been used in LMIC. The Widal test is the
      most used test despite a low performance (sensitivity range: 57-34%; specificity range:
      43-83%;reported in several studies. Other options in typhoid diagnosis are rapid diagnostic
      tests; among them, three tests (Typhidot, Tubex and Test-it™ Typhoid IgM) have been evaluated
      in several studies. It has been reported a variability of tests performance in different
      studies and according to the geographical regions. Variability in the test performance
      reported so far in the literature has hampered WHO to recommend any of these rapid tests in
      the EDL. FIND in collaboration with international typhoid experts developed a target product
      profile outlining the ideal characteristics of point of care tests. As part of this activity
      it became apparent that no quality data are available that systematically compare all
      available commercially point of care tests against the same set of reference standards used
      in multiple populations (e.g. Africa vs Asia). These lack of benchmarking data significantly
      impedes health providers' ability to decide on the utility of commercial tests in different
      settings, ultimately restricting use and access. Further the lack of well characterized
      samples reduces the ability for targeted innovation in the typhoid space. A second gap that
      was identified was the lack of a simple well-performing gold standard suggesting Latent class
      modelling as a solution used for other pathogens with an imperfect gold standard.

      The current study aims to benchmark different commercial typhoid tests against a defined
      reference standard applied in multiple population and simultaneously develop a sample set
      that can be used in future evaluations of emerging technologies and/or to support innovative
      test development.
    
  