
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be either be interviewed or participate in
      a focus group.

      For both the interview and the focus group, you will be asked to complete a form that asks
      questions about your ethnicity, gender, date and place of birth, education level, marital
      status, native language or language proficiency (your ability to speak different languages),
      years in the US, and the number of adults and children living in your household. It should
      take about 10 minutes to complete. You will not be asked to state any of this information
      aloud in the focus group.

      If you are interviewed, you will be asked questions about your personal health and health
      history, your health practices, including your eating and physical activity habits, health
      knowledge, and where and how you receive health services and health education.

      If you are assigned to a focus group, you will participate in one of 4-8 "focus" (discussion)
      groups. Each group will have 8-10 participants. A trained focus group moderator will also
      attend the session, as well as at least 1 member of the research staff. Some groups may have
      only males. The other groups may have only females.

      The moderator may ask you to use your first name with the group. He/she will ask your focus
      group a series of questions for discussion. As a group, you will be asked to discuss your
      comments, opinions, and observations. The questions and discussion will relate to your health
      practices; your knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about health; your sources of information
      about health; and any barriers (difficulties) you may have experienced when accessing health
      care services.

      Focus group participants will also be given a draft of a health survey for South Asian
      Americans that is being developed by researchers. After reading the survey, you will be asked
      to provide feedback about the cultural relevance and appropriateness of the questions on the
      survey. In other words, you will discuss whether the questions seem to apply well to the
      South Asian American community. Researchers are also interested in hearing your feedback
      about how best to recruit South Asian Americans to complete the health survey.

      The interviews will last about 30-40 minutes. Each focus group session will last about 2
      hours. The interview and the focus group may be audiotaped so that the participants'
      responses may be written out and then studied by researchers.

      After the interview or focus group session, your participation in this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 150 individuals will participate in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  