
    
      The increasing prevalence of diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes, combined with a steadily
      increasing proportion of older people in the population, will present enormous challenges for
      health care services and the individual with diabetes in Norway. Therefore, health care
      services need to rapidly begin treatment for people with diabetes-related foot ulcers to
      ensure high-quality treatment.

      Telemedicine innovations for health care services have developed considerably in recent
      decades. The National Health Plan for Norway (2007-2010) emphasizes that the use of
      information and communication technologies is an important way of achieving health policy
      aims in establishing more integrated diagnosis, treatment and care pathways across
      organizational boundaries. Qualitative studies of diabetes-related foot ulcers have shown
      that using telemedicine equipment enables follow-up care of similar quality to traditional
      consultations while enabling more flexible organization and greater patient satisfaction. A
      few minor quantitative studies show positive gains when telemedicine equipment is used in
      following up diabetes-related foot ulcers, but no randomized controlled studies have been
      performed in this field. Further, studies focusing on the more long-term effects are lacking.

      The project is in accordance with national guidelines and will contribute to increasing the
      focus on research related to integrated care. The investigators expect this project to
      provide evidence about alternative care pathways with a holistic approach that could moderate
      increases in the cost of health care services by delivering a larger proportion of services
      in municipal primary care. The project will be able to provide new evidence on meeting the
      challenges of diabetes-related care more systematically and proactively. The investigators
      expect that the results of this study will contribute to showing the extent to which
      treatment at the lowest effective service level will be more cost-effective and of good or
      better quality than traditional clinical follow-up. This study can and will contribute to
      setting priorities for the users' needs for flexible health services and enabling more
      patients to be treated near their homes.

      If the study finds evidence of positive health gains for the individual people with diabetes
      and contributes to high quality of care, this new model can be implemented in the entire
      Stavanger Hospital Trust. This approach will enable the multidisciplinary team in specialist
      health care to be used more appropriately, and the team will be more accessible for health
      care personnel in municipal primary health care. This model can be transferred to other
      hospital trusts and contribute to improving knowledge on diabetes among nurses in municipal
      primary health care.

      The main study confirmed that TM was non-inferior in traditional treatment with regard to
      healing time (primary outcome). The TM group had a signiﬁcantly lower proportion of
      amputations, and there were no signiﬁcant differences in the proportion of deaths, number of
      consultations, or patient satisfaction between groups, although the direction of the effect
      estimates for these clinical outcomes favored the TM group.

      There is a need to continue the study with additional patients to gain more knowledge about
      the extent to which the telemedicine follow-up affects the number of consultations (secondary
      outcome). In addition, there is a need for more knowledge about the effect of telemedicine
      follow-up for patients with leg ulcers and in people without diabetes. The investigators have
      used qualitative interview as a process evaluation in this study and will investigate process
      variables more systematically in the further follow-up in 2019-2010. By examining how the
      services are organized (organization and structure) the investigatorswill gain knowledge how
      the variation in the organization of telemedicine follow-up is affecting the outcome.
    
  