
    
      This study assesses the effects of electronic consultations (eConsults) between primary care
      providers and psychiatrists as a way to support the delivery of mental health services in
      primary care settings. The setting for the study are the primary care clinics of Allina
      Health.

      The study uses a randomized rollout design. Across 45 primary care clinics, half of the
      clinics will be randomly assigned to receive access to eConsults at the start of the study.
      The other half of the clinics will provide care-as-usual for nine months, at which point they
      will also gain access to eConsults. Stratified randomization will be used, with
      stratification on whether primary care clinics have co-located specialty mental health
      services.

      For primary care clinics that are given access to eConsults, the primary care providers in
      those clinics will have the option of ordering an eConsult on behalf of their patients, which
      will include specific questions about a particular patient's care. The request is routed to
      the service region's psychiatry pool, and the psychiatrists have the option of responding. If
      they choose to respond, the psychiatrist responds with their recommendations within one
      business day, and the PCP proceeds with care accordingly. The psychiatrist receives 0.75 work
      relative value units (wRVUs) for providing this service. All communications for the eConsult
      are routed through Allina's Epic system. Although patients will not be billed for eConsults
      over the course of the proposed research, some insurance plans do cover it and evidence of
      eConsult effectiveness may impel other insurers to cover the service.

      The study will have two components. First, the investigators will collect web survey data
      from the primary care providers to assess how access to eConsults affects providers'
      perceptions of their support and skill for delivering mental health services to their
      patients. Second, the investigators will assess the effects of receiving eConsults at the
      patient level, by using data from the Electronic Medical Record system.
    
  