
    
      The patient who has signed the informed consent for participation in the study will be
      immediately taken care of by the investigating clinicians. The clinician will determine the
      history of the disease and identify any clinical signs shown by the patient. Clinical data
      will be recorded in the patient's medical file. At the end of the clinical examination, the
      investigating clinician will draw up the report of the biological examinations.

      Laboratory examinations will be carried out according to the procedures and method by
      accredited laboratories in Guinea (National Institute of Public Health; Hemorrhagic Fevers
      Laboratory; CREMS - Kindia Laboratory; Institut Pasteur de Guinée) for the diagnosis of
      COVID19.

      After inclusion, patients are assigned by randomization into separate treatment arms with 10
      patients per arm. They remain in these treatment arms for the duration of the trial,
      analysis, and follow-up activities. A random sequence will be generated and implemented so as
      to randomize.

      The treatments will be made available to investigative clinicians by the Institute for
      Research and Development of Medicinal and Food Plants of Guinea.

      All subjects meeting the inclusion criteria will benefit from an individual file which will
      include data relating to general information, the complete clinical examination and the
      paraclinical examination. The data will be coded, entered and processed using statistical
      software. Data entry quality control will be performed on all files. The selected patients
      are distributed randomly into 3 parallel arms, each arm having a different treatment
      modality.

      A homogeneity test on the main socio-demographic variables (age, sex, weight, hemoglobin
      level, etc.) will be carried out between the different treatment arms before any specific
      analysis. Baseline characteristics and treatment of subjects in arms 1, 2 and 3 will be
      presented as medians, ranges for all parameters such as clinical, anthropometric, biochemical
      values and as percentages or numbers for symptoms. The comparison between the three cohorts
      will be made using either the Anova test for continuous variables or the chi2 test for
      categorical variables.

      The rate of change over time of virologic clearance, fever and other symptom values as well
      as the differences for these rates between treatment arms will be tested using mixed-effects
      modeling.

      The duration of the trial is 20 days for each patient recruited. In anticipation of future
      analyzes, the biological samples will be kept at the biobank of the National Institute of
      Public Health of Guinea.
    
  