
    
      Prior to patient recruitment, a 3 month dementia training program will be implemented on both
      the intervention and control units. On the intervention unit, training will target the
      Patient Engagement Specialists (PES) and on the control to the nurse assistants (please refer
      to NCT# 04179721 for more details on this aim). Following the implementation of the dementia
      care training, eligible patients will be offered the opportunity to participate in the study.
      A research coordinator will offer the information and opportunity to participate to the
      patient's lawful caregiver. The signed consent forms will be stored in secured file cabinets.
      Once a participant has been enrolled in the study, demographic information will be obtained
      from the electronic medical records (EMR) and verified by Family Caregiver (FCG), including:
      age, gender, race/ethnicity, marital status, education, work status, current living
      situation, medical comorbidities, and reason for admission. A member of the research team
      will conduct a short interview with the FCG to verify patient background information and
      obtain baseline (1 month prior to admission) functional status (Barthel Index), dementia
      severity cognitive (Clinical Dementia Rating Scale)(5 stages of severity: no 0, questionable
      0.5, mild 1, moderate 2, and severe 3), and behavioral symptoms using the Neuropsychiatric
      Inventory-Clinical version NPI-C.

      A member of the research team will then complete daily NPI-Qs to determine the number of
      behaviors and symptoms for each patient on a daily basis. The data collector will use a
      multimodal approach drawing from electronic medical record (EMR) notes and interviews with
      nursing staff regarding the patient's behavior and treatment over the past 24 hours. Delirium
      will be assessed daily by the research coordinator using same multimodal approach and during
      the time of NPI observation. A final EMR chart review will be conducted collecting
      information such as length of stay, discharge disposition, in-hospital mortality as well as
      total usage practices for management of BPSD: use of special observation (1:1 or enhanced),
      restraints, psychoactive medications, psychiatric evaluation. Within 48 hours of discharge,
      family caregivers will be interviewed regarding satisfaction with care using the Carer
      Questionnaire Data from the National Audit of Dementia Round 3.
    
  