
    
      Hypothesis and Objectives: The hypothesis that respiratory gated IMRT can escalate safely
      radiation doses for NSCLC with induction chemotherapy will be tested. The intent of the study
      is to determine the maximum tolerable dose of radiotherapy for NSCLC, using a novel treatment
      planning technique with accelerated fractionation, given with state-of-the-art imaging
      guidance.

      Primary Objective:

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose of radiotherapy by assessing treatment toxicity
           according to the acute RTOG grading scale.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the treatment toxicity of the combination regimen according to the chronic
           RTOG grading scale;

        -  Quality of Life: to be assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and LC13;

        -  To determine progression-free survival with this regimen;

        -  To identify partial organ tolerance doses for lung, esophagus and heart.

      Schema and Methods: Eligible patients who have consented will receive two cycles of
      cisplatin-vinorelbine chemotherapy. Thoracic radiotherapy will be given afterwards according
      to the dose-escalating scale. Only one dose level will open at one time. Dose level 1: 84. Gy
      in 35 fractions over 7 wks; Dose level 2: 79.5 Gy in 40 fractions over 6 wks; Dose level 3:
      75. Gy in 40 fractions over 5 wks.

      Eligibility Criteria:

        -  Patients with histologically-proven, by biopsy or cytology, unresected NSCLC

        -  Patients with AJC Stage I-III if all detectable tumors can be encompassed by radiation
           therapy fields

        -  Patients with positive supraclavicular node (N3) or malignant pleural effusion are not
           eligible.

        -  Age >= 18

        -  Karnofsky performance status >= 70

        -  ANC > 1.5; Plt > 100,000; Hct > 30%; AST (SGOT) < 1.5 ULN; serum creatinine < 1.5 mg/dL

        -  Patients must have measurable disease on the CT and PET images

        -  Patients must have a FEV1 > 1.0 L

        -  Evaluation of the total lung volume receiving 20 Gy (V20) must be < 30%; mean esophageal
           dose must be < 32 Gy; and the esophageal V 55 < 28%.

        -  Patients must have a satisfactory IMRT plan prior to start of radiotherapy.

      Statistical Considerations

      Primary Endpoint: The frequency of patients developing unacceptable (grade 3 or higher)
      toxicity according to the RTOG acute toxicity scale attributable to radiotherapy. Acute
      radiotherapy toxicities are defined as those toxicities that occur within 90 days from the
      start of radiotherapy.

      Sample Size: In order to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of radiotherapy that can
      be delivered using IMRT following induction chemotherapy, acceptable morbidity criteria must
      be defined. Based on the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 94-10, the dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT: defined as a grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity) rate for this study is
      determined to be 40%. After 7 evaluable patients have been followed for a minimum of 90 days
      from the start of radiation therapy, patients will be evaluated with respect to treatment
      morbidity. If there are no acute dose limiting toxicities in the first 5 patients (0/5), then
      the current dose will be deemed to be acceptable and will be escalated. If there is 1 acute
      DLT observed in the first 5 patients (1/5) and no acute DLTs in the last two patients (0/2),
      then the dose will be deemed to be acceptable and will be escalated. Otherwise the current
      dose will be deemed to be too toxic and escalation will end. This design gives at least 90%
      confidence that the true acute DLT rate at a given dose level is less than 40% and for any
      given dose level, the probability of not escalating when the true toxicity rate is 40% or
      higher is at least 88%.

      Safety Monitoring and Stoppage Rules: An SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that:

        -  results in death;

        -  is life-threatening (patient is at immediate risk of death);

        -  requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization;

        -  results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity;

        -  is congenital anomaly/birth defect;

        -  important medical events that may not be immediately life-threatening or result in death
           or hospitalization but may jeopardize the patient and may require medical or surgical
           intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed in this definition.

      Reporting of SAEs is as follows:

        1. Complete the Serious Adverse Event Report;

        2. Fax the Serious Adverse Event Report within 24 hours of the investigator's or designee's
           knowledge of the event to the attention of: Dr. Wilson Roa (780) 432-8517 (tel);(780)
           432-8380 (fax) and Dr. Don Yee (403) 944-2895 (tel);(403) 283-1651 (fax);

        3. Accrual may be stopped immediately as indicated upon review and confirmation of the SAE
           by the two PIs.

      Recruitment and Reporting: The projection rate of accrual was based on a previous preliminary
      study. At this rate, it would take three months to complete accrual for each of the 3 dose
      levels. A three-month waiting period is required prior to dose escalation to the next level.
      Hence, an estimate of 7 months is conservatively allowed for each level, amounting to a total
      of 21 months to complete accrual, treatments and waiting period for the primary endpoint. The
      first manuscript on this study will be completed by the end of two years. Analysis for the
      reporting treatment results will contain tabulation of all cases entered and any excluded
      from analysis, with reasons for the exclusion. Respective institutional accrual and observed
      endpoints of MTD, toxicity, progression-free survival and quality of life will be analyzed.
    
  