
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis (PS) are related to psychodermatological disorders with
      chronic relapsing course, multifactorial etiology and complex pathogenesis. In accordance
      with DSM-V, AD and PS belong to psychosomatic disorders with psychogenic manifestation and
      exacerbation, whereas depression represents a high range of psychiatric co-morbid pathology
      in AD and PS patients. Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) is a prominent representative
      of the neurotrophins family, widely studied in pathophysiology of psychiatric and
      dermatological disorders. Various factors including ethnicity, gender, genetic and
      socioeconomic causes as well methods of diagnosis and case definition may affect the course
      of dermatoses. A possible mechanism that contributes to dermatitis and psychiatric disorders
      development is dysregulation of the biological stress response system by altered
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis functioning. In addition many studies emphasize the
      role of gonadal hormones both in depression and dermatoses.

      This study evaluate clinical, psychological and biochemical parameters in AD and PS patients
      depending on gender and BDNF rs6265 gene polymorphism. Investigators conduct a 10-week,
      case-control study among AD and PS patients and healthy controls (HC) volunteers. All
      parameters are evaluated twice: at disease exacerbation (study baseline) and week 10.

      The following methods are used: assessment of dermatological status, using Scoring of Atopic
      Dermatitis (SCORAD) and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI); assessment of depression
      and anxiety according to DSM-V criteria and with Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) and
      Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A); analysis of serum BDNF (ng/ml), cortisol (nmol/L),
      testosterone (ng/dL) and IgE levels (IU/ml, AD only); DNA extraction and genotyping of BDNF
      variants.

      Sample collection and processing: blood are taken between 8-10 a.m. to prevent daily
      variations on week 0 and week 10 and collected to serum-separation tubes (SST) and EDTA tubes
      (for DNA extraction); samples are cooled (1 hr, 4°C) and centrifuged (2000xg, 10 minutes,
      25°C); serum are stored at -20°C before analysis; DNA extraction from whole blood is
      performed≤3 days from collection and stored (-70°C).

      After written informed consent and first blood sample, patients are provided with
      conventional treatments. For AD this include antihistamines (e.g., diphenhydramine,
      desloratadine), topical corticosteroids (e.g., betamethasone, mometasone) up to 3 weeks and
      emollients up to 2 months; for PS we will prescribe antihistamines (e.g., diphenhydramine,
      desloratadine), topical corticosteroids (e.g., betamethasone, mometasone) up to 3 weeks and
      keratolytics (2% salicylic ointment) up to 2 weeks. Patients are not prescribed
      antidepressants and other psychotropic agents.

      For assessment of study parameters all patients and HC will be divided into subgroups
      according to gender (males, femaes) and BDNF gene polymorphism (Val/Val; Val/Met; Met/Met).
      Additionally AD patients will be divided by IgE sensitization: EAD (extrinsic, IgE sensitive)
      and IAD (intrinsic, IgE non-sensitive).

      The study will last for 4-5 months. Patients inclusion criteria: no pregnancy; no unstable
      non-dermatological medical conditions, no systemic therapy (glucocorticosteroids,
      immunosuppressants and psychotropic drugs) within the month prior the study and blood
      sampling, no history of mental or other dermatological disorders, no severe forms of AD and
      PS; good general physical health. Inclusion criteria for HC are no pregnancy and good general
      physical health.

      Statistics will be performed using unpaired t-test or paired t-test (week 0: week 10
      comparisons, verified by Pearson/Spearman correlation). Unpaired, one-way ANOVA and/or
      two-way ANOVA test will be used for multiple group comparisons. Data will be presented as
      mean±SEM.
    
  