
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine a safe weekly dose of intravenous estramustine (EM) in combination
      with paclitaxel (TAX) and carboplatin (CBDCA) in patients with advanced prostate cancer. II.
      Determine the safety and efficacy of this combination in androgen dependent vs androgen
      independent disease in these patients. III. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of weekly
      intravenous EM and TAX in combination with CBDCA in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Phase I is a dose escalation study of estramustine. Phase II is a two stage design
      study, in which patients are stratified according to androgen dependence (androgen dependent
      disease vs androgen independent disease). In phase I, patients receive estramustine IV over 1
      hour via permanent venous access device on day 1 of weeks 1, 2, 3, and 4, followed by
      paclitaxel (TAX) IV over 1 hour. Carboplatin IV is administered over 30 minutes at the
      completion of TAX at week 1. Courses repeat every 4 weeks until disease progression or
      excessive toxicity or for up to 24 weeks. Patients with locally advanced androgen dependent
      prostate cancer may be considered for radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy after 4 courses.
      Androgen dependent patients not already on primary hormone therapy with a GnRH analog receive
      goserelin or leuprolide injections under the skin every 3 months while on the study,
      beginning during the first or second week of therapy. Three patients are entered at each dose
      level and must complete one course of therapy. If no patient experiences dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT), then 3 patients are treated at the next higher dose level. If 1 patient
      experiences DLT, then 3 more patients are treated at that same dose level. If 2 of 6 patients
      experience DLT, then that dose is declared the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). In phase II, a
      two stage design is applied to each patient population. Fourteen patients are enrolled in the
      first stage. If no responses are observed, the trial is stopped. If at least 1 response is
      observed, 11 additional patients will be enrolled onto the study.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-18 patients will be accrued to phase I; phase II will accrue
      up to 50 patients within 3 years.
    
  