
    
      Chronic pain is difficult to treat and is debilitating to patients in various ways, including
      wide spread suffering, disability, social displacement, and expense. For effective pain
      management, the first step should be to assess the exact status of the pain. This process may
      include characterizing the pain, quantifying it as accurately as possible, and analyzing
      influencing factors. However, it is hard to objectify pain because it is an invisible and
      subjective. The visual analogue scale (VAS) is widely used to assess the severity of pain.
      Moreover, current management of chronic pain is based on a patient's recall, which may be
      inaccurate. It would be ideal if we could manage pain by recording its status on a real-time
      basis, reflecting the impact of environmental factors. The Pain Assessment and Analysis
      System (PAAS) has been developed to monitor and record real-time pain. Users are asked to
      report the type of experienced pain and its severity. Therefore, for user convenience, PAAS
      can be accessed using a wearable device (Painmeter, LST, Seoul, Korea) that is interlinked
      with a smartphone mobile application (DrKooB-PAAS, iKooB Inc. Seoul, South Korea). The system
      records the frequency and severity of pain and can create reports summarizing the pain over
      the course of various time intervals. In addition, this system also records the time,
      temperature, humidity, and weather, along with the reported pain, to determine any
      correlations between the pain and these environmental factors. Fibromyalgia (FMS) is a
      complex disorder characterized by intractable, widespread pain and somatic symptoms such as
      insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, and cognitive dysfunction. The exact pathogenesis has yet
      to be elucidated, but current understandings suggest that disturbances in pain-regulating
      neurotransmitters are involved. The diagnosis and management of FMS are a challenge for
      physicians. Its management should combine pharmacological and non-pharmacological approaches,
      which suggests there are various factors that influence treatment outcomes. To date,
      tricyclic agents, serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, and pregabalin are known to
      have beneficial effects; however, a substantial number of patients are still suffering from
      the uncontrolled pain of FMS.

      To address the pain in these patients, an appropriate pain monitoring system that can reflect
      real-time pain severity and frequency and can analyze the pattern of impacting factors can be
      used to provide effective treatment and to eventually improve patient pain. Therefore, we
      aimed to investigate the feasibility of a real-time pain monitoring system, the Pain
      Assessment and Analysis System (PAAS), in patients with FMS in order to evaluate its effect
      on pain reduction. In addition, we evaluated the correlations between the VAS measured by
      PAAS and clinical parameters reflecting the disease activity of FMS.
    
  