
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension is a prevalent chronic condition that, if left untreated, can lead to
      significant cardiovascular morbidity and premature mortality. There are established,
      evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of hypertension. However, these guidelines are
      not routinely adhered to by all providers for reasons that are not well known or understood.
      In addition, inadequate control of BP nationwide has been well documented. This study will
      explore barriers to guideline adherence (Phase I) and evaluate, via a randomized controlled
      trial, a new approach to enhancing guideline adherence and ultimately BP control.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The long-range goal of the principal investigator is to develop and evaluate collaborative
      relationships between physicians and pharmacists that improve pharmacotherapy. This will be a
      5-year, multicenter study to evaluate the impact of physician/pharmacist collaborative teams
      on adherence to hypertension guidelines (JNC-VI) in six community-based family practice
      sites. There will be two study phases. Phase I comprises a needs assessment to identify
      barriers to guideline adherence and design intervention implementation refinement strategies.
      Phase II will be a prospective, randomized trial to assess the impact of physician/pharmacist
      collaborative teams on hypertension guideline adherence and BP control. The specific aims of
      Phase I are (1) to identify the scope and nature of physician and patient variables that may
      contribute to poor guideline adherence and (2) to refine the intervention implementation
      strategy and design tools for assessing guideline adherence and barriers to adherence. The
      specific aims of Phase II are (1) to determine if there is a change in guideline adherence
      and knowledge of hypertension when physicians are involved in physician/pharmacist teams and
      2) to determine if physician/pharmacist teams can achieve better BP control compared to usual
      care. The investigators expect that the improvement in guideline adherence and reduction in
      BP with this intervention will significantly impact patients with hypertension. Because there
      are more than 37 million Americans with uncontrolled hypertension, this model has the
      potential to become an important strategy to help achieve the BP goals for Healthy People
      2010.
    
  