
    
      The investigators have designed a double-blinded randomized, controlled trial to compare a
      standardized pain regimen of scheduled ibuprofen and acetaminophen to scheduled ibuprofen and
      placebo. In both arms, the participant will have the ability to ask for medication for
      breakthrough pain which will be oxycodone. By standardizing and scheduling the administration
      of ibuprofen with acetaminophen, the investigators hypothesize that total opioid requested
      and therefore consumed will be decreased in this participants who receive ibuprofen scheduled
      with acetaminophen. The investigators will primarily assess pain as reported on a 10-point
      scale mid-day on the second post-operative day. Secondarily, the investigators will collect
      reported pain scores and total opiate consumption while in the hospital, opiate consumption
      after discharge, and quality of life as assessed by the World Health Organization Quality of
      Life "Bref" (WHOQOL-BREF) survey. This information will be obtained via chart review and
      at-home surveys administered via email on the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap)
      system one and two weeks after surgery.

      Enrollment will be performed by study staff. Participants will then be randomized by the
      institution's Investigational Drug Services (IDS) in REDCap, which uses a randomization table
      generated by Penn State University (PSU) bio-statisticians. A medication packet will then be
      prepared and distributed by IDS for the participant containing 20 tablets of acetaminophen
      650 mg or placebo based on randomization assignment. The packet will then be sent to nursing
      staff caring for the patient. Participants will then receive study medication/placebo along
      with ibuprofen 600 mg (dispensed by the clinical pharmacy) every 6 hours. Participants will
      be able to request medication for breakthrough pain which will be oxycodone 5 mg or 10 mg
      depending on reported pain score (one pill for moderate pain, two pills for severe pain).
      Both ibuprofen and oxycodone will be ordered and dispensed by the clinical pharmacy. Until
      the participant is deemed able to receive medication by mouth, the participant may receive
      medication as prescribed by the caring obstetrician and/or anesthesiologist which will be
      beyond the scope of this trial. Pain scores will be collected and recorded in the medical
      chart by nursing and assistant staff as part of routine care.

      At discharge, participants will receive a standard prescription for 20 tablets of oxycodone 5
      mg with directions to take 1-2 tablets every 6-8 hours as needed for breakthrough pain, as is
      the current group standard at the institution in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

      After discharge, study staff will then conduct a chart review to collect demographic
      information, review the operative report, and ensure no event took place which would exclude
      the participant from the study. Study staff will also record total opiate consumption and
      pain scores.

      One week after surgery, the participant will receive an invitation via electronic mail
      (e-mail) to complete a survey on REDCap which will assess opiate consumption and perceived
      appropriateness of pain control. Two weeks after surgery, participants will receive two
      additional invitations; one to complete another survey to assess opiate consumption and
      perceived appropriateness of pain control, and a second to complete the WHOQOL-BREF. The
      WHOQOL-BREF survey has been validated to assess four distinct categories of quality of life
      in women two weeks postpartum. These invitations and reminders have been designed to occur
      automatically with the assistance of features inherent to the REDCap program. Participants
      will be considered non-compliant if they fail to complete surveys within three days of
      receiving their invitation.
    
  