
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, interventional pilot study analyzing both
      providers' and patients' perceptions and responses to the DNA Insight test. Twelve military
      health system primary care providers and 4 of each provider's patients will be enrolled in
      the study. (12 providers and 48 patients total) Each provider's patients will be randomized
      into delayed treatment (Group A) or immediate treatment (Group B) at a 1:1 ratio. All
      patients receive the Pain Medication and Mental Health DNA InsightTM test (intervention).
      Results for patients in Group A will be given to the provider with a 3 month delay. Those in
      the 3 month delay will serve as a comparison group for the period prior to receiving
      intervention. Results for patients in Group B will be given to the provider without delay,
      2-3 weeks after saliva sample collection. The provider will use the results of the Pain
      Medication and Mental Health DNA InsightTM test to evaluate whether changes of medications
      are indicated based on the individual patient's genetic profile. A measure of the provider's
      certainty, confidence, satisfaction, perception of care and global impression of change will
      be assessed at baseline, prior to obtaining the test results, and after obtaining the test
      results, as outlined in the data collection section. Patients' pain related self-reported
      outcomes, certainty, confidence and satisfaction will be assessed at baseline, prior to
      obtaining the DNA InsightTM test results, and after receipt and implementation of the test
      results, as described in the data collection section of the protocol.

      At the baseline visit (Visit 0) each enrolled patient will provide a saliva sample for the
      Pain Medication DNA InsightTM test that identifies genetic variation in CYP metabolism. The
      providers and patients will be recruited from any of the Womack Army Medical Center's Primary
      Care Medical Homes and family practice clinics.
    
  