
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine overall survival (OS) of patients with germ cell tumors treated with tandem
           autologous stem cell transplantation with non-cross-resistant conditioning regimens.

      Secondary

        -  Determine disease-free survival (DFS) of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of tandem transplants

        -  Determine the time to engraftment of neutrophils and platelets in patients treated for
           each transplant

        -  Determine the number of patients unable to adequately mobilize sufficient peripheral
           blood stem cells (PBSC) for tandem transplantation.

        -  Identify prognostic factors of patients unlikely to mobilize sufficient PBSC for tandem
           transplantation.

        -  Compare OS and DFS of patients undergoing single vs tandem transplantation.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization with filgrastim (G-CSF): Patients receive
           G-CSF subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 1 and continuing until stem cell collection
           is complete. Patients undergo stem cell collection beginning on day 5 of G-CSF
           administration and continuing for at least 3 collections until the collection goal is
           met.

        -  Second PBSC mobilization with chemotherapy: Patients not meeting the collection goal
           receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day 1 and G-CSF SC beginning on day 4 and
           continuing until stem cell collection is complete. Patients meeting the collection goal
           after PBSC mobilization via G-CSF alone or in combination with chemotherapy will undergo
           tandem autologous transplantation. If collection goal is not met but the patient has
           collected > or = 2 x 10^6 CD34 cells/kg, a single autologous transplant will be
           performed.

        -  Single stem cell transplantation (SCT): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on
           day -7 and ifosfamide IV on days -6 to -4. Patients undergo reinfusion of stem cells on
           day 0. Patients also receive G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 1 and continuing until
           blood counts recover.

        -  Tandem SCT: Patients receive treatment as in single SCT. Beginning 30-90 days later,
           patients receive carboplatin IV over 60 minutes and thiotepa IV over 30 minutes on days
           -6 to -4 and etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days -6 to -3. Patients undergo reinfusion
           of stem cells on day 0. Patients also receive G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 5 and
           continuing until blood counts recover.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6, 9, and 12 months and then
      every 6 months for up to 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  