
    
      The goal of this project is to document the benefits and barriers to expanding reimbursement
      for telemedicine to older patient's home as the originating site. The objectives are:

        -  Develop training module for midlevel clinicians to be ready for dissemination

        -  Improved patient outcomes measures on satisfaction with care; functioning and symptoms
           (anxiety, depression, traumatic stress, sleep apnea, alcohol use and problems)

        -  Reductions in emergency healthcare utilization and medications prescribed as obtained
           from electronic health record (EHR) at the Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) and
           self-reports

        -  Summarize activities and barriers, including communication with primary care provider,
           identification and improvement of home environmental risks, and assistance to support
           system

      This is an observational study of team-based telepsychiatry in the home for one group and
      team-based psychiatry in the clinic for the comparison group. The initial assessment will
      include information and informed consent for treatment, biopsychosocial assessment, summary
      for the psychiatrist, psychiatric evaluation and recommendations (all standard of care). To
      that the investigators are adding informed consent for program evaluation with 6 month
      follow-up with information for re-contacting (3 sources, addresses, email-telephone numbers),
      and brief administration of selected instruments before informed consent for treatment. If an
      eligible patient does not want to participate in the research study, the patient would still
      receive services.

      Additional telemedicine sessions and/or therapy sessions will be conducted as medically
      needed in accordance with quality care. At six months (with one month window on either side)
      the evaluation packet will be re-administered by the clinician if convenient or by the
      research assistant either in person or by phone.

      The sample size was selected to provide robust indicators of barriers to home based
      assessments. The comparison group was included to provide a context for the findings. It is
      anticipated that the home group will have greater problems at baseline than the clinic based
      comparison group but both will show improvements.
    
  