
    
      The randomized control trial is designed to test the effectiveness of a unique brief
      intervention for at-risk gambling within a national financial counseling organization.
      Individuals who call the program for credit counseling and financial support will be asked a
      brief screen for problem gambling by a trained financial advocate (i.e. credit counselor).
      Individuals who are eligible for the study will be provided with information about the study
      by their financial advocate and asked if they would be willing to have a researcher at
      University of Maryland School of Social Work (UMSSW) contact them to tell them more about
      information about the study and review informed consent.

      If the person wants to learn more about the study, a member of the research team at UMSSW
      will contact the individual, who will review the informed consent with the individual and
      answer questions. After obtaining their consent, the researcher will randomize the individual
      to either Group 1 (control) or Group 2 (intervention). A randomization matrix will be
      prepopulated in advance so that the researcher will assign the individual based on the next
      group assignment. If the individual is randomly assigned to Group 1, the researcher will
      proceed by asking the baseline/Time 1 interview questions. They will not receive any
      additional intervention.

      If the individual is randomly assigned to Group 2, the researcher will proceed by providing
      the brief intervention. The brief intervention includes providing feedback on the
      individual's gambling score; providing an educational fact about the relationship between
      problem gambling and financial well-being; talking with the individual about the 'pros' and
      'cons' of gambling with suggested strategies that could potentially reduce their gambling
      behaviors; and concluding with an action oriented closing question. Following the
      intervention, the researcher will then administer the baseline/Time 1 structured interview
      questions.

      For individuals who are assigned to the intervention group, they will also receive text
      messages. The researchers will send text messages via pre-programmed, automated mode to the
      client. Participants will receive up to five messages a week, and messages will be delivered
      at times when gambling may be higher, such as weekend afternoons and evenings. Text messages
      will be sent following baseline for one month, through the end of T2 (30-day post screening).

      Individuals who agree to participate in the study and who are randomized to either group
      (control or intervention) will complete three phone interviews by phone that inquire about
      gambling behaviors, financial well-being, and mental health-seeking behavior. Phone
      interviews will be administered at baseline (Time 1), 30 days (Time 2), and 90 days (Time 3)
      following consent. The credit counseling program will also provide data from their initial
      evaluation and screening from their records on individuals who take part in the intervention
      (e.g., sociodemographic variables, financial information about assets and debt, and the
      results of the gambling screen).
    
  