
    
      Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for suitable patients with end-stage renal
      disease as it results in lower morbidity and mortality rates when compared to dialysis.
      Unfortunately, the number of patients referred for transplantation has grown more quickly
      than the number of suitable grafts from deceased donors.

      The use of higher risk organs has expanded the donor pool but at a great cost due to the
      higher probability that higher risk kidneys will never function (primary non-function, PNF),
      or will have delayed graft function (DGF). The current standard of care for kidney graft
      preservation prior to transplantation is static cold storage but higher-risk deceased donor
      kidneys are particularly vulnerable to the effects of cold storage. Preliminary results from
      large animal kidney transplantation studies and a human clinical trial suggest that
      normothermic machine perfusion of kidneys prior to transplantation may ameliorate the injury
      sustained by kidney grafts during cold static preservation, allow assessment of organ
      viability prior to transplantation, and reduce the risk of delayed graft function or
      non-function. Such a strategy may not only improve the performance of kidneys that are
      currently considered acceptable for transplantation, but may also facilitate the assessment
      and utilization of kidneys that are currently not considered for transplantation.

      This study will examine the feasibility and safety of normothermic ex vivo perfusion of human
      kidneys prior to transplantation. Kidneys will be retrieved in the standard fashion and
      stored cold during transit. Upon arrival at the study transplant centre, kidneys will begin
      perfusion with a normothermic near-physiologic, blood-based solution. Perfusion will last
      1-10 hours.

      The study will evaluate kidney function after transplantation using standard clinical
      parameters. Study participants (n=25) will be followed for 3 months following transplantation
      and their outcomes recorded. Feasibility will be measured using the ratio of actual:eligible
      kidney grafts preserved by normothermic ex vivo perfusion and will also take into account
      logistical issues with respect to implementation and ease of use of the ex vivo perfusion
      device. Safety will be assessed by rates of device failure resulting in organ discard,
      primary graft non-function, delayed graft function, graft failure, and recipient mortality.
    
  