
    
      Pressure ulcers (PUs) are localized skin or underlying tissue injury resulting from pressure
      or from pressure combined with shear or friction. In the United States, the annual treatment
      cost of PUs has been estimated at $11 billion and the cost to manage a single-full thickness
      PU is almost $70,000. According to Beckrich and Aronovitch, in the U.S., almost 25% of the
      approximately 1.6 million PUs that develop in acute care settings are acquired
      intra-operatively during surgeries that last more than three hours. The average estimated
      cost of treatment for the PUs in surgical patients is $750 million - $1.5 billion per year.

      Surgical patients are at high risk for developing pressure ulcers due to the presence of many
      risk factors that are specific to intra-operative environment. Intra-operative factors that
      contribute to the development of pressure ulcers include patient weight, age, type of
      surgery, time on operating table longer than 2.5 hrs, anesthetic agents, extra-corporeal
      circulation, use of heating blanket and presence of vascular diseases.

      The DabirAIR overlay system (DOS) is a semi-disposable, multi-patient use, alternating
      pressure (AP) overlay for surgical and medsurg bed applications. The system was developed as
      a new and innovative tool for surgeons and perioperative professionals alike to help reduce
      the risks of deep tissue injury and hospital-acquired pressure ulcers resulting from long
      surgical procedures in the OR.

      Henry Ford Health System will evaluate the DabirAIR overlay system (DOS) for its
      effectiveness in preventing hospital acquired pressure ulcer (HAPU) in the peri-operative
      setting. The evaluation will be done in patients scheduled for neurosurgical procedures
      (surgical procedures typically last longer than 3 hours). The primary objective of the study
      is to compare the prevention-effectiveness (incidence rate of HAPU) between DOS (treatment
      group) vs facility specific standard of care pressure-relieving device(s) (control group)
      peri-operatively to discharge. About 400 patients in the treatment group will have their
      neurosurgical procedures while lying on the DOS in the operating room. Half of the patients
      from the treatment group will also be placed on the DOS in the post-op ICUs and recovery
      units. Retrospective chart reviews will be performed for 400 patients who had neurosurgical
      procedures while lying on the facility specific standard of care support surfaces in the
      operating room and post-op ICUs.

      It is hypothesized that the treatment group will have lower rate of HAPU compared to the
      control group due to the pressure relief benefits offered by DOS. Prevention of HAPU will
      result in improved quality of life and clinical outcomes and cost savings to the healthcare
      facility.
    
  