
    
      In Europe 6.2% of the births are born before 37 weeks of gestation. After a long period in
      Neonatal Intensive Care Units, the infants are dismissed but they continue to be examined in
      follow-up programs. It is known that advances in care have improved the rate of survival of
      premature newborns, but unfortunately they may have disabilities which can be severe
      (cerebral palsy) or mild. Mild disabilities (like attention deficit, hyperactivity,
      visual-perceptual and coordination disorders), even if mild, can have a significant impact on
      school achievements and social life. Follow-up program is dedicated to detect both severe and
      minor disabilities, trying to rehabilitate the children before they start formal education in
      school. It is well known that more than half of premature children can show impairment of
      processing speed and academic failures, even with normal cognitive level. Processing speed is
      the result of the action of different executive functions, especially working memory,
      planning, attention shift, inhibition and persistence.

      There is growing interest over cognitive rehabilitation with video games. Recently an
      application for training functional cognitive skills (Intendu®) has been developed . It is a
      software which is able to interact with patients through a video monitoring feedback
      (Kinect®), enhancing brain plasticity of patients with brain dysfunction.

      Aim of the study:

      To evaluate whether an adaptive motion-interaction video game can improve processing speed
      and executive functions in premature children.

      Methods:

      35 children born prematurely (23-36.5 W) aged 4-6 year-old with reduced processing speed,
      will be invited to participate if they meet the inclusion criteria. They will be submitted to
      4-5 weeks intensive training with Intendu®, (4-5 sessions per week, for a total of 20
      sessions) lasting 15 minutes each, in the presence of a tutor (a psychologist expert in
      premature children). A control group of 35 children (no training) with the same
      characteristics (gestational age, cognitive profile, socio-economic status) will be
      available. Before and after the training/or no training the participants, in addition to the
      scheduled follow-up assessment, will be evaluated with two WPPSI-III®-Wechsler Preschool and
      Primary Scale of Intelligence subtests (Coding and Symbol search) and one Nepsy II® domain-A
      developmental Neuropsychological Assessment (attention and executive function). Teacher and
      parents evaluations will be also considered (school reports and Child Behavior Checklist -
      questionnaire)
    
  