
    
      Background:

      Lung cancer is a devastating disease in which the response for first line therapy is only
      30%. Evaluating response is performed normally by a CT or PET-CT scans after 2-3 cycles of
      therapy, thus, lack of response is been evaluated only after the patient has been treated
      following significant amount of therapy, which is inefficient in 70% of cases.

      Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop tools that might predict response to therapy
      during the early course of therapy; Most valuable will be before or after the first cycle of
      therapy. For that reason, the investigators aim in this study to evaluate the use of Dynamic
      PET-CT as a tool to assess disease response to anti-cancer therapy in Lung Cancer patients.

      Objectives:

        1. To assess the feasibility of baseline Dynamic PET-CT as a tool for assessing response
           for anti-cancer therapy in Lung Cancer patients.

        2. To predict early response to treatment as soon as after 1 cycle of therapy by dynamic
           and static PET-CT.

        3. To correlate Dynamic PET-CT with survival/disease free survival

      Method:

      200 advanced lung cancer patients will be enrolled over 3 years in a single institute, single
      arm study at Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Hospital.

      Patients will be evaluated by a Dynamic PET-CT protocol: before initiation of therapy, 7-14
      days after the first therapy cycle, 3 months after initiation of therapy and 6 months after
      the first therapy cycle. In addition, non-invasive biomarkers that are routinely measured
      including protein markers (CEA- Carcinoembryonic Antigen, CYFRA21- Cytokeratin 19 Fragment,
      NSE- Neuron Specific Enolase) will be assessed in this trial.

      Disease response will be evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST
      criteria).

      Additional PET-CT will not increase radiation dose significantly. The mean estimated
      radiation dose for a limited CT of the chest is about 14 mSv (i.e., 7mSv for limited
      diagnostic CT and FDG ([18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose), each). The dynamic stage will add radiation
      dose of about 0.3mSv. Of note, the significance of adding radiation dose is less of
      importance with regard to treatment of patients with aggressive cancer.
    
  