
    
      The prevalence of chronic non-communicable diseases, including cardiovascular disease (CVD),
      type-2 diabetes (DM), and common mental disorders (CMD), i.e. anxiety & depression, are
      increasing worldwide, including in India, where patients with CMD are underserved, especially
      in rural areas, due to both stigma and lack of trained providers.

      Treatment of patients with dual diagnoses involves special challenges and, if left untreated,
      mental illness can contribute to non-adherence and worsened outcomes.

      Similarly, lack of staff training in India's Primary Health Centers (PHC) can result in
      missed diagnoses, inappropriate treatment, and increased morbidity and suffering. A growing
      body of research suggests that some of these challenges can be overcome by integrating
      treatment of patients with co-morbid diagnoses, by using "stepped" or "collaborative" care
      models. Such integration may also help reduce the stigma of seeking mental health services.

      We plan to address this need by implementing and evaluating a multi-level integrated
      intervention in collaboration with 50 Primary Health Clinics (PHC) in rural Karnataka using a
      cluster Randomized Controlled Trial (cRCT). Our approach is based on our team's previous
      clinical and behavioral research in this region and builds on a decade long collaboration
      between St. John's Research Institute and University of California San Francisco. This study
      brings together an Indo-US team of scientists and government representatives with expertise
      in treating and studying mental health, chronic diseases, behavior change, stigma, and in
      conducting large clinical trials in rural India. It also builds on the work by India's
      National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), which recently announced that it will add tobacco
      control to its agenda. If successful, this intervention thus has high potential for scale-up
      and sustainability.

      The proposed intervention is informed by a Social Ecological Paradigm that articulates the
      relationship between social settings and health behavior. It uses behavior change strategies
      guided by Cognitive Social Theory. Patients in intervention PHCs will receive integrated
      collaborative clinic care by their physicians, a nurse case manager and consulting
      psychiatrists. They will also participate in 12-month community-based "Healthy Living
      groups," in which cognitive and behavioral strategies are used to target health promoting
      behaviors, such as increased activity, improved diet, adherence to medical regimens, as well
      as problem-solving skills, coping skills, and social support. These groups will initially be
      co-facilitated by a Master's level mental health professional and a trained lay community
      health outreach worker (ASHA) on a weekly basis for 3 months. During the remaining 9 months,
      the ASHA will conduct monthly booster sessions focusing on the maintenance of the acquired
      health-promoting behaviors. Patients in control PHCs will receive an "enhanced standard" care
      model, which includes providing referrals for mental health needs.

      To ensure standardization of study procedures across settings, all control PHC staff will
      receive basic training in established clinical protocols, plus training in the prescription
      of anti-depressant medication. While this may represent somewhat of an intervention, we did
      not consider it ethical to allow clinically depressed patients to be treated with vitamins
      and anxiolytics, which are currently frequently used in the PHC.

      Following a brief start-up phase to adapt measures and finalize protocols, we propose to:

        1. Use ASHAs to conduct community-based screening of depression, anxiety, DM and CVD risk
           factors during community health fairs in the catchment areas of 25 PHCs to examine a)
           whether this increases subsequent diagnoses in the PHC of patients with co-morbid mental
           health and chronic disease diagnoses and b) whether such patients are as likely to enter
           and remain in treatment, compared to the standard PHC-based screening.

        2. Implement and evaluate the effects of providing staff training in the collaborative care
           model of integrated mental health (depression, anxiety) and cardiovascular disease
           (hypertension, diabetes, CVD) to intervention PHC staff and compare them to control PHC
           staff with respect to a) knowledge and clinical skills using clinical patient vignettes,
           and b) perceived satisfaction reported by clinic patients in intervention and control
           PHCs.

        3. Implement and evaluate the effects of our, multi-level integrated clinic and
           community-based intervention for co-morbid primary care patients compared to the
           enhanced standard non-integrated treatment services in a cRCT with 50 participating PHC,
           with regard to both mental health (depression and anxiety) and physical health (diabetes
           and cardiovascular disease) outcomes at post intervention, 6 month and 12 month follow
           up.
    
  