
    
      Background:

      Hospital-acquired infections impact patient recovery and increase risk of deterioration.
      Pneumonia is the second commonest cause of death in Singapore accounting for 19% of deaths in
      2014. Hospital acquired pneumonia (HAP) or nosociomal pneumonia refers to any pneumonia
      contracted by a patient in a hospital at least 48-72 hours after admission and is usually
      caused by a bacterial infection, rather than a virus. It is the most prevalent
      hospital-acquired infection, and has the highest mortality among the hospital-acquired
      infections (20-50%) . Local audit data has shown that around 60% of deaths in hospitalised
      older patients are due to pneumonia, of which a significant proportion are due to HAP or
      health care associated pneumonia (HCAP).

      A meta-analysis of respiratory studies has shown low numbers of studies evaluating novel
      antimicrobial agents for hospital-acquired pneumonia (15.9%) suggesting further research or
      novel approaches are needed. The prevalence of nosociomal pneumonia in a European study was
      13.9%. Pneumonia acquired during periods of hospitalisation has a high morbidity, mortality
      and increased hospital length of stay (LOS). Audit of the 2014 data from the Geriatric
      Mortality meetings has shown all cause pneumonia (community acquired pneumonia (CAP) and HAP)
      is 55%. Currently this data is being analysed to calculate the proportion of deaths
      attributable to HAP vs CAP.

      The pathophysiology of pneumonia in the elderly is primarily due to aspiration pneumonia
      (ASP). ASP comprises predominantly two pathological conditions: airspace infiltration with
      bacterial pathogens and dysphagia-associated aspiration. The primary route of infection is
      believed to be through microaspiration of organisms that have colonised the oropharynx and
      gastrointestinal tract. Hospitalised patients become colonised with microorganisms from the
      hospital environment within 48 hours and severity of respiratory infection is related to the
      number and virulence of these microorganisms as well as the hosts immune response.

      Swallowing difficulties, poor oral hygiene and reduced immune response are inherent in the
      older population contributing to an increased risk of HAP. In addition, older patients have
      an increased risk of aspiration of gastric contents due to a laxity of lower oesphageal
      sphincter, an anatomical sphincter that relies on diaphragmatic function. Many older patients
      locally are fed via naso-gastric tube and the presence of a naso-gastric tube increases the
      risk of aspiration pneumonia occuring during hospitalisation. Supine positioning also
      predisposes to micro aspiration from the oropharynx and stomach with many patients placed
      routinelyin a supine position to undertake their basic care needs. Positioning in the semi
      recumbant position has been shown to reduce microaspiration with elevations of 30-45 degrees
      by improving supraglottic drainage.

      Patients cared for in intensive care units have been shown to benefit from a targeted bundle
      of care that reduced ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) and it is therefore likely that
      these principles could be extended to benefit older patients. The VAP bundle includes head up
      tilt (30 degrees), gastric acid suppression and good oral hygiene. In this study, gastric
      acid suppression will not be used routinely as some studies have suggested that the use of
      proton pump inhibitors may increase the risk of HAP. Research has shown reduced pneumonia
      rates and hospital re-admissions after the implementation of good oral care methods and a
      local quality improvement project (Bright Smiles) has been shown to improve the quality of
      oral care in older patients. Assessment of swallowing function at an early stage within the
      hospital admission offers the opportunity to identify earlier those patients with swallowing
      difficulties and intervene to reduce the likelihood of aspiration.

      In a Spanish prospective multicenter case-control study of patients with HCAP or CAP more
      than 50% were due to streptococcus pneumoniae and the presence of multiple co-morbidities
      were associated with HCAP. In older patients with multiple co-morbidities there is poor
      uptake of vaccination and therefore the utilization of a vaccination programme for these
      patients proposes to reduce the likelihood of re-admission due to HCAP or HAP and aims to
      impact the hospital re-admission rates in geriatric patients.

      The local data has identified the need for a novel approach to hospital acquired infections
      and the techniques described have shown benefit in ventilated patients but this study aims to
      extend the principle of preventing aspiration to a wider population of "at risk" older
      patients through positioning, swallowing assessment and good oral care.

      The study planned is a randomized control trial (intervention arm vs control arm) to compare
      current best practice with a respiratory bundle of care.
    
  