
    
      Dialysis is defined as the diffusion of molecules in solution across a semipermeable membrane
      along an electrochemical concentration gradient. The primary goal of hemodialysis (HD) is to
      restore the intracellular and extracellular fluid environment that is characteristic of
      normal kidney function. In addition to diffusion, solutes may pass through pores in the
      membrane by means of a convective process driven by hydrostatic or osmotic pressure gradients
      a process called ultrafiltration. During ultrafiltration, there is no change in solute
      concentrations; its primary purpose is the removal of excess total body water.

      Fatigue is a well-known and frequent symptom in HD patients with a reported association with
      the decrease in health-related quality of life commonly found in this population. The
      prevalence of fatigue ranges from 60% to as high as 97% in patients on long-term renal
      replacement therapy. Despite this fact, health care providers are still unaware of both its
      presence and severity.

      The clinical assessment of fatigue in dialysis patient can be somehow difficult for the
      treating physicians. Patients usually show diversity in their recovery from fatigue. However,
      early recognition is essential because a number of treatable causes can be easily identified.

      Post-HD fatigue is a common incapacitating symptom affecting renal population. It is defined
      as a feeling of exhaustion that regularly follows each dialysis procedure. Uremia-related
      factors such as anemia, nutritional deficiency and enhanced inflammatory state could possibly
      lead to post-HD fatigue. In addition, the HD procedure itself including the efficiency of HD
      session, type of dialyzer and ultrafiltration rate are potential exacerbating factors for
      post-HD fatigue.

      Several methods have been proposed as a way to assess post-HD fatigue with the "time to
      recover (minutes) from HD" being one of them. Lindsay et al. assisted patients' responses to
      the single open-ended question, "How long does it take you to recover from a dialysis
      session?".Lindsay et al. found that post hemodialysis recovery time is an important indicator
      for patients' quality of life.

      Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is a critically important outcome for patients with
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The National Quality Forum selected the Kidney Disease
      Quality of Life Short-Form survey (KDQOL™-36) as the tool of choice for assessing this
      outcome in adult patients with ESRD; assessment is required within 4 months of initiating
      dialysis, and annually thereafter. This 36-question survey instrument was published in 2000.
      The KDQOL™-36 contains 5 subscales: the Physical Component Summary(PCS), Mental Component
      Summary (MCS), Burden of Kidney Disease (BKD), Symptoms and Problems of Kidney Disease
      (SPKD), and Effects of Kidney Disease (EKD). The first 2 subscales are a general measure of
      HRQOL, whereas the last 3 assess issues specific to patients with ESRD or earlier stages of
      chronic kidney disease.(15) The Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form 36 (KDQOL-36)
      provides accurate estimate for fatigue severity and was previously used in HD population.

      Although post-HD fatigue commonly exists in dialysis patients, it is usually underestimated
      by physicians. For this reason, appropriate and early identification of symptoms and
      associated factors might improve the patient's quality of life. Extending the research in
      this area will certainly be of great value to HD population.
    
  