
    
      Objective: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) remains a leading cause of visual impairment. A frequent
      manifestation of DR is diabetic macular edema (DME) for which laser photocoagulation has been
      the only proven treatment for the last several decades. Studies have shown that anti-vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) injections such as bevacizumab or ranibizumab have been
      efficacious in treating patients with DME. However, there has been no direct comparison of
      these agents to determine whether one treatment is more effective than the other. The
      objective of this study is to compare the treatment efficacy of ranibizumab versus
      bevacizumab in eyes with DME.

      Study Population: Sixty (60) participants with macular edema secondary to diabetes and any
      stage of DR (other than those requiring scatter laser photocoagulation for proliferative DR)
      in one or both eyes will be enrolled in this randomized study.

      Design: In this Phase II, multi-center, comparative, double-masked study, eyes will be
      randomly assigned to receive ranibizumab or bevacizumab. During the initial phase of the
      study participants will participate in a three-period, 36-week, crossover study in which
      study eyes will be assigned to one of four treatment groups (i.e., treatment sequences). The
      two drugs and three periods form a RRB/RBB/BBR/BRR pattern as follows:

        -  Group 1 (RRB pattern) eyes will receive a series of intravitreal injections of
           ranibizumab at baseline and Weeks 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20, then crossover to receive a
           series of intravitreal injections of bevacizumab at Weeks 24, 28 and 32.

        -  Group 2 (RBB pattern) eyes will receive a series of intravitreal injections of
           ranibizumab at baseline and Weeks 4 and 8, then crossover to receive a series of
           intravitreal injections of bevacizumab at Weeks 12, 16, 20, 24, 28 and 32.

        -  Group 3 (BBR pattern) eyes will receive a series of intravitreal injections of
           bevacizumab at baseline and Weeks 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20, then crossover to receive a
           series of intravitreal injections of ranibizumab at Weeks 24, 28 and 32.

        -  Group 4 (BRR pattern) eyes will receive a series of intravitreal injections of
           bevacizumab at baseline and Weeks 4 and 8, then crossover to receive a series of
           intravitreal injections of ranibizumab at Weeks 12, 16, 20, 24, 28 and 32.

      Participants for whom one eye is enrolled in the study will have this eye randomly assigned
      to one of the four groups above. Participants for whom both eyes are enrolled in the study
      will have the right eye randomly assigned to one of the four groups above; the left eye will
      be assigned to the group with the schedule inverse to that for the right eye. For example, if
      the right eye is randomly assigned to Group 1 (RRB pattern), the left eye will be
      automatically assigned to Group 3 (BBR pattern). Thus, at each treatment, the right eye for a
      participant enrolling both eyes in the study will always receive a different investigational
      product than the left eye. Following this crossover phase, eyes will be returned to the
      treatment (ranibizumab or bevacizumab) to which they were originally assigned and treated on
      an as-needed basis through a common termination date one year from enrollment of the
      last-enrolled participant at the National Eye Institute (NEI) and through Year 1 at the
      Bristol Eye Hospital (BEH). Both the treating investigators and participants will be masked
      to the group assignments. The primary outcome will be assessed at Weeks 12, 24, 36 and Year
      1.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure is the mean change in Early Treatment Diabetic
      Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA). Changes in BCVA from baseline
      to four weeks following the end of each of the three periods (i.e., Weeks 12, 24 and 36) and
      at Year 1 will be used for the primary analysis.

      Secondary outcomes (assessed between the baseline and Week 12 visits, Weeks 12 and 24 visits
      and Weeks 24 and 36 visits and at Year 1) will include the mean changes in central macular
      thickness and central retinal volume by treatment group as measured by optical coherence
      tomography (OCT); the slope of the changes in BCVA, central macular thickness and retinal
      volume; the proportion of eyes with visual improvement ≥ 10 letters; the proportion of eyes
      with visual improvement ≥ 15 letters; the proportion of eyes with ≥ 0.1 log unit loss or gain
      in logOCT; the proportion of eyes with ≥ 0.05 log unit loss or gain in logOCT; changes in
      fluid leakage in the macula as demonstrated by fluorescein angiography; and changes in
      macular structural improvement (i.e., resolution of cystic changes) as measured by OCT. The
      digital OCT images collected between the Baseline and Week 36 visits will be graded by a
      masked, external Reading Center.

      Other secondary outcomes will include the proportion of eyes meeting criteria for significant
      worsening, treatment success, or treatment failure, the frequency of re-injection among eyes
      in the treatment-as-needed phase of the study, and the proportion of eyes receiving
      focal/grid laser photocoagulation or other adjuvant treatment during the course of the study.

      Safety outcomes include the number and severity of adverse events. The number of eyes
      withdrawn from the investigational product due to vision loss or adverse events and the
      number of eyes deemed to have worsening disease will also contribute to the assessment of
      safety.
    
  