
    
      Chronic kidney disease is a descriptive term and is used for deteriorating kidney function of
      any underlying cause. Chronic kidney disease implies longstanding (>3 months), potentially
      progressive, impairment in renal function.(Kumar & Clark's ., 2016).

      Diabetes mellitus is the most common cause of chronic kidney disease in developed countries.
      In patients with diabetes, there is a steady advance from microalbuminuria to dipstick
      positive proteinuria and a progression to renal failure. (Davidson's.,2014) .The most
      commonly diagnosed diabetes-related complications is diabetic retinopathy. Its prevalence
      increases with the duration of diabetes. Some 20%of people with type 1 diabetes will have
      retinal changes after 10 years, rising to >95% after20 years; 20-30% of people with type 2
      diabetes have retinopathy at diagnosis.(Kumar & Clark's ., 2016) .

      Also from risk factors of diabetic retinopathy is nephropathy, and if severe, is associated
      with worsening of Diabetic retinopathy. Conversely, treatment of renal disease (e.g. renal
      transplantation) may be associated with improvement of retinopathy and a better response to
      photocoagulation.(Kanaski ,2016) The high burden of ocular disease in Chronic kidney disease
      can be explained, in part, by the sharing of risk factors common to both kidney and eye
      diseases such as age, smoking, hypertension, diabetes, raised serum cholesterol and obesity.
      Ocular diseases may also be directly linked to chronic kidney disease via common pathogenic
      pathways, including, atherosclerosis, microangiopathy, inflammation and oxidative stress
      (Wong et al., 2014).

      In our study we seek to do the following for participants :

        1. A detailed history including

             1. Age, sex, smoking Habits

             2. Duration of diabetes mellitus and treatment.

             3. Chronic kidney disease stage by estimated glomerular filtration rate according to
                MDRD formula

             4. Duration of haemodialysis.

             5. Associated co-morbidity as hypertension,

             6. Therapeutic history eg; angiotensin converting enzyme, angiotensin II receptor
                blocker, amiodarone, erythropoietin.

        2. Complete Clinical examination including haemodynamics, complete cardiac, chest,
           abdominal, lower limb examination, cranial nerve examination.

        3. Complete eye examination including detailed fundus examination, classifying expected eye
           problems as:

             -  Cataract. - Glaucoma

             -  Cranial nerve affection

             -  Retinopathy either proliferative, non proliferative or macular oedema.

        4. The following investigations will be done:

             -  Serum creatinine & Blood Urea for estimation of glomerular filtration rate

             -  Glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c).

             -  lipogram.

             -  Complete blood count

             -  ECG
    
  