
    
      SUMMARY OF STUDY PLAN A Phase I study of the safety of a topically-administered 7-amino acid
      peptide with a fluorescein analog (5-FITC) label for detecting neoplastic areas of the
      esophagus is proposed. The study will test the safety of administering this agent
      (5-FITC-labeled 7-AA peptide) to human subjects undergoing clinically-indicated upper
      endoscopy and/or endoscopic ultrasound for suspected esophageal adenocarcinoma with or
      without Barrett's Esophagus or High-Grade dysplasia (HGD) in Barrett's Esophagus. We intend
      to enroll 25 evaluable subjects. We expect to be able to enroll about 5 subjects per month,
      so the study should take about 6-9 months to complete.

      Subjects will be recruited around their scheduled procedure. The endoscopists performing the
      procedures are all investigators on this protocol and on the FDA form 1572. Blood for
      clinical labs and urine for dipstick urinanalysis (and pregnancy test, if applicable) will be
      collected pre-procedure, along with medical information. Vital signs are monitored throughout
      the clinical procedure and will be captured on case report forms, so no separate physical
      exam is necessary. The endoscopy will proceed per UMHS (University of Michigan Health System)
      standard of care and guidelines for management of Barrett's Esophagus (American College of
      Gastroenterology, Appendix C). The endoscopist performing the clinical procedure will
      evaluate the potential risk (if any) for their patient to continue with the procedure or
      study. The endoscopist will spray the reconstituted 5-FITC-labeled peptide onto the
      esophageal mucosa through a catheter in the endoscope. Pictures with white-light will be
      taken with the standard endoscope before and after the peptide application. The Mauna
      Kea/Cellvizio® or miniprobe , an FDA approved instrument (510(k) ref # K051585) will be
      passed through the instrument channel of the standard endoscope and used for collecting
      confocal images of up to two areas where the peptide binds. Biopsies will taken as clinically
      indicated, including the two places where the confocal images were taken. Data about all
      clinical biopsies will be collected on case report forms. All biopsies are for clinical care
      only (not research use) and will be sent for routine histology per UMHS standard of care.

      Approximately 24 hours (± 4 hours) post-procedure, blood for clinical labs and urine for
      dipstick urinanalysis (UA) will be collected to assess for potential effects (if any) from
      applying the peptide solution. Subjects will receive compensation for the inconvenience of
      returning for another blood draw. Subjects may be able to have their blood and UA done at a
      UMHS lab or QUEST Diagnostics Lab closer to their home Subjects will receive compensation for
      the inconvenience of returning for another blood draw. Subjects may be able to have their
      blood and UA done at a UMHS lab or QUEST Diagnostics Lab closer to their home orby Michigan
      Clinical Research Unit to you (MCRU 2U). Additional blood draws for follow up labs may be
      needed if any significant differences from baseline are seen. Additional compensation will be
      offered for those blood draws.
    
  