
    
      At the training sessions, both clinicians and patients will fill out a set of questionnaires
      and go through standardized psychophysical tests for assessing visual displays of affect.
      They will also be informed of the efficacy of the electroacupuncture in relieving pain during
      the experiment. During the clinical examination, the clinician will follow clinical exam
      protocol and do an intake of the FM patient; including a physical exam and pain assessment.
      While in the scanner, the clinician will receive pain stimulation with a pressure cuff on the
      leg over an 8 minute paradigm in order to get cerebral representation. The patient, will then
      be placed in a different scanner running simultaneously, and will experience pain stimulation
      with the pressure cuff while interacting via live camera with the clinician in the other
      scanner. When visually prompted via cues on a screen, the clinician will activate analgesia
      for the patient, through a response device (response box) in clinician's one hand. After each
      trial of pain with/without treatment, the clinicians will be asked "how did you feel about
      the outcome (extremely positive - extremely negative)", and how satisfied are you (Not at all
      satisfied - Very satisfied) on Numerical Rating Scales (NRS). The patient will also give
      ratings after each trial of pain with/without treatment. They will be asked asked "how did
      you feel about the outcome (extremely positive - extremely negative)?", and "how painful was
      the cuff (Not painful - Extremely painful)?" on NRS. After the scan, both the clinician and
      patient will be asked to rate anxiety during the presence of visual stimulus preceding cuff
      activation (not at all anxious - extremely anxious). After the final MRI session, the
      clinician and the patient will both be given the chance to report their responses to the
      treatment and then debriefed.
    
  