
    
      Description of Procedures to be performed

      Pre-Procedure Medication Regimen The standard of care premedication with antiplatelet therapy
      for CAS will be used for the study. To minimize the risk of neurological events related to
      stent thrombosis during the procedure, subjects should be provided antiplatelet therapy for a
      minimum of 48 to 72 hours prior to the procedure, to include: 1) Aspirin 325 mg daily and 2)
      Clopidogrel (Plavix®) 75 mg twice daily OR Ticlopidine (Ticlid®) 250 mg twice daily

      A protracted dose of premedication may be substituted by administering a loading dose of
      antiplatelet therapy at least 4 hours prior to the carotid intervention on the day of the
      procedure, to include: 1) Aspirin A 650 mg loading dose of aspirin, provided that it is not
      enteric coated or extended release, and 2) Clopidogrel (Plavix ®) 450 mg.

      Procedure: Patients will undergo CAS with FDA-approved carotid stents under embolic
      protection with the Accunet device or the Gore NPS. All CAS procedures will be performed
      through retrograde access from the common femoral artery. CAS procedures will be performed
      using a fixed angiographic unit (Allura Xper FD20, Philips, Bothell, WA). Procedural details
      and CAS protocols will follow techniques described in detail before.14 The procedure will be
      performed under local anesthesia with minimal sedation to facilitate continuous neurological
      evaluation. Baseline angiographic studies will be performed concurrently with the CAS
      procedure. The diagnostic angiography will be reviewed to ensure that the patient does not
      meet any applicable angiographic exclusion criteria. Once this has been determined,
      randomization will be performed. The Accunet filter or the Gore NPS will be used according to
      the instructions for use. Ultrasound-guided access to the ipsilateral or contralateral
      femoral vein will be obtained if the patient is randomized to CAS with the Gore NPS.
      Neurological monitoring of the subject's level of awareness will be evaluated every 5 to 10
      minutes during the CAS procedure. Patients deemed ineligible by angiographic criteria will be
      considered screen failures and will be excluded from the study. These patients may receive
      further treatment outside of the study protocol according to usual practice and standard of
      care.

      Transcranial Doppler Protocol: Transcranial Doppler signals, using a portable digital 2-MHz
      PMD/spectral TCD unit (PMD150, Spencer Technologies, Seattle, WA), will be recorded from
      bilateral middle cerebral arteries via transtemporal windows. Monitoring will be started in
      the operative room immediately before CAS and continued until the end of the case or for at
      least 15 minutes after removal of the neuroprotection system. A head frame will be used for
      ultrasound probe fixation and continuous flow assessment in M1 segment of the middle cerebral
      artery (MCA). Several TCD parameters will be recorded: MES counts and microemboli shower
      detection during the different steps of the procedure, initial MCA mean velocity, mean MCA
      velocity during CAS, and final mean MCA velocity. MES will be identified according to the
      recommended guidelines.31 Data will be stored on a hard disk using a coding system and will
      be analyzed off-line on a later day by readers who will be blinded to patient information.

      Diffusion-weighted MRI exams: All patients will have DW-MRI scans of the brain obtained
      within 24 hours prior to CAS and 18 to 24 hours after CAS. Postprocedural DW-MRI studies will
      be compared to preprocedural studies to identify new procedure-related ischemic cerebral
      lesions.32, 33 DW-MRI will be obtained using standard head coils on 1.5 Tesla Siemens
      scanners (Siemens Avanto or Magnetom Sonata, Siemens, Erlangen, Germany). DW-MRI with
      echo-planar imaging sequence (B0 = 1000) and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR)
      images will be obtained in axial and coronal sections. The DW-MRI studies will then be
      evaluated by neuroradiologists blinded to the clinical status, the type of embolic protection
      and TCD data of the patients. On the postprocedural MRI, acute embolic lesions will be
      defined as focal hyperintense areas with restricted diffusion signal, which will be confirmed
      by apparent diffusion coefficient mapping to rule out artifacts. New postprocedural cerebral
      lesions consistent with microemboli will be recorded in terms of location and number for all
      DW-MRI exams performed.
    
  