
    
      The study is a randomized controlled trial that study on the mechanism of brain function in
      women with urgent urinary incontinence by using fMRI. According to the exclusion criteria, 50
      healthy volunteers and 50 UUI patients are recruited to carry out the related experimental
      research.This study had been approved by the Ethics Committee of the second affiliated
      Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University (No. LCK2019-291) .

      1.50 UUI patients and 50 healthy volunteers who meet the inclusion criteria were selected.

      (1) Approved by the Scientific Research Ethics Review Committee of the second affiliated
      Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, 20- 70 years old female volunteers are recruited by
      studying advertising, reminding volunteers that the study is recruiting women with well
      bladder control function through the answer to the relevant questionnaires as a screening
      tool.

      2.1 Healthy volunteers (n=50) should empty thier bladder first ；than they perform a fMRI
      scan.

      2.2 The selected patients (n=50) will be inserted into 8F catheter for urine emptying,
      determination of bladder pressure and injection of aseptic water. First of all, the subjects
      empty their urine through the catheter, perform a fMRI scan first, and perform the following
      cycle module after the first scan is complete:①Paused for 11s ②.Injecting 22ml aquae
      sterilisata into bladder through catheter (completed in 11s ) ③.Paused for 11s ④.withdraw15ml
      liquid through catheter (completed in 11s ) , running 1-5 modules in circles until the
      subject issues a urination signal. With the subject's consent, the above cycle is repeated
      once, to exclude dropout who will be marked as a failure in the study. The rest of the
      patients completed the above circulation and patients with urine leakage scan the fMRI again.

      3.Every fMRI scan of each subject included in the study will be scanned on GE-Discovery 7503T
      magnetic resonance machine for three sequences (T1,rsfMRI, DTI). The total scanning time is
      about 25 minutes. The brain structural image (T1) uses GE BRAVO sequence for about 5 minutes
      and the specific parameters are as follows:TR/TE=7.7/3.4 ms, Flip angle=12°, FOV=256 mm×256
      mm, Resolution=256×256, Slice per volume=176, Slice thickness=1 mm. The rsfMRI(resting-state
      functional magnetic resonance) uses a single EPI sequence for about 10 minutes and the
      specific parameters are as follows.TR/TE=2000/30 ms, Flip angle=90°, FOV=220 mm×220 mm,
      Resolution=64×64, Slice thickness=4 mm, Slices per volume=32, Number of volumes=230. The
      diffusion tensor image (DTI) uses a single diffusion-weighted spin echo EPI sequence for
      about 10 minutes and the specific parameters are as follows:TR/TE=8000/80 ms, Flip angle=90°,
      FOV=256 mm×256 mm, Resolution=128×128, Slice thickness=2 mm, Slices per volume=75. In order
      to use the latest method to analyze the gray microstructure of the brain,investigators will
      choose two non-zero b values:b=1000 s/mm2 , with a total of 23 dispersion directions; b =
      2000 s/mm2 , with a total of 49 dispersion directions.

      4. The 50 UUI patients who completed the above trial will be treated with behavioral therapy
      for 3 months under the guidance of medical staff. The behavioral therapy includes: (1)
      changes in the way of life including quit smoking, lose weight, keep a normal bowel movement,
      drinking water in a regular basis, no coffee and white spirit, don't eat spicy and irritating
      foods, regular urination and defecation, etc. (2) Bladder training: set a urination schedule,
      with a short interval of time at first, when feeling urination is urgent, the tension of
      bladder can be alleviated by slow deep breathing and mental transfer to increase the interval
      of urination gradually. (3) have pelvic floor muscle exercise by drawing up the anus such as,
      hold on to exhaust and defecate from the anus. The contraction lasts 3, 5 or 10 seconds. And
      then completely relax the anus. The relaxation time is equal to the drawing up time of anus
      with 10 to 15 times per exercise, and3 to 5 times a day.

      5.Patients with UUI who completed 3 months' behavioral therapy repeat the above 2 -5 study
      steps again.

      6.Relevant research parameters:Image parameters of brain function:investigators will first
      get the whole brain voxel image parameters and investigators get local gray matter density in
      structural image. Local degree will be gotten in functional image while local fractional
      anisotropy, FA will be gotten in the dispersion tensor image. Then by calculating global gray
      matter density, global degree and global FA, investigators will get the global variables of
      the brain function (structural, functional and white matter connection anisotropy) of the
      participants.

      7. Data analysis:①By comparing the image parameters of whole brain function with those of the
      normal control group (Student t-test group comparison, two tails, p < 0.05/3=0.017
      （family-wise correction）),investigators will verify one of research assumptions, that is,
      whether the brain of the UUI patient has a significant change in function and structure
      (structural, functional, and white matter connection anisotropy) as compared to the brain of
      a normal person; At the same time, By comparing the image parameters of whole brain voxel
      image parameters with those of the normal control group (student t group comparison，two
      tails, p < 0.05, cluster size > 30 (cluster-wise correction)), investigators find out those
      specific significantly altered data (questionnaire for quality of life of urinary
      incontinence I-QOL, FSFI- female sexual function index assessment) that shows significant
      linear correlation (Pearson Correlation, p <0.05, with age as covariate) with praxiology
      where the brain region is a unique biomarker of brain function in patients with UUI. ②UUI
      patients will be divided into two groups after treatment, that is, the symptoms of urinary
      incontinence disappeared after treatment (abbreviated as the disappeared) and the urinary
      incontinence was not relieved after treatment (abbreviated as the the unrelieved). Through
      comparing the image parameters (F-test one-way ANOVA，two tails, p < 0.05/3=0.017 (family-wise
      correction))，of whole brain function among the three groups (normal control group, the
      disappeared group and unrelieved group), investigators will verify the second hypothesis,
      that is, for patients with UUI whose symptoms of urinary incontinence disappear after
      behavioral therapy, whether the function and structure of the brain (structural, functional
      and white matter connectivity) will change reversibly and return to its original state;

      ③ Through analysis of changes in behavioral data before and after treatment (questionnaire
      for quality of life of urinary incontinence I-QOL, FSFI- female sexual function index
      assessment) and linear correlation analysis of all-brain functional image parameters (Pearson
      Correlation, p < 0.05, age as covariate), investigators can verify the third hypothesis, that
      is, the degree of unrelieved urinary incontinence after UUI behavior therapy is significantly
      correlated with his / her brain function and structural changes.

      8.Data analysis tools:FSL software will be applied for brain function image analysis, and
      MATLAB and SPSS for data statistical analysis.
    
  