
    
      The lack of receptivity of the uterus and chromosomal abnormalities in the embryo are the two
      main causes of implantation failure. Patients with implantation failure, should consider the
      PGT-A test to identify and select euploid embryos. In addition, it should be evaluated the
      endometrium receptivity state at the time of Embryo Transfer (ET).

      The PGT-A is an important genetic test that was developed to select embryos during IVF
      treatment and avoid embryonic chromosomal abnormalities that lead to miscarriage or life born
      with chromosomal diseases. Embryonic aneuploidy is linked to maternal age. The most common
      consequences are implantation failure, miscarriage or life born with multiple congenital
      anomalies. The transfer of euploid embryos (chromosomally normal) diagnosed by PGT-A has
      shown an increase in implantation rates.

      Morphology is the most traditional and routine method of embryo selection being used.
      However, it is difficult to distinguish normal and abnormal embryos by observing their
      morphology under a microscope. Therefore, morphological analysis should not be the only
      technique used to decide which embryo should be transferred. Application of NGS in PGT-A
      cycles demonstrates that this methodology is reliable, allowing identification and transfer
      of euploid embryos resulting in ongoing pregnancies. However, despite the transfer of
      morphologically normal euploid embryos, it is not always possible to acquire optimal results
      in Assisted Reproductive Techniques (ART).

      On the other hand, the endometrial gene expression profile allows the diagnosis of the
      endometrium receptivity status. This is carried out by a molecular tool developed and
      patented by Igenomix (PCT/ES2009/00386). The ERA test is a customized expression microarray
      that identifies the transcriptomic expression profile signature of the personalized Window of
      Implantation (pWOI). A bioinformatic predictor determines the moment of maximum receptivity,
      indicating the best time to perform a pET.

      If the result of the ERA test is "Receptive", the WOI and the moment of taking the biopsy
      overlap. Nevertheless, if the result is "Pre-Receptive", the optimal implantation window is
      expected to be after the moment in which the biopsy is taken, and if the diagnosis is
      "Post-Receptive", the optimal window of implantation is prior to the biopsy. In a subsequent
      cycle, a pET will be performed according to the ERA test results.

      Recently, it has been conducted a pilot study in patients with previous implantation failures
      with PGT-A and euploid embryo transfer (ET). The results of the ERA test have shown that a
      high percentage of these patients have been diagnosed as Non-receptive (90%). This percentage
      is higher than the expected in the normal population (12-20%) or in the Repeated Implantation
      Failure (RIF) patients without PGT-A (25-30%). Once the pET was performed according to the
      results of the ERA test, the gestation rate was 55.55%.

      So, the objective of the present study is to validate these preliminary results in a
      prospective, multi-center, randomized and controlled study to demonstrate the value of the
      endometrial factor and the improvement of the results obtained in patients with PGT-A
      indication. If confirmed, it would be recommended the ERA test for all ART patients, not only
      for those with PGT-A, demonstrating the significance in searching for the pWOI to improve
      reproductive outcomes.
    
  