
    
      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is an incurable disease of unknown etiology that in a
      short time leads to significant impairment of motor functions and death. The frequency of ALS
      is 4-8/100 000. Mostly it affects people between 40 and 70 years old, but it can occur at a
      younger age. Since the symptom onset is most frequently in the fifth or sixth decade, ALS is
      a huge economic burden for the society. There are many studies conducted to treat the disease
      and prevent it, but currently the medicine offers only one drug that can slow the appearance
      of disease symptoms but could not stop the progression. Yet, improvements in medical
      management, including nutrition and breathing, regularly increase patient survival - 50% of
      affected patients live at least 3 or more years after diagnosis; 20% live 5 years or more;
      and up to 10% will survive more than 10 years. The stem-cell-based therapies could be
      therefore a new waited strategy for ALS clinical treatment.

      Since the clinical course of ALS may vary substantially between patients, we are planning to
      qualify them with a primarily established clinical course based on a detailed anamnesis and
      clinical assessment. The goal of our nonrandomized, open label study is to investigate the
      safety and efficacy of autologous adipose derived mesenchymal regenerative cells (ADRC)
      transplantation into the individuals with diagnosed amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In order
      to select a group of 30 ALS patients for the ADRC treatment, approximately 50 ALS patients
      will be examined. All patients enrolled will have a documented at least 3-months clinical and
      electrophisiological observation of ALS disease course prior to study enrollment. Each
      patient will recive 3 injections of ADRC every 3 months: an intraspinal injection followed by
      2 subsequent intrathecal infusions. Safety, adverse events and efficacy will be confirmed by
      clinical, elecrophisiological ( EMG, MUNIX), neuroimmaging and spirometry together with
      functional (ALSFRS-R) and objective motor assesment (MRC and dynamometer).
    
  