
    
      Chronic constipation and Irritable Bowel Syndrome with constipation are common
      gastrointestinal disorders which negatively impact quality of life, reduce work productivity,
      and account for significant direct and indirect costs. Patients with CC and IBS-C suffer with
      bowel symptoms such as reduced stool frequency, hard stool consistency, straining or a
      sensation of incomplete evacuation. Coupled with barriers which limit access to expensive
      prescription increasing concerns regarding the long-term safety of chronically dosed
      medications and, there has been an increasing demand for more "natural" solutions to a wide
      range of medical conditions, including CC and IBS-C. Green kiwifruit has long been used as a
      natural remedy to improve GI complaints. A growing body of literature supports the benefits
      of kiwifruit for gut health and in particular, abdominal discomfort and bowel regularity. In
      addition, patients are interested in dietary changes that could improve their symptoms The
      investigators propose a parallel group pilot study comparing the efficacy green kiwifruit,
      prunes or psyllium on abdominal and bowel related symptoms in US patients with chronic
      constipation patients. The investigators plan to recruit chronic constipation patients with
      or without pain. The total duration of the study will be 8 weeks (2- week baseline, 4-week
      intervention, and 2-week follow-up). Eligible patients will be randomized to receive
      kiwifruit (2 green kiwifruit per day, psyllium (12 g b.d./day, fiber=6g/day) or dried plums
      (50 g b.d., fiber=6 gm/day) for the 4 week intervention period. It is expected that Kiwifruit
      will offer greater efficacy than psyllium and prunes for abdominal and bowel symptoms in US
      patients with chronic constipation. This will be the first US data addressing the efficacy of
      Kiwifruit for abdominal and bowel symptoms in patients with chronic constipation.
    
  