
    
      Hypothesis: The energy cost of growth is increased in experimental CKD. Caloric intake has
      been shown to correlate with height velocity in children with CKD, and calorie
      supplementation has been clearly shown to improve height velocity in children on dialysis.
      However, when energy intake exceeds 75% of the recommended allowance, further growth
      improvement does not occur. Circulating concentrations of cytokines, such as leptin, tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha and interleukins 1 and 6 are increased in patients with CKD. In light
      of the increasing recognition that growth hormone receptor signaling involves cytokine
      pathway activation, we hypothesize that maladaptation of cytokine regulation in CKD may
      underlie growth failure. Secondly, we hypothesize that administration of recombinant human
      growth hormone (rhGH) will result in growth rate stimulation in pre-pubertal children with
      growth impairment due to CKD by down regulation of the cytokine pathways.

      Specific Aims: This investigation's primary objective will be to evaluate
      biochemical/metabolic, and immunologic parameters in relation to body composition pre- and
      post-rhGH therapy. The secondary objective is to examine the efficacy of rhGH to improve
      growth velocity in prepubertal, rhGH naïve, children with growth failure secondary to CKD.
      The safety of rhGH will be assessed by measuring the above parameters, in addition to
      identifying if there is an increase in the incidence of slipped capital femoral epiphyses,
      and an increase in progression of the underlying renal disease.

      Methods of Procedure: This is an open-label study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      recombinant human growth hormone in children with chronic kidney disease and growth failure.

      The study involves obtaining the following:

        1. Medical History and Physical Examination: Subjects will have a complete medical history
           for any potential conditions/medications, which might affect linear growth, growth
           velocity, or responsiveness to rhGH. A complete physical examination will be performed,
           including Tanner Staging, accurate measurement of standing height (or recumbent length,
           if < 3 years of age) using a stadiometer (in triplicate), weight (in triplicate), blood
           pressure and funduscopic examination at each referring Center. Anthropometric
           measurements will be made at the Body Composition Unit at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical
           Center, New York, NY.

        2. Routine labs will include a CBC (Hgb/ Hct), BUN, creatinine, liver function studies, and
           albumin.

        3. Bone Age

        4. Leptin

        5. Cytokines that will be measured include IL-6, TNF alpha, TNFsR, Rp55 (type1), IL-1beta,
           and IL-1Ra. The ratio of IL-1 to IL-1Ra will be measured as intracellular and
           extracellular IL-1b compared to extracellular IL-Ra measured in circulation and as
           produced in vitro, both spontaneously and in response to activation. TNF alpha levels
           and production both intracellularly and extracellularly will be compared to TNFsRp55
           (type 1)

        6. Insulin

        7. GH-IGF Axis Proteins

        8. Body Composition by DXA

      During the two years of the study, we anticipate that 15 eligible subjects will receive rhGH
      at 0.05 mg/kg daily by subcutaneous injection. This estimate of patient enrollment is based
      upon our preliminary data and our experience with the incidence, age of onset of CKD, and the
      anticipated change in therapy as some of these patients receive transplants. The dose will be
      calculated based on the initial weight and will be adjusted as needed every three months
      according to weight. A parent or legal guardian will administer all doses at home after
      appropriate training. Following treatment for 6 months and termination from the study,
      patients who remain eligible due to persistent growth retardation, will receive daily rhGH as
      standard of care therapy at their institution and their growth rates will be followed. During
      the course of the study all study subjects will continue medical management and follow-up of
      their CKD as prescribed by their Pediatric Nephrologist. Subjects may require concomitant
      medications such as erythropoietin, calcium supplements, sodium bicarbonate/sodium citrate,
      phosphate binders, calcitriol, and/or antihypertensives as part on their on-going management.

      After baseline assessment (Time 0), all study subjects will enter a six-month observation
      phase. Medical history, physical examination, biochemical studies, creatinine clearance for
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR), Hgb/Hct, Glucose Tolerance testing (GTT) with insulin
      measurements, GH-IGF axis proteins, cytokine and leptin studies will be obtained at Time 0,
      +3 months, and +6 months. At Time 0 and at the end of six months of observation, study
      subjects will also undergo body composition evaluation (DXA) for a total of two sets of
      studies. Bone age will be assessed at these time points as well. Each patient will serve as
      his/her own control at Time 0 for all these measurements. Historical growth data will be
      obtained back as far as six months, and further, if possible.
    
  