
    
      Convenience sampling method will be applied to collect all completed Philippine Urological
      Association (PUA) survey forms from the 11 Philippine Board of Urology accredited training
      institutions. A data collection form for the purpose of this study will be used to extract
      data from the Philippine Urological Association survey forms. The data collection form for
      this study will extract data, which include basic demographic characteristics of the patients
      (such as age and educational attainment), family history of prostate cancer, other medical
      conditions, history of prior prostate screening/ consultation for Lower urinary tract
      Symptoms or prostate disease. The International Prostate Symptom scores (IPSS) collected will
      be stratified according to mild (1-7), moderate (8-19) and severe (20-35) and the Filipino
      version Quality of Life (QoL) ratings will be stratified according to Grade 1, grade 2 and
      grade 3. DRE findings including the approximation of prostate size and prostate
      characteristic findings will be clustered to normal in size (20grams or less) versus enlarged
      (>20grams or 2 fingerbreadths in width), nodular vs non-nodular, doughy or hard, and tender
      versus non-tender.

      Participants will be classified according to the following :

        1. Target population for screening or not :

           Target population for screening is defined as Filipino males aged 40 years or older, who
           also had no previous consultation for Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) or prostate
           cancer screening in the past 12 months

        2. Case Finding for significant LUTS or prostate cancer or not :

      Case of LUTS or prostate cancer is defined as Filipino males aged 40 years or older with IPSS
      > 8, OR, has abnormal Digital rectal exam (DRE) finding, which is defined as nodular OR hard
      OR tender. However, DRE finding of an enlarged prostate but non-nodular, doughy in character
      and non-tender will not be considered as a case of LUTS or prostate cancer suspect).

      Confidentiality of all data will be assured. The case report forms/ data collection form for
      this study will not contain any patient identifiers. All patient records will be coded in the
      electronic database as serial number and PUA-designated Institutional code (i.e. SLMC #0001).
      Only the investigators of this study and other authorized personnel from PUA will be given
      access to the study data. The PUA survey forms will be secured, filed and only accessed in
      PUA secretariat building. The electronic database coded with the data from the data
      collection from of this study will be set with password, and only the study investigators
      have access to the password.
    
  