
    
      The Study Drug:

      Cidofovir is designed to fight CMV (a viral infection) by blocking the CMV cells from
      dividing.

      Cidofovir is commonly given by injection. For research purposes, in this study it will be
      given directly into the bladder through a foley catheter. This is one of the first studies
      where cidofovir is being given this way in humans.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, on Day 1, Cidofovir will be put
      into your bladder through your foley catheter. The catheter will be clamped for 2 hours to
      keep the drug in your bladder. After 2 hours, the catheter will be unclamped. If you were
      receiving bladder irrigation as therapy for your hemorrhagic cystitis, this will be
      restarted.

      Study Tests on Day 1:

      On the day you receive cidofovir, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn 6 times. The first
      blood draw will occur before the cidofovir dose, and the last blood draw will occur 24 hours
      (+/- 1 hour) after the start of the dose. This blood will be used for pharmacokinetic (PK)
      and pharmacodynamic (PD) testing. PK testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at
      different time points. PD testing is used to look at how the level of study drug in your body
      may affect the disease.

      Viral Load Testing:

      During this study, extra urine and leftover blood to be collected and used for research to
      test for certain viruses. These viruses include the type of infection you had when joining
      this study, as well as cytomegalovirus (CMV) and another type of herpes virus.

      The urine samples will be collected before the cidofovir dose on Day 1, after the cidofovir
      dose on Day 1, and again on Day 4.

      Any blood left over from Day 1 testing will also be used for viral load testing.

      It is possible that these urine and/or blood samples will be sent to an outside lab to
      perform this testing. If that occurs, your name and any personal identifying information will
      be coded before the samples are sent. Coding the samples is designed to protect your privacy.

      Follow-Up Tests:

      Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests 2 times during the week after your
      cidofovir dose.

      On Day 7 (+/- 2 days), you will be checked for any side effects that could be related to the
      study drug.

      In addition, on Day 14 (+/- 2 days), blood samples will be drawn for PK testing, urine will
      be collected for routine tests, and your safety data will be recorded.

      One final follow-up visit will take place on Day 30 (+/- 2 days). During this visit, the
      study staff will record any serious side effects you may be experiencing.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your active study participation will be over after the Day 7 follow-up visit (+/- 2 days). If
      you experienced a side effect, however, the study staff will continue checking your medical
      records until the side effect becomes stable or gets better.

      This is an investigational study. Cidofovir given by injection is commercially available and
      FDA approved to treat CMV in patients with HIV. It is investigational to give cidofovir
      directly into the bladder of patients who have a viral infection causing bleeding in the
      bladder.

      Up to 6 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  