
    
      Psoriasis is a chronic recurrent skin disorder characterised by erythematosquamous lesions
      (plaques). Usually the abnormal areas are few, but occasionally the disease is more
      generalised. Psoriasis can be treated locally by application of creams and ointments, for
      instance corticosteroids and vitamin D3. For most patients topical therapy will suffice.
      However, for some patients the area involved is such that topical application is not
      feasible. Or for others, the skin lesions do not respond anymore to topical treatment. In
      that case the dermatologist may start irradiation with ultraviolet (UV) light or prescribe
      systemic medication.

      UVB phototherapy is a commonly used treatment for patients with psoriasis. Generally it is
      performed in the outpatient department of the hospital. The UVB irradiation itself will
      normally take only a few minutes, but to receive the irradiation patients have to travel to
      the outpatient department during working hours 2 or 3 times a week. In general it is a
      relatively time-consuming treatment.

      To overcome the drawbacks of UVB treatment in the outpatient clinic, home UVB phototherapy
      was introduced over 25 years ago. However, the safety and effectiveness of home UVB have been
      debated ever since. Despite all discussion, the number of dermatologists prescribing home UVB
      phototherapy to their patients seems to gradually increase. We recently demonstrated that
      there is no sound evidence that would either support or dissuade from prescribing home UVB
      phototherapy. Particularly the lack of randomised research is apparent. Therefore, the
      objective of this study is to assess whether UVB treatment administered in the home is as
      equally effective as the standard outpatient UVB phototherapy. Quality of life and
      cost-effectiveness are also studied.

      Primary Outcome:

      (SA)PASI at inclusion, start of therapy, 23 (20-26) irradiations, end of therapy, and at
      every 2 months after end of therapy (maximum 1 year) Quality of life scores (EQ-5D, SF-36,
      PDI) at inclusion, start of therapy, 23 (20-26) irradiations and at end of therapy.

      Costs and Cost-Effectiveness will be calculated with a time-horizon of 12 months after
      inclusion (questionnaires were used at inclusion, start of therapy, 23 (20-26) irradiations,
      end of therapy, and at every 2 months after end of therapy (maximum 1 year))

      Secondary Outcome:

      Cumulative dosimetry (every irradiation) Total amounts of and types of side-effects (every
      irradiation) Concomitant use of medication (during the whole trial, data derived from
      patients' pharmacists)
    
  