
    
      Iron deficiency anemia is very prevalent in end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. Patients
      with ESRD require phosphate binders for hyperphosphatemia and erythropoiesis-stimulating
      agents (ESAs) and intravenous (IV) iron for anemia. In patients with ESRD, iron deficiency
      occurs more frequently, because of increased external losses of iron, decreased availability
      of the body's storage of iron, and perhaps a deficit in intestinal iron absorption.

      ESRD patients tend to lose about 3 grams of iron every year from chronic bleeding, frequent
      phlebotomy and blood trapping in the dialysis apparatus. Total body iron stores of about
      20-25 mg are mostly maintained by recycling from senescent red blood cell (RBC) count by
      macrophages of the reticulo-endothelial system. In addition, to true iron deficiency, many
      ESRD patients have functional iron deficiency, characterized by impaired iron release from
      body stores that is unable to meet the demand for erythropoiesis (also called
      reticuloendothelial cell iron blockade). These patients have low serum transferrin saturation
      (TSAT, a measure of circulating iron) and normal or high serum ferritin (a marker of body
      iron stores). Dietary iron absorption under usual circumstances accounts for only 1-2 mg/day
      and is almost equal to daily iron losses from intestinal and skin cell shedding.

      For treatment of anemia caused by chronic renal disease, the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) has approved the use of ESA therapy. There are two ESAs licensed for the
      treatment of anemia of CKD in the Unites States: epoetin alfa and darbopoetin alfa. Both are
      glycoproteins that are manufactured using recombinant DNA technology. They stimulate
      erythropoiesis through the same mechanism of action as endogenous erythropoietin. The
      starting dose of epoetin is 50 units/kg (3000-4000 units/dose) once or twice a week, and
      darbepoetin is started at 0.45 mcg/kg and can be administered every 2-4 weeks. To avoid
      impaired erythropoiesis caused by true iron deficiency or functional iron deficiency, iron
      stores should be fully replenished before and during ESA therapy. ESA therapy is considered
      safe. However, major adverse effects should be acknowledged, including an increased risk of
      death, thromboembolic complications, stroke, heart attack, aplastic anemia, tumor
      progression, and others. To minimize risks of these adverse events, careful monitoring of
      hemoglobin levels, along with adjustment of ESA dosing, to maintain the lowest hemoglobin
      level clinically needed is recommended.

      Given that ESRD is a pro-inflammatory condition, substantial elevation in serum ferritin is
      very common in ESRD patients. The role of iron replacement therapy in ESRD patients with high
      serum ferritin but low transferrin saturation is not clear at all. In fact, most anemia
      management protocols recommend stopping iron replacement when ferritin levels are greater
      than 1,200 ng/ml, even if the TSAT is below 20%. The United States Renal Data System (USRDS)
      reports for that 55% of prevalent ESRD patients (2012-2014) have a ferritin >800 ng/ml and
      22% had ferritin>1200 ng/ml. In one of our local dialysis centers, close to 45% of patients
      seem to have a ferritin greater than 1,200 ng/ml and about 20% have a combination of low TSAT
      and high ferritin.

      Ferric citrate (Auryxia) is a novel, iron-based phosphate binder that increases iron stores
      and decreases IV iron and ESA usage while maintaining hemoglobin levels, and may decrease the
      cost of ESRD care. By binding phosphate in the GI tract and decreasing absorption, ferric
      citrate lowers the phosphate concentration in the serum. In addition to effects on serum
      phosphorus levels, Auryxia has been shown to increase serum iron parameters, including
      ferritin, iron and TSAT. In dialysis patients treated with Auryxia in a 52-week study in
      which IV iron could also be administered, mean (SD) ferritin levels rose from 593 (293) ng/mL
      to 895 (482) ng/mL, mean (SD) TSAT levels rose from 31% (11) to 39% (17) and mean (SD) iron
      levels rose from 73 (29) mcg/dL to 88 (42) mcg/dL. In contrast, in patients treated with
      active control, these parameters remained relatively constant.
    
  