
    
      -  After administration of local anesthesia

        -  Two oblique and divergent releasing incisions extending beyond the mucogingival junction
           (MGJ) will be performed. An intra-sulcular incision was performed at the buccal aspect
           of the involved tooth

        -  A second surgical site will be prepared to obtain the subepithelial CTG using single
           incision technique as described by Hurzeler and Weng.

        -  For the control group, only CAF+CTG will be performed. For the test group, cross-linked
           HA will be applied over the exposed root surface before the placement of CTG and CAF
           closure. HA will be presented as individual cartridge for single use only. For the
           application on the denuded root surface, the cartridge will be inserted into a cartridge
           syringe with 23G needles, as the fabricant recommended. HA will be applied on the root
           surface until completely covered, the harvested CTG will be placed and stabilized with
           sutures . Finally, the flap will be coronally displaced and sutured covering the CEJ.
           Interrupted sutures will be placed at the vertical releasing incisions in apical-coronal
           direction to reduce the tension and to facilitate the coronal displacement to perform
           the last coronal sling suture.

        -  Post-operative pain and edema will be controlled with anti-inflammatory drugs. Patients
           received Ibuprofen 400 mg thrice daily for 3 days19 and Amoxicillin 500mg thrice daily
           for 5 days.28 For patients allergic to penicillin Clindamycin 300 mg 4 times daily for 5
           days will be prescribed.29

        -  A 60s rinse with 0.2% chlorhexidine gluconate was prescribed two times per day for the
           first 2 weeks.

        -  All participants will be instructed to intermittently apply an ice bag on the operated
           area.

        -  Participants will be recalled after a period of 14 days for suture removal. After this
           period patients will be reinstructed in mechanical cleaning of the treated teeth and use
           of a soft toothbrush and roll technique of brushing for one month.3

        -  Participants will be recalled for reinforcement of oral hygiene instructions and light
           debridement supragingivally will be carried out. Clinical parameters will be recorded at
           6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months after surgical procedure.18
    
  