
    
      The impact of neurological disorders is enormous in terms of mortality, morbidity, physical
      disability and psychological distress, and it is increased in low-resource settings by lack
      of diagnosis and of treatment facilities as well as delayed management. The frequency of
      neurological disorders and the pattern of causative conditions are little documented in
      low-resource primary care settings.In sub-Saharan Africa, the few observational studies
      conducted for the past 20 years, show that neurological disorders accounted for 7 to 24% of
      all admissions. Central nervous system (CNS) infections were suspected in one third of all
      patients admitted with neurological symptoms, with a specific microbial aetiology identified
      in half of these. Where it has been investigated, up to one third of neurological admissions
      was related to HIV infection in some settings. Neuro-infections were also the leading
      aetiologies of common neurological symptoms (such as headache) in African HIV-positive
      patients, and autopsy studies have demonstrated that CNS infections accounted for 20% of the
      causes of death in HIV-positive individuals in sub-Saharan Africa.

      Most CNS infections may be considered as "severe and treatable diseases", e.g. human African
      trypanosomiasis (HAT), cerebral malaria, bacterial meningitis, CNS tuberculosis,
      neurosyphilis, cryptococcal meningitis or toxoplasma encephalitis etc. If left untreated,
      death or serious sequels usually occur; mortality rates of neurological admissions were as
      high as 30% in the above mentioned studies. However, outcome may be favourable with timely
      and appropriate management.

      In resource-constrained settings more than elsewhere, such "severe and treatable" conditions
      should be targeted in priority in the clinical decision-making process. Unfortunately, most
      neuro-infections present with non-specific symptoms in their early stages, leading to
      important diagnostic delays. Moreover, neurological diagnoses frequently require advanced
      technology, but this is far beyond reach of most tropical rural settings, where you have to
      rely on clinical judgment and first-line laboratory results. However, the confirming or
      excluding powers of most clinical and laboratory features are limited or have never been
      adequately quantified, in particular in settings lacking reference diagnostic methods.
      Several rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) have been developed in the last decade for conditions
      like malaria or HIV infection, but their diagnostic contribution has never been evaluated
      within a multi-disease approach. Most CNS infections with worldwide distribution affect
      disproportionally the (sub)-tropical regions, while others are restricted to the tropics.
      Also, many infections with potential neuropathogenicity belong to the group of 17 Neglected
      Tropical Diseases (NTDs) on which attention has been recently brought. As said above, most of
      them may be considered as "severe and treatable"; however, in most tropical settings,
      epidemiology of NTDs and other infectious diseases (IDs) is largely unknown, seriously
      impairing the case finding and clinical decision-making.

      The aim of this research therefore is to improve the early diagnosis of severe and treatable
      neglected and non-neglected infectious diseases which may present with neurological symptoms
      in the province of Bandundu, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). This will be achieved
      through the elaboration and validation of new diagnostic guidelines based on epidemiological
      evidence, combining classic clinical predictors with a panel of simple point-of-care rapid
      diagnostic tests, and designed with a "panoramic" (not-to-miss) approach.

      In particular, the investigators hope to determine the pre-test probability of HAT and other
      priority neglected tropical diseases/infectious diseases in patients presenting with
      neurological disorders; to assess the predictive weight of clinical and first-line laboratory
      features in the diagnosis of HAT and other priority NTDs/IDs; to assess the sensitivity,
      specificity and predictive values of novel point-of-care RDTs for the diagnosis of HAT and
      other priority NTDs/IDs in patients with neurological disorders; and to assess the diagnostic
      performances of combinations of novel and existing RDTs for diagnosing HAT and other priority
      NTDs/IDs in patients with neurological disorders. Enrolled patients will be managed according
      the current standard of care in Bandundu, DRC and with the treatments locally available
      through health facilities/programs.

      The objectives and methodology of this second step of our research (evaluation of existing
      algorithms and elaboration/validation of new guidelines) will be described in a subsequent
      protocol. Another similar study (described in another protocol) will be conducted in parallel
      to explore the aetiologies of prolonged fever in the same setting.
    
  