
    
      Background:

        -  Endocrine neoplasms are among the fastest growing tumors in incidence in the United
           States. Between 1995 and 2005, the incidence of thyroid carcinoma has increased 98
           percent.

        -  Tumors of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal gland and gastrointestinal-pancreatic
           neuroendocrine tumors are among some of the most difficult tumors to clinically and
           histopathological distinguish as benign or malignant.

        -  Moreover, endocrine neoplasm provide an extremely important model for studying the
           important molecular changes that lead to carcinogenesis because of their diverse
           clinical behavior, even when having the same TNM stage and histologic features.

        -  The Surgical Oncology Program (formerly known as Endocrine Oncology Branch), NCI has a
           focus on studying the molecular changes that are involved in Endocrine Cancer initiation
           and progression. In addition, this section has primary responsibility for providing
           endocrine surgery consultative services to the NIH. As such, we are uniquely positioned
           to acquire and perform important studies to help identify diagnostic and predicitive
           markers as well as therapeutic targets that may have significant cilinical
           ramifications.

      Objectives:

      - To develop a genetic and epigenetic, metabolomic, and proteomic profile of endocrine
      neoplasm that will allow us to distinguish benign from malignant tumor for each of the
      endocrine histologies under study. This objective will drive the statistical endpoints of the
      study.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with radiographic evidence of, biochemical evidence of, or
           histologically/cytologically proven, endocrine neoplasms, including lesions of the
           thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, extra-adrenal endocrine nests, paragangliomas,
           neuroblastomas and pancreas. or patients with a described pre or potentially malignant
           condition that requires surgery or biopsy as a part of the standard of care treatment
           and/or follow up.

        -  Patients must have an ECOG performance score of 0-2.

        -  Patients must have laboratory and physical examination parameters within acceptable
           limits by standard of practice guidelines prior to biopsy or surgery.

      Design:

        -  A tissue acquisition trial in which tissues will be obtained at the time of surgical
           operation for the removal of neoplasms of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pancreas,
           paragangliomas and/or extra adrenal nests of neuroendocrine tissue, and gastrointestinal
           neuroendocrine tumors.

        -  At the time of surgical operation, blood samples will be obtained from the operative
           field during the removal of neoplasms of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pancreas,
           paragangliomas and/or extra adrenal neuroendocrine tissue and gastrointestinal
           neuroendocrine tumors.

        -  No investigational therapy will be given.

        -  It is anticipated that 1900 patients will be enrolled over a period of 16 years.
    
  