
    
      Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that affects about 1 in
      20,000 births, regardless of sex or race. PWS is characterized by two clinical phases. In the
      first, the cardinal symptoms are: neonatal hypotonia, feeding difficulty, lethargy, weak
      crying and hyporeflexia. The second, from six months, presents gradual improvement of
      hypotonia, weight gain and progressive development of hyperphagia and obesity. A recent trend
      is the use of transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS), a very simple, safe and
      inexpensive technique of cerebral stimulation, noninvasive and painless. It is based on the
      application of low intensity direct current (0-2 mA) through electrodes. tDCS has been shown
      to be a safe, easily tolerable method, allowing its therapeutic use in several clinical
      situations involving sustained cortical dysfunction such as in neurological or psychiatric
      disorders, including Schizophrenia, Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease and major
      depression. These and other studies have been shown to be consistent with tDC's therapeutic
      methodology, thus favoring more accurate conclusions about the efficacy and efficiency of the
      method. The general objective of this research is to evaluate the effects of tDCS on the
      treatment Obsessive Compulsive Behavior and depressive symptoms in PWS; evaluate and compare
      the participants' cerebral activation pattern through electroencephalographic mapping with
      resting-quantitative EEG (qEEG), before and after the intervention; check if the changes (if
      any) last 3 months after the end of the intervention (follow up). 40 individuals will be
      invited to participate in this study, divided into 2 groups: 20 patients with PWS, in the age
      group between 11 and 35 years of age diagnosed and 20 obese individuals without the diagnosis
      of PWS. All will receive the same pacing protocol in terms of number of sessions and pacing
      time, tDCS intensity will be adjusted to 1mA in subjects aged 11 to 13 years and up to 2mA in
      subjects aged 14-35 years. The project will include Neuropsychological evaluation for each
      patient and electroencephalographic mapping with resting qEEG, before and after the
      intervention at the beginning of the experiment, at the end of the experiment and 30 days
      after (follow up).
    
  