
    
      Chordoma is a rare, slow growing, potentially fatal bone tumor derived from remnants of
      vestigial or ectopic notochord. It occurs almost exclusively in the axial skeleton (skull
      base, vertebrae, sacrum and coccyx), is somewhat more frequent in males than females, and has
      a median age at diagnosis of 58.5 years, with a range from early childhood to over 70 years.
      This typically sporadic tumor usually presents at an advanced stage and the associated
      mortality is high due to local destruction or distant metastases.

      Recently, we identified several families with chordoma in multiple relatives in a pattern
      consistent with transmission of an autosomal dominant trait. Using clinical and genotyping
      information from three such families, we mapped a familial chordoma gene to chromosome 7q33.
      Now, we need to identify more multiplex chordoma families to participate in studies to fine
      map and clone this gene. To do this, we established collaboration with Dr. Norbert Liebsch,
      Department of Radiation Oncology (DRO), Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), Boston. Since
      1975, this department has treated ~500 patients with chordoma of the skull base or cervical
      spine from all over the world; about 400 of these patients speak English.

      The proposed study is a pilot study based on up to 80 English-speaking MGH chordoma patients
      diagnosed age 18 years for whom Dr. Liebsch is the physician of record. We chose this group
      because of Dr. Liebsch's personal knowledge of the patients and the fact that young age at
      diagnosis may indicate increased genetic susceptibility to chordoma. A major purpose of the
      pilot study is to determine the feasibility of conducting a larger study encompassing the
      remaining (~320) English-speaking MGH chordoma patients. The major goal of the full study
      would be to identify new multiplex chordoma families to participate in clinical and gene
      mapping studies.

      The data collection components of the pilot study include 1) a family medical history
      questionnaire completed by each patient/parent or next of kin in person or over the
      telephone, 2) collecting buccal cells from each patient ~ age 6 years via a mailed buccal
      cell collection kit, 3) abstracting information about each patient's past medical history
      from the DRO/MGH medical records, and 4) obtaining paraffin blocks or slides on each
      chordoma/other primary cancer from the MGH Pathology Department or relevant outside
      institutions. DNA from buccal cells and tumor will be used for molecular studies.

      We will re-contact any family from the pilot study who reports chordoma or astrocytoma in at
      least one blood relative of the MGH patient. If we confirm these diagnoses we will invite
      selected family members to participate in clinical and gene mapping studies conducted under a
      separate NIH approved protocol. We will consider the pilot study to be a success if up to 30-
      35 of the 80 chordoma patients/parents/next of kin participate in it, OR if we identify a new
      multiplex chordoma family that is willing to participate in clinical and gene mapping
      studies.
    
  