
    
      Study design

      Screening visit: Potentially eligible patients will be asked to provide written informed
      consent. The investigators will record full medical history, clinical examination,
      demographic characteristics, electrocardiogram (ECG), body weight, height, body mass index
      (BMI) and waist perimeter. Office blood pressure (BP) will be measured by the physicians
      three times using a mercury sphygmomanometer [cuffs will be placed at the level of brachial
      artery and a three minute interval will intercept each measurement, following 10 minutes of
      rest in the seated position (the cuff will cover at least 80% of the brachial circumference
      and 2/3 of the brachial length.)]. The investigators will also collect blood samples to
      determine glycated hemoglobin (HbA1C), creatinine, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and liver
      function.

      Visit 1 (V1): Patients, who fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be asked to
      visit the sites 1 week after the screening visit (+/-2 days), following a 12-hour fast. Three
      measurements of office BP at the level of brachial artery, with a three minutes interval
      between each measurement, will be performed with the use of a mercury sphygmomanometer, after
      10 minutes-rest in the sitting posture (cuff with bladder size encircling at least 80% of arm
      circumference and covering two thirds of arm length). After that, venous blood specimens and
      a spot urine specimen will be collected for relevant blood tests and albumin/creatinine ratio
      (ACR) respectively. Subsequently, the Mobil-O-Graph monitor with a cuff of appropriate size
      will be fitted and the BP recording will be initiated for 24 hours. The device will be
      programmed to collect data every 20 minutes, except for 23:00 to 07:00 (data collection every
      30 minutes).

      Visit 2 (V2): An appointment will be scheduled the following day for the patient to drop-off
      the Mobil-O-Graph device. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the dapagliflozin or
      placebo group and will start receiving the drug regimen the same day. Moreover, all patients
      will receive dietary and lifestyle advice commencing from this visit.

      Telephone Visit 1 (ΤV1): A telephone visit (TV1) will be scheduled 6 weeks after V2 (+/-2
      days). Patient history will be obtained, emphasizing on possible adverse events during the
      previous 6 weeks. Home blood glucose levels, if available, would be also discussed.

      Visit 3 (V3): Visit 3 will be scheduled 6 weeks after telephone visit 1 (TV1) (+/-2 days).
      The following parameters will be determined: medical history of the last weeks, clinical
      examination (including three brachial BP measurements with a mercury sphygmomanometer as
      mentioned before), venous blood specimen collection (under 12-hour fast) and the initiation
      of 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) (Mobil-O-Graph device). The patients
      will also provide a spot urine specimen for ACR evaluation.

      Visit 4 (V4): Visit 4 will be scheduled 1 day after visit 3. Patients will drop-off the
      Mobil-O-Graph device.
    
  