
    
      Research Plan

      The purpose of this trial is to conduct a pilot study that will inform the design of a trial
      to evaluate the clinical benefit of MY01, a FDA cleared device that allows continuous
      monitoring of intracompartmental muscle pressure in patients at risk for developing acute
      compartment syndrome. The MY01 device is a digitally connected device with a companion mobile
      app designed to continuously monitor intracompartmental pressure, outputting the results to
      the mobile app, where clinicians can track the pressure in real time.

      There are several goals of this study. Fifty patients with high-energy injuries to the
      proximal leg and tibial shaft will be prospectively studied and compared to a cohort of
      historical controls. We want to evaluate the feasibility of collecting data related to the
      diagnosis of ACS and the measurement of its associated complications. We will also use this
      data to attempt to assign a modified Boyers grade to a cohort of prospectively enrolled
      patients and historical controls. Clinical validation of the modified Boyers grade will
      represent a large step forward in compartment syndrome research, since it will bring an
      objective assessment of severity to the diagnosis of acute compartment syndrome.

      These control patients are to be obtained from several cohorts of patients: 1- Historical
      controls from the patient database at the centers in the trial. 2 - Patients treated in the
      PACS study previously funded by DOD and run by METRC. 3- NSQIP data.

      Another goal is to assess the reoperation rates, for limb salvage or amputation among
      patients that undergo continuous monitoring of ICP using the MY01 monitor relative to a
      cohort of historical controls who did not receive continuous monitoring.

      Primary Research Outcome

      Assess the reoperation rate and number of operative procedures for all surgically managed
      acute compartment syndrome patients.

      Secondary Research Outcomes

      There are numerous outcomes that are related to the severity of ACS when it is diagnosed.
      This study will also assess our ability to identify the following secondary outcomes among a
      cohort of prospectively enrolled patients relative to a cohort of historical controls.

        1. Comparison of grades of ACS to the historic controls.

        2. Increased proportion of lower ACS outcome grades (Grades 1,2 as per grade)

        3. Reduction in time to diagnosis of ACS

        4. Improved short-term visual analog pain scores (VAS) for pain in affected limb

        5. Reduction in inpatient days

        6. Reduction in Skin Grafts

        7. Reduction in Major Myectomy

        8. Reduction in Anesthesia Time for patients undergoing fasciotomy

        9. Clinical ease with which the new compartment pressure monitor was inserted into a muscle
           compartment, per satisfaction survey.
    
  