
    
      Persons with serious mental illness (SMI, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, recurrent
      depression) are a socioeconomically disadvantaged group and die on average 10-15 years
      earlier than those in the general population, many from cancer. The prevalence of smoking in
      persons with SMI is approximately 3 times that in the general population; smoking is the is
      the strongest risk factor for elevated mortality in this population. Psychiatric inpatient
      admissions are common in SMI and the hospital is an optimal place to provide smoking
      cessation services. All patients are abstinent while in the hospital. The key challenge is
      how to continue to engage these patients in cessation services to support continued
      abstinence. While most receive refer to telephone quitline at discharge, quitlines are not as
      effective with SMI smokers and almost all return to smoking. Introducing hospitalized SMI
      patients to cessation services that can be easily accessed when they leave the hospital
      offers the best chance of converting initial abstinence into sustained abstinence
      post-discharge. A digital intervention that incorporates web-delivered evidence-based smoking
      cessation practices, digital coaching, and mobile text messaging is a scalable and
      sustainable way to bridge the inpatient to outpatient gap in cessation services. Currently
      there is no digital cessation program that addresses the needs of SMI smokers. The
      investigators propose to adapt a digital intervention both to the needs of SMI smokers and to
      being introduced in the inpatient psychiatric setting through a collaboration between experts
      in SMI and the Truth Initiative, a pre-eminent tobacco control organization. The
      investigators will build upon a well-established, evidence-based, cessation website,
      BecomeAnEX.org (EX), that offers individualized quit plans, an active social community, text
      and email messaging support, and digital coaching. Integrating input from different
      stakeholders, the investigators will develop adaptations so that EX components and language
      are in line with principles of mental health recovery and will successfully engage SMI
      smokers with digital coaching that will support use of other EX services. The investigators
      will develop automated and integrated procedures for identifying hospitalized SMI smokers and
      registering them with EX. The investigators will then examine the feasibility and
      acceptability of the adapted intervention to engage and retain 60 smokers with SMI after
      hospital discharge.
    
  