
    
      The hereditary dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa are genodermatosis responsible of a poor
      adhesion of the epidermis to the dermis pulling a large mucocutaneous fragility and recurrent
      spontaneous or posttraumatic bullous detachment. They are caused by mutations in the COL7A1
      gene encoding for the collagen VII.

      No curative treatment is avaible. The main cause of patients death is the development of
      squamous cell carcinoma, sometimes multiple and paticularly aggressive in repeated healing
      part. The early treatment of pre-epithelioma cutaneous lesions to moderate at severe
      dysplasia type would undoubtedly allow to improve the prognosis of patients. Because of the
      cutaneous fragility of patients, topical treatments such as imiquimod or 5-FU are not
      possible. The photodynamic therapy (PDT) is one of technical reference of multiple actinic
      keratoses lesions for adults, which are also pre-epithelioma lesions. The PDT is well
      tolerated even by the elderly and requires only a single session.

      The main objective of this study is to determine the efficiency of the photodynamic therapy
      in the treatment of epidermic dysplasies for patients affected by dystrophic epidermolysis
      bullosa (DEB). The secondary objectives are to evaluate the tolerance of this treatment in
      terms of pain and healing, and to evaluate the contribution of confocal microscopy in the
      diagnosis of epidermal dysplasia for patients affected by hereditary dystrophic epidermolysis
      bullosa. The main evaluation criterion is the cutaneous biopsy before and after (M2) a PDT
      session of an epidermal dysplasia area. The secondary criteria are the evaluation of the pain
      during the PDT session and the healing of the cutaneous lesion at M0, M2 and M4 (lesion area
      and healing time) and correlation histology / MC. This is a bicentric, open and pilot study
      on 5 patients over 18 years affected by hereditary dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa with
      epidermal displasia. Carcinomas in situ were excluded of this study. Each patient with a
      suspicious lesion will be biopsied. In case of agreement for this protocol, there will be 1
      PDT session followed by a consultation of control at 2 and 4 months after the end of
      treatment.

      Total study duration: 18 months (12 months for inclusions, 4 months for study, 2 months for
      data analysis).
    
  