
    
      This is a multicenter trial amongst 3 Western Canadian sites to compare the efficacy of
      nabilone versus placebo in treating patients with chronic neuropathic pain (NeP) due to
      diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN).

      A one-week screening period will occur, during which pain scores and sleep scores will be
      tabulated.

      Following screening, a 4-week period of single blind treatment with nabilone 0.5 - 4 mg/day
      flexible dosing will take place. All subjects will begin with nabilone therapy of 1 mg daily
      for a minimum of 4 days, with the dose of the study medication assessed and adjusted either
      upwards or downwards as needed to balance efficacy for pain control with tolerability for
      possible side effects.

      All subjects who experience at least a 30% reduction in their weekly mean pain score during
      the single blind flexible dosing phase will be considered a responder, and will be further
      continued in the study. Those failing to achieve this level of pain relief will be
      discontinued from further study. Responders will be randomized to 5 weeks of double-blind
      treatment with nabilone or placebo. The double-blind phase of this study will permit
      confirmation of efficacy observed during the single-blind phase of the study. During the
      double-blind portion of the study, subjects randomized to nabilone will continue on the dose
      of nabilone achieved at the completion of the single-blind phase, and this dose will be
      maintained throughout the double-blind phase. Subjects randomized to placebo will receive a
      direct switch to placebo. All subjects will maintain their pre-study doses of analgesic
      medication for pain control throughout the study.

      There will be four total trial phases:

        1. Screening Phase This will consist of a 7-day period of time following Visit 1 in which
           subjects will be monitored for satisfaction of inclusion/exclusion criteria. If other
           medications are being used for treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain, then these
           subjects must be on a stable dose for ≥ 30 days prior to entering the single-blind phase
           (Visit 2). At the end of this screening phase, subjects who meet all inclusion and
           exclusion criteria will next enter the single-blind phase.

        2. Single Blind Flexible Dose Nabilone Treatment Phase This is a 4 week (28 day) treatment
           period when subjects will take nabilone in a single-blind fashion, at a dose of 1-4 mg
           per day. All subjects will start with nabilone 0.5 mg po bid (1 mg daily) for at least 4
           days, and then their study medication will be assessed and adjusted upwards, or
           downwards, as needed to achieve optimal NeP relief as well as side effect tolerability.
           Dosing adjustments will occur at a maximum of once weekly, with the maximum dose of 4 mg
           per day preventing any further increase in dose, and a minimum dose of 0.5 mg per day
           preventing any further decrease in dose. At the end of this single-blind phase, all
           subjects who are deemed a responder (those who experience a ≥ 30% reduction in weekly
           mean pain score) will be randomized to the double-blind phase. Those subjects who are
           not a responder will enter the taper phase of the study, with end of treatment
           assessments performed. Those patients receiving a dose of 0.5 mg daily will receive a
           single capsule of 0.5 mg at qhs only. In order to prevent potential unmasking, those
           patients who are intolerant of placebo will also have their placebo dose reduced from 2
           capsules daily to one capsule daily.

        3. Double Blind Treatment Phase This is a 5 week (35 day) treatment period where subjects
           deemed to be a responder during the single blind phase will be randomized to double
           blind treatment with the dose of nabilone achieved at the last week (Visit 5) of the
           single-blind phase (the dose which optimized NeP relief with side effect tolerability)
           or placebo. Subjects will be randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio,
           nabilone or placebo respectively. Those subjects randomized to placebo will be directly
           switched from active drug to placebo for the duration of the study. All subjects will
           maintain their pre-study doses of analgesic medication for pain control throughout the
           study. No further dose adjustments will be allowed during Week 4 onward.

        4. Taper Phase This is a one week (7 day) period during which patients will taper off of
           nabilone. All subjects using nabilone will have their dose adjusted (or continued) as
           0.5-1 mg nabilone daily. Any subjects using placebo prior to the taper phase will be
           continued on placebo during the taper phase.

      During the single blind phase, the dose of nabilone may be adjusted upward from 1 to 4 mg/day
      based on tolerability at weekly visits.. Any upward dose adjustments will occur in increments
      of either 1 or 2 mg/day (if the initial dose is 1 mg or 2 mg per day respectively). If
      intolerable adverse events occur during any time of the single blind dose adjustment phase,
      the dose of nabilone may be decreased by 0.5, 1 or 2 mg/day (if the initial dose is 1 mg, 2
      mg or 4 mg per day respectively). A dose of 0.5 mg per day which is not tolerated will lead
      to study termination. Once a dose reduction has taken place, no further dose adjustments will
      be permitted. An unscheduled visit between study week 3 and study week 4 will be the last
      opportunity for dose adjustment.

      During the double blind phase, subjects must maintain the same dosing regimen achieved at the
      end of the single blind dose adjustment phase until the end of Week 8 (Visit 7).

      At time of completion of the double blind phase, all subjects taking nabilone will taper off
      of study medication.

      All subjects will be required to attend a minimum of 8 visits in person, with one optional
      additional visit for dose adjustment permitted during the single blind phase.

      There will be a total of 9 clinic visits and 3 telephone interviews. Telephone interviews
      will occur during weeks in which the subject will not be required to attend clinic. The
      schedule of visits and telephone interviews is as follows:

        -  Screening (beginning of Week [-1]) (Visit 1)

        -  Single Blind Dose Treatment - Day 0 (Visit 2)

        -  Single Blind Flexible Dose Treatment - Day 7 (Visit 3)

        -  Single Blind Flexible Dose Treatment - Day 14 (Visit 4)

        -  Telephone Interview - Day 21

        -  End of Single Blind Flexible Dose Treatment with Determination of Responders, and
           possible randomization to Double Blind Phase - Day 28 (Visit 5)

        -  Double Blind Fixed Dose Treatment - Day 35 (Visit 6)

        -  Telephone Interview - Day 42

        -  Double Blind Fixed Dose Treatment - Day 49 (Visit 7)

        -  Telephone Interview - Day 56

        -  End of Double Blind Fixed Dose Treatment - Day 63 (Visit 8)

        -  Follow-up Visit following tapering - Day 70 (Visit 9)

      There is an optional dose adjustment period (at the end of Week 3). The necessity of this
      unscheduled visit is to be determined at the discretion of the investigator and is to be
      arranged by a telephone contact between the investigator and subject If there are concerns
      regarding dosing of nabilone, adjustments will be permitted at this time.

      If a subject prematurely discontinues the study and stops study drug, the end of treatment
      assessments will be completed as soon as possible, given continued subject consent.

      All investigators will be aware of study design and subject treatment during the single-blind
      phase of study. It is important that the subject remain blinded to the nature of treatment
      during all phases of study. The subjects will be treated at all times, as if they were on
      active treatment of nabilone. If any subject becomes aware of their treatment type during any
      phase of the study, their participation must be discontinued.
    
  