
    
      Background: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the number 1 cause of death worldwide,
      representing 31% of all deaths. Vegetarian and/or vegan dietary patterns have been shown in
      prospective cohort and cross-sectional studies to be associated with lower coronary heart
      disease and ischemic heart disease risk. Evidence from randomized controlled trials also
      suggest that vegetarian and vegan diets may be beneficial for cardiovascular disease risk
      factors, such as LDL cholesterol, weight, blood pressure and type 2 diabetes (glycemic
      control). Moreover, evidence from meta-analyses of prospective cohort studies have shown that
      diets high in red and processed meat consumption are associated with an increased incidence
      of stroke and cardiovascular mortality. The evidence for a vegetarian dietary pattern is
      promising for prevention and management of cardiovascular diseases, however, not all CVD
      guidelines recommend following a vegetarian and/or vegan dietary pattern for the prevention
      and management of these diseases, or the guidelines grade the evidence as low quality.

      Need for proposed research: High quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses of prospective
      cohort studies represent evidence to support dietary guidelines and public health policy
      development. As dietary guidelines and public health policy have shifted toward food and
      dietary-pattern based recommendations, there is a need for systematic reviews and
      meta-analyses comparing the role of vegetarian/vegan diets in the prevention and management
      of cardiovascular diseases.

      Objective: The investigators will conduct a systematic reviews and meta-analysis to assess
      vegan/vegetarian diets with cardiovascular disease outcomes (cardiovascular disease (CVD),
      coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke incidence and mortality) in prospective cohort
      studies.

      Design: The planning and conduct of the proposed meta-analyses will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Meta-analysis
      Of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE) guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      databases will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by hand searches of
      references of included studies.

      Data extraction: Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and
      assess risk of bias using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) for observational studies. Risk
      ratios, odds ratios and hazard ratios for clinical outcomes will be extracted or derived from
      clinical event data across exposure to either vegetarian or non-vegetarian diets. All
      disagreements will be resolved by consensus.

      Outcomes: Six outcomes will be assessed: CVD incidence and mortality, coronary heart disease
      (CHD) incidence and mortality, stroke incidence and mortality

      Data synthesis: The natural log-transformed relative risks or hazard ratios of clinical
      outcomes comparing the exposure to the reference group from each cohort will be pooled using
      the generic inverse variance method with random effects models. Heterogeneity will be
      assessed by Cochrane's Q and quantified by I2. Sensitivity analyses and a priori subgroup
      analyses will be undertaken to explore sources of heterogeneity including the effect of the
      cohorts, sex, type of vegetarian diet, underlying disease status, follow-up (<10-years,
      >=10-years), level of adjustment of models, quality of the studies (NOS), and validation of
      the dietary assessment instruments. Significant unexplained heterogeneity will be
      investigated by additional post hoc subgroup analyses. Meta-regression analyses will assess
      the significance of subgroups analyses. Publication bias will be assessed by the inspection
      of funnel plots and using Begg's and Egger's tests.

      Evidence Assessment: The certainty of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using
      the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE).

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. Feedback will
      be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key areas for future
      research will be defined. Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among opinion
      leaders to increase awareness and participate directly as committee members in the
      development of future guidelines.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the role of
      vegetarian/vegan diets in the prevention and management of cardiovascular diseases,
      strengthening the evidence-base for guidelines and improving health outcomes by educating
      healthcare providers and patients, stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future
      research design.
    
  