
    
      Since influenza vaccination rates among hospital HCWs are low, we developed an implementation
      program which will be tested in this large target group. The primary objective is to evaluate
      the short- and long-term effects of a multi-faceted implementation program to improve
      influenza vaccine uptake among HCWs in hospitals over two influenza seasons. Its clinical
      effects are assessed by means of a randomized controlled trial in selected divisions (e.g.
      internal medicine, pediatric ward) of all six randomized UMCs in the Netherlands. Secondary
      aims are to assess program elements associated with higher vaccine uptake among the target
      group and to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the program.

      The program will be developed using the Intervention Mapping method taking into account all
      evidence from systematic literature review and the questionnaire study among HCWs in UMCs as
      part of our before measurement (2008). The Intervention Mapping method is a theoretical
      framework developed in the field of health education and promotion to systematically design
      theory and evidence based health promotion programs.

      In 2008, we have selected five divisions of all UMCs that will take part in the trial. Before
      measurement showed wide variation of uptake (<15-50%) and 11 determinants that explained more
      than 95% of the vaccination behaviour. Three UMCs will adopt the intervention developed by
      the research group using the Intervention Mapping method, and three UMCs will serve as
      controls. The current implemented programs in the UMCs vary widely ranging from passive
      information systems to involvement of the Board of Directors. Our intervention will exist of
      a multi-faceted program aimed at both HCWs and management of the divisions. Our primary
      outcome will be the recorded vaccine uptake among HCWs in the UMCs.

      To evaluate the short-term and long-term process of the program, web-based questionnaires
      will be developed and directed at all health care workers of the selected divisions in all
      UMCs. The questionnaire will contain questions about vaccine uptake and HCWs' opinions on
      influenza, vaccination and the vaccination campaign. Absenteeism will also be registered.

      Finally, patient data will be collected in the participating divisions of all UMCs in order
      to investigate if there is a relationship between vaccinating HCWs and morbidity and
      mortality in patients because of influenza.
    
  