
    
      The objectives are:

      To test the effectiveness of chamas as an intervention on improving:

        -  Health services uptake (Facility delivery, attendance of 4 or more ANC visits, Visit by
           a CHV within 48 hours of birth, immunization uptake at 6 months-of-age, long-term FP
           uptake)

        -  Health behaviors and care practices (exclusive breastfeeding to 6 months)

        -  Women's Empowerment, peer support, parental stress, and harsh punishmennt within the
           home

        -  Maternal and infant morbidity (low birth weight, diarrhea in the last month, preterm
           deliveries)

        -  Maternal, perinatal, neonatal and infant mortality

      To perform a qualitative evaluation to better understand women's and CHV's experience with
      chamas and understand how chamas affect peer support

      To perform a process evaluation

      To perform a cost effectiveness analysis on chamas.

      The investigators plan to use a cluster randomized controlled design because the intervention
      is delivered in groups that are based within Community Units (CUs). We know that some of the
      positive effects of chamas expand to the community surrounding the chama. By randomizing
      clusters, we will hope to isolate these communities in order to understand the individual
      effects of chamas. The unit of randomization and implementation will be Community Units (CU).
      Because there are only 77 of the 163 CUs with active Community Health Workers trained by
      AMPATH, we will draw our intervention and control groups from these active units. By doing
      this, the control group is receiving the standard of care per the MOH and AMPATH community
      strategy. We will randomly assign each of the 77 active CUs in the four sub-counties to the
      chama intervention (arm 1) or to act as a control region (arm 2). We will evaluate individual
      outcomes on women enrolled in the study. The CUs that do not participate in the study will
      serve as buffer areas.
    
  