
    
      Participants who meet inclusion criteria will be asked to participate, investigators will
      include all patients with resectable polyps, but only adenomatous polyps will be included for
      analysis. See also inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Colonoscopy, after bowel preparation with polyethylene glycol solution was performed using
      standard colonoscopes (GIF-HQ290I) and polypectomy snares.

      All procedures were performed by experienced endoscopists(each with over 1000 colonoscopies
      performed) including CSP and HSP. All patients with a colorectal 5-15 mm polyp detected will
      be randomized to receive HSP and CSP treatment. Polyp size will be measured using the tip of
      the snare catheter (2.5mm). Difficulty of resection will be grade by polyp resection time.
      Following the resection, jet stream of water will be used to wash mucosal defect thoroughly.
      After endoscopist's attestation that polyp removal was complete by carefully observe the
      resection margins with near focus mode, for large lesions(10-15mm)4 biopsies will be
      performed from all four quadrants of resection margins, for small lesions(4-9mm) biopsies
      were performed from two marginal sites located symmetrically on the left and right of the
      mucosal defects to confirm residual polyp tissue. Difficulty of resection will be grade by
      polyp resection time. Following the resection, jet stream of water will be used to wash
      mucosal defect thoroughly. After endoscopist's attestation that polyp removal was complete by
      carefully observe the resection margins with near focus mode, for large lesions(10-15mm)4
      biopsies will be performed from all four quadrants of resection margins, for small
      lesions(4-9mm) biopsies were performed from two marginal sites located symmetrically on the
      left and right of the mucosal defects to confirm residual polyp tissue.

      If polyp resection is complicated by bleeding(not self-sustained), no biopsies will be taken
      and any additional polyps that will be found during the remaining examination will be
      excluded from analysis. Severe bleeding that will complicate resection margins examination
      will be excluded from analysis, Endoscopic haemostasis will be performed when active
      haemorrhage continued for ≥30s.

      A single research subject may have many eligible polyps. To avoid taking many biopsies, the
      investigators will not include more than 5 eligible polyps(the first 5 that are detected) per
      patient in the study.
    
  