
    
      CONTAGION COURSE Estimation of the prevalence and contagiousness of undocumented novel
      coronavirus infections is critical for understanding the overall prevalence and pandemic
      potential of this disease.

      Observations of reported infection within China, in conjunction with mobility data, a
      networked dynamic metapopulation model, and Bayesian inference, to infer critical
      epidemiological characteristics associated with SARS-CoV-2, including the fraction of
      undocumented infections and their contagiousness, have been attempted. The rapid geographic
      spread of SARS-CoV-2 indicate that containment of this virus will be particularly
      challenging.

      DISSEMINATION BY DROPLETS For COVID-19, the salivary gland could be an important source of
      the virus in saliva and would generate infectious saliva on a sustained basis.

      ACE2 expression in the minor salivary glands was higher than in the lungs, suggesting that
      the salivary glands is a potential target for COVID-19.

      The positive rate of COVID-19 in the patients' saliva can reach 91.7%, and the saliva samples
      can also culture the live virus.

      In addition to mobility restrictions of people, the World Health Organization and the
      Governments have prescribed maintaining an inter-personal distance of 1.5 or 2 m (about 6
      feet) from each other in order to minimize the risk of contagion through the droplets that we
      usually disseminate around us from nose and mouth. However, recently published studies
      support the hypothesis of virus transmission over a distance of 2 m from an infected person.
      Researchers have proved the higher aerosol and surface stability of SARS-COV-2 as compared
      with SARS-COV-1 (with the virus remaining viable and infectious in aerosol for hours) and
      that airborne transmission of SARS-CoV can occur besides close-distance contacts. Indeed,
      there is reasonable evidence about the possibility of SARS-COV-2 airborne transmission due to
      its persistence into aerosol droplets in a viable and infectious form. Based on the available
      knowledge and epidemiological observations, it is plausible that small particles containing
      the virus may diffuse in indoor environments covering distances up to 10 m from the emission
      sources, thus representing a kind of aerosol transmission. On-field studies carried out
      inside Wuhan Hospitals showed the presence of SARS-COV-2 RNA in air samples collected in the
      hospitals and also in the surroundings, leading to the conclusion that the airborne route has
      to be considered an important pathway for viral diffusion. Similar findings are reported in
      analyses concerning air samples collected at the Nebraska University Hospital. On March 16th,
      we have released a Position Paper emphasizing the airborne route as a possible additional
      factor for interpreting the anomalous COVID-19 outbreaks in northern Italy, ranked as one of
      the most polluted areas in Europe and characterized by high particulate matter (PM)
      concentrations. The available information on the SARS-COV-2 spreading supports the hypothesis
      of airborne diffusion of infected droplets from person to person at a distance greater than
      two meters (6 feet). The inter-personal distance of 2 m can be reasonably considered as an
      effective protection only if everybody wears face masks in daily life activities.

      IVERMECTIN CONCENTRATION IN SALIVARY GLANDS The concentration of ivermectin was tested in
      different tissues, in different studies, both in animals and human beings. The concentration
      in salivary glands proved to be adequately acceptable.

      CARRAGEENAN VIRUCIDAL EFFECTS Iota Carrageenan is widely used in gastronomic, cosmetic and
      pharmacologic industry.

      Recently, its intrinsic virucidal effectas were proved over a variety of virus (herpes
      simplex, Japanese Encephalitis, Rhinovirus, etc.).

      Its mechanism of action is preventing virus adsorption to host cells. By applying both drugs
      topically, 5 times per day, in nasal and oral mucosae, we try to reduce contagion.
    
  