
    
      1.1 Current state of knowledge Food Protein- Induced Enterocolitis Syndrome (FPIES) is a food
      allergy with a prevalence of 0.34% and an incidence of 15.4 children per 100,000 per year. It
      is a non-IgE-mediated allergy, manifested by vomiting 1 to 4 hours after ingestion of the
      suspect food (major criteria), without any skin or respiratory manifestations. According to
      the last definition (JACI 2017), at least 3 minor criteria should be required associated with
      vomiting among the following: a second similar episode of vomiting after ingestion of the
      same food, the appearance of repeated vomiting 1 to 4 hours after ingestion of another food,
      lethargy, pronounced pallor, the need for emergency treatment or intravenous rehydration
      after ingestion of a suspect food, the onset of diarrhea within 24 hours, hypotension, or
      hypothermia at the time of reaction. The most frequently responsible foods for PFIES are
      cow's milk, cereals, soy and fish. The triggers depend on the country, probably in relation
      to eating habits. The median tolerant age is later than in the other forms of
      non-IgE-mediated allergy, namely between the age of 3 to 5 years and it is later for solid
      foods than liquid foods. The average age of acquiring tolerance for cow's milk varies in the
      literature, around 8-10 months in Korea, around 1 year in Israel, around 5 years in the
      United States, but much later (14 years) if specific IgE occurs during follow-up. There is no
      data in France on the curing age of SEIPA in cow's milk.

      A first reintroduction of the responsible food is proposed at the age of 12-18 months if the
      diagnosis was made during the first months of life, and if specific IgE are negative
      according to the latest recommendations. Failure of the oral food challenge (OFC), a new OFC
      is proposed every 6 months until healing.

      When the specific IgE are positive, it is then an atypical FPIES, and the methods of
      reintroduction of the food will depend on the evolution of IgE.

      The link between microbiota and development of allergic diseases is now well known. The
      intestinal microbiota varies in terms of diversity and bacterial distribution in patients
      with food allergies compared to non-allergic patients. The microbiota plays an early role in
      the development of the immune system, and therefore in the development or prevention of food
      allergies involving the pro-inflammatory and pro-allergic Th17 pathway.

      The intestinal microbiota is evaluated by bacterial diversity using RNA16 sequencing, in
      particular alpha-diversity (specific to a sample), and beta-diversity (comparison between
      several samples), bacterial richness, and by the determination of bacterial metabolites such
      as short-chain fatty acids, such as butyrates, the measurement of fecal calprotectin, IgA,
      and cytokines excreted in stool (eg β-defensin, TNF-α, cationic protein of eosinophils : ECP)
      .

      Certain bacterial species would tend to be predominant in case of allergy or allergic
      sensitization, as for example certain species of Clostridium and others would play a
      protective role by promoting the synthesis of certain short chain fatty acids, and by
      decreasing the production of IL12, IFNγ, and IL10.

      The pathophysiology of FPIES is currently poorly understood because there is no biological
      marker to confirm the diagnosis or predict cure. There would be reversible jejunal partial
      villous atrophy associated with non-specific inflammation in the ileum and colon but
      digestive endoscopy is not performed in routine practice for diagnosis. In contrast to
      IgE-mediated allergies, Th2 cytokines are not increased in patients with FPIES. Several hours
      after exposure to the responsible food, an increase in eosinophil-derived neurotoxin (EDN) is
      observed in stool. Gastrointestinal inflammation associated with food allergies can also be
      studied using the fecal calprotectin or fecal lactate. This digestive inflammation could be
      associated with an increase in intestinal permeability, and be responsible for vomiting,
      diarrhea and hypovolemic shock by immunological reaction. If fecal calprotectin is less than
      138 μg/g of stool, the diagnosis of FPIES could be excluded. These preliminary results
      suggest an alteration of the gut microbiota, as observed in other forms of food allergies,
      but the microbiota of patients with FPIES has never been studied to date to our knowledge.

      Our work will then constitute the first prospective study in children with FPIES linking the
      presentation and the clinical evolution with the fecal, salivary and cutaneous microbiota.

      The descriptive clinical part will determine the age at diagnosis and the age of cure based
      on the foods in our cohort. The investigator will describe the different minor criteria for
      diagnosis, and the associated symptoms that may be diagnostic elements not appearing in the
      2017 international consensus. The investigator will assess the risk of IgE seroconversion
      during follow-up. The investigator will examine the biological elements during an allergic
      reaction to assess the severity of the reactions (polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocytosis,
      methaemoglobinemia).

      Main hypothesis :

      If the microbiota of allergic patients with FPIES is pro-inflammatory, as in other food
      allergies, bacterial composition and distribution depending on the course of the disease,
      with a return to a less inflammatory state once tolerance has been acquired should be
      observed. A change in these results would thus make it possible to propose prognostic markers
      of evolution of this pathology and to predict the cure of the patient, without having to
      carry out a reintroduction test of the responsible food, which can be potentially dangerous
      with risk of hypovolemic shock.

      1.2 Description of the population to be studied and justification of their choice The study
      population is pediatric, less than 18 years old, mainly infants, with clinical arguments in
      favor of FPIES.

      FPIES is mostly described in children's literature, and remains little known to adult
      physicians with an underdiagnosed allergic condition.

      As for IgE-mediated allergies, the therapeutic goal is to achieve tolerance to the
      responsible food from the pediatric age.

      1.3 Description of the elements covered by the study The pathophysiology of FPIES is poorly
      understood, but the symptoms are primarily digestive. The goal is to study the intestinal
      microbiota of patients, to seek a difference in diversity or distribution of bacterial
      populations and their metabolites in patients with a FPIES over time, if possible at 3 times
      of the evolution of SEIPA, namely before healing, within 24 hours after exposure to the
      allergen responsible, and after healing.

      The different communities of microorganisms that populate our body interact and form a
      biological entity called holobionte. Cutaneous and digestive microbiota are linked to the
      immune system responsible for atopic disease. This is why the investigators also want to
      study the salivary microbiota, as well as the cutaneous microbiota, using non-invasive
      samples.

      1.4 Rationale for the duration of the study The intestinal microbiota will be at INRA
      laboratory, in Jouy-en-Josas. The various samples will be frozen for analysis at the INRA
      laboratory in Jouy-en-Josas.

      The microbiota will be collected at different times during the natural evolution of FPIES, in
      order to answer the hypothesis of a modification of the intestinal microbiota during the
      natural evolution of FPIES.

      The total duration of the research will be 4 years, in order to collect stool samples, saliva
      and skin swabs, in at least half of our followed cohort, because patients will likely have
      reached the median age of healing, which is around 3-5 years of age for milk, which is the
      major contributor to allergies in our cohort (52%).
    
  