
    
      Few results directly study the combination of docetaxel and oxaliplatin in the squamous cell
      cancer of the esophagus, but some studies have shown that it is safe to In the phase II study
      for the patients with gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, a prior study reported the
      efficacy and safety of the combination therapy of docetaxel 80mg/m2 and oxaliplatin 100mg/m2
      every 3 weeks schedule. Entire response rate was 34% and median survival duration was 11.6
      months. Over grades 3 anemia and neutropenia were found in 17%, respectively, and
      non-hematological toxicities were mostly mild to moderate. In this study, a five-day
      preventive granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was used to reduce hematology
      toxicity.

      Meanwhile, there was the phase I/II studies of added capecitabine to docetaxel and
      oxaliplatin with divided schedule d1 and d8 every 3weeks for reducing toxicities. The
      subjects who participated in this study had at least one previous history of chemotherapy,
      but overall response rates were 43% and median values for the entire duration of survival
      were 9.8months. However, the side effects were significant, with 30 % of patients seeing
      diarrhea of Grade 3 or higher and 17 % seeing infection of Grade 3 or higher (SAE) reported
      at 37 %.

      Looking at the reasons and background for this, the effects of docetaxel on esophageal
      squamous cell cancer patients are already known, and weekly divided administration has also
      demonstrated a reasonable level of effectiveness and safety. In studies conducted on gastric
      and esophageal adenocarcinoma, the combination of docetaxel and oxaliplatin also showed
      reasonable levels of effects and side effects.

      In this study, The investigators wanted to look at the effects and safety of first line
      docetaxel-PM and oxaliplatin weekly administration chemotherapy for the participants with
      inoperable or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
    
  