
    
      PROYECT DESIGN This investigation involves a 10-week randomised, balanced, double blind
      parallel group between-subjects design, aimed to analyse the effects of combining endurance
      exercise and a post exercise nutrition strategy (hydrolysates meat protein (MEAT) + whey
      protein (W) or a isocaloric only carbohydrate placebo) on training outcomes, immunity and
      haematological variables after regular training and feeding intervention.

      Participants will be divided in two-treatment groups 1) Hydrolysed meat-protein + whey
      (PROT); and 2) non-protein iso-energetic placebo (CHO). Once considered eligible for the
      study, and after an initial familiarisation period plus baseline tests (endurance performance
      body composition and blood extractions) participants will be randomly assigned to one of the
      intervention groups: PROT and CHO. Each group will follow a 10-week periodised endurance
      training intervention combined with one of the two specific supplementation treatments (PROT
      or CHO). Measurements of performance (VO2peak, vetilatory threshold and time to exhaustion at
      maximal aerobic intensity), body composition (fat and fat free mass), microbiota and
      haematology will be determined before and after the 10-week intervention period.

      Once informed consent and health history have been obtained, after the baseline assessment
      (t1), participants will be divided into two similar profile groups, matched by body mass,
      age, sex and maximal oxygen uptake (VO2peak): (1) PROT (2) CHO

      INTERVENTION The intervention will comprise of a 10-week combined supplementation (MEAT + W
      and CHO) regular endurance-training programme.

      Endurance training Participants will commit to follow a polarised triphasic
      endurance-training model. This model contains three intensity zones calculated as low
      intensity [< the first ventilatory threshold (VT1), ~ 70% HRmax]; moderate intensity [between
      VT1 and respiratory compensation point or ventilatory threshold 2 (VT2), >70 < 90% HRmax];
      and high intensity [>VT2, 90% HRmax]. Participants will train 5 to 6 times per week with a
      total percentage distribution of 75 to 80% at low intensity; 10% at moderate intensity, and
      15 to 10% at high intensity.

      Cardiorespiratory test Participants will perform a maximal cardiorespiratory exercise test
      before the training period to determine peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) and ventilatory
      thresholds. Percentage of HRmax and the 15 points (6 to 20) Borg Scale Rate of Perceive
      Exertion (RPE) will be used to appropriately select the load along the training intervention.

      Supplementation protocol Training days: Immediately (<10 min) after completing each training
      session, participants will consume a beverage containing 20g of supplement (10g MEAT + 10g W)
      plus 200 ml of orange juice or only carbohydrate placebo (maltodextrine and orange juice).

      Non-training days: before breakfast.

      Supplements and placebo will be provided in powder form and should be mixed with 200ml of
      orange juice and water at the moment of consumption.

      The supplements and placebo will look and taste identical.

      Thus a total of one 20g doses will be administered on a daily base. Participants are required
      to ingest a total of 70 for the total of 10 weeks of the study intervention.

      Supplements will be provided in 14 days intervals and distributed by a blinded researcher
      after participants return the empty bag of the supplement/placebo consumed during the
      previous 14 day period.
    
  