
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the 3-year disease-free survival of patients with high-intermediate- or
           high-risk bulky stage II or stage III or IV diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with
           sargramostim (GM-CSF) with or without autologous immunoglobulin idiotype-KLH conjugate
           vaccine (FavId®) after combination chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide,
           doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, and rituximab (CHOP-R).

      Secondary

        -  Compare the 2-year disease-free survival, duration of response, time to progression,
           overall survival, and safety in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Estimate the rate of immune reactivity to FavId®.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to risk score (3 [high-intermediate] vs 4 or 5 [high]).

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV,
           vincristine IV, and rituximab IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Sargramostim (GM-CSF) with or without autologous immunoglobulin idiotype-KLH conjugate
           vaccine (FavId®): Patients achieving complete remission (CR) or unconfirmed CR after
           chemotherapy and who have FavId® available are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive FavId® vaccine subcutaneously (SC) on day 1. Patients also
                receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC on days 1-4.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo SC on day 1 and GM-CSF SC as in arm I. In both
                arms, treatment repeats once a month for 6 months and then once every 2 months for
                24 months (18 total vaccinations) in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 480 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  