
    
      A randomized RCT will be conducted with kidney transplant patients identified as hypertensive
      (>129 SBP following KDIGO guidelines) via medical history. Those identified as being
      nonadherent for 4 weeks during the first month post enrollment (adherence score <0.85) will
      be eligible to participate in the second phase. Participants in the second phase will be
      randomly assigned to standard care (SC) + attention control or the mHealth program plus SC.

      Following informed written consent, eligible patients will be asked to complete several brief
      surveys aimed at determining, mood state, perceived stress, self-efficacy assessment, comfort
      with mHealth devices, perceptions of treatment burden and attitudes towards mhealth. Subjects
      will have their blood pressure measured and if SBP is >129 they will enter the screening
      phase. Subjects will be provided a Medication dispensing device system. Subjects will be
      called the following day to check if there were any problems in filling the Simplemed tray.

      The Simplemed has four compartments for each day of the week for potential use.
      Microelectronic circuitry in each compartment on the tray date stamps the opening of each
      compartment and removal of the refill tray. These signals are relayed via an internal modem
      to a server for processing. Data can then be sent directly into the MUSC server that compiles
      individuals' health data from multiple delivery points. Adherence rate across the first month
      will be calculated at weekly intervals.

      All subjects will return for a visit at the end of their 4 week screening period. Those with
      an adherence score <0.85 for 4 weeks and whose SBP continues to be >129 will be invited to
      participate in the second phase of the RCT. Evaluations performed at this visit will include
      anthropometrics, questionnaires, and resting BP. A Spacelabs ABP monitor will be applied with
      instructions for wearing the monitor 24 hrs. The subjects will be randomized to SMASK+SC or
      SC+ attention control groups after the baseline procedures are completed. Those with med
      adherence score ≥0.85 or who have SBP ≤ 129 will return their pill tray but not proceed into
      the second phase. Recruitment will end when 80 subjects have successfully transitioned into
      the second phase (RCT) of the study.

      The SC+ attention control group will continue to use Simplemed with reminder functions
      disabled, they will be sent daily text messages or links to PDF documents or videos
      containing health information as attention control. The SMASK mhealth intervention group will
      also receive SC and have the Simplemed reminder functions turned on (blink for ½ hr when
      medication is due, chime additional ½ hr, then text or email after 1 hour) and receive
      training in use of the A&D BP monitor. They will be instructed to measure their blood
      pressure twice daily AM, PM) on at least every third day. Patients will be provided with and
      shown how to use the smart phone app and activate the app when they record their blood
      pressure readings.
    
  