
    
      Study Procedures:

      Potential subjects will be identified as they are scheduled to undergo ECV at the UNC
      Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Subjects will be enrolled in the study by one of the
      study investigators. Details of the study will be reviewed with potential subjects and those
      wishing to enroll in the study will be consented for the study by one of the study
      investigators. Once enrolled participants will be randomized to receive either a mixture of
      50% nitrous oxide in 50% oxygen or 100% oxygen, both of which will be delivered via the
      Nitronox apparatus. Demographic variables will be recorded for each participant at the time
      they are enrolled in the study

      The Nitronox apparatus will be set up to deliver either 50% nitrous oxide in 50% oxygen or
      100% oxygen by an anesthesia provider covering labor and delivery who is not involved in the
      study. The Nitronox device will be covered to prevent participants, study investigators and
      obstetricians performing the procedure from knowing whether nitrous oxide is being delivered.
      Nitrous oxide is odorless and colorless, so in that way is indistinguishable from oxygen.

      Participants will be prepared for ECV according to current protocols for ECV at UNC. IV
      access will be obtained and tocolytic agents will be given according to current practice and
      protocols. Monitoring of maternal and fetal vital signs will be done according to current
      protocols.

      Immediately before an ECV attempt participants will breathe through the facemask of the
      Nitronox device for 30 seconds and will then be free to use the device ad lib during the ECV
      attempt. Immediately following each attempt, while fetal monitoring is occurring, the
      participants will be asked to rate their maximum pain score during the previous attempt. They
      will also be asked to rate their current level of anxiety. This process will be repeated for
      any further ECV attempts.

      At conclusion of all ECV attempts, while fetal monitoring is occurring, the participants will
      be asked to rate their current level of pain, their satisfaction with the procedure and about
      any side effects they experienced (nausea, vomiting, dizziness, headache, other).
      Participants will continue to be monitored on labor and delivery as current protocol
      dictates, typically 30 minutes of maternal and fetal monitoring if there are no complications
      and fetal status is reassuring.

      Following the procedure, the obstetrician who performed the procedure will be asked to rate
      how difficult they felt it was to perform the procedure and to rate how much they felt the
      analgesic provided assisted in performing the procedure. They will also be asked to indicate
      whether they thought the patient was in the treatment or placebo arm of the study. This will
      be recorded to address the adequacy of blinding.

      All study variables will be assessed and recorded by one of the study investigators to ensure
      consistency in data collection.
    
  