
    
      To evaluate whether 3-dimensional ultrasound improves measures of maternal attachment
      compared with 2-D. As substance-using pregnant women are at high risk for intrauterine growth
      restriction (IUGR), monthly ultrasounds are indicated (Bhuvaneswar, 2008 and Mattioli, 2010).
      The women will receive a short questionnaire immediately before and 2 weeks after the
      examination at 22-32 weeks. We will randomize the women to receive either 2-D or 3-D
      ultrasound with a cross-over at the next ultrasound (mainly to ensure compliance with the
      study, as women perceive the 3-D ultrasound to be more desirable). The majority of the survey
      will be the Maternal Antenatal Attachment Scale (MAAS)(Condon 1993) evaluating feelings
      towards the fetus, pregnancy, and relationship. In addition, three questions will be added to
      the questionnaire, as addressed in aim 2, which specifically address confidence in the
      women's ability to stop using drugs and quit or decrease smoking. The main outcome measure
      will be comparing the pre/post-ultrasound change in the MAAS in the 3-D vs. 2-D ultrasound
      groups.

      Secondary outcomes such as compliance with prenatal care (missed or rescheduled visits), and
      substance use (including smoking) are routinely collected on our women at each visit.
      Additionally, historical controls can be gathered from Path clinic data (previously
      considered exempt by University of Hawaii Committee on Human Studies on 2/24/10).

      Ultrasound exams will be provided by the PI or trained ultrasonographer, using a Phillips
      HD11 WHC 3 and 4 dimensional ultrasound will be used. The PI is a board certified
      Obstetrician and Gynecologist and has had special training in the use of 3 and 4 dimensional
      ultrasound. This exam will be a standardized additional 5-10 minutes added onto the end of
      the routine scan for growth, to obtain a suitable 2-D or 3-D picture of the face and/or hand.
      These additional views are routinely done in the community. A 5-minute consultation will be
      done by the PI after each scan, with an opportunity to ask questions. If a previously
      undiagnosed fetal anomaly is suspected based on this scan (which is extremely unlikely given
      that they patient has been previously screened by perinatologists), referral for further
      perinatology consultation will be made. In the extremely unlikely case this happens, the
      ultrasounds will be covered by the patient's insurance.

      The patients will be followed through their pregnancies to measure compliance with prenatal
      care. Data collection for the purposes of this study will end with the birth of the child.

      If the father of the baby is involved, he would be asked to participate. If he consents to
      participate, he would complete the paternal equivalent to the MAAS (the PAAS) prior to the
      ultrasound and two weeks after the study.
    
  