
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a global health problem that affects 170 million people
      worldwide, and approximately 55% (95 million) of the infected population is in South East
      Asia and Western Pacific countries.

      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is considered one of the main causes of chronic hepatitis and also
      may be complicated by serious complications as liver cirrhosis, ascites and hepatocellular
      carcinoma. It is also, one of the leading indications for liver transplantation (LT) in
      adults around the world.

      Abnormalities in hematological parameters are common in patients with cirrhosis. The
      pathogenesis of abnormal hematological indices (HIs) in cirrhosis is multifactorial and
      includes portal hypertension-induced sequestration, alterations in bone marrow stimulating
      factors, viral- and toxin-induced bone marrow suppression and consumption or loss.
      Abnormalities in HIs are associated with an increased risk of complications including
      bleeding and infection.

      So, early recognition and early treatment of those patients with chronic HCV infection can
      modify its natural history. There are many factors affecting the outcome of HCV infection as
      viral, environmental and host factors, including immunologic and genetic susceptibilities.

      Till 2011, the main lines of therapy were Interferon plus ribavirin for at least 48 weeks but
      these combinations was associated with low incidence of Sustained Virological Response (SVR).
      Now, there is era of Direct Acting Analogues that used for treatment of patients with chronic
      HCV infection and associated with high rate of SVR.

      Daclatasvir is a first-in-class HCV NS5A replication complex inhibitor, and Sofosbuvir is a
      nucleotide analogue HCV NS5B polymerase inhibitor. Both have potent antiviral activity and
      broad genotypic coverage and are administered orally once daily.
    
  