
    
      Substance use among adolescents and emerging adults remains an alarming public health issue
      which is associated with the leading causes of death. Although mobile applications are a
      promising data collection tool for understanding substance use among youth, existing mobile
      applications are limited in that they are not readily modifiable nor designed for long-term
      use. To address these challenges, our research team has developed a prototype mobile
      application named SARA (Substance Abuse Research Assistant) that contains multiple data
      collection tools (e.g., ecological momentary assessments, active tasks) and features various
      engagement strategies (reinforcers or notifications) designed to encourage data collection
      adherence over an extended period of time.

      Baseline reinforcers which are administered to all participants include: (1) a virtual
      aquarium that participants see after opening the app; (2) virtual fish to populate the
      aquarium, which participants can earn points to unlock by completing daily data collection
      activities; (3) a new aquarium interface (i.e., leveling up) that participants unlock after
      using the app for a predetermined amount of time; (4) small financial rewards for each 3-day
      streak of completing daily data collection activities; and (5) reminder text messages/phone
      calls from research staff following predetermined reminder schedules. Key reinforcers and
      notifications are described in detail in the "intervention" section.

      This study examines the impact of these key engagement strategies on participant compliance
      with daily data collection activities over a 30 day field testing period. The primary
      analyses will use a log linear generalization. The primary longitudinal binary outcome for
      the reinforcers will be whether on the following day the participant completes one or more
      self-report validated survey items. The secondary longitudinal binary outcome for the
      reinforcers will be whether on the following day the participant completes both active tasks.
      Survey questions answered prior to the randomization as well as the completion of one or more
      survey questions on the day prior to randomization, and the completion of both active tasks
      on the day prior to randomization, may be used as control variables in the above analyses of
      reinforcers. The primary longitudinal binary outcome for the notifications will be whether on
      the same day the participant completes one or more self-report survey questions. The
      secondary longitudinal binary outcome for the notifications will be whether on the same day
      the participant completes both active tasks. The completion of one or more survey questions
      on the day prior to, and the completion of both active tasks on the day prior to, the
      randomization will be included as control variables for the notifications.
    
  