
    
      This study will be carried out in Ontario, Canada (University of Waterloo) and Hong Kong (The
      Hong Kong Polytechnic University). There are two conditions: Active brain stimulation and
      sham/placebo brain stimulation. This study uses a within-subjects design, such that all
      participants will take part in both conditions on separate sessions.

      Participants will be recruited from university-affiliated clinics and local clinical
      practices. Following full informed consent, participants will complete baseline testing and
      clinical testing to confirm that they meet eligibility criteria including: a diagnosis of
      macular degeneration without any additional eye disease, impaired vision but with enough
      visual acuity that the computer monitor can still present readable word, and no
      contraindications for brain stimulation interventions. Eligible participants will then be
      randomized to either receiving the active stimulation first or the placebo stimulation first.

      The primary outcome measure is verbal reading accuracy for sentences presented on a computer
      screen following a Rapid Serial Visual Presentation (RSVP) task in which a single word is
      presented on the screen at a time. Participants will freely observe the words and will
      indicate the words on the screen verbally. The secondary outcome measures are crowded and
      uncrowded visual acuity as measured by Freiburg Visual Acuity & Contrast Test (FrACT) using
      the Landolt C stimulus. The "C"'s gap will be oriented randomly, and the participant will
      indicate the orientation of the stimulus. Crowded visual acuity will be assessed with Landolt
      C surrounded by a solid ring, while uncrowded visual acuity will be assessed with the Landolt
      C alone.

      The study consists of 3 sessions:

      Session 1: The first session will include the clinical evaluation. In addition, the first
      session will also collect the participant's individual RSVP performance threshold by
      presenting a variety of reading speeds and print sizes. The selected threshold will be the
      combination of print size and presentation speed required for a given participant to achieve
      roughly 55% performance accuracy.

      Session 2 and 3: Brain stimulation sessions. At the start of each session, participants will
      perform baseline pre tests for the uncrowded and crowded visual acuity tasks as well as the
      RSVP task using their selected threshold from Session 1. They will then undergo a-tDCS to
      their primary visual cortex - this stimulation may be either active or placebo on any given
      day, but all participants will have been exposed to both sham and placebo by the end of
      Session 3. During the brain stimulation, participants will perform post tests for the primary
      outcome measure (RSVP) and the two secondary outcome measures (crowded and uncrowded visual
      acuity). Five minutes after the completion of the brain stimulation, participants will again
      perform all three post tests. A third set of post tests will be completed 30 minutes after
      the completion of the brain stimulation.

      All outcome measures will be analyzed by comparing the baseline (pre test) scores to the post
      test scores, examining whether the active brain stimulation condition resulted in greater
      post test improvement relative to the placebo brain stimulation condition. The time course of
      the effect of brain stimulation will also be examined by comparing the effect of brain
      stimulation at each of the 3 post tests to one another.
    
  