
    
      At the end of the 1980s, a protocol for transthoracic cardiac ultrasound examination was
      established in order to get a quick overview of the structure and function of a patient's
      heart. Under the abbreviation "FATE" (focus assessed transthoracic echocardiography), it was
      "FAST"(focused assessment with sonography for trauma) when it was analogous to the ultrasound
      examination in traumatized patients, became an important component in the care of the acutely
      ill patients ( Walcher.F et al,2009).

      The uncomplicated and focused transthoracic cardiac ultrasound examination, which is gentle
      for the patient, gives the doctor in a short time a lot of information about possible, as
      unrecognized pathologies of the organs of the chest.

      In 2014, M.T. Bétker et al. published a study on the preoperative transthoracic sonography of
      the heart. Pathologies were detected in 27 percent of the patients included in the study,
      that could have a possible influence on the anesthesiological and intensive medical care
      procedures (Bøtker, M.T et al,2014).

      The aim of this work is to investigate whether the use of a modified examination protocol in
      patients who need to be admitted to an intensive care unit has an influence on the actions of
      the intensive care physician. Does the information that is collected from the findings have a
      complementary influence in the planning of intensive care management? Before a patient
      undergoes a planned procedure or intervention with a subsequent intensive stay, examinations
      are necessary from which the anesthetist/intensive physician has important information the
      state of health of the patient. The findings and the information will be used to plan the
      individual anesthesia procedures and intensive medical management, which is suitable for the
      patient.

      The examination takes place as part of the premedication visit. In addition to the history
      and the physical examination, the evaluation of already carried out examinations takes place
      here. Potential risks and complications are also discussed if the patient desires.

      This evaluation helps to reduce the perioperative and interventional risks for the patient.
      particularly the detection of the cardiopulmonary capacity of the patient. Various technical
      studies can help to diagnose diseases of the heart, lungs and vascular system or to record
      the course of a known disorder (Anästh. Intensivmed (51) ,2010).

      In addition to laboratory examinations, the electrocardiogram, the X-ray examination of the
      organs of the thorax, the blood vessel sonography, echocardiography is available.

      The most common indications of echocardiography are the assessment of left and right
      ventricular pumping function and the exclusion of cardiac defects and shunt in patients with
      signs of heart failure or pathological auscultation findings.

      These findings will be analyzed latest the day before a planned operation or intervention
      during the premedication visits and discussed with the patient in order to develop a
      patient-specific procedure and regimen.

      This possibility exists for urgent interventions or interventions that which must be carried
      out on the same day, only conditionally and not for all planned admissions in the intensive
      care unit. Completeness of anesthetic and intensive medical findings about a statement the
      cardiopulmonary function is not always to be expected. In favor of rapid therapy, this must
      usually be dispensed with in a patient-individual risk-benefit-assessment.

      The purpose of this study is to help answer the question whether the routine use of focused
      transthoracic echocardiography in unplanned admission to the Intensive Care Unit is a useful
      additional measure for the anesthesiologist and intensive physician in order to provide the
      patient with more safety?
    
  