
    
      The study is an observational multicenter descriptive study. No hypothesis is checked in the
      study.

      3000 patients with COPD risk factors are planned to be enrolled into the study (current
      smokers and former smokers with smoking history of ≥10 pack/years at the age of >40 years who
      have respiratory complaints) and 1450 patients previously diagnosed with COPD who contacted
      the physicians of outpatient institutions during the study (for 3 months) and are currently
      in remission.

      100 patients with COPD risk factors and approximately 50 patients early diagnosed with COPD
      currently being stable are planned to be enrolled in each site.

      Physicians and pulmonologists of the outpatient institutions of the Russian Federation will
      take part in the study in about 30 sites in 18 cities (a total of 31% of RF population live
      in the cities).

      The observational descriptive study will be conducted within the routine practice of
      outpatient institutions. Examining and treatment of patients will be performed according to
      the rules of the routine practice.

      Patients will be enrolled into the study as they visit the outpatient institutions for the
      medical care. The study does not imply any special invitation of COPD patients to the sites
      for them to be enrolled into the study. Therefore the conditions are made for the study
      population to reflect the typical visitors of the primary care medical institutions in
      different RF (Russian Federation) regions. Patients are enrolled into the study regardless
      the reason for appointment with a doctor. A reason for the appointment can be respiratory
      complaints as well as any other diseases or certificates and conclusions. To be enrolled into
      the study the subjects must sign the written Informed Consent Form (ICF) to participate in
      the study and to use personal data confidentially.

      To investigate the role of spirometry in diagnostics and management of the COPD patients, two
      groups of patients are supposed to be included into the study.
    
  