
    
      In the past decade, the single most common cause of withdrawal of the use of drugs that have
      already been marketed has been the prolongation of the QT interval on the electrocardiogram
      associated with polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, or torsade de pointes. Without
      treatment, torsade de pointes can progress to a lethal ventricular arrhythmia. A number of
      drugs which prolong the QT interval can precipitate torsade de pointes. However, a number of
      risk factors are often present in patients who develop drug-induced torsade de pointes. These
      include hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, female gender, bradycardia, congestive heart failure,
      rapid rate of drug infusion, and high drug concentrations. Exposure to a drug that prolongs
      the QT interval, particularly in a susceptible patient, may cause an exaggerated QT
      prolongation.1 Another reason for the variability in risk for torsade de pointes relates to
      genetic susceptibility for this arrhythmia. These factors control the duration of the QT
      interval. At least 6 separate genes, if mutated, can cause the congenital long-QT interval.
      In particular, the human ether-a-go-go related gene (HERG), which encodes a potassium-channel
      protein that regulates repolarization potassium currents, has been implicated in increasing
      the risk of drug-induced torsade de pointes.

      A number of drugs used by physicians in the perioperative period effect the QT interval.
      These include the anti-arrhythmic agents, calcium-channel blockers, antibiotics,
      antipsychotic drugs, and antiemetic agents like droperidol and haloperidol. Any agent which
      results in a QT prolongation greater than 500 ms is thought to significantly escalate the
      possibility of developing this arrhythmia. Drugs which increases that QT interval more than
      500 ms should be immediately discontinued (normal values for the QT interval are < 430 ms in
      males and < 450 ms in females). According to guidelines published by the European Agency for
      the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, drugs which induce individual changes in the QT of 30
      ms are unlikely to raise concerns about arrhythmias, changes of 30-60 ms are thought to
      potentially increase the risk for arrhythmias, and drug-effects which raise the QT interval
      more than 60 ms increase concerns about arrythmogenic risk.

      Oral methadone is a long acting agent which has been traditionally used to treat opioid
      addiction. In addition, it is being increasingly used as an important therapy for chronic
      pain. This agent has a long half-life and can be administered once daily. In addition to its
      analgesic effects due to its long-acting agonist effect on the µ-receptor, methadone is an
      antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Antagonism of the NMDA receptor may
      play an important role in treating acute pain and preventing the development of chronic
      postoperative pain. Furthermore, methadone may prevent reuptake of the neurotransmitters
      norepinephrine and serotonin and result in improved mood states. In chronic pain patients,
      methadone may be more effective in treating neuropathic pain and prevent the development of
      tolerance. Despite these potential advantages, patients receiving chronic methadone therapy
      are at increased risk of cardiac death. Methadone has been reported to be implicated in
      30-40% of opioid-related deaths. Although a number of these deaths may be related to
      respiratory depression, others may be due to QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Risk
      factors in these patients for lethal arrhythmias include dose of methadone, duration of
      treatment, electrolyte abnormalities, older age, female sex, cirrhosis, genetic
      susceptibility, and use of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Studies have
      demonstrated a mean increase in the QT interval of 15 ms and 34 ms in patients on chronic
      methadone treatment.

      Over the past decade, the use of intravenous methadone in the operating room setting has
      dramatically increased. An important limitation of the intravenous opioids typically used in
      the operating room and in the postoperative period for pain management is that the duration
      of effect of these agents is only 3 to 4 hours. This results in periods of effective pain
      relief, followed by periods of moderate-to-severe pain in the postoperative period. An
      alternative strategy for opioid utilization may involve the administration of a very
      long-acting opioid in the operating room that would provide effective analgesia for the first
      24 postoperative hours (which corresponds with the period of the most severe pain after
      surgery). At the present time, intravenous methadone is the only long-acting opioid available
      to anesthesiologists. A primary advantage of methadone is its long half-life, which ranges
      from 25-52 hours when given intravenously in larger doses. Therefore, a single dose given at
      induction of anesthesia can be used in patients with moderate-to-severe to provide analgesia
      throughout the perioperative period. In randomized, double-blinded investigations in cardiac
      and orthopedic surgical patients, subjects randomized to the methadone group reported less
      pain, required reduced postoperative analgesic medications, and described increased
      satisfaction with overall pain management when compared to subjects administered a standard
      opioids.

      No adverse events directly attributable to methadone were reported in any clinical trials
      using methadone in the operating room. In particular, no cardiac events, episodes of QT
      prolongation, or observations of torsade de pointes were reported in any studies. In
      addition, no case reports of adverse cardiac events related to methadone have been described
      in the literature. However, none of the previous studies have specifically assessed the
      effect of methadone on the incidence of QT prolongation or obtained postoperative EKGs. Only
      two previous investigations have examined the potential effects of a single dose of methadone
      on the QT interval. In dogs given 0.3 to 1.0 mg/kg doses of intravenous methadone, no
      significant effect on the QRS duration or QT interval was observed. In a post-hoc analysis of
      data from a randomized study examining the effect of vitamin treatment and nitrous oxide on
      cardiovascular events, the impact of various anesthetic agents on the QT interval was
      examined. EKGs were obtained before anesthesia, 30 minutes after PACU admission, and on
      postoperative days 1 and 2. Eighty percent of patients had significant QT prolongation in the
      PACU, whereas no patient had QT prolongation by postoperative day 1. Several drugs were
      associated with increases in the QT interval, including inhalational agents, ketorolac,
      antibiotics, vasoactive drugs, and methadone. Fifty-three percent of the patients
      administered methadone had a QT interval increase of > 30 ms. An important limitation of this
      investigation is that it was a post-hoc analysis of data from a study in which anesthetic
      care was not standardized. The data demonstrates, however, that a number of anesthetic agents
      increase the QT interval. In addition, the stress response to surgery has been demonstrated
      to increase the QT interval. Despite the frequent use of these agents in the operating room,
      torsade de pointes is a rare event during or immediately following surgery.

      At the present time, no previous randomized trials have assessed the effect of a single dose
      of methadone, given at induction of anesthesia, on the QT interval as a primary endpoint. The
      aim of this clinical investigation is to examine the impact of a standard dose of
      perioperative methadone (0.2 mg/kg ideal body weight (IBW)) on the QT interval, measured with
      a 12-lead EKG, 30 minutes after PACU admission and on the morning of postoperative day 1. We
      hypothesize that patients randomized to receive methadone will not have a higher incidence of
      QT prolongation, when compared to patients given a dose of hydromorphone (the standard
      intraoperative opioid administered to patients undergoing procedures associated with
      moderate-to-severe postoperative pain). Secondary endpoints include levels of postoperative
      pain, analgesic requirements, and any opioid-related complications (level of sedation,
      episodes of respiratory complications)
    
  