
    
      Health care systems are key channels for delivering tobacco cessation treatment to the
      smokers in a population. Current health care system approaches require busy clinicians with
      many competing demands on their time to initiate treatment in the course of clinical
      encounter. A population-based approach is an alternative that could complement office-based
      care and offload busy clinicians. The ongoing evolution of the health care system is making
      this more feasible with adoption of electronic health records (EHR) that document patients'
      smoking status in a coded field. This facilitates the creation of a registry of smokers who
      can be offered tobacco treatment proactively. However, the optimal way to implement a
      proactive population health strategy for tobacco users is unclear.

      The goal of the project is to implement a population-based proactive outreach program to
      current smokers in a health care system's primary care practices. The program will

        1. Proactively contact smokers independent of their health care visits and

        2. Connect smokers who respond to evidence-based tobacco cessation resources available in
           the health care system and/or community.

      The study aims of the study are to:

      Aim 1: To determine the feasibility and reach of the program.

      Aim 2a: To determine whether the two intervention arms combined increase the proportion of
      smokers who use tobacco cessation treatment over a 6-month follow-up, compared to those
      receiving usual clinical care.

      Aim 2b: To determine whether each of the two interventions increases the proportion of
      smokers who use tobacco cessation treatment over a 6-month follow-up, compared to those
      receiving usual clinical care.

      Exploratory aim: To compare the 7-day point prevalence smoking cessation rate in each
      intervention arm to usual care.
    
  