
    
      Therapy with chemotherapeutic drugs can make a huge impact on survival and quality of life in
      patients with cancer. Advances in medical monitoring and the effectiveness of these therapies
      have significantly improved outcomes so that a definitive cure or long-term survival is more
      likely. Cancer survivors are used to dealing with serious side effects of their therapy;
      however, some of the side effects from the chemotherapy drugs persist even after the
      medication course is completed. The impact of these sequelae on quality of survival is
      increasingly being appreciated and forming an important new direction of cancer care. One of
      the more severe side effects of chemotherapy is peripheral neurotoxicity resulting in
      neuropathy or neuronopathy.

      Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (CIPN) is one of the least predictable and most
      prolonged sequelae with effects ranging from pain, numbness and tingling to diffuse weakness
      sometimes to the extent of paralysis. It results from damage or alteration in function of
      peripheral nerves usually, but not always, in a length-dependent manner. An indirect impact
      of CIPN includes difficulties with balance and susceptibility to falls. There are currently
      no therapies that have been proven to prevent CIPN. Similarly, there are few medications that
      are known to be effective in the reversing CIPN once it develops or effectively treating
      symptoms of CIPN. Currently, diagnosis is based mainly on clinical examination and
      electrophysiological testing to monitor CIPN; identification of candidate biomarkers through
      which disease onset can be identified at an earlier stage and which reflect presumed
      pathophysiologic mechanisms is of paramount importance.

      There are different theories of CIPN pathogenesis. One of the leading hypotheses relates to
      mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress affecting both the dorsal root ganglia neurons
      and supportive endothelial cells of the vasa nervorum. Here at Dartmouth, a specialized
      technique has been developed that allows the non-invasive assessment of tissue oxygen in and
      around peripheral nerve. This technique, called "electron paramagnetic resonance" (EPR)
      oximetry, allows for repeated measurements over time that can be correlated with other
      metrics of peripheral nerve function. Given its relevance to an important pathophysiologic
      mechanism of disease, EPR oximetry may provide an early marker of disease onset.

      Neurofilament light chain (NF-L) is also emerging as a sensitive blood-based biomarker of
      axonal degeneration. NF-L is a component of the axonal cytoskeleton that leaks out of
      degenerating axons. NF-L has been reported to be elevated in plasma or serum in a wide range
      of neurodegenerative disorders, including CNS disorders such as multiple sclerosis and ALS as
      well as PNS disorders such as Charcot Marie Tooth and Guillain-Barre syndrome. To date, there
      are no published reports of elevated blood NF-L levels in patients with CIPN, although it has
      been reported to increase in rat model of vincristine-induced neuropathy.

      In this proposal, the investigators will be testing the hypothesis that these could both be
      biomarkers of CIPN. It is hoped that the oximetry measurement and blood NF-L levels will (i)
      reflect the changes that occur on a cellular level and the damaged nerves, (ii) reflect the
      damage occurring to nerves more sensitively than existing techniques, and (iii) help to
      better understand the reason the nerves are being damaged. It is also hoped that these will
      be something that can be used in future clinical trials.
    
  