
    
      I. Objectives

      Because social network-based programs have shown promise as a viable public health
      intervention strategy, we designed the MCP program to leverage existing social relationships
      to propagate positive health behaviors in efforts to prevent and manage obesity and diabetes.
      We conduct a trial to examine the effectiveness of the Microclinic Behavioral Health Program
      via 3 arm trial in Jordan of a 6 month intervention with 2 years followup.

      II. Study Design

      Randomized Control Study: This study is a randomized control study of adults (>= 18 years
      old) with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, pre-diabetes, or at risk for diabetes, who will be
      randomly assigned to an intervention group consisting of the Microclinic Behavioral Health
      Enhanced Program (Group A), a group who will receive the Microclinic Behavioral Health Basic
      Program without the social network components (Group B) , and controls receiving standard
      care and risk factor monitoring (Group C).

      III. Study Procedures

      a. Participant Recruitment (1-3 months) The aim of recruitment is to inform individuals with
      diabetic, pre-diabetic, or at risk for diabetes in the community about the microclinic study,
      and encourage patients to participate. The recruitment process will consist of interconnected
      strategies including: 1) the distribution of posters and invitations in four catchment areas,
      and a broader media campaign, and 2) recruitment by nurses through clinics in two pilot
      locations around Amman.

      Recruitment: Outreach strategies to recruit patients at risk for diabetes and with Type 2
      diabetes include: a) The Royal Health Awareness Society will lead an outreach effort to
      spread the word about the Microclinic Social Network Behavioral Health Trial. The effort will
      involve distribution of posters and flyers in the public sphere, and, if possible, airing of
      radio or television spots. b) At the three assigned Ministry of Health local health centers,
      a Project Officer for each center will work with Project nurses trained in research,
      Institutional Review Board approved protocol, and data collection to recruit patients at risk
      for diabetes, pre-diabetes, and with type 2 diabetes to the Microclinic Social Network
      Behavioral Health Trial.

      Potential participants, consisting of both local residents and refugees in Jordan will be
      contacted by phone or referred to the trial in person during their visit to local Jordan
      Ministry of Health centers and asked if they would be willing to participate.

      Group A shall receive the 6 month Microclinic Behavioral Health Full Program, via trained
      Project Nurses, and a classroom curriculum that will increase the knowledge and skills in
      diabetes self-management and peer support and monitoring. The educational curriculum includes
      sessions on the causes of diabetes, prevention of complications, symptoms, self-management
      strategies, diet, exercise, but with emphasis on peer monitoring, social support, and
      structured social interactions. Each session is 2-3 hours.

      Group B receiving a modified Microclinic Behavioral Health Basic Program that has the same
      educational curriculum and classroom setting, but a modified version that does not emphasize
      the importance of social support, without structured social interaction enhancing components.
      Group C receiving no intervention and therefore, standard care as the control group, with
      parallel measurement of risk factors (to alleviate monitoring bias).

      A critical component of this project is the evaluation aimed at assessing the long term
      efficacy and sustainability of the Microclinic interventions in improving body weight and
      glucose in a resource limited setting over a 2 year time span. The program evaluation will
      collect demographic, medical history, clinical data, behavioral data from all participants
      during the 6 month main program as well as at 2 years after baseline.
    
  