
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the safety of first trimester fetal stem cell
      therapy using unrelated donor partially HLA-matched stem and progenitor cells derived from
      human umbilical cord blood for the treatment of selected lysosomal storage diseases that are
      known to cause severe and irreversible neurological disability in early infancy and which are
      lethal in childhood.

      This study is designed as a prospective phase I open-label single center trial. It is
      designed to asses the safety and feasibility of administration of ALD-601 UCB cells to first
      trimester fetuses known to be affected with a lethal lysosomal storage disease. The sample
      size is 12 patients enrolled in cohorts of size 3. Safety measures will be monitored by an
      independent DSMC in each of the 4 cohorts prior to proceeding to the next cohort.

      Biological parents being considered for therapy will have HLA testing, mutation analysis for
      disease status, and psychological counseling. Mothers will have ultrasounds for gestational
      age and chorion villus testing for mutation analysis for Krabbe, MLD, Tay Sachs, Sandhoff, or
      PMD (whichever appropriate). A crown-rump length will be determined the day before the
      scheduled transfer. The fetal weight will be calculated from formula: Y (kg) = (2.9026 x
      10-1) (X 2.6528). The estimated fetal weight at that gestational age would be about 0.5
      ounces or 14 grams. A suitably matched unrelated umbilical cord blood will be identified and
      the 20% portion will be manipulated for the isolation of ALD-601 cells. ALD-601 (ALDHbr)
      cells are isolated by high speed flow sorting on the FACSAria (BD Biosciences). Upon
      completion of the sort, ALD-601 UCB cells are counted, viability is determined, and the
      cellular composition of the sample is measured by analytical flow cytometry using
      fluorescence antibodies to lineage marker for T-cells, granulocytes, monocytes, and
      erythrocytes. The content of ALDHbr cells is also confirmed by analytical flow cytometry. A
      dose of 1 x 105 - 2 x 106 cells/kg of estimated fetal weight is suspended in 300 microliters
      of Cellgenix Stem Cell Medium (CellGenix, Inc.). Release criteria will allow a maximum of 5 x
      104 T cells/kg. If the sorted sample contains greater than 5 x 104 T cells/kg it is re-sorted
      using the FACSAria and re-evaluated for cell number, viability, and cellular content.
      Sterility testing will include Bac-T/ALERT cultures, endotoxin measurement (LAL), and gram
      stain. After meeting criteria for product release, ALD-601 is transported at 2-8 degree C in
      a validated cooler to Duke and released to the Stem Cell Laboratory. Duke personnel will
      transport the cooler containing the ALD-601 product to the ultrasound suite, where the
      medical team will allow the ALD-601 to warm briefly to room temperature prior to injection.
      Under continuous ultrasound guidance, a 22-gauge X 5 inch procedure needle will be used to
      puncture the fetal peritoneal cavity. 100 microliters of sterile saline will be instilled to
      confirm intraperitoneal placement. The stem cell infusion will then be injected through the
      needle followed by the injection of 200 microliters (dead space of the needle: 60
      microliters) to displace all cells from the dead space of the needle. An ultrasound will be
      performed 24 hours later to confirm fetal viability. A subsequent ultrasound will be
      undertaken at 18 weeks gestation to confirm viability, assess detailed fetal anatomy and
      adequate serial fetal growth.
    
  