
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate (complete response [CR], CR-unconfirmed [CRu], and partial
           response [PR]) in patients with relapsed or refractory indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin's
           lymphoma treated with bortezomib and rituximab.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate (CR, CRu, and PR) at the first disease response evaluation
           in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the overall CR rate (CR and CRu) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the duration of response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the time to best response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center, Karnofsky performance status (< 70% vs ≥ 70%), lactic
      dehydrogenase level (normal vs > upper limit of normal), age (18 to 60 years vs > 60 years),
      and lymphoma subtype (follicular vs marginal zone). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Patients
           also receive rituximab IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of course 1 only and on day 1 of course 2
           only. Treatment with repeats every 21 days for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 8, 15 and 22.
           Patients also receive rituximab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course 1 only. Treatment
           repeats every 35 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients in either arm may crossover to the other arm if treatment is found to be
      ineffective.

      Patients are followed at 30 days and then every 12 weeks thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24-66 patients (12-33 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 1 year.
    
  