
    
      The prevalence of diabetes around the world has increased from 30 million in 1985 to the
      current 235 million, and is expected to grow to 300 million in 2030, with more than 75
      percent occurring in countries such as India and China. In China, economic prosperity and
      changes in diet and lifestyles have resulted in steep increase in prevalence of overweight,
      obesity, and diabetes. According to the latest study, in adults of 20 years of age or older,
      the incidence of diabetes has reached 9.7% and the prevalence 92.4 million. In a nationwide,
      cross over cohort study that was recently completed in China, the results showed that the
      duration of diabetes is positively correlated with the incidence of CAD and all microvascular
      diabetic complications. Preventing diabetes progression and preventing the onset of
      cardiovascular diseases early on at the stage of newly diagnosis is thus one of the most
      important goals in managing type 2 diabetes.

      According to the Chinese Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes, which is
      consistent with IDF Clinical Guidelines Task Force Global Guideline for Type 2 Diabetes, the
      therapeutic target for type 2 diabetes is defined as HbA1C < 6.5%. Various national surveys
      conducted in China in 2003, 2004, 2006 have shown that only about one forth of type 2
      diabetes patients in China reached this therapeutic target.Over the recent few years, a
      number of new antidiabetic treatments, such as DPP-IV inhibitors, have been introduced to the
      real world practice of diabetes management in China, creating exciting opportunities to
      potentially improve glycemic control. UKPDS (United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study)
      provided the evidence for improving glycemic control through aggressive treatment in western
      population. There is now substantial evidence on management of patients with type 2 diabetes.
      However, it is believed that not all patients have benefited from optimal diabetes management
      in China, partially due to diversity of standards of clinical practices and complexity of
      diabetes care itself. For example, it is unclear which treatment regimen works more
      effectively for managing newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients or whether a more
      aggressive strategy be used during the early stage of treatment. Moreover, it remains
      answering that what other factors may influence the treatment outcomes. There are clearly
      significant unmet needs and thus significant opportunities to leverage the existing medical
      advancement.

      This study is thus designed to evaluate current treatment patterns and treatment outcomes for
      managing newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients and to assess specific unmet needs,
      influencing factors, management platforms, and gaps and trends in practice, providing a
      comprehensive knowledge in current management of newly diagnosed diabetes and insight on
      opportunities and strategy for future research and development of improved therapy.
    
  