
    
      Objective:

      In this Phase I, proof-of-concept study, we aim to determine whether an antiretroviral
      regimen approved to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection would also suppress
      levels of Human Endogenous Retrovirus-K (HERV-K) found to be activated in a subset of
      patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We propose to measure the of blood levels
      of HERV-K by quantitative PCR before, during, and after treatment with an antiretroviral
      regimen. We will evaluate the safety of the antiretroviral regimen for participants with ALS
      and also explore clinical and neurophysiological outcomes of ALS symptoms, quality of life,
      and pulmonary function.

      Study Population:

      We will study a subset of ALS patients who have a ratio of HERV-K:RPP30 greater than or equal
      to 13. About 30% of ALS patients may have detectable levels of HERV-K; about 20% of patients
      with ALS have a level >1000 copies/ml. To show whether the HERV-K could be suppressed, we
      will recruit from the approximately 20% of patients with the high levels so that the
      antiretroviral effect can be determined.

      Design:

      This is an open-label study of a combination antiretroviral therapy for 24 weeks in 20
      HIV-negative, HTLV-negative ALS patients with high ratio of HERV-K:RPP30. The study duration
      for each participant will be up to 60 weeks. Participants will be followed regularly for
      safety, clinical, and neurophysiological outcomes.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure will be the percent decline HERV-K concentration measured by
      quantitataive PCR. Percent decline for a patient is measured by: 100 x (screening visit -
      week 24 visit measurement) / screening visit. The safety of antiretrovirals in volunteers
      with ALS as measured by the frequency and type of AEs, the ability to remain on assigned
      treatment (tolerability), physical examinations, laboratory test results, vital signs, and
      weight/body mass index (BMI). Efficacy will be explored by measuring the change in mean
      scores of: the ALS Functional Rating Scale-Revised (ALSFRS-R), the ALS Specific Quality of
      Life Inventory-Revised (ALSSQOL-R), the ALS Cognitive Behavioral Screen (ALS-CBS), vital
      capacity and maximal inspiratory pressure as measured by handheld spirometer, electrical
      impedance myography (EIM), the change in neurofilament levels in blood and/or CSF, and the
      change in uring p75ECD levels.
    
  