
    
      Acute Appendicitis (AA) is a surgical emergency most common stomach. Appendicitis occurs at
      all ages. Recently, the rate tends to increase VRTC with age. In the United States, there are
      about 300,000 cases of appendectomy surgery per year. In Vietnam, according to statistics
      from a number of other authors showed that the rate of appendectomy surgery accounted for
      40.5% - 49.8% of total number of cases of abdominal emergency. Open appendectomy (OA) has
      long been applied as the gold standard surgical procedure for the treatment of AA for over a
      century, since it was introduce by McBurrney in 1894 and still be common choice for procedure
      in many center. In 1981, due to the growth of endoscopic surgery, Semm first introduced the
      laparoscopic appendectomy, which render a minimal invasive procedure for abdomen and skin,
      nevertheless, its superiority over open appendectomy (OA) is still being debated. Some more
      recent paper demonstrate that Laparoscopic Appendectomy is the technique of choice in
      treatment of AA because of its clinical advantage and cost-effectiveness, however, more than
      20 years later, the benefits of LA still remain a controversy for many researchers.

      There are several studies comparing the cost-effectiveness between laparoscopic appendectomy
      and open appendectomy in the world. But in Vietnam, health economics studies for appendix
      removal surgery in general and laparoscopic appendectomy in particular has hardly been
      available, and in the context of reform of the financial mechanism for payment, questions
      about the cost-effectiveness between the two surgical methods are particularly concerned.
      Therefore, we conducted a study "Cost-effectiveness analysis and case-based payment norm
      modeling in patients with appendectomy at Hanoi Medical University Hospital" with two main
      purposes

        1. Analyze cost-effectiveness between laparoscopic and open surgery in patients undergoing
           appendectomy at Hanoi Medical University Hospital in 2011 - 2013

        2. Model case-based payment norm of appendectomy patients at Hanoi Medical University
           Hospital
    
  