
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that can cause significant
      disability and decrease quality of life. It is a chronic and progressive disease which means
      the symptoms become worse over time.

      Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) is a decline in thinking and reasoning that develops in
      many people living with PD at least a year after diagnosis. An estimated 50 to 80 percent of
      patients with PD eventually experience dementia as the disease progresses. Key risk factors
      or correlation consistently associated with PDD are older age, more severe parkinsonism
      (particularly rigidity, postural instability and gait disturbance), male gender, certain
      psychiatric symptoms (depression, psychosis) and mild cognitive impairment. PDD has a unique
      clinical profile and neuropathology, commonly reported symptoms include changes in memory,
      concentration and judgment; trouble interpreting visual information; muffled speech; visual
      hallucinations; delusions, especially paranoid ideas; depression, irritability and anxiety;
      and sleep disturbances, including excessive daytime drowsiness and rapid eye movement sleep
      disorder.

      The investigational product (IP) is 1 g of ceftriaxone powder manufactured by Sandoz Company
      reconstituted with 1% lidocaine as diluent before use. Ceftriaxone is a sterile,
      semisynthetic, broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic for intramuscular or intravenous
      administration. Ceftriaxone is the drug substance of Rocephin first approved by FDA in 1984
      as a cephalosporin antibiotic, and is clinically widely used and currently off patent.

      The current main treatment goal of PDD focuses on the improvement of disease symptoms.
      However, the irreversible deterioration of cognitive and motor functions is the most
      challenge issue for therapeutic agent development. Ceftriaxone was found to have functions in
      reducing glutamatergic hyperactivity and excitotoxicity and may exhibit neuro-protective
      functions as the mechanism in PDD treatment. The therapeutic effects of ceftriaxone on the
      animal model of PDD showed ceftriaxone works on 1) preventing cognitive and motor deficits,
      2) inhibiting dopaminergic degeneration and restoring neuronal density and activity in the
      striatum and SNc, 3) inhibiting cell loss and restoring neuronal density and activity in the
      hippocampus , 4) increasing neurogenesis in the substantia nigra and hippocampus dentate
      gyrus, 5) increasing glutamate transporter expression in the striatum and hippocampus , and
      6) decreasing neuronal hyperactivity in the subthalamic nucleus (STN). The effects observed
      in the animal model of PDD have suggested ceftriaxone as a potential promising medical
      treatment for PDD patients to improve the cognitive and motor function defects. For such
      reasons, the investigators plan to conduct this phase II trial of ceftriaxone to determine
      the potential efficacy and obtain safety profiles in PDD patients.
    
  