
    
      Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a potentially reversible progressive neurological
      condition disproportionately affecting the elderly population. Given current controversies
      regarding its exact definition, accurate incidence and prevalence figures are elusive. NPH
      was first described forty years ago as a triad of symptoms consisting of gait difficulties,
      urinary incontinence, and memory problems in patients with enlarged ventricles in the absence
      of increased intracranial pressure (ICP). The cause of primary, or idiopathic NPH (INPH)
      remains elusive, while secondary NPH results from intracranial insults such as head trauma,
      meningitis, or intracranial hemorrhage. NPH can be successfully treated with cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF) shunting. However, the accurate diagnosis and treatment of patients with NPH
      remains problematic, despite significant advances in brain imaging and ICP physiology.

      Objectives - The primary aims of this study are:

        1. to confirm the ability of external lumbar drainage to increase the success rate of
           selectively shunting patients with NPH compared to historical controls

        2. to refine the diagnosis of NPH by determining whether the factors that change before and
           after lumbar drainage will predict failure to improve after shunting. A related aim is
           to assess the complications attributable to lumbar drainage.

        3. to perform a preliminary evaluation of programmable shunt valves for NPH compared to
           historical controls using fixed-pressure valves. A related aim is to determine whether
           post-op objective analysis of gait, cognitive function and urinary symptoms will help
           refine the programmable shunt setting on an individual basis.

      Secondary study aims include:

      Investigating the pathophysiology of NPH by: 1) correlating cortical vein compliance measured
      by MRI flow quantification studies with CSF pressure waveform analysis; 2)assessing
      funduscopic changes before and during ELD; 3) performing and cross correlating CSF chemical
      analysis on screening positive and negative patients as well as screening-positive patients
      who are shunt responsive versus unresponsive.
    
  