
    
      Corneal abrasions are commonly encountered eye injuries presenting to acute care settings and
      account for over 10% of new ophthalmological presentations at eye accident departments,
      primary care offices, and emergency departments. Patients complain of severe eye pain,
      foreign body sensation, pain with blinking, and photophobia. Corneal abrasions are defects in
      the epithelial layer that occur secondary to mechanical ocular surface trauma. Common causes
      of corneal abrasions include fingernail injuries, tree branches, and projectile pieces of
      metal, wood, or glass that injure or become embedded in the cornea. . Though associated with
      significant discomfort, the prognosis for simple corneal abrasions is usually excellent, with
      full recovery within 24-48 hours. Untreated abrasions, particularly those associated with a
      retained foreign body, can lead to complications such as corneal ulcers, prolonged pain, and
      visual acuity loss.

      Currently, the standard approach to treating corneal abrasions includes removal of the
      foreign body if present, oral analgesics for pain control, and topical antibiotics.
      Traditional guidelines by ophthalmologists have advocated against the use of topical
      anesthetics due to concerns with corneal epithelial healing the potential for patients to
      miss important clinical clues that indicate the rare development of secondary corneal
      infection, as well as the potential for longer term misuse leading to severe corneal
      ulceration and perforation. Previous studies, primarily using animal models, have found a
      delay in corneal epithelial healing with topical anaesthetics, particularly with repeated and
      prolonged usage. Several case studies have described impaired corneal epithelial healing and
      ulceration with the prolonged use and abuse of topical anesthetic drops (0.05% proparacaine
      HCl). There have been reports of topical anesthetic (TA) induced corneal damage including
      punctate epitheliopathy, corneal lysis, perforation, persistent epithelial defects, and
      ocular inflammation. It is thought that local anesthetics inhibit mitosis and cellular
      migration, preventing proper re-epithelialization of the cornea.

      However, in recent years a number of randomized clinical trials and case studies of human
      subjects have shown that with appropriate application and restricted short term usage,
      topical anesthetics did not delay wound healing or increase risks of corneal ulceration.

      A recent prospective, randomized, double-blind trial looked at the effect of topical
      anesthetics on epithelial healing and pain management for patients with uncomplicated corneal
      abrasion. The study included 116 patients presenting to the emergency department who were
      given either 1% tetracaine HCl or control artificial tears. The study found no change in
      corneal healing rate or persistent symptoms but little benefit in pain relief as measured at
      48 hrs. A previous prospective randomized study comparing 0.05% proparacaine and placebo has
      shown a significant decrease in reported pain with topical anesthetic use compared to control
      with no change in corneal healing. Another study evaluating the effect of 1% tetracaine for
      pain management after photorefractive keratectomy also reported significant pain reduction
      with topical anesthetic use with no delays in epithelial healing.

      Controversy continues to exist over the utility of topical anesthetics in managing pain and
      their safety in affecting corneal healing. Contemporary studies of short term topical
      anesthetic use, noted above, have not shown adverse effects on healing. Differential effects
      on pain management have been found. Yet the investigators believe the Waldman study measured
      pain at a delayed time when the abrasion would be expected to have healed. Clinicians in
      Queen's Department of Emergency Medicine do not generally prescribe topical anesthetics for
      corneal abrasions and believe that evidence demonstrating their efficacy and safety would
      change practice patterns for the benefit of patients with these injuries and those in other
      centres. The investigators also hope that this study will better address problems of
      inadequate participant enrollment and retention that previous studies have encountered.

      1.3 - Research Question In adult emergency department patients with acute corneal abrasions,
      is the application of 0.5% tetracaine effective in the short-term management of pain while
      not being associated with adverse effects on healing?

      1.4 - Hypothesis Based on the review of existing literature on the effects of topical
      anesthetics, the investigators hypothesize that short-term and controlled usage of tetracaine
      will be an effective way in managing patient pain and will not affect corneal healing.
    
  