
    
      Background:

      Over the past 15 years the number of Cardiac Implantable Electronic Devices (CIEDs) implanted
      has increased dramatically. This is due in part to the aging of the population in general,
      but primarily due to expanded indications for implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs),
      cardiac resynchronization pacemaker therapy (CRT-P) devices, and CRT devices with
      defibrillator capabilities ("biventricular ICDs" or CRT-D devices). As more patients with
      structural heart disease survive longer, and as more CIEDs are placed, the number of patients
      requiring treatment in the emergency departments for arrhythmias and potential device-related
      matters has increased.

      When a patient with a CIED experiences a problem they presume to be cardiac in nature, they
      often go to the emergency room to seek care. Most emergency departments (ED) are neither
      equipped to interrogate the CIED, nor staffed with personnel trained to interrogate the CIED.
      These CIEDs often record data that can assist the physician in the formulation of a
      diagnostic and treatment strategy tailored to the specific needs of the patient. However,
      interrogation of the device is dependent on proprietary programming equipment that is not
      routinely kept in the emergency department. The programming equipment has traditionally been
      a "stand-alone" unit, which can store the data from the device interrogation (onto a USB
      drive or floppy disk), but does not have the capability to transmit the data to the patient's
      physician for rapid interpretation. In addition, ED personnel are not routinely trained to
      assess CIEDs. In most health care institutions, it is standard practice for a representative
      of the manufacturer to be contacted so the device can be evaluated. The representative must
      then travel to the ED with the programming equipment to interrogate the CIED on site. After
      interrogation, either the representative discusses the findings with the ED physician, or
      calls the physician that manages the patient's device. The process of in-person device
      evaluation can be cumbersome and inefficient, especially in an emergency setting. The time
      involved in the device interrogation process can cause delays in patient care and add
      unnecessary costs for the patient and health care institution.

      Methods:

      Patients with CIEDs will be evaluated in the ED setting. Patients will be divided into two
      cohorts. Each cohort will have a minimum of 50 patients.

      The control group will include CIED patients who have been evaluated in the ED at The Heart
      Hospital Baylor Plano and Baylor Regional Medical Center at Plano. A minimum of 50 devices
      not compatible with the CareLink Express® system will be prospectively interrogated in the
      traditional evaluation method using the device manufacturer representative.

      The study group will include CIED patients who present to the ED and receive a device
      evaluation using the CareLink Express® system. A minimum of 50 devices will be prospectively
      evaluated using CareLink Express®.

      The patient's presenting symptoms in the ED include any medical conditions (not just
      cardiac).

      Consent will be obtained from the subject after treatment has occurred in the ED and prior to
      release. Consent can be obtained from the subject or the subject's Legally Authorized
      Representative. This will ensure that treatment is not delayed or altered for research
      purposes.

      Initial data will be collected using a Data Collection Form. The research staff or a research
      trained Emergency Department staff member will complete the Data Form.

      Data will be collected by the research coordinators who will collect the Data Collection
      Forms from the ED at The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano and Baylor Regional Medical Center at
      Plano. The Data Collection Form will be used by the research coordinators to determine the
      patient's study cohort.

      Other data will be collected by the research coordinators using the hospital EMR and
      Financial systems.

      Data Collection:

      Criteria for the hospital and ED encounters will be extracted from the hospital EMR, the Data
      Collection Form, or the hospital financial system. Device data will be extracted from the
      device report completed at the time of the device interrogation.
    
  