
    
      There will be three groups in this study. Each group will receive 1.25 hr of intervention per
      session, for a total of 60 sessions (3 - 4 x week, 15- 20 weeks). Participants in Group 1
      will receive 1hr of ES while lying down in the chair followed by 15 min of overground
      training. Group 2 will receive standing retraining using BWS followed by 15 minutes of
      overground training. Group 3 will receive standing retraining with ES, followed by 15 min of
      overground training. Participants will complete the study after 20 weeks of training. The
      participant will be able to miss 8 consecutive training sessions before being dropped from
      the study.

      PRIMARY AIMS

      Specific Aim 1: To examine the effectiveness of standing retraining with ES for alterations
      in muscle volume (MV) and BMD in the lower limb:

      Hypothesis 1.1. SRT with ES compared to SRT alone or ES alone will increase muscle volume(MV)
      and muscle cross sectional area(MCSA) and potential muscle torque(PMT) at hip, knee and ankle
      joints (compared to baseline).

      Hypothesis 1.2. SRT with ES compared to SRT alone or ES alone will increase absolute BMD in
      the lower limbs(compared to baseline) Hypothesis 1.3. SRT with ES compared to SRT alone or ES
      alone will increase markers for bone formation and a decrease in markers for bone resorption
      commensurate with the observed increase in BMD (compared to baseline) SECONDARY AIMS Specific
      Aim 2 To examine the effectiveness of standing with ES for improvements in functional outcome
      and alterations in EMG in lower limb.

      Hypothesis 2.1. SRT with ES compared with SRT alone or ES alone will improve functional
      performance(as measured by standing time on the treadmill and overground) Hypothesis 2.2. SRT
      with ES compared to SRT alone and ES alone will experience a greater increase in the
      electromyography (EMG) amplitude for all leg muscles examined (compared to baseline) during
      standing.

      Hypothesis 2.3. LT with ES compared to SRT alone and ES alone will experience significantly
      greater cardiac output (CO) and/or stroke volume SV (compared to baseline).

      .
    
  