
    
      Transsphenoidal surgery is the standard of care for most symptomatic pituitary adenomas.
      Since transsphenoidal surgery exploits the nasal passage to reach the sella turcica and
      pituitary gland, the technique causes disruption of sinonasal function and temporarily
      impacts sinonasal quality of life. Disrupted sinonasal function is a primary source of
      postoperative morbidity following transsphenoidal surgery. Common sinonasal complications
      include sinusitis, synechiae formation, nasal obstruction and crusting. The development of
      postoperative sinusitis is specifically associated with decreased sinonasal function after
      surgery. Because the nasal cavity is a contaminated surgical field, practitioners routinely
      prescribe a course of oral postoperative antibiotics for 7-14 days (in addition to standard
      prophylactic perioperative intravenous antibiotics) with the intention of improving nasal
      functional outcomes. To date, no studies have examined whether the administration of oral
      antibiotics following transsphenoidal surgery improves sinonasal healing. This question has
      been studied in a closely-related field, functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). A
      meta-analysis of clinical trial data obtained in FESS indicated that current literature does
      not support the use of oral antibiotics to reduce infection, improve symptoms scores, or
      improve endoscopic findings. Furthermore, there is the potential for antibiotic-related
      adverse events including the emergence of bacterial resistance, Clostridium difficile
      infection, and allergic reactions to the medication. Despite the lack of supporting evidence
      in FESS, prophylactic antibiotic use for improving sinonasal healing is still common in
      pituitary surgery. The investigators propose to study whether prophylactic oral antibiotics
      following transsphenoidal surgery improve sinonasal quality of life, reduce sinusitis
      incidence, and promote mucosal healing following endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery.
    
  