
    
      Background

      Cerebral hypo- or malperfusion during cardiovascular surgery can lead to grave consequences
      including transient cerebral ischemia or stroke impairing patient's daily life and affect
      surgical outcome. For this reason a multimodal neuromonitoring strategy using a variety of
      devices (evoked potentials, near-infrared spectroscopy, transcranial Doppler ultrasonography)
      with different technologies has been recommended by medical societies. These techniques have
      various limitations and cannot be used in all clinical situations. In contrast,
      transpharyngeal ultrasonography (TPU) represents a simple and readily available technique:
      the transesophageal echocardiography probe, routinely placed in most cardiac surgical
      patients for monitoring and assessment of surgical results, will be withdrawn into the upper
      esophagus making the visualization of supraaortic branches possible.

      To date, there are several reports about imaging of aortic arch branches using TPU. The
      utility of this technique, however, for systematic cerebrovascular monitoring has not have
      been investigated so far.

      Objective

      The aim of this study is to investigate TPU as a cerebrovascular monitoring adjunct in two
      cohorts of on-pump cardiac surgery procedures. Clinical feasibility and diagnostic accuracy
      of antegrade carotid flow detection are compared to the established reference methods of
      Duplex sonography and transcranial Doppler ultrasound.

      Methods

      All patients receive anesthetic and surgical management according to institutional standards.
      Patient enrollment in the study occurs consecutively and unblinded for surgical procedure.

      All patients receive TPU, Duplex sonography and transcranial Doppler examination after
      anesthesia induction preoperatively, during extracorporeal circulation and after weaning from
      cardiopulmonary bypass. In addition, the patients in cohort 2.(ascending aortic repair with
      DHCA) receive above mentioned noninvasive ultrasound / Doppler measurements also during the
      period of DHCA with and without antegrade cerebral perfusion.

      Image acquisition and data extraction are conducted by different persons to avoid
      investigator-related bias.
    
  