
    
      Ventilating a patient using a bag valve and a face mask is not easy to perform, especially
      for a long period of time, and mandates experience and strength by the care giver. The need
      for a tight seal around the mouth and nose is a major challenge especially if the patient has
      a beard. Nevertheless, the face mask is the only approved respiratory support that medics and
      other basic care givers are allowed to use in the out-of-the-hospital setting, and only
      physicians and paramedics are allowed to use more advanced techniques, providing a definite
      airway. Thus, despite its lower effectiveness, the bag valve mask technique is the most
      commonly used in the field. We have shown previously that the BVGA provides significantly
      more efficient (less leak) ventilation compared to a facemask, in a randomized, cross-over
      (BVGA vs mask) controlled clinical trial (NCT02768246) with healthy bearded volunteers that
      were awake and breathed spontaneously.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the BVGA compared to a
      classic facemask in anesthetized bearded volunteers.

      Study Design:

      Prospective, randomized (sequence randomization), controlled (cross over). The study
      population will include ASA 1 or 2patients that are planned to undergo elective surgery under
      general anesthesia with non-depolarizing muscle relaxants. These will include 45 men with
      beards, and 14 men without beards or women

      All subjects will sign an informed consent before participation and will be randomized by
      sequence (BVGA followed by Mask or Mask followed by BVGA). The physician will initiate
      anesthesia induction with a face mask according to normal procedures. Experimental phase:
      According to the sequence of devices determined in the randomization, the physician will then
      place the first device for 2 minutes, and then replace it with the second device for 2
      minutes. The devices will be connected to the operating ventilation machines and
      physiological and respiratory parameters will be monitored continuously. During the
      experimental phase, a study assistant will note if the physician used 1 or 2 hands during the
      ventilation with the experimental devices (BVGA/mask).

      The physician will then continue the anesthesia procedures as planned. The physician will
      complete a questionnaire related to the use of the BVGA in comparison to the standard mask.
    
  