
    
      Attentional capacity is the number of items a person can hold in their temporal memory whilst
      undertaking a task (researchers equivocate this to Random Access Memory in computing
      hardware). Therefore, attentional capacity is thought to play a role in task performance and
      if a person's attentional capacity is measured 'in-vivo' then one can predict that person's
      ability and aptitude (classifying if they are an expert or novice since an expert will not
      require the full capacity of their temporal capacity, as many of the routine steps are stored
      in their permanent memory). The measurement of performance is of interest in medical training
      and competency testing research. Eye-tracking and other novel methods could offer new and
      effective components for measuring performance during complex procedures. These novel methods
      have increasingly been spotted in new healthcare research studies which aim to use them for a
      multitude of purposes, mostly to uncover valuable insights between different participant
      performance levels. One form of medical training is high-fidelity virtual reality simulators
      that can provide an almost life-like training environment for the trainee and one common use
      of these simulators is for surgical training . Some work with eye-tracking has already been
      done with surgical tasks that indicates visual attention does discriminate between novice and
      expert level performance. There is scope for using eye-tracking technology to capture visual
      attention during complex surgical procedures to uncover the discriminatory measurements
      between participants at different levels of expertise.

      Aims The first aim of the study is to investigate the relationship between attentional
      capacity and performance during cardiology-based procedures. The hypothesise is that a
      significant relationship will be found and that attentional capacity will be a statistically
      significant predictor for discriminating between experts and novices.

      The second aim of the study is to investigate the relationship between visual attention
      (recorded via eye tracking) and the precisely recorded actions taken by the participant
      during the procedure.

      A third aim of the study is to investigate the relationship between physiological metrics
      (Heart rate, GSR recorded via E4 wristband) and the precisely recorded actions taken by the
      participant during the procedure.

      This will be facilitated by the capture of the participant's visual attention, through worn
      eye-tracking glasses, level of arousal, through worn GSR/EDA wristband and their
      verbalisation (thinking-aloud during task performance), recorded through video/microphone,
      during two simulated cardiology-based procedures. The simulator will provide its own metrics
      (duration etc.) to represent the participants' performance during the procedure. The
      simulation will be provided by a state of the art of surgical simulator in the ASSERT Centre,
      University College Cork. An extra display monitor will also be included to provide the extra
      stimulus to assess attentional capacity. The monitor will display a specific playing card at
      certain times during the proceedings. The participant will have to acknowledge what the card
      was. This and the visual attention capture will provide insight to the participants'
      attentional capacity.
    
  