
    
      Reflux esophagitis is a common complication following distal gastrectomy. Recently, an
      Roux-en--Y gastrointestinal reconstruction has been used increasingly to prevent reflux
      esophagitis; however, reflux esophagitis after pancreaticoduodenectomy (also including distal
      gastrectomy) has never been studied.

      In our preliminary retrospective study of 371 patients having PD (158 standard PD and 213
      pylorus-preserving PD) at our hospital, after a median follow-up of 20 months (range, 2-110
      months), 40 patients (10.8%) developed reflux esophagitis - 15 (9.5%) in the standard PD
      group, and 25 (11.7%) in the PPPD group. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed
      the only significant factors related to reflux esophagitis is Roux-en-Y gastrointestinal
      reconstruction independent of preservation of the pylorus.

      To our surprise, there is no significant difference in occurrence of GERD between patients
      after standard PD (15 of 158 patient) and PPPD (25 of 313 patients, P=0.49). We postulate
      reflux esophagitis following a PPPD in patients without past history of GERD is most likely
      caused by disruption of reflux-preventing systems at the gastroesophageal junction, thereby
      allowing reflux of gastric acid into esophagus. If the postulation is true, GERD after PPPD
      should be acidic in nature. To test this hypothesis we propose a prospective randomized study
      to compare preoperative and postoperative parameters, including esophageal morphology, bile
      acid concentration, trypsin activity of esophageal refluxate, COX2 mRNA expression of lower
      esophageal mucosa, and 24 hour pH monitor of lower esophagus.

      Moreover, to test the effect of a Roux-en-Y reconstruction to prevent GERD after PD, studied
      patients will be randomized into Roux-en-Y and control groups to study inter-group
      differences in incidence of GERD and marginal ulcer after PD.

      Acidic GERD should be treated with proton pump inhibitor. In contrast, alkaline GERD should
      be treated with pro-kinetic agent such as primperan and mopride. With this study, we can
      learn more about the nature of post-PD GERD following various gastrointestinal
      reconstructions and can give patient more personalized therapy.
    
  