
    
      Background:

        -  Patients infected with COVID-19 have an unpredictable risk to worsen and die, making it
           difficult to decide who can quarantine at home and who should be monitored for
           respiratory failure as an inpatient. This risk may be related in part to the patient s
           immune response which can be characterized with respect to the B- and T-cell repertoire.
           Determining patterns of immune response which correlate with clinically effective
           immunity may help in determining risk.

        -  Patients receiving a vaccine for COVID-19 are tested for antibody production, but
           ultimately protection from infection and survival are the most important endpoints,
           which will take time. If patients can be checked for a pre-defined favorable pattern of
           immune response, it may significantly speed selection of effective candidate vaccines.

        -  In patients with hematologic malignancies, including patients with hairy cell leukemia
           (HCL) who we have extensive experience treating, we do not know if we should be steering
           away more from treatments which harm B-cell immunity, like rituximab or obinutuzumab, or
           steering away more from treatments which harm T-cell immunity, like purine analogs.
           Characterizing the immune response in COVID-19 patients will quickly answer this
           question.

      Objective:

      - To characterize immune response in patients with current or prior COVID-19 infection

      Eligibility:

        -  Age 18 years or older

        -  Patients with known or suspected COVID-19 infection, or normal donors (i.e., those
           individuals without COVID-19)

      Design:

        -  Blood and urine samples will be collected for research to characterize immune response.

        -  In individuals with suspected or known current or prior COVID-19, samples will be
           obtained up to every three days but no more than 10 times overall during the acute phase
           of infection. After recovery, samples will be collected up to ten times overall. In
           individuals without COVID-19 at the time of enrollment (i.e., normal donors), samples
           will be collected at least once; in the case of future COVID-19 infection, samples may
           be collected at the same times during/post-infection as an individual with COVID-19 at
           enrollment.

        -  Additional blood and urine samples may be collected in all subjects before and after the
           receipt of COVID-19-related vaccination.

        -  All subjects will be followed for approximately 2 years.

        -  This protocol does not involve treatment. The accrual ceiling is set at 360 subjects.
    
  