
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder characterized by recurrent collapse of the
      upper airway during sleep, which leads to recurrent arousal and subsequent daytime
      sleepiness. The most commonly accepted reason for the initiation of obstructive respiratory
      events in OSA is that patients have a small upper airway that is kept patent during
      wakefulness by a compensatory increase in upper airway dilator muscle (e.g. genioglossus)
      activity. At sleep onset this compensation is reduced or lost, resulting in upper airway
      narrowing or collapse.

      Upper airway (UA) muscle training appears to have some benefit in OSA with improvement in the
      AHI, although the current data shows variable results, particularly when publication bias is
      taken into account. Many remain skeptical about these data based on clinical experience and
      prior negative studies (which remain largely unpublished). Moreover, previous positive
      studies involved exercises that are usually impractical to be continued in the long-term.

      Therefore, investigators will undertake a rigorous assessment of a practical UA muscle
      training on OSA. Investigators will recruit patients with OSA that are wither
      unable/unwilling to use CPAP, as well as those who are already on treatment with PAP or oral
      appliances. The exercises include 4 steps: step 1 is to put on an individualized fitted oral
      retainer device to guide the exercise; step 2 is to push the tongue towards the hard palate
      to press the movable part of the oral retainer device for 4 minutes; step 3 is to touch the
      hard palate using the middle part of the tongue, hold for 10 seconds and repeat it for 4
      minutes; step 4 is to remove the retainer device and brush the tongue gently on both sides
      for 2 minute. The exercise will take 20 minutes a day (10 minutes in the morning and 10
      minutes in the afternoon/evening).

      Investigators will study the effect of upper airway (UA) muscle training on OSA severity,
      muscle strengh and endurance. Investigators aim to determine the characteristics of OSA
      patients most likely to benefit from UA muscle training and the association between changes
      in muscle function and OSA severity.
    
  