
    
      Estimates show that around 6% of people with experiences of psychosis die by suicide. Many
      more think about it and attempt suicide. A meta-analysis by the investigators illustrated
      that psychological therapies are effective in reducing suicidal thoughts and acts in people
      with psychosis as long as those therapies target suicidal thoughts, intentions and plans, and
      not the reduction of symptoms of mental illnesses. Based on this work, we have designed a
      psychological cognitive "talking" therapy (called CARMS) to reduce suicidal thoughts in
      people with experiences of psychosis which targets the psychological processes thought to
      underpin the pathways to suicidal thoughts and behaviours. An increasing body of work shows
      that many people with psychosis experience social isolation, emotional dysregulation, and
      poor interpersonal problem-solving. These appraisals can then induce and intensify
      perceptions of being hopeless, trapped and defeated, which in turn leads to suicidal thoughts
      and acts. CARMS aims to help people find practical ways to change these sorts of perceptions.
      Two of the investigators' pilot randomised trials have demonstrated that CARMS is feasible
      and acceptable to people experiencing psychosis and may have the potential to be effective at
      reducing key suicide outcomes.

      Hence, the investigators' next step is to test the efficacy of CARMS in the context of NHS
      mental health services and also to test whether the underlying psychological mechanisms on
      which CARMS is based are correct. The investigators will test CARMS using a medium sized
      randomised controlled trial (RCT), with two arms of CARMS plus treatment as usual versus just
      treatment as usual. The target sample size is 250, with approximately 125 randomised to each
      arm of the trial, and an assumption of up to 25% attrition. Hence, the overall recruitment
      target is up to 333. The investigators will use both quantitative and qualitative methods and
      analyses to assess CARMS.
    
  