
    
      This study will take place in several periods and phases of treatment:

        -  Observational period of selection of 28 days maximum

        -  Treatment period constituted:

             -  a first phase of treatment with ibrutinib alone (28 days): pre-phase,

             -  a formal protocol phase during which the two study drugs (ibrutinib and
                daratumumab) will be used together until progression of the disease or intolerance
                to treatment.

        -  2-year follow-up period that will begin after protocol processing has been stopped.

      Selection period (before starting treatment): exams performing to verify patients'
      eligibility.

        -  Collection of the medical history,

        -  Clinical examination with measurement of height and weight, vital signs (temperature,
           pulse / heart rate, blood pressure),

        -  Conventional blood tests to check all the functions of the body such as kidney, liver,
           etc

        -  Viral serologies (Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and hepatitis B and C) (10 ml).

        -  Blood Pregnancy Test for women who may have children,

        -  Specific blood tests to evaluate the disease and in particular to characterize the cells
           of LLC (mutational profile, search for chromosomal abnormalities and analysis of
           residual disease rate to have a reference point before the start of treatment will be
           made on leukemic cells),

        -  CT scan (thorax, abdomen and pelvis) to accurately search for and evaluate a deep tumor
           syndrome (lymph nodes, spleen in particular),

        -  Urine examination,

        -  Cardiological examination with an electrocardiogram (ECG)..

      Treatment period: the treatment period is divided into successive cycles of 28 days.

      Before starting ibrutinib and before each daratumumab cycle, a complete clinical examination
      and blood work will be performed.

      After 12 months of treatment, an evaluation report will be made with a complete clinical
      examination, a complete blood test, an urinalysis if necessary, a Computed Tomography (CT)
      scan, a myelogram and if necessary a marrow biopsy. Regularly after this assessment (every 6
      months until the end of the study), a report will be made with clinical examination, complete
      blood test, ECG, CT scan and if necessary, myelogram possibly associated with a marrow biopsy
      if justified and not previously carried out.

      After the end of the protocol treatment (progression of the disease, intolerance of the
      protocol treatment), a last evaluation will be carried out within 30 days after the last
      taking of the protocol treatment. This evaluation includes a complete clinical examination,
      biological tests (complete blood test) and a CT scan.

      Follow-up period the completed treatment you will then be followed in consultation every 6
      months for 2 years to evaluate the duration of the response to treatment and thus meet the
      objectives of the study.
    
  