
    
      Background: None of the currently available Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)-grade MRI cell
      labelling agents are approved for use in Canada. There is one iron oxide nanoparticle GMP
      grade preparation that is commercially available but it is not suitable for labelling the
      immune cell populations the investigators are interested in tracking in vivo. The
      investigators have, instead, chosen to develop the commercially available, GMP-grade
      19F-based perfluorocarbon, known as Cell Sense, for the purpose of tracking immune cell-based
      vaccine therapies in vivo. This agent has been successful used in a phase I clinical trial in
      United States and is approved for a second trial current recruiting, under the oversight of
      the FDA.

      The cell tracing agent Cell Sense (CS-1000) is an inert, non-metabolizable tracer. As CS-1000
      is taken-up and incorporated into the cell traditional pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic
      analyses in animals and humans are not appropriate, as adsorption and biodistribution will
      vary with cell type, and therefore have not been done. In vitro studies of toxicity towards
      various cell types did not yield evidence of adverse effects on various cell functions. Cell
      Sense also was shown to be non-mutagenic using the Ames and Forward thymidine kinase (TK)
      assays. Some limited skin irritation was observed when >2,500 fold more Cell Sense than
      expected to be maximally injected into humans was injected intradermally into rats.

      Examples of MRI cell tracking labels include superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles and
      19F-containing compounds such as perfluorocarbons. The advantage of using cellular MRI to
      track cells is that a non-radioactive tracer is used that is suitable for longitudinal
      studies. MRI offers 3D imaging with exquisite soft tissue contrast. The additional advantage
      of using 19F over iron-based agents is that 19F is a positive, easily quantifiable contrast
      cell labelling agent. Furthermore, there is no 19F-background MRI signal in humans whereas
      MRI involving iron can be confounded by different imaging artifacts and it is a negative
      contrast agent that is difficult to accurately quantify. The investigators are particularly
      interested in whether immune cells arrive in secondary lymphoid organs such as lymph nodes.

      Study Design:

      Open label, dose escalating, single centre, phase I study that will accrue (a) 6 healthy
      adults and (b) 6 prostate cancer patients.

      Three healthy adults and three prostate cancer patients will be enrolled into the first
      cohort. Whole blood (150 ml) will be obtained by venipuncture. After processing of the blood
      to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), half of the PBMC will be treated with
      Cell Sense for 8-24 hours. Given the robustness of our data using 5 donors during dry runs,
      the investigators do not propose to compare labeled vs unlabeled cells as release criteria.
      However, the investigators will be collecting this data for information and research
      purposes. Three million (3 x 106) Cell Sense labeled autologous PBMC will be administered
      intradermally to the cohort 1 subjects. The three healthy adults and the 3 prostate cancer
      subjects will be tested concurrently.

      If no grade 2 or higher adverse events are observed with the 1st cohort, concurrent enrolment
      will proceed to recruit a second set of 3 healthy adult subjects and the second set of 3
      prostate cancer patients. The second cohort of subjects will be subjected to the same design
      but with an escalation of the dose to 2-3 x 107 Cell Sense-labeled autologous PBMC
      administered intradermally.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoints:

      Determine the feasibility of using Cell Sense to detect and monitor the migration of PBMC in
      humans

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Confirm and further optimize the 19F Cell Sense detection and Hydrogen- 1 (1H)
           anatomical imaging parameters for imaging using the 19F/1H dual coil.

        -  Determine if Cell Sense-labeled PBMC migration to the draining lymph node can be
           detected.

        -  Determine if the lymph nodes in the area of interest imaged change in size on the
           injected side compared to the contralateral side.

        -  Quantify the number of Cell Sense-labeled PBMC detected.

        -  Evaluate safety parameters (toxicity) as defined by:

        -  adverse events.

        -  serious adverse events.

        -  changes in laboratory determination and vital sign parameters as assessed by medical
           history, physical examination and clinical laboratory tests.

      The following categories will be used to grade any adverse events:

        -  Grade 1: does not interfere with daily activity,

        -  Grade 2: interferes with daily activity, no treatment required, except paracetamol,

        -  Grade 3: prevents daily activity or requires treatment.

        -  Grade 4: Life-threatening

      NIH and FDA (or CTCAE v 4.0) guidelines will be used to determine the severity of adverse
      events
    
  