
    
      Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (IHC) are cancers with pathologic features of biliary tract
      differentiation which arise from intrahepatic bile ducts and/or trans-differentiation of
      hepatocytes. IHC is the second most common primary liver cancer and its incidence and
      mortality rates are increasing both worldwide and in the United States. Approximately 80% of
      IHC in the Western hemisphere is the mass-forming type. Liver disease represents the major
      obstacle to long-term survival among patients with IHC. While partial hepatectomy offers the
      only hope of cure, less than 30% of IHC are resectable at initial presentation.2 Most
      patients have locally advanced disease (e.g. multi-focal tumors, major vascular invasion,
      local invasion of surrounding organs, and/or regional lymph node metastasis). Each of these
      factors portends poor 5-year survival (~20%) after surgical extirpation and are thus
      considered unresectable disease by most surgeons in the current era. Moreover, the liver is
      the most common site of disease recurrence after resection of IHC as 60-80% of initial
      disease recurrence occurs in the liver remnant.

      Published response rates to preoperative or definitive radiation therapy (RT) for
      cholangiocarcinoma appear to be relatively high. For instance, a complete response proportion
      of 48% was recently reported for perihilar cholangiocarcinoma patients who received
      preoperative chemoradiation followed by liver transplant. Moreover, small series have
      demonstrated superior progression free and overall survival with the combination of external
      beam RT and chemotherapy compared to that derived from chemotherapy alone for many
      unresectable hepatic malignancies, including IHC, colorectal cancer liver metastases, and
      hepatocellular carcinoma. For example, addition of external beam RT to cisplatin chemotherapy
      was associated with prolonged progression free (median 4.3 vs. 1.9 months, p=0.001) and
      overall (median 9.3 vs. 6.2 months, p=0.048) survival compared to cisplatin alone among 92
      total patients with unresectable IHC. Traditional thoughts in radiation biology of tumors
      suggested that doses of at least 1.2 Gy were required to overcome the initial shoulder of the
      cell survival curve. In practice, the standard dose per fraction is considered to be
      0.015-0.022 Gy per fraction although the vast majority of patients are treated with either
      1.8 Gy or 2 Gy fractions.

      Laboratory and clinical data suggest that a new paradigm using LDFRT as a chemopotentiator
      may allow full-dose drug therapy with improved efficacy without adding to the toxicity of the
      systemic treatment. This chemopotentiating effect is possible through a phenomenon known as
      hyper-radiation sensitivity (HRS) by which there is more effective tumor cell killing than
      would be predicted when using doses per fraction below 1 Gy. This is followed by a change in
      slope of the survival response with increasing doses per fraction, indicating increased
      radioresistance (IRR). This HRS phenomenon was first described by Joiner and colleagues in
      the Gray Laboratory in 1986 and has since been well described by a number of other
      laboratories. It also has been documented in the clinical setting; in a study by Harney et
      al., patients with paired cutaneous metastases from sarcoma and melanoma had longer time to
      tumor regrowth after LDFRT than with conventional radiation. In vitro studies have
      established a link between HRS/IRR and evasion of the early G2/M cell cycle checkpoint.
      Exaggerated HRS/IRR responses were found for enriched populations of G2 phase cells in one
      study, indicating that the mechanism likely involved events in the G2 phase of the cell
      cycle. Two G2 checkpoints have been described, and the more recently discovered "early"
      checkpoint is rapidly activated after radiation exposure. It is believed to prevent cell
      cycle progression through G2 of cells with unrepaired radiation-induced DNA damage. The
      signaling cascade regulating the early G2/M checkpoint is initiated through ATM activity.
      Joiner and colleagues have shown that inhibition of ChK1 and Chk2, two proteins integral to
      the G2/M transition, can influence the cell-cycle response to low-dose radiation. It is
      believed that failure of the cell to repair DNA damage in G2-phase cells leads to increased
      apoptosis. Nonetheless, inhibition of ChK1 and ChK2 also lead to IRR at radiation doses > 0.2
      Gy. This is consistent with reports indicating that low dose radiation can stimulate repair
      of DNA damage. Interestingly, low dose radiation can also stimulate antioxidant capacity,
      apoptosis, and induction of immune responses, which collectively may provide effective local
      tumor control. In addition, hypoxia and nitric oxide levels can also affect cells sensitivity
      to radiation. Reduction of nitric oxide level enhances the radiosensitivity of hypoxic
      non-small cell lung cancer. Therefore, the identification of cellular pathways that are
      responsive to low dose radiation and their contribution to chemopotentiation is highly
      significant because this will provide a better measurement of the therapeutic response and
      contribute to the rational design of mechanism-based clinical trials.

      Based on promising preclinical data, clinical studies have been performed in a variety of
      cancer types with LDFRT in addition to standard chemotherapy. Investigators at the University
      of Kentucky published their experience using carboplatin and paclitaxel with 4 fractions of
      0.8 Gy each in locally advanced head and neck cancer patients. They observed toxicities
      similar to those expected from chemotherapy alone and concluded that the addition of LDFRT
      was "extremely well tolerated." Moreover, they reported excellent response rates. Regine et
      al. conducted a phase I trial of low dose abdominal RT (0.6 vs. 0.7 Gy fractions, total 8
      fractions) and gemcitabine 1,250 mg/m2 among patients with unresectable pancreatic/small
      bowel carcinomas. The authors concluded that abdominal LDFRT using 0.6 Gy fractions was well
      tolerated when given concurrently with full-dose gemcitabine. A multi-institutional phase II
      trial using this regimen suggested improved efficacy of the combined regimen in improving
      overall survival. Sixty-one percent of enrolled patients experienced at least stable disease,
      and median survival in this poor prognosis population was 13 months. More importantly, no
      additional toxicity was observed with LDFRT other than that expected from the high dose of
      gemcitabine (personal communication, manuscript in preparation). More recently, Wrenn et al.
      demonstrated tolerability of concomitant low-dose whole-abdominal RT and full-dose cisplatin
      in optimally debulked stage III/IV endometrial cancer patients.

      Currently, there are no prospective studies evaluating the efficacy of concomitant gem-cis
      and RT for locally advanced IHC regarding disease response or post-operative intrahepatic
      disease recurrence. Prior full dose external beam RT is an accepted contraindication to liver
      resection due to development of advanced fibrosis and intrahepatic biliary sclerosis.
      However, no studies have evaluated the influence of preoperative LDFRT on outcomes after
      partial hepatectomy. Case reports of safe liver resection after antecedent radioembolization
      suggest that LDFRT may not adversely affect postoperative outcomes. LDFRT to the entire liver
      and portal lymph node basin is advantageous compared to tumor directed therapy as the former
      treats occult disease representing the most common site of disease recurrence after partial
      hepatectomy and progression after chemotherapy.

      Based on data from the ABC trial establishing gem-cis as the standard of care for locally
      advanced and/or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma, the primary goal of this phase II study is to
      explore the safety and efficacy of using a combination of LDFRT as a chemopotentiator and
      concurrent gem-cis for mass-forming IHC.

      The pivotal Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer (ABC) Trial established combination
      gemcitabine-cisplatin (gem-cis) therapy as the standard of care for patients with locally
      advanced and/or metastatic IHC. While the majority of patients experience initial disease
      stabilization after therapy (e.g. stable disease, partial response, or complete response)
      partial or complete response occurs in only approximately 20% of patients. Smaller trials
      comprising other chemotherapeutics with or without anti-biologic agents report similar
      results. Moreover, disease stabilization is short lived with median progression free survival
      of only six-eight months. Thus, there is a pressing need for more effective liver directed
      therapy for locally advanced disease.
    
  