
    
      The POSEIDON Study is a multicenter, single arm within subject crossover design pivotal trial
      conducted in patients diagnosed with refractory or recurrent ascites due to liver cirrhosis
      who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria. The study will enroll up to 60 pivotal cohort patients
      with refractory or recurrent ascites at up to 20 sites. In addition, up to 40 additional
      Roll-in patients will be allowed. An analysis will be conducted to support an application for
      device approval when a minimum of 40 treated pivotal cohort patients are through 6 months.
      Patients will be followed for longer-term safety and effectiveness for a total of 2-years
      post-implant. Patients with a functioning pump at 24 months may consent to continued
      participation in a long-term follow-up evaluation and with assessments every 6 months from 24
      months through the time the pump ceases to function, pump explant or patient death. This
      long-term follow-up period will continue until the product is approved or the sponsor
      determines they will no longer pursue product approval.

      Pivotal Cohort Patients

      Pivotal cohort patients will be evaluated in a 3-month pre-implant observation period during
      which they will receive standard of care therapy consisting of paracentesis as required for
      removal of ascitic fluid. Following the initial 3-month observation period during which the
      number and volume of paracentesis and Quality of life (assessed by general HRQL scores
      (SF-36)) as well as disease-specific validated questionnaires (Ascites-Q) will be documented,
      patients will be reevaluated for eligibility for pump implant.

      Roll-in Patients

      In the study centers without previous experience in pump placement, training in the pump
      implant procedure will be conducted and up to 3 initial pump implantations conducted as
      roll-in cases. Roll-in patients will be sequentially enrolled at the site until sufficient
      experience has been obtained and the site is approved by the sponsor to enroll in the pivotal
      phase. Roll-in patients will not undergo the 3-month pre-implant observation period and will
      not be included in the Primary Analysis set but will be summarized separately for purposes of
      safety evaluation with effectiveness data provided as supplemental. In the event a primary
      implanter at the site is a replaced or added, up to 3 additional Roll-in implants will be
      allowed.

      All patients (Pivotal and Roll-in) will undergo a final eligibility assessment prior to pump
      implant. If deemed eligible, patients will be implanted with the alfapump. In the 3 months
      post-implant, patients will be monitored with pump adjustments as needed to increase or
      decrease volume of fluid to be removed each day. After this period of stabilization, a
      3-month primary endpoint observation period (month 4 through month 6) will begin. In each
      period, the protocol specifies when symptom driven (therapeutic) paracentesis can be
      performed per protocol as well as conditions under which the use of diuretics may be
      considered (all patients must discontinue diuretics post implant procedure).

      The study is designed to demonstrate in pivotal cohort patients 1) a 50% reduction
      (superiority margin) in the per-patient ratio of post-implant 3-month observation period (M4
      to M6 post implantation) to pre-implant 3-month observation period with respect to average
      monthly requirement for therapeutic paracentesis and 2) at least 50% of patients will achieve
      a 50% reduction in the requirement for therapeutic paracentesis in the same period.
    
  