
    
      This observational case-control study was conducted at the Department of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology, Cengiz Gokcek Public Hospital, Gaziantep, Turkey, between March 2018 and June
      2019. The protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee for Clinical Research of Gaziantep
      University (reference no: 2019/36). The study strictly adhered to the principles of the
      Declaration of Helsinki. All subjects included in the study gave oral and written informed
      consent. Ninety-two women were enrolled in the study in two groups.

      Data collection and Study intervention:

      The diagnosis of L-PrE, as defined by the Committee on Terminology of the American College of
      Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), is established based on the presence of proteinuria
      (urinary excretion of protein ≥300 mg in a 24-h urine specimen, or proteinüria ≥1+ in
      dipstick) and a blood pressure level of ≥90/140 mmHg (two blood pressure measurements 6 h
      apart) that occurs after 34 weeks of gestation in a previously normotensive woman. The
      diastolic and/or systolic blood pressure <110/160 mm Hg, it was accepted as mild; and in case
      these values exceeded this level, it was accepted as severe. Every women in the study
      population underwent obstetric ultrasound examination and fetal-maternal assesment was
      carried out by one of the authors. The obstetric anamnesis were obtained from all subjects.
      The dempograhic data like age, gravidity, parity, body mass index (BMI) and gestational age
      were recorded. The gestational age was determined by calculation from the last menstrual
      period and supported by the ultrasonography measurements at first trimester of gestation.
      Maternal venous plasma samples were taken for measurement of cadmium, lead and vanadium
      levels after the diagnosis of L-PrE in outpatient clinic. These samples quickly centrifuged
      at 1,500 g for 10 min, plasma samples were seperated and stored at -80 C until the day of
      measurement. All patients with L-PrE were also hospitalized and their pregnancies were
      terminated. The samples of the control groups were obtained during the routine obstetrical
      care examination in the third trimester of pregnancy. Then, these pregnant women were
      followed-up until the delivery. Both groups were compared in terms of maternal age, BMI, week
      of gestation, gravida, parity, live born, systolic/diastolic blood pressure, total protein in
      spot urine sample, hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count, white blood cell count, urea, uric
      acid, albümin, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, liver function tests (AST, ALT), lactic acid
      dehydrogenase, cadmium, lead and vanadium concentrions and infant weight at delivery. Small
      for gestational age (SGA) neonate was defined as birth weight <10th percentile for
      gestational age with Turkey's national nomogram as the reference for fetal growth. The
      samples were transferred within boxes in ice molds to Yozgat Bozok University Science and
      Technology Application and Research Center (Occupational and Environmental Toxicology
      Laboratory) for measuring heavy metal and trace element levels. The frequency of seafood
      consumption was divided into four categories: 2-3 per week, 1-2 per week, 1-2 per month, and
      rare. Smoking was classified into 3 groups (none, formerly smoker, and active smoking).
      Passive smoking was also categorized into 2 groups (no and yes). The education levels was
      classified into 4 groups (illiterate, primary education, high school, and university). The
      residences of women was classified as rural and urban. Furthermore, the residences of women
      have divided either living near a busy street (around 100 metres) or not.Small for
      gestational age (SGA) neonate was defined as birth weight <10th percentile for gestational
      age with Turkey's national nomogram as the reference for fetal growth.

      The method developed by Aliyev et al. was used for preparing the samples for analysis One
      milliliter of plasma samples was placed into high-temperature-resistant Teflon tubes in a
      microwave oven, and 5 mL Suprapur® (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) nitric acid (HNO3) and 5 mL
      ultra-pure water was added. All plasma samples were digested using a microwave digestion
      system (Start D; Milestone, MD, USA). After digestion, each sample was made to a total volume
      of 20 mL with 9 mL ultra-pure water in a 50 mL polypropylene tube. Nitric acid (Suprapur®,
      65%) was used for digestion of samples and standard reference material. Ultra-pure water
      (Direct-Q®; Millipore, Darmstadt, Germany) was used for dilution of the standard
      (multi-element standard Chem-Lab, Zedelgem, Belgium) and sample preparations.

      The three metals (cadmium, lead and vanadium) were measured using inductively coupled
      plasma-mass spectrometry (Thermo Scientific ICAPQc, USA). The operating parameters were set
      as follows: radiofrequency power 1550 W, nebulizer gas 0.96 L/min, plasma gas 0.88 L/min,
      nebulizer pressure 3.01 bar, dwell time 0.01 milliseconds, and spray chamber temperature
      3.7°C. The sampler probe was washed between injections by rinsing with ultrapure water for 30
      s, followed by washing with 2% HNO3 for 45 s, and finally rinsing with ultrapure water for 45
      s. After the washing steps, the instrument automatically ran the next sample. An 11-point
      calibration curve (0.5-500 µg/L) was used to measure the level of each element. The r2 values
      of the calibration curves of all metals were calculated, and the minimum value was 0.9994. To
      ensure the accuracy of the results, each measurement of the samples and standards was
      repeated three times. The results of these measurements showed that the relative standard
      deviation (RSD) did not exceed 5%. Certified Reference Material (CRM-Seronorm™ Trace Elements
      Whole Blood L-2, Sero AS, Billingstad, Norway) was used for the validation method. To check
      the stability and sensitivity of the instrument, a mixture of internal standards (Hf) was
      used, and the mean and RSD values of metals were also calculated. The variations of each
      measurement of the quality controls was <15%. The relative percentage differences in
      replicate analyses were <5% in the samples and standards.
    
  