
    
      American Indians are at a greater risk for traumatic life events than the general population
      and compared to Whites they have a 2.04 (95% CI 1.11, 3.54) fold increased risk of Post
      Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) symptoms. Among more than 2,900 injured trauma survivors
      treated at 69 hospitals nationwide, American Indians had the highest risk of all
      racial/ethnic groups of developing symptoms consistent with a diagnosis of PTSD 12 months
      after injury. Similarly, among 269 traumatically injured patients hospitalized at 2 level 1
      trauma centers in the Western U.S., PTSD and peritraumatic dissociative symptoms were
      significantly more frequent among American Indians compared to Whites.

      Nine percent of 6,000 injured trauma survivors admitted annually to the Harborview Level 1
      trauma center are American Indian. Approximately 40 percent of these patients live more than
      50 miles from the trauma center, including tribal communities in Eastern Washington and the
      Olympic Peninsula. Through prior work, researchers have found that care management
      interventions can reduce PTSD symptoms among diverse injured urban patients. Investigators
      from the Center of Excellence suggest that American Indian trauma survivors may have unique
      culture-specific idioms for posttraumatic distress (e.g. "wounded spirit"), and that trauma
      interventions with indigenous approaches may be productively applied to patients suffering
      from posttraumatic distress.(5)

      In an effort to reduce the risk of PTSD and other general symptoms of trauma among American
      Indians, we plan to conduct a pilot study to develop and evaluate an American Indian culture
      specific care management intervention, Staying Connected.

      Based on the Trauma Survivors and Support Study (TSOS), the purpose of Staying Connected is
      to provide American Indian trauma patients, treated at the Harborview Level 1 urban trauma
      center, compassionate and culturally sensitive care and to link them to care in their distant
      tribal communities. The specific aims include 1) interview Native healers to gather
      information on culture-specific aspects of recovery from traumatic injury and on linking care
      to tribal communities, 2) conduct a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      implementation and effectiveness of the intervention. We hypothesize that intervention
      patients will demonstrate greater improvement than controls in PTSD symptoms, depression,
      functioning, diagnoses, and fewer new injuries during the 6 months after the index injury.
    
  