
    
      In recent years, treatment with NCRT has revolutionised management of LARC. In addition to
      downstaging the tumour in 62% of cases, half of which decrease by more than 1 T stage;
      pathological complete response (pCR), with no viable tumour cells left in resected specimens,
      was demonstrated in up to 30% of patients. Only 3% of patients showed progressive disease. It
      has recently been shown that those with pathological complete response survive longer than
      those with partial response, with figures for 5-year disease free survival quoted between 83
      and 91% for pCR; versus 65% for non pCR. Furthermore, it has been argued that those tumours
      which are sensitive to radiotherapy have a favourable biological tumour profile, with fewer
      propensities to recur or to metastasise than aggressive non-radiosensitive tumours. The key
      is to accurately be able to identify patients who exhibit complete response to radiotherapy,
      or to predict those who might show complete response.

      Positron Emission Tomography (18-F-FDG-PET-CT) as a tumour biomarker after radiotherapy has
      been shown to be able to predict patients who have responded to chemo radiotherapy, with a
      sensitivity of 79% and specificity of 88%. Texture Analysis (TA) assesses the aggressiveness
      of the tumour by assessing intra-tumoural heterogeneity. It has already been shown to be
      effective in assessing biological characteristics of solid tumours, including the oesophagus,
      breast, and liver.

      The aim of this study is to utilise these two novel molecular imaging techniques to identify
      rectal cancer patients who have responded completely from neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy.
      Parameters will be calculated as changes in measurable variables from baseline to post
      treatment scans.

      Pilot data The watch-and-wait approach could potentially reduce treatment-related toxicity in
      selected rectal cancer patients who have a clinical complete response (cCR) after
      chemoradiation. The "watch & wait" protocol has been adopted from studies performed in
      Brazil, United Kingdom, and the Netherlands.

      Studies indicate that accurate assessment of response to neoadjuvant therapy is the key to
      selecting patients who will benefit from the watch & wait approach. Therefore, determining
      the modality with highest accuracy and cost-effectiveness has been the holy grail of managing
      locally advanced rectal cancers.

      A study performed by our Chief Investigator on the efficiency and accuracy of 18-F-FDG-PET-CT
      has concluded that PET-CT has a proven role and is cost effective in monitoring therapy and
      in detecting recurrence in colorectal cancers; as this technology combines picomolar
      sensitivity with high-resolution CT imaging. It has therefore shown to be more sensitive than
      plain CT imaging in detecting recurrence and monitoring response to therapy. In other
      studies, the reported accuracy for PET-CT in determining responsiveness to NCRT was around
      80%. Baseline PET-CT and subsequent PET-CT parameters, including SUV-based measurements, have
      been shown to be highly accurate in determining responses to NCRT.

      Texture Analysis is a biomarker technique that measures heterogeneity within solid tumours.
      Textural parameters (coefficient of variation [COV], skewness, and kurtosis) applied on
      PET-CT images has been shown to be able to predict response to NCRT, and to predict survival.
      A pilot study performed at our institution has indeed showed that textural parameters
      performed on pelvic MRI were associated with improved overall survival and disease- free
      survival.

      Study hypothesis

        -  PET-CT restaging done at 9 weeks rather than 6 weeks will be a more accurate predictor
           in assessing response to NCRT.

        -  Texture analysis of rectal MRI scans is a strong biomarker in assessing tumour response
           and identifying patients with Complete Response.
    
  