
    
      Today, there is an increased use of non-medical, invasive cosmetic treatments globally
      without sufficient awareness of possible health risks. A particular problem is young men
      injecting large amounts of paraffin oil into skeletal muscles especially on upper arms and
      chest to increase the visible size of the muscles. Several case reports have suggested that
      intramuscular injection of paraffin oil induces foreign body reaction and granuloma
      formation. The formation of granuloma probably precedes the marked hypercalcemia that often
      develops and appears to be difficult to treat. The largest study to date included 14 men and
      showed that practically all men developed serious hypercalcemia, but the etiology was
      unclear. Foreign body granulomas are like other granulomatous diseases such as Tuberculosis
      or sarcoidosis rich in macrophages, (ref) and it has been proposed that increased generation
      of activated vitamin D (1,25(OH)2D3) in the marcrophages may be responsible for the
      persistent hypercalcemia.

      Calcium homeostasis is tightly regulated primarily by vitamin D, Parathyroid hormone (PTH)
      and Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) that rapidly modifies intestinal absorption, renal
      excretion and calcium mobilization from the skeletal compartment in response to immediate
      changes in serum calcium (ref). Vitamin D (cholecalciferol) is normally formed by UV-B
      radiation of the skin and requires two enzymatic reactions before it can bind and activate
      the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Conversion of cholecalciferol to 25-hydroxydvitamin (25OHD) is
      the first activation step; it is un-regulated and generally exerted by the hepatic CYP2R1.
      25OHD is not biologically active and must undergo 1-alpha hydroxylation by renal CYP27B1 to
      form the active metabolite 1,25(OH)2D3. The main actions of 1,25(OH)2D3 is to promote calcium
      and phosphate absorption and decrease calcium excretion until inactivated by CYP24A1.
      1,25(OH)2D3 is also a powerful inhibitor of PTH and inducer of FGF23, which ensures an
      important feedback-loop to maintain an adequate vitamin D status (ref). PTH which is a potent
      inducer of CYP27B1, mobilizes calcium and phosphate from the skeleton and increases phosphate
      excretion. In contrast, FGF23 that inhibits CYP27B1, induces the in-activating CYP24A1 and
      promotes phosphate excretion. Almost all organs has the ability to activate, respond to, and
      inactivate vitamin D because CYP27B1, VDR and CYP24A1 are expressed also in most non-renal
      tissues. However, regulation of CYP27B1 and CYP24A1 is strikingly different in these organs
      where high intracellular levels of 1,25(OH)2D3 activates VDR that induces transcription of
      CYP24A1 and thereby increases in-activation to restore normal intracellular levels of all
      vitamin D metabolites. This autoregulatory control of vitamin D metabolites secures under
      normal circumstances that high concentrations of 1,25(OH)2D3 are not released into
      circulation. Regulation of vitamin D homeostasis is different in the macrophages present in
      granulomas because they retain a splice variant of CYP24A1 that is not upregulated in
      response to high 1,25(OH)2D3 levels, which in part explains the increased release of
      1,25(OH)2D3 in granulomatosis disease. Another important issue is aberrant regulation of
      CYP27B1 in macrophages, which is induced by inflammatory signals such as interleukin-2 and
      TNF-alpha rather than PTH. Previous case reports have detected CYP27B1 expression in
      granuloma tissue by immunohistochemistry. However, these findings have to our knowledge never
      been corroborated by a more comprehensive analysis of enzyme activity and a recent study
      questioned the etiology because most men with granulomas had normal levels of 1,25(OH)2D3 in
      serum (ref).

      In the present study the investigators want to include a large group of men who injected
      100-10.000 ml paraffin oil to identify risk factors for developing hypercalcemia and try to
      understand the pathogenesis of the disease. Additionally, granuloma tissue from selected
      patients will be cultured ex vivo to investigate whether they produce 1,25(OH)2D3 or PTHrP
      and to test which drugs can most effectively be used to lower calcium levels in these men.
      Subsequently, elucidate whether it is possible to stratify the men according to the severity
      of the changes in calcium homeostasis as such a stratification may be required prior to and
      form the basis for future intervention trials
    
  