
    
      Research Questions:

        1. What is the feasibility and acceptability of the MYST app within the context of a
           6-month community navigation and rehabilitation intervention from the perspectives of
           health care providers, clients, and family caregivers?

        2. What are the MYST app usage patterns by various subgroups of end-users (e.g., clients,
           health-care providers, age groups of HCPs, stroke survivors and family caregivers)?

        3. What is the effect of the intervention on stroke survivors' health-related quality of
           life, community re-integration, physical functioning, depression, anxiety,
           self-efficacy, and costs of use of health services, from a societal perspective?

        4. What is the effect of the intervention on family caregivers' health-related quality of
           life, caregiver strain, depression, anxiety, and costs of use of health services from a
           societal perspective?

        5. What is the effect of the intervention on HCP outcomes (interprofessional
           collaboration)?

      Methods:

      Due to the complexity of evaluating health services interventions, a mixed methods design
      will be used to evaluate the multi-component intervention. A pragmatic pre-test post-test
      single site study design will be used to evaluate the intervention. By pragmatic, the
      investigators mean the intervention will be implemented under real-world conditions,
      including reliance on existing staff at the participating site. Assessments will be made at
      baseline (pre-test) and immediately following the six-month intervention period (post-test).
      Descriptive qualitative methods will be used to explore the feasibility and acceptability of
      the intervention.

      Outcomes will be assessed at baseline and 6 months. Summary descriptive measures will be
      reported for all variables.

      Expected Outcomes:

      It is expected that stroke survivors with multiple chronic conditions, their family
      caregivers and healthcare providers will find the MYST app acceptable and feasible.
    
  