
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia in the world, with a prevalence
      ranging from 1.9 - 2.3% and rising. It is known that the disease occurs more often as age
      progresses: 70% of affected cases are aged between 65 and 85, over 80 years, one is 10-18%
      likely to be carrying the illness. Multiple risk factors for developing AF have been
      determined, like hypertension, myocardial infarction, heart failure, valvular heart disease,
      obesity, DM and hyperthyroidism.

      AF potentially leads to thrombus formation, resulting in a 4-5 times increased risk of
      getting a TIA or ischemic infarction.

      Taking a 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG) remains the golden standard, with the absence of
      distinct P-waves and a RR interval that is irregularly irregular.

      AF is a risk factor and a risk marker for developing ischemic stroke, by providing a
      prothrombotic environment. This makes a patient with AF 4-5 times more susceptible for
      getting an ischemic stroke. Protection for this risk is done by prescribing oral
      anticoagulants (OAC) (according to an individuals CHA2DS2VASc-score) by either Vitamin-K
      antagonists (VKAs) or Novel Oral Anticoagulants (NOACs). This allows for a 70% stroke risk
      reduction.

      Not all AF is known to its carrier, it has been proven that 30% of all cases proceeds
      asymptomatic. These patients are unknowingly exposed to a higher stroke risk. Undertreated AF
      is when AF is known, but OAC is unrightfully withheld. In approximately 20% of all AF-related
      strokes, AF was known but undertreated.

      In view of the increasing prevalence of AF, it seems there is a need for screening for
      prevention of actionable AF-associated strokes. The European Society of Cardiology discloses
      in their most recent guideline that opportunistic screening appears feasible and
      cost-effective in patients older than 65 years, to be performed by either pulse taking or ECG
      rhythm strip. The MyDiagnostick, a compact hand-held, 1-lead ECG recorder was created to
      fulfil the need for better large scale screening devices. In one minute it distinguishes
      irregular rhythms from normal cardiac rhythms and it can store over 120 ECGs. In a study of
      192 patients the MyDiagnostick showed to be 100% sensitive for detecting AF and had a
      specificity of 95.9%. It provided in a study in which the prevalence of silent AF was
      examined during influenza vaccination in 10 general practices with more than 3000 patients.
      From a total of 3269 screened patients, 121 (3,7%) cases of AF were detected, whereof 37
      (1,1%) had not yet been diagnosed before.

      In this study, the yield of opportunistic screening will be tested of all patients aged 65 or
      older during preoperative consultation with the MyDiagnostick
    
  