
    
      Aim To conduct a multicentre randomised, controlled trial (RCT) to determine whether
      continuous infusion of a beta-lactam antibiotic (piperacillin-tazobactam or meropenem)
      results in decreased all cause Day 90 mortality compared with intermittent beta-lactam
      antibiotic infusion in critically ill patients with sepsis.

      Hypothesis The BLING III Study will test the hypothesis that patients managed in the ICU with
      sepsis, the administration of beta-lactam antibiotics via continuous infusion decreases Day
      90 mortality compared with intermittent infusion Design This BLING III study is a
      prospective, multicentre, open, phase III, RCT. Participants commenced on one of two
      beta-lactam antibiotics (piperacillin-tazobactam or meropenem) will be randomised to receive
      the beta-lactam antibiotic via either continuous infusion or intermittent infusion over 30
      minutes for the treatment course while in the ICU for up to 90 days after randomisation. For
      participants where the beta-lactam antibiotic is subsequently changed from
      piperacillin-tazobactam to meropenem or vice versa for ongoing treatment of the infectious
      episode, the new prescription will continue to be administered in the allocated method
      (continuous infusion or intermittent infusion over 30 minutes).

      Permuted block randomisation with variable block sizes and stratified by site will be
      conducted via a password-protected, secure web-based interface.

      The primary endpoint for this trial will be death from all causes at 90 days.

      7,000 patients will be enrolled into this study from approximately 70 ICUs worldwide, with
      approximately 35 ICUs in Australian and New Zealand hospitals.

      For eligible patients, the administration method of beta-lactam antibiotic, either
      piperacillin-tazobactam or meropenem, will be randomised to either continuous infusion or
      intermittent infusion over 30 minutes. The choice of beta-lactam antibiotic and the dose and
      dosing interval (i.e. the dose the patient will receive in 24 hours) will be determined by
      the treating physician prior to randomisation.

      For all patients, data will be collected at baseline and daily whilst in the ICU. Patients
      will be followed up to day 14, regardless of location in the hospital, to determine test of
      cure and to identify new acquisition, colonisation or infection with an multi-resistant
      organism. Additional follow up will occur at 90 days post randomisation.
    
  