
    
      Preventing Stroke Triggers in Children with Sickle Cell Anaemia in Mulago Hospital, Kampala
      (PREST): A Randomized Control Trial

      Principal Investigator: Deogratias Munube ( MBChB, MMed) Department of Paediatrics and Child
      Health

      Mentor: Prof . James.K. Tumwine (MBChB, MMed, PhD) Prof . Grace Ndeezi (MBChB, MMed, PhD)

      Research hypothesis: Our hypothesis is that viral flu infections is a key trigger for the
      risk of stroke in children with SCA. Our objective is to prevent the occurrence of flu
      illnesses in children with SCA thereby reducing the risk for stroke in our population of
      children with SCA.

      Rational for research: Globally, stroke triggers have been recently identified independent of
      the existing risk factors such as high cerebral velocity speeds on TCDs. Flues like illnesses
      have been reported to be stroke triggers in children with arterial ischaemic strokes
      worldwide. This study may influence the role of influenza vaccination in the prevention of
      stroke triggers in children with sickle cell anaemia. It will also add to the existing
      modalities which have helped to reduce the incidence of stroke amongst this high risk group
      of children with

      Methods: Study design: This will be a randomized controlled double blinded study Study site:
      The study will be conducted at the Sickle Cell Clinic (SCC), Mulago Hospital.

      Study population: The study will include individuals with Sickle cell anaemia attending the
      sickle cell clinic services at Mulago National Referral Hospital.

      Inclusion criteria: Age between 2 years and 12 years; all children whose parents will have
      consented and those above 7years will have to assent Exclusion criteria: All children with
      previous strokes; Children who have acute illness and are not clinically stable; any child
      with previous documented adverse event following immunization (AEFI).

      Sample Size: Using Open EPI calculator for cohort studies we calculated a total sample size
      of 136 participants to achieve our objective. Using a 95% confidence interval, power of 80%
      and an unexposed outcome of 25% (4) using a ratio of 1:1. Each arm will have 68 participants.
      With anticipated 10% loss to follow up a total sample size of 150 with each arm having 75
      participants.

      The following will be done to achieve a randomized control trial:

        1. Randomization

        2. Blinding

        3. Study variables:

      Primary outcome: Incidence of stroke: The incidence of stroke is defined as the occurrence of
      a focal neurological deficit in a child lasting at least 24 hours if it has a vascular basis
      during the study period. Each child suspected to have stroke will have a brain cranial
      tomography (CT) scan done to confirm the diagnosis. This diagnosis will then be adjudicated
      by a team comprising of a pediatrician, neurologist and a radiologist.

      Secondary outcomes: The levels of inflammatory markers VCAM-1 and gene profile IL4R 503P
      locus: blood will extracted from a participant by veni-puncture every 6 months and whenever a
      participant comes to the clinic when ill or is admitted, Acute chest syndrome, Pneumonia.

      Trans-cranial Doppler scan speeds: a TCD will be performed for each participant every 6
      months and whenever the participant is admitted or comes to the clinic when ill. The speeds
      will be noted.

      Investigational products: influenza vaccine: An inactivated influenza vaccine (split virion)
      shall be used during the study. The product information is attached as an appendix to the
      proposal.

      Study product acquisition: The product will be acquired from Laborex pharmaceutical, Sure
      House, Bombo road, Kampala.The vaccine is an injectable packaged in a vial Preparation,
      administration and dosage of the influenza vaccine to be used for the study Placebo: Placebo
      will be the sterile water for injection which shall be withdrawn from a vial for each
      participant.

      Recruitment procedures: All children with SCD from 2 to 12 years presenting at the sickle
      cell clinic will be assessed for eligibility by a study nurse. Eligible participant will then
      be taken through the consenting process. Participants whose parents have consented and have
      themselves assented when appropriate will then be randomized to either the influenza vaccine
      or placebo arm.

      Schedule of follow up visits: After enrolment, each participant will be given a 6 month
      appointment for a review and a subsequent repeat of the TCDs. At the end of the 12 month
      follow up, each participant will at closure have repeat TCDs.

      Blood investigations: At enrollment, blood will be drawn by venipuncture to assess for the
      inflammatory VCAM-1 and gene profile IL4R 503P locus, complete blood count panel, serum
      creatinine, serum urea and electrolytes, liver function tests.

      Study visits: The study visits will include a baseline visit at enrollment, every 6 months
      and whenever the patient comes to the clinic or admitted at the pediatric emergence unit at
      Mulago National referral hospital. Patients who miss their scheduled study visits will be
      called within a week and actively followed to attend the visit before the month lapses.
      Patients who miss two consecutive study visits will be considered lost to follow up and
      attempts will be made to establish their current state as to whether they have a stroke.

      Adverse effects monitoring: The participants will be counseled to report any untoward effect
      that they experience after receiving a study drug following GCP/ICH criteria. An adverse
      monitoring form will be completed for each study visit. Serious adverse effects that are
      potentially fatal or fatal will be reported to the ethics review board within 24hours of the
      occurrence of the adverse effect.

      Local safety and data safety and monitoring committee: A data safety and monitoring committee
      will be set up to review the data so as to ascertain the continuous safety of the study
      drugs. This committee will comprise of a senior consultant pediatrician, biostatician and
      research scientist.

      Stopping rules: There shall be no stopping rules Data Management: The principal investigator,
      co-investigator and clinical research nurses will have access to records.

      Quality control and quality assurance: Data will be evaluated for compliance with protocol
      and accuracy in relation to source documents. The study will be conducted in accordance with
      procedures identified in the protocol. SOPs will be used at all clinical and laboratory
      sites.

      Ethics/protection of human subjects: This protocol will be approved by Makerere University
      College of Health Sciences School of Medicine Research and Ethics Committee and the Uganda
      National Council of Science and Technology before this study commences. Consent shall be got
      from the parents and assent will be sought from the children above 8.

      Informed Consent Process: Written informed consent will be obtained from the parents and
      assent sought from the children above 8 years of aged.. Parents will be provided with
      literature on the symptoms and signs of stroke in order to enable them return to the
      hospital.

      Subject Confidentiality: All records will be kept in a locked filing cabinet, which is
      accessed only by the investigators and the study nurse(s). All computer entry and networking
      programs will be done with coded numbers and initials only. Only the investigators, the
      clinical monitor, the ethics committees or any other regulatory agencies, at the request of
      the collaborator will have access to the records. Every effort will be taken to maintain
      confidentiality.

      The study protocol, documentation, data and all other information generated will be held in
      strict confidence. Clinical information will not be released without written permission of
      the parents, except as necessary for monitoring. No information concerning the study or the
      data will be released to any unauthorized third party, without prior written approval of the
      sponsor.

      Data handling and record keeping The Principal Investigator will be the data manager with
      responsibility for receiving, entering, cleaning, querying, analysing and storing all data
      that accrues from the study. He will be responsible for linking the epidemiological and
      clinical data from the field and the clinic with the laboratory data from the immunology,
      haematology and genetics laboratories.

      Study Records Retention: Essential documents will be retained until at least 2 years after
      the last approval of a marketing application in an ICH region and until there are no pending
      or contemplated marketing applications in an ICH region or at least 2 years have elapsed
      since the formal discontinuation of clinical development of the investigational product.
      These documents will be retained for a longer period however if required by the applicable
      regulatory requirements or by an agreement with the sponsor. It is the responsibility of the
      sponsor to inform the investigator/institution as to when these documents no longer need to
      be retained

      Protocol Deviations:The investigator will conduct the trial in compliance with the protocol
      agreed to by the sponsor and the regulatory authority and which was given approval by ethics.
      The investigator will sign the protocol to confirm agreement. In event of a deviation all
      relevant authorities will be informed.

      Data analysis: Data will be entered using EPI info version 6.0.The primary end point will be
      the incidence of stroke at 12 month follow up. The incidence will be calculated as the number
      of new cases that have occurred during the given interval of time divided by the population
      at risk at the beginning of the time interval. Data will be analyzed using SPSS version 16
      (SPSS Inc, Chicago, IL, USA). Both uni-variate analysis and bi-variate analysis will be done.

      The primary analyses will be performed with an intention to treat with p <0.05 considered
      significant. . Survival analysis will be used to compare between the two groups. In order to
      assess for time to event, we shall construct Kaplan Meier survival curves. The outcomes will
      be compared using a log rank test to determine if differences are statistically significant.
      The relative risks will be calculated as the measures of association as well as absolute
      difference in the outcomes. Missing data will be recorded as missing and not analyse.

      Conflict of interest: None

      Collaborative agreements: None

      Intended use of results:

      Study findings will upon completion of the study be compiled into a report that will be
      copied or made available to the following: Nurture program, department of paediatrics and
      child health, Sir Albert cook library, the Sickle Cell Clinic, Ministry of Health. Findings
      will be presented in both local and international conferences. Manuscripts will also be
      prepared for publication in peer reviewed scientific journals.

      Other information: The trial is not supported by another grant.
    
  