
    
      The impact of frailty on demand for and outcomes of care has emerged as a significant issue
      for the National Health Service (NHS) in recent years. The association between frailty and
      adverse outcomes such as unplanned admission, transfer to residential care and high service
      use is well recognised (BGS 2014/15; NIHR 2017; Clegg et al. 2013). As the population ages,
      prevalence of frailty and associated demand for health care rise. In the context of reduced
      resources and rising demand for unplanned care, the delivery of appropriate services to
      support people with frailty will be key to providing cost-effective, quality care for older
      people. Recent consensus guidelines have emphasised the importance of identification and
      clinical management of frailty (BGS 2014; NICE 2016) and effective interventions are
      available, but capacity and resources for delivery are limited. There is recognition of an
      evidence gap in relation to the planning, commissioning and delivery of services for older
      people living with frailty (NIHR 2017). Questions remain about the incidence and prevalence
      different levels of frailty and the consequences for health outcomes, health and care service
      use and costs. Addressing these issues requires exploration of population trends in the
      development and impact of frailty, but this research has previously been limited because of
      the need for clinical assessment for the identification of frailty. The recent introduction
      of the electronic Frailty Index (eFI) (Clegg et al. 2016) allows routine primary care data to
      be used to identify the presence and severity of frailty in real-world populations. The eFI
      therefore facilitates the exploration of the dynamics of frailty and its impact at a
      population level. It enables stratification of the primary care population into robust, mild,
      moderate and severe frailty groups, so enabling comparison of trajectories of decline and
      pathways of care between these groups, which will be key to service development and
      commissioning.

      In this study, the investigators will explore the incidence and prevalence, development and
      impact of frailty within the population using retrospective data from the Royal College of
      General Practitioners Research Surveillance Centre (RCGP RSC) database, which holds data for
      1.8m patients from 230 practices. The eFI tool will be utilised to stratify a cohort of
      people aged 60 and over within the database between 2004-8 into robust, mild, moderate and
      severe frailty groups. Data will be extracted on frailty status, health care use, and
      outcomes for the subsequent 10 years, calculating key service use costs from these data.
      Outcomes will include mortality, unplanned hospital admission, Accident and Emergency (A&E)
      attendance and General Practitioner (GP) appointments. The RCGP RSC dataset will also provide
      data on socio-economic factors, practice size and location and residence. The cohort will be
      stratified by severity of frailty, and frailty status explored over time, determining
      incidence, prevalence and progression of frailty. The investigators will examine the
      relationships between factors such as age, deprivation, ethnicity, location and comorbidities
      of individuals in relation to development of, and deterioration in, frailty status. The
      influence of frailty on outcomes, service use and costs will be explored. Results from these
      analyses will be used to inform development of guidelines for service commissioners,
      developed in partnership with experts in service delivery, commissioning and Public Patient
      Involvement (PPI) representatives through stakeholder engagement. These analyses will inform
      the development of a prototype simulation model, which will use a System Dynamics (SD) based
      approach to explore the development and impact of frailty in the population and likely future
      scenarios over a 10-year timeframe. The simulation model population projections will be
      externally validated against retrospective data from the Leeds Data Model (LDM) dataset,
      which holds data for 810,000 primary care patients from 108 practices in the Leeds area.
      Residence data from RCGP RSC will be supplemented by data on residential care transitions and
      social care use by frailty status from the Secure Anonymised Information Linkage (SAIL)
      Databank, which holds primary and social care data on up to 30,000 individuals in Wales, to
      inform simulation of impacts and costs beyond the health care setting. Finally, 'what if'
      scenarios developed with the stakeholder engagement group (SEG) will be explored via
      simulation modelling.
    
  