
    
      This study is a prospective, multi-center research clinical study. The aim of this study is
      to collect and analyze data of potential Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) that could be used
      for discriminating between patients with and without COVID-19 or with high-risk for COVID-19
      by DiaNose. The VOC profile of exhaled breath from subjects with COVID-19 infected suspected;
      and healthy volunteers, will be collected and analyzed to build and validate a predictive
      algorithmic model for diagnosing COVID 19.

      Subjects which are COVID-19 infected suspected (Group 1); and healthy volunteers (Group 2),
      will be the study population. The study will encompass a total of up to 300 patients.

      The COVID-19 infected suspected study group will be divided for the data analyzing and
      algorithm building into the following sub-groups (up to 200 subjects):

        -  Sub-Group A: Clinical symptomatic patients with positive Covid-19 test (positive PCR);

        -  Sub-Group B: Asymptomatic patients with positive Covid-19 test (positive PCR)

        -  Sub-Group C: Clinical symptomatic patients with negative Covid-19 test (negative PCR)
           Additional sub-groups may be added according to clinical symptoms. Up to 100 will be
           enrolled to the Healthy volunteers' study group. Subjects who meet general entry
           criteria will be asked to sign the study-specific Informed Consent Form the patient will
           be required not to eat/ smoke/ chewing gum or drink beverage other than water for one
           hour prior to the DiaNose exhalation test.

      The patient will be asked to blow air into a disposable tube for a few seconds. Subject may
      be re-enrolled in case of need to perform additional PCR test and/or breath test with DiaNose
      according to standard of care or due to the study needs.

      It is anticipated that it will require approximately 12 months to complete active enrollment.
    
  