
    
      Implementation of Fast-track surgery programs for patients with tumors in the upper GI-tract
      are steadily increasing because of the decreased costs, shorter hospital stays and a decrease
      in morbidity, mortality and post-operative complications associated with Fast-track programs.
      The health care team follows a standardized care program consisting of a check list with
      day-to-day evidence based procedures which reduces postoperative complications. Postoperative
      recovery is described as a process in which patients strive for a return to a normalized
      daily life.

      Major surgeries are associated with pain, nausea, postoperative ileus , fatigue,
      post-operative complications such as wound infections , heart or lung dysfunctions and
      thromboembolic complications. In the last 20 years perioperative care, anesthesia and surgery
      for patients suffering from tumors has developed greatly. This has led to development and
      evaluation of concepts to enhance the patients recovery after different types of surgery.
      Fast-track surgery concepts results in decreased morbidity and enhanced recovery by
      implemented evidence based principles in analgesia, anesthesia, fluid management, nutrition,
      ambulation, minimal invasive surgery and reduction of surgical stress.

      In recent years there's been a shift in focus of patient care. Patients are moving from a
      passive role to being more participant in their care. In Sweden, patients have the legal
      right to participate in their own care, and health care should be individualized for each
      patient's needs and abilities. Being involved in your own health care contributes to
      increased motivation and an improvement of the situation. This may in some cases lead to
      better treatment outcomes and greater satisfaction with the given care. A severe symptom
      burden can make the patient a passive recipient of health care without initiative or strength
      to be involved in the care. In patients with malignancies of the upper gastrointestinal tract
      monitoring and symptom relief of importance to stimulate opportunities for participation.

      Aim

      To investigate and describe patient participation among patients who had surgery for liver,
      bile duct (cholangiocarcinoma) and pancreatic cancer and follow a fast-track recovery
      program.

      Specific aims

        -  To identify and describe patient participation in patients who follow a fast track-care
           concept

        -  To explore patients experiences of patient participation

        -  To identify, describe and evaluate patient assessed health related quality of life; and
           relations with patient participation
    
  