
    
      Screening:

      After the informed consent/assent form (ICF) is signed, the screening assessments will be
      performed in a single visit to establish the eligibility of the participant, based on
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, as well as aGvHD grading. Scheduling of the first week of
      ECP treatments and the arrangements for availability of typed and cross-matched donor packed
      red blood cells (PRBCs) for transfusion, if required, will be made in advance of participants
      entering the Treatment Period.

      Treatment Period:

      Once eligibility is established, participants will enter the 12-week ECP Treatment Period.
      The availability of typed and cross-matched donor PRBCs for transfusion during treatment, if
      needed, should be established prior to the scheduling of ECP treatments.

      Participants will be allowed to continue standard aGvHD prophylaxis regimens (e.g.,
      cyclosporine, tacrolimus, methotrexate, mycophenolate mofetil) without the addition of new
      therapies. Participants will be allowed to discontinue prophylaxis regimens for reasons of
      toxicity, and will also be allowed to switch to another prophylaxis medication within the
      same class (e.g., the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine and tacrolimus) for reasons of
      toxicity.

      All participants enrolled in this trial will have received corticosteroids for the treatment
      of aGvHD. After entering the treatment period on study, tapering of steroids by total weekly
      decrements of 12.5% to 25% of the steroid dose at initiation of ECP therapy is permitted
      after a sustained response of aGvHD has been observed for at least 3 consecutive days, with
      the suggested goal to decrease the starting steroid dose by at least 50% 4 weeks after
      initiation of ECP.

      Follow-Up Period:

      After completion of the 12-week Treatment Period, participants may continue ECP treatment on
      commercial product at the Principal Investigator's discretion. Acute GvHD status will be
      assessed 4 weeks after completion of the Treatment Period. Participant survival will be
      assessed by passive follow-up (chart review) 26 weeks after initiation of ECP treatment.
    
  