
    
      This study is a prospective, open, randomized trial. Subjects will be randomized using a
      computer-generated table of random numbers into 2 groups to receive pre-incisional
      ipsilateral ultrasound-guided TAP block using classic or medial approach. Group assignments
      will be sealed in sequentially numbered, opaque envelopes that would be opened by an
      anesthesiologist performing the block. The research nurse, not involved with patient care
      after the subject signed written informed consent, will provide postoperative data
      collection. Study subjects and other anesthesia care providers will also be blinded to group
      allocation.

      All patients will be premedicated with 1-2mg IV midazolam and 50-150 mcg IV fentanyl. In the
      OR, propofol infusion will be started at 75mcg/kg/hr and titrated for patient comfort. After
      patient is adequately sedated, ultrasound guided TAP block will be performed in all subjects
      using a linear 6-15MHz ultrasound probe on a portable ultrasound machine (SonoSite, Bothell,
      WA). Classic approach group will receive a TAP block as previously described (Hebbard P,
      2007). For the medial approach, once the external oblique abdominal, the internal oblique
      abdominal, and the transversus abdominal muscles were visualized using the ultrasound
      transducer between the costal margin and the iliac crest at the level of the anterior
      axillary line (classic approach), the transducer would be moved medially to the point where
      internal oblique muscle disappears. The injection target area will be within 1 inch lateral
      to that point.

      The place of needle insertion will be prepped with Chlorhexidine gluconate 2% antiseptic
      solution, and 21G 90-mm StimuQuik needle (Arrow International, Reading, PA) will be used to
      inject 20ml of Ropivacaine 0.5% in the proper place once it is identified. Each subject will
      receive local infiltration with 20ml of Lidocaine1% : Bupivacaine 0.25% 1:1 mix prior to the
      incision by the surgeon as well as 1000 mg of IV acetaminophen and 8 mg IV dexamethasone
      intraoperatively.

      In the postanesthesia care unit (PACU), the patient will be asked to rate their pain at rest
      upon arrival and at regular intervals on a 0 to 10 numeric rating scale (NRS), where 0 means
      no pain and 10 is the worst pain imaginable. Hydromorphone 0.5 mg IV will be administered
      every 5 minutes to maintain an NRS pain score <4 of 10. In cases of postoperative nausea or
      vomiting, subjects will receive 4mg IV ondansetron, followed by 12.5 mg IV Diphenhydramine if
      necessary. The Aldrete Recovery Score will be used to transfer the patients from Phase I of
      recovery, which focuses on providing a transition from a totally anesthetized state to one
      requiring less intervention. Aldrete Scoring System assesses respiration, oxygen saturation,
      consciousness, circulation and activity. Each item is scored on a 0 to 2 scale with higher
      score representing more advanced recovery. Once the score of 9 or higher is reached, the
      subjects will be transferred to Phase II recovery, which focuses on preparing the patient for
      dicharge. At discharge, subjects will be instructed to take a combination of oxycodone 5mg
      and acetaminophen 325mg orally every 4-6 hours for NRS pain score>4 of 10. Postoperative
      opioid consumption for the 48 hours will be converted to an equivalent dose of oral
      hydromorphone.

      Subjects will be contacted by telephone by a research nurse or one of the investigators not
      involved in their care, and will be asked about their pain and amount of pain medication they
      consumed since discharge or since the last phone call respectively. In case of a potential
      problem, the matter will be referred to a physician.
    
  