
    
      This study aims to test the feasibility and preliminary effects of an advance care planning
      (ACP) programme "Have a Say" for persons with early stage dementia (PWEDs) or mild cognitive
      impairment and their family caregivers in the community. A multi-centre, single-blind,
      two-arm randomizsed controlled trial with repeated blinded outcome assessment will be
      conducted.

      Individuals who have a clinical diagnosis of any form of dementia at the early stage or have
      a Global Deterioration Score (GDS) 3 or 4 will be eligible to this study. Participated
      elderly community centres will be randomly assigned to intervention group and control group.
      Staff members from centres assigned to intervention group will be trained as ACP facilitators
      and conduct the ACP intervention. Participants in the experimental group will receive a
      3-session ACP programme. It includes an educational component, guided reflection and ACP
      discussion through a series of group-based activity and dyadic discussion delivered by
      trained ACP facilitator and guided by an ACP booklet. Dyads of participants will be provided
      with information about the trajectory of dementia, their future healthcare needs and caring
      options. Their values and care preferences on future care will be elicited in a consistent
      manner. They will be supported to have an individualized ACP discussion led by ACP
      facilitators and guided by an ACP booklet. Individuals assigned to the control group will
      receive attention-control health talks related to ageing.

      As a process evaluation, a group of informants comprised of ACP facilitators and dyads of
      participants will be conveniently sampled and recruited for an semi-structured individual
      interview after receiving the intervention. Their experiences of participating in "Have a
      Say" programme as an ACP facilitator and participants will be explored. Qualitative data will
      be collected until data saturation. All verbatim will be transcribed and analyzed through
      qualitative content analysis. The results of this qualitative evaluation will enable us to
      understand the strengths and weaknesses of this ACP programme during implementation and give
      us insight about the mechanisms of impact and contextual factors affecting the intervention
      implementation, sustainability, and outcomes.
    
  