
    
      [Background and Objective]First-aid skill training plays an important role in the education
      of nurses. How to implement stable and efficient skill is very important. (Kardong-Edgren,
      Oermann, Odom-Maryon, & Ha, 2010). Nursing first aid simulation is very often used to
      teaching, the teaching have significant significance of cognitive, skills, satisfaction and
      other indicators of achievement (Cant & Cooper, 2010),simulation-based workshops,or training,
      as the most common enhancing skills. (Topping et al., 2015) BLS as the basic first aid common
      sense and basic knowledge of resuscitation.In our hospital BLS was trained the basic
      knowledge and chest compression technique. According to the Department of Nursing first aid
      site performance check list found that the first aid equipment used unskilled , 25.5% on
      2016/01 to 2016/06.The most unfamiliar techniques and knowledge of 109 nurses(all completed
      BLS) were as follows: 33.9% of defibrillator, 25.7% of staff role positions, 20.7% of first
      aid medications, and 14.7% of intubation device and LMA (Laryngeal Mask Airway ) on
      105/10/1-105/10/17.This study was designed to assist nurses enhancing the clinical ability
      and safety the patients in the first aid-related skills and knowledge. The purpose of this
      study is to compare the two groups of(1) first aid knowledge online test. (2) first aid
      skills test.【Methods】This study is a general ward nurses first aid technical examination,
      pre-test and post-test, the random control trial. Review by the hospital ethics committee and
      execution date on105/12/12-107/03/08, a total of 92 cases, obtained consent of all cases,
      then the case will be test in our hospital clinical skills center. Subject condition: general
      ward nurse (minimum age> 20 years),exclusion conditions: intensive care unit nurses,
      emergency department nurses. Study Procedure: Subjects who obtained the informed consent were
      randomly assigned to the first aid skill simulation training group (FAST) or the traditional
      group (T) by using a computer generated number. Randomization envelopes were opened and
      randomization performed by the study nurse after informed consent was obtained. Each group
      consisted of 46 subjects. All the subjects were pre-test first aid knowledge online test,
      followed were pre-test first aid skills test at the Clinical Skills Center by eight
      instructors who were more than 20 years worked experience. After pre-test, the experimental
      group are give the first aid skill simulation training guidance on-site with discussion and
      debriefing(75-min) and TMS online lecture(15-min).While the traditional group only give TMS
      online lecture(15-min). Two weeks later, the post-test include first aid knowledge online
      test and first aid skills test for two groups. After all the data were collected by the
      researchers who unknown the groups, the names of the cases were removed and the scores of the
      two groups were compared before and after about(1) first aid knowledge online test. (2) first
      aid skills test. The test Based on 2015 AHA Guidelines for CPR & ECC (2015 Adult Basic Life
      Support and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Quality & 2015American Heart Association and
      2015).First Station: Equipment testing, Second Station: Assisted with intubation and
      fixation, Third Station: LMA, Fourth Station: Ambu bagging, Fifth Station: Drugs, Sixth
      Station: Defribrator, Seventh Station: Role positioning, and Eighth Station: Leader Training.
      The data will be archived in SPSS20.0 statistical package software. Statistical methods such
      as T-test and Anova variance analysis are used to analyze the data【Expected Result】: The
      knowledge and skills in the experimental group were better than the traditional group, and
      the first-aid simulation skill training was helpful for the clinical emergency situations.
    
  