
    
      PURPOSE The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a 6-session
      mindfulness-based psychosexual therapy (MBPST) treatment protocol using self-report
      questionnaires. The current protocol is adapted from a pre-existing 4-session
      mindfulness-based psychosexual therapy (MBPST) protocol from a pilot study which has already
      demonstrated benefits in the treatment of situational erectile dysfunction (ED). The six
      sessions include elements of psychoeducation, cognitive therapy, mindfulness training, and
      sex therapy techniques. The elements comprising the six sessions are evidence-based, as their
      effectiveness has been demonstrated in female samples (e.g., Brotto et al., 2012; Paterson et
      al., 2017), and more recently in the context of a four-session pilot in men with situational
      ED (H15-03172; published in Bossio et al., 2018). The rationale for an increase from a 4 to
      6-session approach came from qualitative analysis of participant perspectives in the pilot
      study and from investigator experience.

      HYPOTHESES

        1. Men who undergo MBPST treatment will show significant post-treatment improvements at
           follow-up (immediately following treatment and at 1- and 4-months after treatment
           completion), compared to baseline, to primary endpoints of: (i) erectile functioning;
           (ii) sexual distress; (iii) sexual satisfaction and pleasure.

        2. Men who undergo MBPST treatment will show significant post-treatment improvements at
           follow-up (immediately following treatment and at 1- and 4-months after treatment
           completion), compared to baseline, to secondary endpoints of: (i) psychological
           variables/mental status (i.e., anxiety); (ii) mindfulness-related variables; and (iii)
           relationship satisfaction. The role of secondary endpoints as mediators to primary
           endpoints of sexual functioning will also be assessed.

        3. Men will report significantly less use of medications for ED (i.e., PDE5 inhibitors and
           intracavernosal injections) at 4-month follow-up compared to pre-treatment.

      JUSTIFICATION Sexual dysfunction affects at least one third of men across the lifespan
      (Laumann, Paik, & Rosen, 1999), and can have significant impact on quality of life and on
      intimate relationships (Hatzimouratidis et al., 2010). Erectile dysfunction (ED), or the
      inability to attain and/or maintain an erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual activity
      (NIH, 1993), is among the most common sexual dysfunctions experienced by men. The aetiology
      of ED is complex and can result from a variety of physiological (e.g., age, cardiovascular
      health, medication use), psychological (e.g., anxiety), and lifestyle factors (e.g., smoking
      status; Nicolosi, Moreira, Shirai, Tambi, & Glasser, 2003). Situational ED refers to ED that
      occurs in certain contexts (e.g., with a partner), but not others (e.g., masturbation,
      nocturnal erections).

      Although pharmacological interventions (i.e., PDE5 inhibitors) have been available to treat
      ED since the 1990's, adherence to these treatments is poor, with approximately 50% of men
      failing to re-fill their first prescription (Carvalheira, Pereira, Maroco, & Forjaz, 2012;
      Hanash, 1997), despite the restoration of erections (Giannitsas, Konstantinopoulos,
      Patsialas, & Perimenis, 2008). This low adherence to pharmacological treatments suggests that
      there are aspects of ED, beyond the rigidity of erections that are not being addressed by
      medications. This may be particularly true in the case of situational ED, where psychogenic
      factors are playing a major role (McCabe et al., 2016).

      There is increasing evidence documenting the benefits of MBCT for women with sexual
      dysfunction (Brotto, Basson, & Luria, 2008; Brotto et al., 2008; Brotto et al., 2012; Brotto,
      Seal, & Rellini, 2012; Brotto & Basson, 2014; Paterson, Handy, & Brotto, 2017). Further, the
      investigators recently adapted a pre-existing 4-session MBPST protocol, which had already
      been shown to be effective in the treatment of female sexual dysfunction, to fit the needs of
      men with situational ED and pilot-tested it in group format (H15-03172). Our pilot data
      suggest significant benefits for men with situational ED (Bossio, Basson, Driscoll, Correia,
      & Brotto, 2019). However, feedback from the pilot participants indicated a need for
      additional sessions as they had only begun to establish a regular mindfulness practice.
      Mindfulness-based interventions consisting of eight sessions are common and have been shown
      to be effective in reducing depressive symptoms (Sipe & Eisendrath, 2012), depressive relapse
      (Teasdale, Segal, Williams, Ridgeway, Soulsby, & Lau, 2000), and anxiety (Evans, Ferrando,
      Findler, Stowell, Smart, & Haglin, 2008). However, the investigators were skeptical about the
      willingness and ability of patients to commit to eight consecutive weeks of treatment.
      Therefore, the current project is a pilot study intended to assess the feasibility and
      efficacy of a 6-session MBPST program for situational ED.

      OBJECTIVES The main objective of this study is to test the feasibility and efficacy of a
      6-session MBPST protocol for men with situational ED. Specifically, the investigators hope to
      find that men who undergo this treatment will experience improvements in primary (e.g.,
      decreased erectile dysfunction and sexual distress), and secondary endpoints (e.g., increased
      relationship satisfaction and mental well-being). Further, the investigators hope to find
      that gains in the primary and secondary endpoints are maintained at 1- and 4-months.

      RESEARCH DESIGN Participants (N=60) will take part in a 6-session MBPST group (n=6-10) for
      treatment of situational ED, either in-person or in an online format. Each session will be 2
      hours in length and will be spaced one week apart, for a total of 12 hours of treatment time.
      Participants will also take part in supportive group follow-up sessions at 1- and 4-months
      following group completion where participants are free to share their experiences with the
      group, ask questions, and participate in troubleshooting. Treatment endpoints will be
      assessed at four time-points (pre-treatment (Time 1), immediate post-treatment (Time 2),
      1-month post-treatment (Time 3), and 4-months post-treatment (Time 4)).

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS One-way repeated-measures multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA)
      will be used to assess our primary hypothesis-that men will show improvements in primary
      (i.e., sexual functioning) endpoints following treatment-with the primary endpoint measures
      as the dependent variables (e.g., ED severity, sexual distress, sexual satisfaction,
      pleasure), time-point (pre-treatment, immediate post-treatment, 1-month post-treatment, and
      4-months post-treatment) as the independent variable, and age as a covariate.

      Our secondary hypotheses-that men will show improvements secondary endpoints (i.e.,
      mindfulness-related variables, mental status, and relationship factors) following
      treatment-will also be examined using the same repeated-measures MANOVA strategy described
      above. The hypothesis that secondary endpoints act as mediators of sexual functioning
      following treatment will also be examined using repeated-measures ANOVAs with primary
      endpoint measures as the dependent variable (i.e., sexual functioning), time-point
      (pre-treatment, immediate post-treatment, 1-month post-treatment, and 4-months
      post-treatment) as the independent variable, and secondary endpoints (e.g., change in
      relationship satisfaction) as mediators.

      Our tertiary hypothesis-that men will report using medications for ED significantly less
      4-months after treatment conclusion compared with pre-treatment use-will be assessed using
      paired-sample t-tests comparing frequency of use and dose before treatment and 4-months after
      treatment.
    
  