
    
      The incidence of congenital glaucoma varies among different geographic locations and ethnic
      group. The incidence of primary congenital glaucoma is supposed to be 0.01-0.03% in Western
      countries but it is reported higher in the Middle East. The inheritance pattern for
      congenital glaucoma is most commonly autosomal recessive. But the fact that sex distribution
      is unequal and the reduced penetration is seen in patients with family history implies that
      it's inheritance pattern is unclear. Approximately 10-40% patients have family background and
      the rate of penetration is known to about 10-40%.

      Linkage studies have been genetic heterogeneity and have mapped three loci for primary
      congenital glaucoma (GLC3A in 2p21, GLC3B in 1p36, GLC3C in 14q24.3). Molecular screening of
      the gene or primary congenital glaucoma families liked to the 2p21 locus has determined that
      mutations in the cytochrome P450 1B1 (CYP1B1)are responsible for phenotype.

      The genetic characteristics in south Korean patients with primary congenital glaucoma have
      not been not reported yet and the genotype-phenotype correlations, prognosis, genetic
      counseling have not established. So In this study, we evaluate the rate of CYP1B1 mutations
      in south Korean patients with primary congenital glaucoma and establish genotype-phenotype
      correlations.

      Patients with primary congenital glaucoma and their family will be analyzed for CYP1B1
      mutations by direct sequencing of polymerase chain reaction fragments. 100 ethnically matched
      normal individuals served as control subjects. Primary congenital glaucoma will be determined
      by examinations with slit lamp biomicroscopy, gonioscopy, measurement of intraocular
      pressure, corneal diameter and axial length, optic disc evaluation by glaucoma specialists.
      Patients were classified to several groups according to the pattern of mutations. Clinical
      parameters and genotype correlation will be compared between groups.
    
  