
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) as an indication for adenotonsillectomy has increased
      significantly over the past ten years, and now has surpassed recurrent tonsillitis as the
      most common indication for this procedure. Opioids continue to be the most commonly
      administered pain medication for these procedures. Studies have shown that patients with OSA
      have significantly increased sensitivity to opioids that results in post-operative
      respiratory depression and apnea when administered via standard opioid dosing protocols.
      Children with OSA were shown to have a nearly fivefold increase in the odds of developing
      respiratory complications when compared to their counterparts with tonsillitis. Ketorolac
      possesses similar efficacy to morphine without the problematic complications of respiratory
      depression, nausea and vomiting, which are commonly seen post-adenotonsillectomy.
      Importantly, when combined with opioids, ketorolac is opioid-sparing. This synergistic effect
      means that a similar level of analgesia is achieved using a lower dose of opioid. However,
      there continues to be concern about using ketorolac due to the potential risk of
      post-operative bleeding from anti-platelet activity.

      This randomized, prospective study aims to determine the effect of ketorolac on the total
      dose of morphine required to achieve postoperative analgesia in children with OSA undergoing
      adenotonsillectomy. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive ketorolac or to not
      receive ketorolac. The post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) nurses, who will be blinded to
      ketorolac administration, will evaluate the patients using the Face, Legs, Activity, Cry,
      Consolability (FLACC) scale scores at 10 minutes post-op, 20 minutes post-op and at time of
      PACU discharge. For patients with a FLACC score of 6-10, morphine (0.05mg/kg) will be
      administered. For patients with FLACC scores of 3-5, morphine (0.025mg/kg) will be
      administered. The total amount of opioid required to obtain a FLACC score of less than 3 will
      be evaluated as the primary outcome. The secondary outcomes to be evaluated will be PACU
      FLACC scores, time required in PACU, incidence of post-tonsillectomy bleeding and total pain
      medications administered during hospital admission.
    
  