
    
      The American cranberries (Vaccinium macrocarpon) have been consumed for centuries to prevent
      urinary tract infections (UTI), which affect 50% of women in their lifetime. However,
      NIH-funded clinical trials of cranberries on UTI in the last 20 years yielded conflicting
      results but the reasons are unknown. About 90% of UTI are initiated by adhesion of
      uropathogenic E. coli on urinary tract epithelia. It was reported that human urine after
      cranberry intake inhibited the adhesion of E. coli. A-type procyanidins and xyloglucans are
      the presumed bioactives in cranberries; however, none of these compounds are absorbable in
      small intestine. They are degraded by microbes in colon.The pre-preliminary study showed that
      the urine from a portion of study participants had anti-adhesion activity, suggesting there
      are polymorphisms in human's ability to metabolize cranberry bioactives. Based on these
      observations, the investigators formulate a novel hypothesis that not all, but a fraction of
      women harbor specific gut microbes with the ability to catabolize cranberry bioactives to
      anti-adhesion metabolites in the urine; therefore, the variation of gut microbiome is the
      underlying mechanism for metabolic polymorphisms and disparity in UTI prevention. The
      investigators propose that UTI susceptible women can be divided into responders and
      non-responders depending on whether cranberry intake increase anti-adhesion activity of their
      urine. The overall objectives are to identify gut microbes and anti-adhesive urinary
      biomarkers which significantly contribute to the anti-adhesion of E. coli. The expected
      result will be to generate strong preliminary data showing the differences of gut microbiome
      between responders and non-responders in additional to correlations between gut microbes and
      candidate anti-adhesion biomarkers in the urine of UTI susceptible women.
    
  