
    
      Cholelithiasis and inflammatory biliary tract disease constitute a major health problem in
      western countries. Acute cholecystitis is the third major cause of emergency admission to a
      surgical ward and its incidence increases with increasing age. Acute cholecystitis is defined
      as acute inflammation of the gallbladder which is commonly caused by gallstones which are
      impacted in the cystic duct. The treatment of acute cholecystitis varies between different
      medical centers around the world. In some hospitals, mainly in the US, the most common
      treatment is early laparoscopic cholecystectomy within 72 hours from the onset of symptoms /
      admission. However, in the UK and many other centers in Europe the treatment of acute
      cholecystitis is conservative (NPO, IV fluids and antibiotics) and laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy is delayed. The reasons for delayed surgery differ between institutions and
      include the assumption of decreased complications, surgeon and OR availability and schedule,
      costs, and hospital policy.

      A recent metanalysis proved similar safety and efficacy of early and delayed laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy. The conversion rate, length of operation and complication rate (overall
      complication rate, intra-abdominal collection, bile leak, and CBD injury) were also
      comparable.

      At Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Mount Scopus patients with acute cholecystitis
      are treated conservatively followed by delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Over the years
      this approach proved to carry relatively low rate of complications, mainly bile duct injuries
      <1%, without interruption to the busy OR schedule.

      Regardless to the lack of evidence based guidelines for the treatment of acute cholecystitis
      the traditional triad of NPO, IV fluids and antibiotics was adopted at our institution
      vis-à-vis the higher complication and conversion rate for early cholecystectomy. The
      antibiotic treatment is associated with side effects, costs and most important unavoidable
      development of bacterial drug resistance. However, to date there are no randomized trials
      proving the superiority of either one of these methods.
    
  