
    
      Empathy is a fundamental concept in social interactions, whose function is to understand the
      emotions felt by others. According to De Waal (2008), it is a multidimensional concept that
      involves two processes :(i) a system of emotional contagion or affective resonance (the
      unconscious and automatic sharing of the emotion of others) that establishes the emotional
      component of empathy, (ii) the ability to take perspective, that is the ability to imagine
      the subjective world of the other distinguishing oneself from him, forming the cognitive
      component of empathy.

      Several neurological diseases with behavioral disorders may lead to impaired processing of
      social and/or emotional information. These pathologies are likely to induce a lack of empathy
      that may result from impairments at different levels.

      The main objective of this study is to examine empathy in patients suffering from stroke
      (various locations with an emphasis on frontal stroke), Fronto-temporal dementia, Alzheimer
      and Parkinson diseases. The final assessment criterion is the overall score on the scale of
      empathy.

      The patient will firstly receive a medical examination and clinical data are collected (past
      medical history, clinical neurological examination, diagnosis, description of first symptoms,
      course, current treatments)and brain imaging data. After checking inclusion criteria,
      information letter and the consent form will be returned.

      The second visit will consist in neuropsychological assessment: general intellectual
      efficiency, perceptual and visual-constructive abilities, memory, executive and an assessment
      of behavior and mood from questionnaires The third and final visit will allow passing
      experimental tests. The experimental part will include the following tests: (1) recognition
      of emotional facial expressions; (2) tasks of theory of mind ; (3) task of empathy for pain.

      A control group will also perform the neuropsychological and experimental tests.

      The duration of the study participation for eligible patients and controls will vary
      according to the delay between each visit (medical, neuropsychological and experimental) and
      is lower than 3 months. The study will take place from June 2009 to June 2013.

        -  Number of patients: 320

        -  Number of controls: 400

        -  Potential Benefits expected: criteria for early diagnosis and / or differential
           diagnosis based on the evaluation process of empathy; elaboration of new clinical tools
           assisting diagnosis.
    
  