
    
      Heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) or 'menorrhagia' is a common condition with a major impact on
      health-related quality of life and health resource utilization in both primary and secondary
      care. In over 50% of cases no organic pathology is present and the term dysfunctional uterine
      bleeding (DUB) is used. First line treatment of DUB is medical and where this fails, surgery
      is indicated using either minimally invasive approaches (endometrial ablation) or major
      surgery (hysterectomy). Endometrial ablation has been extensively evaluated against the gold
      standard of hysterectomy and shown to be effective and associated with fewer complications.
      The technique involves destroying the entire, or a substantial proportion, of the endometrium
      thereby preventing cyclical endometrial regeneration and suppressing or reducing menstrual
      blood loss. Recent advances in endoscopic technology have resulted in the development of
      miniature, automated ablative systems (so called 'second generation devices'), which are easy
      to use, safe and obviate the need for routine unpleasant and expensive endometrial
      preparatory drugs10. Moreover, these devices have the potential to be routinely used in the
      outpatient or 'office' setting without the need for general anaesthesia. This approach is
      increasingly being advocated as it expands patient choice and potentially increasing safety
      and cost-effectiveness of treatment.

      The three most commonly employed and evaluated ablative devices are ThermachoiceTM III
      thermal balloon ablation (Gynecare Inc, Somerville, NJ, USA), Microwave endometrial ablation
      (Microsulis plc, Waterlooville, Hampshire, UK) and NovaSureTM impedance-controlled
      endometrial ablation (Cytyc, Marlborough, MA USA). All appear to have comparable efficacy
      when employed as an inpatient under general anaesthesia in terms of patient satisfaction and
      life quality although data on direct head to head comparisons of these procedures when
      performed in an outpatient environment are scarce. All techniques have been employed without
      the need for general anaesthesia11,16-19, but only ThermachoiceTM has been reported in an
      outpatient setting11, without the need for formal theatre facilities or conscious sedation.
      The Microwave technique necessitates significant dilatation of the cervix that limits its
      potential for use in an outpatient setting in contrast to ThermachoiceTM and NovaSureTM10.

      The newer NovasureTM system is more effective than ThermachoiceTM because inpatient studies
      report a higher rate of amenorrhoea (cessation of menstrual periods - 43% versus 8%).
      Moreover, NovaSureTM may be a better technique for use in conscious patients in an outpatient
      setting as it is a shorter procedure (1.5 versus 8 minutes) and associated with less
      post-operative pain16,19 but it does require a greater degree of potentially painful cervical
      dilatation10. There is thus a need for a randomised trial to compare the effectiveness and
      acceptability of ThermachoiceTM and NovaSureTM endometrial ablation in an outpatient setting
      for the treatment of menorrhagia.
    
  