
    
      Rationale:

      A large body of work supports the association of abnormal coagulation (blood clot formation)
      and malignancy. A coagulation enzyme thrombin is able to 1) enhance cancer cell adhesion to
      platelets and endothelial cells 2) stimulate tumor cell growth, 3) increase metastasis and 4)
      stimulate tumor angiogenesis.

      Thrombin inhibition has anti-metastatic and anti-tumor activity in mouse models. Recent
      meta-analysis of 4 major randomized clinical trials that have evaluated the effect of
      anticoagulants on overall survival in cancer patients comparing low molecular weight heparin
      (LMWH) to placebo demonstrates a 13% risk reduction in mortality at 1 year and 10% risk
      reduction at 2 years, which is statistically significant and independent of the potential
      confounding effect of anticoagulation in the prevention of venous thromboembolic disease.

      Fondaparinux sodium (ARIXTRA® ) is a highly effective newer anticoagulant that is a fully
      synthetic pentasaccharide. Arixtra binds to antithrombin III and subsequently inhibits Factor
      Xa and hence thrombin generation. Arixtra has an excellent safety profile in clinical trials
      of over 10,000 patients. When compared to LMWHs, ARIXTRA® has a potential pharmacokinetic
      advantage based on its longer half-life of 16-17 hours.

      Hypothesis:

      The hypothesis to be tested is whether the completion of 8 weeks of ARIXTRA® in patients with
      ovarian cancer who are in 'clinical remission' (no clinical evidence of disease) after
      chemotherapy but at high risk of ovarian cancer recurrence is feasible and safe and if the
      inhibition of thrombin generation by ARIXTRA® in ovarian cancer will result in decrease
      ovarian cancer recurrence.

      A concise description of the methodology:

      The trial will be a prospective open-label cohort feasibility study of giving 2 months of
      ARIXTRA® in patients at high risk of recurrence of ovarian cancer. The planned accrual is 15
      patients. Patients will be treated with a fixed dose of ARIXTRA® 2.5 mg by subcutaneous
      injection once daily. Treatment will continue for 2 months or until disease recurrence or
      grade 3 adverse events or patient refusal.

      In addition, all patients will be followed for survival and recurrence.
    
  