
    
      The current project aims at developing a mobile-app adapted version of BEfree - eBEfree - as
      well as test the efficacy of this ICT-delivery version in a sample of participants with
      obesity and BED. The specific objectives of the project are:

        1. Develop an ICT-delivery version of BEfree: eBEfree.

        2. Examine the effectiveness of the ICT-delivery version eBEfree.

        3. Test the stability of the outcomes over 6 months.

        4. Compare the effectiveness of the eBEfree and the face-to-face version of BEfree.

        5. Analyse eBEfree cost-effectiveness.

      A detailed description of the aims of the project are presented below.

        1. Developing the ICT-delivery version of BEfree - eBEfree. This toolkit will be developed
           based on the original manual of the face-to-face version of BEfree and will include the
           tools targeted in BEfree to support participants in reducing BE symptomatology and
           improve psychological well-being. These tools will cover three main areas:

           i) Mindfulness skills to promote adaptive emotion regulation and improve eating
           behaviour regulation; ii) Compassion skills to promote motivation that supports
           sustained adaptive behaviour regulation.

           iii) The development of psychological flexibility and the promotion of values-based
           living; The techniques of each area will be implemented sequentially in a portfolio of
           ICT-enabled tools, including a platform with multimedia resources (e.g. videos of
           sessions) and mobile applications to promote the engagement of users. User evaluation of
           the platform will be measured using data collected by the mobile application (using
           metrics like usage time, sessions attended, among others) and through the intervention
           feedback questionnaire.

        2. Examining the effectiveness of the ICT-delivery version eBEfree, through a 2 x 2
           factorial Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT) in 70 participants: eBEfree intervention vs.
           Waiting List Condition (WLC). Primary outcomes are: reductions in BE symptoms and other
           disordered eating and body image symptoms. Secondary outcomes: Weight loss outcomes;
           reductions in depressive symptoms and improvements in wellbeing. Mediators of the
           effectiveness of the ICT-delivery version eBEfree: increases in self-compassion,
           mindfulness, engagement with valued living, body image psychological flexibility; and
           decreases in shame, self-criticism and body image-cognitive fusion. Moderators of the
           intervention: eBEfree engagement (i.e., frequency of mindfulness and compassion
           meditation practices and daily tasks).

        3. Examining the stability of the outcomes measured at 3 and 6 months.

        4. Comparing the effectiveness of the eBEfree and the face-to-face version of BEfree,
           through a 2 x 2 factorial nonrandomized controlled intervention. This aim will be
           achieved by comparing results from participants who complete the eBEfree intervention
           and data obtained in the original project BEfree (PTDC/MHC-PCL/4923/2012.).

        5. Analysing the cost-effectiveness of the eBEfree by comparing intervention formats: TAU
           for BED in patients with obesity vs. BEfree, and BEfree vs. eBEfree.

      The eBEfree toolkit will include the same components as the original BEfree intervention
      organized in sequential modules, that will provide psychoeducation of the maintenance cycle
      of BE, will introduce compassion and mindfulness practices, and will promote psychological
      flexibility and engagement in values-based actions. A detailed description of each module is
      provided in Pinto-Gouveia et al. (2016).

      The eBEfree will emphasize experiential mindfulness and compassion practices, and daily
      self-monitoring (i.e., eating behaviour, physical activity). To maximize adherence weekly
      emails will be sent to participants to prompt engagement with the platform. EBEfree will also
      include a web-based discussion forum to promote group support and discussion.

      Participants Inclusion criteria: a) age: 18-55; b) overweight and obesity (IMC ≥ 25 using a
      Body Mass Analyzer TANITA-SC-330); c) BED (confirmed through the Eating Disorder Examination
      17.0D; d) access to smartphone and willingness to use it regularly (at least once a week).

      Exclusion criteria: a) undergoing any other form of psychological intervention for BED or
      having attended the face-to-face BEfree; b) severe psychiatric problem (e.g., major
      depression; psychotic illness; bipolar disorder, assessed through a semi-structured interview
      using DSM-5 criteria).

      Results from G*Power calculations for within-group repeated measures analysis, assuming a p
      value = 0.05, an effect size of f = 0.5, with a statistical power of 0.95, recommend a sample
      size of 54. Assuming a 20-30% drop-out rate, the minimum sample will be N = 70.

      Procedure The sample will be recruited through the dissemination of the study in public
      health services in the central region of Portugal covered by the Health Centre Regional
      Administration [Administração Regional de Saúde do Centro - ARSC, IP], a key partner of the
      project. The study will also be disseminated by the Association of obese and ex-obese
      patients of Portugal (Associação de Doentes Obesos e Ex-obesos de Portugal, ADEXO) among its
      members and through its website, which has ≅ 300 daily visits. ADEXO is a nation-wide
      organization, that promotes the treatment and prevention of obesity. The study will also be
      advertised in national media outlets.

      The advertisement will include a brief description of the project and RT contacts. After
      contacting the RT, participants will be required to provide informed consent and will be sent
      a link (through QRCode in flyers or other means) to the eBEfree platform for an online
      questionnaire to assess eligibility criteria in a first screening phase: age (18-55),
      self-reported weight status; BE symptomatology (using the Binge Eating Scale cut-off score of
      > 17); severe depressive symptomatology (using the Beck Depression Inventory cut-off score of
      > 30); access to smartphone and willingness to use it. If these initial eligibility criteria
      are met, an individual face-to-face meeting (in the research unit CINEICC), will be scheduled
      to assess the inclusion criteria described above. Those who meet all inclusion will answer to
      a set of self-report online questionnaires (3 to 10 presented below) and will be randomly
      assigned to one of two conditions: eBEfree or WLC. Participants´ responses will be directly
      sent to a data hub that only the RT will have access to. Those who met criteria for an
      excluding psychiatric condition will be advised to contact mental health services indicated
      by the RT. Participants allocated to the eBEfree condition will have access to the eBEfree
      platform and will be invited to complete eBEfree over the following 12 weeks. After
      completing the programme participants will be asked to attend an individual face-to-face post
      intervention assessment where they will be assessed through the EDE 16.0D and the same set of
      online self-report questionnaires and a post-intervention qualitative feedback questionnaire.
      Engagement with the online platform data (e.g., practice frequency) will be recorded in the
      data hub over the 12 weeks of programme completion. Follow-up assessments through online
      self-report measures (1-10 and self-reported weight) will be conducted at 3 and 6 months.

      Participants in the WLC will also complete all assessments and afterwards will be given the
      opportunity to complete the eBEfree.
    
  