
    
      Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for 3% of adult malignancies and constitutes 95% of renal
      tumors. Surgical complete resection is currently the only curative treatment of RCC,
      including patients with locally advanced RCC or limited metastatic disease. However, these
      patients carry a high risk to develop locally recurrent disease and systemic progression.
      High risk patients with no evidence of disease following complete resection may therefore
      benefit from adjuvant and neo-adjuvant systemic treatment strategies which primarily aim to
      prolong disease free (DFS) and ultimately overall survival (OS). Neoadjuvant studies are a
      unique opportunity to further investigate the way in which immune checkpoint inhibition works
      and to identify predictors of treatment response. Recent research on intratumoral immune
      components after pretreatment of human renal cell carcinoma suggest a potential synergism for
      TKI with anti-PD-L1 therapy that could be exploited. In terms of downsizing tumours by
      pretreatment, axitinib has been shown to be more effective than sunitinib when comparing
      trials that have been performed with each drug. However, the immunemodulatory effect of
      axitinib has been ill defined. Since axitinib and anti-PD-L1 therapy would make for a
      potential synergism, two phase Ib dose-finding studies to evaluate safety, pharmacokinetics
      and pharmacodynamics of avelumab, an anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody, or pembrolizumab, an
      anti-PD1 monoclonal antibody, in combination with axitinib were performed. First results on
      response rate and safety profile presented at ESMO 2016 were promising with objective
      response rates of 67-70 % and toxicity profiles as seen with VEGFR-treatment. The
      investigator proposes a monocenter, open label, single arm, phase II study of the combination
      of axitinib with avelumab as neoadjuvant therapy in patients with intermediate to high-risk
      non-metastatic RCC. The statistical calculation of the primary endpoint is based on efficacy
      on the local tumour. The safety of this combination prior to surgery will be an important
      secondary endpoint.
    
  