
    
      RATIONALE Although oat beta-glucan has approved health claims in Canada, US, and Europe [1-3]
      and is recognized by major cardiovascular guidelines [4,5] for its cholesterol-lowering,
      there are no approved health claims for the maintenance or achievement of normal blood
      glucose [6] and its role in the prevention and management of diabetes are less clear. We are
      not aware of any systematic reviews and meta-analyses of prospective cohort studies of the
      relation of the intake of whole oats, oat products, or oat beta-glucan with diabetes risk.
      Although there are several systematic reviews and meta-analyses of randomized trials showing
      that oats and oat beta-glucan improve markers of glycemic control and insulin resistance
      [7-9], the census for theses analyses do not include new RCTs [10]. Similar to an evidence
      synthesis that we conducted for all viscous fibers (inclusive of oat beta-glucan) [11], we
      propose to conduct the "gold-standard: in evidence synthesis (a systematic review and
      meta-analysis of randomized trials using Grading of Recommendations Assessment Development
      and Evaluation [GRADE] system) to quantify and assess the certainty of the evidence for the
      effect of oats and oat beta-glucan on established targets for glycemic control including
      HbA1c, fasting glucose, fasting insulin, and measures of insulin sensitivity in participants
      stratified by their risk of diabetes.

      OBJECTIVES To quantify and assess the certainty of the evidence for the effect of oats and
      oat beta-glucan on established targets for glycemic control including HbA1c, fasting plasma
      glucose (FPG), 2h-plasma glucose (2h-PG), fasting plasma insulin, and measures of insulin
      sensitivity and beta-cell function in participants who have diabetes, are at risk of diabetes
      (prediabetes, metabolic syndrome, or overweight/obese), or are otherwise healthy.

      DESIGN We will follow the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions [12] and
      report according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses
      (PRISMA) [13]. The protocol will be registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov.

      DATA SOURCES MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials will be
      searched for eligible trials. We will also supplement our search with manual searches.

      STUDY SELECTION We will include randomized controlled trials of ≥2-weeks assessing the effect
      of whole grain oats or oat beta-glucan compared with a suitable non-oat control on
      established targets for glycemic control including HbA1c, fasting plasma glucose, 2h-plasma
      glucose (2h-PG), fasting plasma insulin, and measures of insulin resistance in participants
      with or without diabetes.

      DATA EXTRACTION Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data. Authors
      will be contacted for additional information and any missing data will be computed/imputed
      using standard formulae [12].

      RISK OF BIAS Two or more investigators will independently assess risk of bias using the
      Cochrane Risk of Bias 2.0 Tool.

      OUTCOMES The outcomes will include established targets for glycemic control including HbA1c,
      fasting plasma glucose (FPG), 2h-plasma glucose (2h-PG), fasting plasma insulin, and measures
      of hepatic insulin sensitivity (HOMA-IR, hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp) whole body
      insulin sensitivity (Matsuda OGTT-ISI, frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test
      [FSIGTT], hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp) and beta-cell function (insulin secretion index,
      ISSI-2).

      DATA SYNTHESIS Data will be pooled using the Generic Inverse Variance method stratified by
      risk of diabetes. Random effects models will be used with paired analyses applied to
      crossover designs [14]. Heterogeneity will be assessed (Cochran Q statistic) and quantified
      (I2 statistic). Sources of heterogeneity will be explored by sensitivity analyses. If ≥10
      trial comparisons are available, a priori subgroup analyses will also be conducted to explore
      sources of heterogeneity (dose, comparator, intervention form (whole grain oat or oat
      beta-glucan) follow-up, baseline levels, design, body weight change, saturated fat intake,
      carbohydrate intake, protein intake, intervention food matrix, oat beta-glucan molecular
      weight and risk of bias). Meta-regression will assess the significance of subgroup analyses.
      Linear and nonlinear dose-response analyses will be assessed by generalized least squares
      trend (GLST) estimation models and spline curve modelling (MKSPLINE procedure), respectively.
      When ≥10 trial comparisons are available, publication bias will be assessed by inspection of
      funnel plots and the Egger and Begg tests. Adjustment for evidence of funnel plot asymmetry
      or small study effects will be conducted by the Duval and Tweedie trim-and-fill method.

      GRADE ASSESSMENT To assess the certainty of the evidence, we will use the GRADE system, an
      evidence-based grading system adopted by >100 organizations
      (http://www.gradeworkinggroup.org/). It grades the evidence as high, moderate, low or very
      low quality based on the study design and a series of downgrades (risk of bias, imprecision,
      inconsistency, indirectness, publication bias) and upgrades (large magnitude of the effect,
      dose-response gradient, and attenuation by confounding). We will follow the GRADE handbook
      (https://gdt.gradepro.org/app/handbook/handbook.html) and use the GRADEpro (GRADEprofiler)
      software Version 3.2.

      KNOWLEDGE TRANSLATION PLAN FOR IMPACT We will follow the Ottawa model of Research for
      knowledge translation [15]. The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact journals. Target audiences will include public health and clinical communities
      with an interest in nutrition and cardiovascular disease. Feedback will be incorporated and
      used to improve public health messages and key areas for future research will be defined. The
      PIs will network among opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly in the
      development of future guidelines.

      SIGNIFICANCE The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the role of
      whole grain oats and oat fiber as add-on therapy in the primary and secondary prevention of
      cardiovascular disease, strengthening the evidence-base for guidelines development in the
      U.S., Canada, Europe, and beyond and improving health outcomes, by educating healthcare
      providers and patients, stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research design.

      REFERENCES

        1. Food Directorate Health Products and Food Branch, Health Canada Oat products and blood
           cholesterol lowering Bureau of Nutritional Sciences, Ottawa (2010). Available at
           https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/food-nutrition/food-labelling/health-cla
           ims/assessments/products-blood-cholesterol-lowering-summary-assessment-health-claim-abou
           t-products-blood-cholesterol-lowering.html

        2. U.S. Food & Drug Administration, Health and Human Services. Food Labeling: Health
           Claims; Soluble Dietary Fiber From Certain Foods and Coronary Heart Disease. 21 CFR Part
           101 [Docket No. 01Q-0313]. Available at
           https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2002-10-02/pdf/02-25067.pdf

        3. EFSA Panel on Dietetic Products, Nutrition and Allergies (NDA) Scientific Opinion on the
           substantiation of a health claim related to oat beta-glucan and lowering blood
           cholesterol and reduced risk of (coronary) heart disease pursuant to Article 14 of
           Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 EFSA J, 8 (12) (2010), p. 1885, 10.2903/j.efsa.2010.1885
           Available at www.efsa.europa.eu/efsajournal.htm

        4. Anderson TJ, Grégoire J, Pearson GJ, Barry AR, Couture P, Dawes M, Francis GA, Genest J
           Jr, Grover S, Gupta M, Hegele RA, Lau DC, Leiter LA, Lonn E, Mancini GB, McPherson R,
           Ngui D, Poirier P, Sievenpiper JL, Stone JA, Thanassoulis G, Ward R. 2016 Canadian
           Cardiovascular Society Guidelines for the Management of Dyslipidemia for the Prevention
           of Cardiovascular Disease in the Adult. Can J Cardiol. 2016 Nov;32(11):1263-1282

        5. Catapano AL, Graham I, De Backer G, Wiklund O, Chapman MJ, Drexel H, Hoes AW, Jennings
           CS, Landmesser U, Pedersen TR, Reiner Ž, Riccardi G, Taskinen MR, Tokgozoglu L,
           Verschuren WMM, Vlachopoulos C, Wood DA, Zamorano JL, Cooney MT; ESC Scientific Document
           Group. 2016 ESC/EAS Guidelines for the Management of Dyslipidaemias. Eur Heart J. 2016
           Oct 14;37(39):2999-3058

        6. European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). Scientiﬁc Opinion on the Substantiation of Health
           Claims Related to Beta-Glucans and Maintenance or Achievement of Normal Blood Glucose
           Concentrations (ID 756, 802, 2935) Pursuant to Article 13(1) of Regulation (EC) No
           1924/2006.2010; European Food Safety Authority (EFSA): Parma, Italy, 2010

        7. Hou Q1, Li Y2, Li L3, Cheng G4, Sun X5, Li S6, Tian H7. The Metabolic Effects of Oats
           Intake in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
           Nutrients. 2015 Dec 10;7(12):10369-87. doi: 10.3390/nu7125536

        8. Shen XL, Zhao T, Zhou Y, Shi X, Zou Y, Zhao G. Effect of Oat β-Glucan Intake on
           Glycaemic Control and Insulin Sensitivity of Diabetic Patients: A Meta-Analysis of
           Randomized Controlled Trials. Nutrients. 2016 Jan 13;8(1). pii: E39. doi:
           10.3390/nu8010039. Review

        9. He LX, Zhao J, Huang YS, Li Y. The difference between oats and beta-glucan extract
           intake in the management of HbA1c, fasting glucose and insulin sensitivity: a
           meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Food Funct. 2016 Mar;7(3):1413-28. doi:
           10.1039/c5fo01364j.

       10. Li X, Cai X, Ma X, Jing L, Gu J, Bao L, Li J, Xu M, Zhang Z, Li Y. Short- and Long-Term
           Effects of Wholegrain Oat Intake on Weight Management and Glucolipid Metabolism in
           Overweight Type-2 Diabetics: A Randomized Control Trial. Nutrients. 2016 Sep
           7;8(9):pii:E549

       11. Jovanovski E, Khayyat R, Zurbau A, Komishon A, Mazhar N, Sievenpiper JL, Blanco Mejia S,
           Ho HVT, Li D, Jenkins AL, Duvnjak L, Vuksan V. Should Viscous Fiber Supplements Be
           Considered in Diabetes Control? Results From a Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of
           Randomized Controlled Trials. Diabetes Care. 2019 May;42(5):755-766

       12. Higgins JPT, Greens S (editors). Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of
           Interventions Version 5.1.0 [updated March 2011]. The Cochrane Collaboration, 2011.
           Available from www.cochrane-handbook.org.

       13. Moher D, Liberati A, Tetzlaff J, Altman DG; PRISMA Group. Preferred reporting items for
           systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement. BMJ. 2009;339:b2535.

       14. Elbourne DR, Altman DG, Higgins JP, Curtin F, Worthington HV, Vail A. Meta-analyses
           involving cross-over trials: Methodological issues. Int J Epidemiol. 2002;31:140-149.

       15. Graham ID, Logan J. Innovations in knowledge transfer and continuity of care. Can J Nurs
           Res. 2004;36(2):89-103.
    
  