
    
      This is a multicenter, multicohort, open label, single-arm, Phase 2 study to assess the
      efficacy and safety of tabelecleucel for the treatment of EBV-associated diseases in
      participants who are newly diagnosed or relapsed/refractory to prior treatment. Newly
      diagnosed or relapsed/refractory participants will be enrolled in one of the following
      cohorts:

        -  EBV+ lymphoproliferative disease (LPD) in the setting of primary immunodeficiency (PID)
           (PID LPD)

        -  EBV+ LPD in the setting of acquired (non-congenital) immunodeficiency (AID) (AID LPD)

        -  EBV+ posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder involving the central nervous system
           (CNS PTLD)

        -  EBV+ PTLD where standard first line therapy (rituximab or chemotherapy) is not
           appropriate, including CD20 negative disease

        -  EBV+ sarcomas, including leiomyosarcoma (LMS)

        -  Chronic active EBV (CAEBV) and EBV+ hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) (CAEBV/HLH
           cohort)

      Tabelecleucel will be administered in cycles lasting for 35 days. During each cycle,
      participants will receive tabelecleucel at a dose of 2 x 10^6 cells/kg intravenously (IV)
      weekly for 3 weeks, followed by observation through Day 35. Treatment will continue until
      maximal disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or initiation of nonprotocol therapy for
      the underlying disease. For EBV+ sarcoma cohort, treatment will continue until disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months from first dose. Participants who fail
      to respond to initial tabelecleucel treatment may continue tabelecleucel with a different
      human leukocyte antigen (HLA) restriction (termed a Restriction Switch), if available;
      administration of tabelecleucel with up to 4 different HLA restrictions is allowed for any
      participant.

      Participants will complete a safety follow-up visit at 30 days after the last dose.
      Participants without documented disease progression will be assessed every 3 months after the
      safety follow-up visit for continued evaluation of disease response until the end of study
      (EOS) visit at 24-month after first dose. Participants with disease progression any time
      prior to the EOS visit will continue to be followed every 3 months for survival status until
      the EOS visit.

      An adaptive 2-stage design will be used for each cohort in this study. For each cohort,
      approximately 8 participants will be enrolled in Stage 1. The decision to move to Stage 2
      enrollment will be based on an interim analysis of the first 8 evaluable participants in the
      cohort using investigator's assessment (per defined radiologic, clinical, and/or laboratory
      response criteria). The number of participants enrolled in Stage 2 for each cohort will
      depend on the number of observed responders in Stage 1.
    
  