
    
      The object of the investigation relates to the function named Sleep Apnea Monitoring or SAM
      function. This function is part of the REPLY 200 DR pacemakers, whose intended use is cardiac
      pacing. Sleep Apnea Syndrom (SAS) causes serious social and economic problems, not only
      because of its high prevalence but also because it is associated with increased
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

      Patients with Sleep Apnea often have arterial and pulmonary hypertension, a high risk of
      coronary artery disease, and heart failure, whereas a high percentage of patients show heart
      rhythm disturbances. In addition, these patients are at increased risk of being involved in
      traffic accidents, as well as suffering a decline in their family, social, and professional
      lives. Therefore, the prompt diagnosis of these patients could be of great importance. Today
      the gold standard for the diagnosis of SAS is overnight polysomnography (PSG) in a sleep
      laboratory. However, the shortage of sleep laboratories and the high cost of PSG render this
      method inadequate for widespread screening. For these reasons, in recent years, there have
      been attempts to develop alternative diagnostic with a view to simplify the diagnosis.

      Thanks to the feature SAM included in the pacemaker, sequences of respiratory cycles are
      analyzed to detect, to count and to report abnormal breathing events during the night. This
      analysis is based on the Minute Ventilation (MV) signal. The MV signal represents the real
      time expansion/contraction of the thorax of the patient. It is derived of the transthoracic
      impedance periodic measurements. The device is able to provide the physician with day-by-day
      Respiratory Disturbance Index (RDI) equal to the sum of events divided by the number of hours
      per night. Physician will also access to the total number of events over the previous night
      presented per hour.
    
  