
    
      Walking and cognitive impairments are common in persons with multiple sclerosis (MS).
      Approximately 85% of persons with MS report walking as a major limitation, whereas 65%
      experience cognitive dysfunction. Traditionally, walking and cognition have been viewed as
      unrelated, but there is evidence of cognitive-motor interference (CMI). CMI is believed to
      stem from damage to common neural substances responsible for cognitive and motor functions.
      Recent evidence supports cognitive-motor interference in persons with MS. For example, there
      is evidence that walking performance declines when performed in conjunction with a
      simultaneous cognitive task (i.e., dual task cost [DTC] of walking). This decline in walking
      performance is greater in persons with MS compared to healthy control and is associated with
      walking impairment. The degree of CMI during walking is associated with walking performance
      and cognitive function in people with MS. For instance, CMI has been found to be related to
      general cognitive function and self-reported everyday cognitive errors in people with MS with
      minimal disability.

      Cognitive-motor interference during mobility tasks is of practical and clinical importance
      because it has been linked to decreased community mobility and a greater risk of falls in
      other clinical populations such as stoke, Parkinson's disease and the elderly. We have
      recently demonstrated that the degree of CMI during walking was associated with physiological
      fall risk in MS, whereas gait velocity in and of itself was not.

      Evidence gathered from other special populations suggests that CMI can be minimized with
      interventions. However, there is no research on rehabilitation strategies on CMI in people
      with MS. One possible approach for improving cognitive function and reducing CMI involves
      computerized cognitive testing. This approach capitalizes on neural plasticity and has been
      found to improve cognitive function, walking and balance in healthy older adults. Although
      there is limited preliminary data suggesting this type of training may improve cognitive
      function in people with MS, there is no extant data indicating computerized cognitive
      training will impact mobility. Based on association between cognitive and motor function in
      people with MS, it is possible that cognitive training may lead to improvements in walking
      performance as seen in other clinical populations. One major advantage of computerized
      cognitive training is that it can be completed without direct supervision and in one's home
      to minimize various barriers to clinic-based rehabilitation.
    
  