
    
      Veterans are most likely to die by suicide in the week following discharge from acute
      psychiatric care. Brief, recovery-oriented, empirically-supported, inpatient interventions
      are needed given the unfortunate reality that Veterans at the greatest risk for suicide may
      not follow up with outpatient treatment. To effectively intervene on the many pathways to
      suicide, VHA will need to utilize brief inpatient psychosocial treatments that are
      suicide-specific and transdiagnostic. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) is an
      evidence-based treatment approach ideally suited for utilization among Veterans at high risk
      for suicide because it simultaneously targets processes to reduce risk (e.g., distress
      tolerance) and to increase protective factors (e.g., engage patients in building a life they
      value). The ACT clinician does not focus on symptom reduction, but instead directly targets
      functional recovery by assisting patients in identifying and engaging in values-consistent
      behaviors even in the presence of aversive thoughts, emotions, or sensations. Furthermore,
      ACT is suitable for extremely brief interventions. ACT clinicians employ experiential
      exercises and metaphors that facilitate rapid new learning, and overcome many of the
      limitations of more verbally intensive, didactic approaches to therapy. Research studies in
      non-Veteran-specific populations indicate that as few as three ACT contact hours are
      associated with approximately 50% reductions in rehospitalization among patients with
      psychosis. The extant literature and qualities inherent to ACT strongly suggest that ACT
      could be effective for improving the functioning of Veterans at risk of suicide and in-turn
      preventing suicidal behavior; but these assumptions have yet to be empirically tested. To
      address this gap and overcome barriers to delivering targeted psychological interventions for
      suicide in a psychiatric inpatient setting, the investigators have developed and manualized a
      brief, transdiagnostic, recovery-oriented, suicide-specific, ACT intervention for Veterans
      hospitalized due to suicide risk, "ACT for Life". With the support of a Rehabilitation
      Research and Development (RR&D) Small Projects in Rehabilitation Research (SPiRE) grant the
      investigators conducted a randomized controlled acceptability and feasibility trial (N = 70),
      which demonstrated the acceptability of ACT for Life to Veterans hospitalized due to suicide
      risk. Data also support the feasibility of the proposed design for a full-scale randomized
      controlled trial evaluating the efficacy of ACT for Life for maximizing functioning after a
      suicidal crisis and preventing future suicidal behavior. Using a multisite, two arm,
      randomized controlled design (ACT for Life + Treatment as Usual [ACT] vs. Present Centered
      Therapy + Treatment as Usual [PCT]) with 278 participants, and assessments at pre-treatment,
      pre-inpatient-discharge, and one-, three-, six-, and 12-months post-inpatient-discharge, the
      investigators will:

      Primary Aim: Determine the efficacy of ACT for Life for preventing suicidal behavior and
      maximizing functional recovery. Primary Hypothesis 1 is that ACT participants will be
      significantly less likely to engage in suicidal behavior (i.e., suicide or actual, aborted,
      or interrupted suicide attempts as assessed by the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale and
      medical record review) compared to PCT participants during the 12-months following
      psychiatric hospitalization. Primary Hypothesis 2 is that ACT participants will report
      significantly greater improvements in functioning on the Outcome Questionnaire 45.2 (OQ-45)
      compared to PCT participants at one-month post-discharge from psychiatric hospitalization.

      Secondary Aims will examine onset and maintenance of treatment gains. Secondary Aim 1:
      Determine the efficacy of ACT for Life for preventing suicidal behavior at three- and six
      -months following discharge from psychiatric inpatient care. Secondary Hypotheses 1a and 1b
      are that ACT participants will be significantly less likely to have engaged in suicidal
      behavior compared to PCT participants at (a) three- and (b) six-months following discharge
      from psychiatric inpatient care. Secondary Aim 2: Determine the efficacy of ACT for Life for
      improving functioning at three-, six-, and 12-months following discharge from psychiatric
      inpatient care. Secondary Hypothesis 2a, 2b, and 2c are that compared to PCT participants,
      ACT participants will report significantly greater improvements in functioning relative to
      pre-treatment on the OQ-45 (a) three-, (b) six-, and (c) 12-months following discharge from
      psychiatric inpatient care.

      Exploratory Aim: Examine candidate ACT for Life treatment mechanisms. Exploratory Hypotheses
      1 and 2 are that ACT participants will show (1) greater increases from pre-treatment in
      psychological flexibility than PCT participants and that (2) compared to PCT participants, a
      greater proportion of ACT participants will engage in outpatient mental health treatment in
      the month following discharge from inpatient care.

      The proposed RCT of ACT for Life has the potential to fill VHA's critical need for
      evidence-based psychotherapies that can be delivered during a typical inpatient stay, are
      recovery oriented, and prevent future suicidal behavior.
    
  