
    
      A prospective, randomized, clinical, open-label trial at Hospital General "Dr. Miguel Silva"
      de Morelia, Mexico.

      The study period will be between august 16, 2019 to November 16, 2019. The aim of this study
      is to evaluate the efficacy of catheter lock with bicarbonate vs heparin in chronic
      hemodialysis patients. Primary outcome will be catheter function. Secondary outcomes will be
      Infectious complications, thrombotic complications, and frequency of adverse effects between
      groups.

      All patients provided written informed consent before enrollment. The trial protocol was
      approved by Hospital General "Dr. Miguel Silva" Internal Review Board, register number
      17-CI-16053153, and Research & Ethics committee, with register number 16-CEI-004-20161212,
      Study registry # 479/01/9.

      Patients between 18-65 years old, incident or prevalent chronic hemodialysis, with 1 month of
      clinical stability and with temporal catheter as vascular access for hemodialysis are
      eligible. A total of 60 patients will be included in the study. All patients will be randomly
      assigned into one of two groups: SBCL (n=30), intervention group and HCL (n=30), as control
      group.

      Before each hemodialysis treatment, catheters and connections will be inspected for leaks,
      evidence of damage, exit-site infection and tunnel infection. Intraluminal SBCL or HCL
      solution will be removed before connecting the hemodialysis catheter to a dialysis machine
      prior to any treatment.

      During each treatment, patients will be prescribed and monitored for complications and
      standard treatment will be provided to every patient. After each treatment, blood will be
      rinsed from dialysis lines with 0.9% saline solution back to the patient. Upon the conclusion
      of treatment, all catheters will be flushed with 10 mL 0.9% saline solution per blood line
      respectively, after saline flush, catheter lock will be prescribed; SBCL group with 7.5%
      sodium bicarbonate solution, at a dose of 2 milliliters per lumen, and HCL group with sodium
      heparin at a concentration of 1000 units per milliliter, at a dose of 2 milliliters per
      lumen. Catheter exit site dressing changes occurred after each HD treatment.

      Niagra 13.5 French/20 cm non tunneled catheter will be the standard vascular access. All
      central venous catheters will be inserted by an expert operator under strict aseptic
      protocol. Catheter care will be performed by trained dialysis staff. At the end of dialysis,
      all catheters will be flushed and locked with the respectively arm solution.

      Function assessment will be based on both, pressure and flow measurements on arterial line,
      as well as measurements of arterial and venous line pressures and flow during hemodialysis
      sessions. Infectious and thrombotic complications will be assessed as defined.
    
  