
    
      Main objective / secondary:

      The objective of this study is to describe the population, adverse effects, the volume of
      ascites product and time between paracentesis in patients receiving bevacizumab in
      intraperitoneal through a refractory malignant ascites.

      Methodology :

      This is a retrospective study mono centric and non-interventional. data collected

        -  Name,

        -  date of birth,

        -  dates and numbers injection of bevacizumab doses

        -  side effects,

        -  type of cancer, TNM classification,

        -  ascites volume collected during paracentesis prior to the introduction of IP
           bevacizumab,

        -  frequency of paracentesis before the introduction of IP bevacizumab,

        -  ascites volume collected during paracentesis after the introduction of IP bevacizumab,

        -  frequency after paracentesis after the introduction of IP bevacizumab,

        -  albumin

        -  Number of lines of chemotherapy received

        -  Treatment monotherapy or in combination with other chemotherapies

        -  WHO Stadium in each course

        -  Date of death

      supports

        -  Data collection from CHIMIO® software DxCare® and non-computerized patient records.

        -  Series anonymized patient data on Excel®

      Circulation mode and data processing and not opposition patient The anonymous data are
      entered on a computer file and centralized within the pharmacy department by the investigator
      of the Groupe Hospitalier Saint Joseph Paris, Carole METZ, to be processed locally.

      For the statistical analysis, quantitative variables are expressed by their mean, standard
      deviations, their minimum and maximum values as appropriate. The variables will be expressed
      in numbers and percentages. Descriptive data analyzes, correlations between the study
      variables and more specific tests to determine the prognostic value of variable can be used.

      This is a single-center retrospective cohort within the GHPSJ. Patients are aware of the
      potential use of their data in their files for medical research by information contained in
      the handbook of the institution for patients.

      Development of the study:

        -  The list of patients who received bevacizumab injection is obtained from the CHIMIO®
           software.

        -  The data collected is validated by a multidisciplinary way oncologists and pharmacists.

        -  Collection and analysis of data by the internal pharmacy from computerized patient
           records (DxCare®) or not computerized.
    
  