
    
      Bipolar Disorder (BD) and Schizophrenia (SCHZ) in pregnancy are associated with pregnancy
      complications and increased maternal mortality due to physiological and psychosocial changes
      independent of second-generation antipsychotic (SGA) use. Untreated BD and SCHZ have been
      associated with an increased risk of placental abnormalities, antepartum hemorrhage, preterm
      birth, pre-eclampsia, low birth-weight, intrauterine growth retardation, small for
      gestational age, fetal distress, neonatal hypoglycemia, stillbirth and congenital defects,
      and the potential for adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes. Severe maternal stress in
      pregnancy increases the risk for offspring mental disorders, and eye, ear, respiratory,
      digestive, skin, musculoskeletal, and genitourinary diseases and congenital malformations
      (i.e., cleft palate, cleft lip). Also, BD and SCHZ illness symptoms are linked to
      psychosocial consequences that result in poor perinatal outcomes including impulsivity that
      leads to reckless behavior such as increased indiscriminate sex and exposure to sexually
      transmitted infections, smoking, increased alcohol and drug use, less prenatal care, and poor
      nutrition. Furthermore, women with recurrence of mental illness in the perinatal period have
      increased risk for suicide, a leading cause of maternal death.

      The only published case of quetiapine plasma concentrations in a pregnant woman included
      cross-sectional levels of a woman on 300 mg of quetiapine across pregnancy and postpartum.
      Compared to six months postpartum, the area under the curve decreased by 27%, 42%, and 18% in
      the first, second, and third trimester, respectively. Given the complexity of the metabolism
      of quetiapine to a very active metabolite, it is important to understand the altered
      metabolism of quetiapine and its active metabolite in pregnancy and the implication for
      dosing adjustments.

      This study will investigate the longitudinal pharmacokinetics of quetiapine in pregnancy,
      delivery, and postpartum. The long-term goal of this line of research is to establish
      psychotropic medication dosing algorithms informed by longitudinal pharmacokinetic data to
      improve mental health and pregnancy outcomes for mothers with serious mental illness.

      The primary aims are: 1) Determine the elimination clearance of quetiapine and its major
      active metabolite, 7-N-desalkyquetiapine, across pregnancy and postpartum; 2) Determine the
      effect of pharmacokinetic changes on symptoms and toxicity during pregnancy and postpartum,
      and; 3) Examine the maternal-to-cord plasma concentrations ratios of quetiapine and its major
      active metabolite, 7-N-desalkylquetiapine.
    
  