
    
      The aim of the study is to test the feasibility of conducting a pragmatic single-blinded fast
      track RCT of BIS versus standard care for patients with COPD and their carers and to begin
      testing the effectiveness of the intervention by: (1) Describing the referral patterns and
      activity of the service; (2) Describing the experiences and views of the service by people
      with breathlessness who have been referred to it and the experiences and views of those
      informally involved in their care; (3) Identifying those aspects of the service which are
      most useful to people with breathlessness, those informally involved in their care and health
      care professionals.

      The study consists of five components: (1) data relating to referral patterns and service
      activity; (2) identification of components of the intervention; (3) a pilot pragmatic
      fast-track randomised controlled trial (RCT) of BIS for COPD patients versus standard care;
      (4) semi-structured interviews with referrers; (5) in-depth interviews with BIS staff. The
      RCT is described below.

      Although the BIS also receives referrals for patients with cancer and heart failure, COPD
      patients make up the largest diagnostic group of referrals. The pilot trial therefore focuses
      on a heterogeneous cohort of COPD/COAD patients.

      The investigator will be blinded to the allocation of respondents until week 8. This will be
      achieved by the investigator conducting the recruitment to the study and collecting baseline
      measures, but then passing the process of randomisation and reporting of allocation (to the
      patient and provider) over to a third party (clinical trials' nurses) using a random sequence
      of opaque envelopes previously generated by a study administrator at King's (independent of
      the service and the RCT). Subsequent to this, all data will be handled using study identity
      numbers and group allocation identifiers will only be added at the analysis stage. Outcomes
      are all self-assessed by patients and carers principally using structured questionnaires but
      also incorporating a qualitative topic guide prior to randomisation and then again at the end
      of the fast track group's exposure to BIS and the control group's waiting period for BIS (at
      both of these measurement points structured questionnaires will be completed prior to the
      qualitative interview).

      Subsequent data collected from the control group once they are in receipt of BIS (after their
      period on the waiting list when their group allocation was blinded to the investigator) will
      be treated as before/after data and not RCT data. This will allow the collection of
      qualitative data at the midpoint of using the service as the investigator will no longer be
      blinded to their group allocation, nor will she be required to be at this stage.

      Measurement points: 'measures' (quantitative and qualitative) will be taken for all
      respondents (FT and CC) at baseline (t1), prior to randomisation. They will be repeated for
      the fast-track group (FC) during the intervention (4 weeks post commencement of the
      intervention (FTt2) - quantitative only) and for control condition group at the same time
      (CCt2 - quantitative only), and then again after discharge for the fast track group (8 weeks
      post commencement of intervention (FTt3)). As well as being measured at t1 (randomisation)
      and t2 (mid-point between randomisation and intervention - quantitative only), the control
      condition group (CC) will also be measured just prior to the commencement of their
      intervention (CCt3), repeated during the intervention (4 weeks post commencement of the
      intervention (CCt4)) and then again after discharge (8 weeks post commencement of
      intervention (CCt5)). Using this measurement strategy should make it possible to identify
      whether or not the condition of respondents in the control group deteriorated whilst they
      awaited their intervention and whether or not this then had an impact on final outcomes for
      this group.

      Measures will be collected by means of audio-taped structured/semi-structured interviews
      (with respondents' permission). It is proposed that at each measurement point patients and
      carers are interviewed separately as this found to be important in the pilot study
      interviews. This will be managed by means of requesting that carers complete any
      self-complete measures whilst the interview is being conducted with the patient. Interviews
      with carers will then be conducted on a separate, but temporally close, occasion (e.g. up to
      2 days later), at the carer's convenience (e.g. in the evening if required). Careful
      attention will be paid to the needs of the patient and carer in terms of fatigue.

      Determining the sample size for a pilot/exploratory trial of this type is difficult. As no
      trials have been conducted before with this particular intervention, or for this type of
      intervention with this patient group (i.e. COPD patients), there is a lack of data (e.g.
      identification of primary outcome measures and their data) to support the power calculations
      usually used to estimate the required sample size of a definitive RCT (i.e. the number of
      participants needed to ensure the study is scientifically sound). In addition, those trials
      that do exist relating to interventions for patients with COPD (e.g. trials of pulmonary
      rehabilitation rather than breathlessness intervention services) have focused primarily on
      physiological outcomes such as clinical measures of breathlessness. However, as a result of
      our earlier work at the Pre-Clinical phase and Phase I, we became aware of the need to look
      beyond such physiological measures and consider other outcomes (e.g. distress due to
      breathlessness, ability to choose to participate in social events).

      Thus the pilot/exploratory trial (Phase II) will itself provide vital information to inform
      the power calculations for a future planned definitive RCT (Phase III). The aims of this
      current pilot/exploratory trial therefore include testing the intervention (the BIS) but also
      establishing the feasibility of conducting a definitive RCT by testing the trial method (i.e.
      the pragmatic fast-track design), randomisation procedures and the identification of
      appropriate primary outcome measures. It is envisaged that the most likely primary patient
      outcomes will be 'distress due to breathlessness' and mastery of breathlessness; the most
      likely primary carer outcome is 'carer distress due to breathlessness'. For both patients and
      carers 'distress due to breathlessness' will be measured using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS;
      0-10cm); a difference between the baseline and follow up measurements of 1cm on this scale
      could be regarded as clinically significant for patients with intractable breathlessness.
      This pilot/exploratory RCT will provide the data to confirm or refute these outcomes, and so
      enhance the design of future definitive trials.

      Based on clinical experience, data published from other studies and case reports (e.g. Corner
      et al, 1996), and on expert advice, we have made some tentative estimates of the likely
      changes we may expect the intervention to have. We could expect a change in score of severe
      distress due to breathlessness of 2.2 (SD 1.8) on a 10 point scale. This difference would be
      detected, using a Mann Whitney U test, with 11 patients in each group (22 in total), with 80%
      power and a significance of p=0.05. A change in the proportion of patients with severe or
      very severe distress due to breathlessness from 90% to 40% would be detected at 80% power and
      a significance of p<0.05 by 14 patients in each group (28 patients in total). Therefore we
      will aim to recruit at least 30 (or 28) patients to the trial.

      A number of subjective measures, exercise tolerance measures and physiological measures are
      already collected or recorded by the BIS itself (e.g. VAS, modified BORG, MRC grading of
      dyspnoea symptoms etc.). These will continue to be collected and will be utilised by both the
      service and the evaluation. In accordance with the aims of the evaluation, other outcomes to
      be assessed within the trial will relate to patient and carer satisfaction with the service,
      patient and carer quality of life, patient and carer anxiety, patient mastery, caregiver
      burden, patients' breathlessness, patient and carer distress due to breathlessness, aspects
      of the service most useful to users (patients and carers) and other service use.
    
  