
    
      MyeChild 01 is an international phase III clinical trial in children with acute myeloid
      leukaemia (AML); a disease with significant mortality. It will compare two induction
      chemotherapy regimens: mitoxantrone and cytarabine (current standard treatment) with
      liposomal daunorubicin and cytarabine. This will test liposomal daunorubicin, which is
      believed to be less cardiotoxic than similar conventional drugs, although this is unproven.
      Patients responding well to induction chemotherapy are eligible for a randomisation of two
      consolidation regimens: high dose cytarabine (current standard treatment) or fludarabine and
      cytarabine (FLA); a regimen commonly used in patients with relapsed disease, testing whether
      FLA is more effective in front line therapy than standard consolidation treatment. Patients
      with cytogenetic features associated with a higher risk of relapse and those responding
      sub-optimally to induction treatment are candidates for haemopoietic stem cell transplant
      (HSCT) and are eligible for a randomisation comparing two HSCT conditioning regimens:
      myeloablative conditioning (MAC) (current UNited Kingdom (UK) standard) or reduced intensity
      conditioning (RIC). HSCT has not consistently shown benefit in high risk patients because the
      mortality associated with the procedure has outweighed the advantage from a reduction in
      relapse risk. This will test whether reducing the intensity of conditioning improves survival
      by reducing transplant related deaths without increasing the relapse rate. The trial
      incorporates a dose finding study for gemtuzumab ozogamicin. The aim is to identify the
      optimum tolerated number of doses of gemtuzumab ozogamicin (up to a total of 3 doses), which
      can be safely combined with either of the induction chemotherapy regimens and then to compare
      this number of doses with one dose of gemtuzumab ozogamicin. The intensity of treatment will
      be directed by cytogenetics/molecular genetics and response assessed by minimal residual
      disease (MRD) levels measured by flow cytometry and molecular methodology.
    
  