
    
      Background: Gliomas are primitive brain tumors frequently associated with epilepsy. In a
      significant number of these patients epilepsy is resistant to antiepileptic drugs. There are
      currently no recommendations for the management of these drug-resistant epilepsies associated
      with glioma. In addition, few studies have addressed the subject and no treatment appears to
      be superior to others in the literature for this indication. In addition, many antiepileptic
      drugs pose problems of tolerance or interaction with chemotherapy in these patients.

      Rational: Fundamental studies on glioma-associated epilepsies have shown that there is a
      major dysregulation of glutamatergic systems involved in epileptogenesis (= perpetuation of
      epileptic seizures) and tumor growth (Huberfeld and Vecht, 2016). Targeting this
      glutamatergic system seems particularly interesting from a physiopathological point of view.
      Perampanel is a recent antiepileptic treatment with a novel mode of action targeting AMPA
      glutamate receptors. It has been shown to be effective in patients with drug-resistant
      epilepsies. He has demonstrated his tolerance in these patients. He has obtained a marketing
      authorization and is therefore used in routine epileptology without serious problems of
      tolerance being reported. It is neither an inducer nor an enzyme inhibitor, avoiding the
      problems of interaction with chemotherapy and is used in a daily dose facilitating
      compliance.

      Therefore, there may be specific antiepileptic efficacy of perampanel in patients with
      glioma. Nevertheless, the only current data is limited to a retrospective study of 12
      patients.

      The objective of this protocol is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of perampanel in
      patients with glioma with drug-resistant epilepsy.

      The investigators want to perform a prospective randomized study with two parallel arms:
      antiepileptic combination therapy with perampanel and antiepileptic combination therapy
      without perampanel (free choice of the practitioner). The main criterion of judgment will be
      the decrease of the monthly frequency of crisis. Secondary endpoints will assess tolerance,
      efficacy on responder rate (at least 50% decrease in seizure frequency), seizure severity
      (secondary generalization, loss of consciousness), and quality. patients' lives (quality of
      life questionnaires, side effects and anxiety / depression). The duration of participation
      per patient will be 23 weeks (6 weeks of baseline, 5 weeks of titration and 12 weeks of
      maintenance). The recruitment period will be 3 years. The investigators plan to recruit 120
      patients.

      Expected benefits: In the context of no recommendation in the management of these patients,
      the investigators hope to demonstrate superior efficacy of perampanel compared with other
      antiepileptic drugs. This would allow targeted treatment in this population and confirm the
      tolerance of this treatment in these patients.
    
  