
    
      Objective

      The broad objective of this exploratory project is to inform clinical studies and trials on
      the use of aerobic exercise training (AET) as an intervention for improving cardiorespiratory
      fitness in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). AET-induced adaptation of
      cardiorespiratory fitness and fatigue severity will be characterized, and time-course for
      changes in mood reactivity will be determined. We hypothesize that 1) AET will improve both
      cardiorespiratory fitness and fatigue severity 2) mood will at first worsen in response to
      AET but that mood reactivity will then decrease at some point during the intervention, and 3)
      AET will not impair overall cognitive performance, but that the specific cognitive
      performance areas of attention and concentration will improve with AET.

      Study Population

      Thirty-six adult subjects with a clinical diagnosis of non-penetrating TBI (mild, moderate,
      and severe) will be enrolled. Subjects will be recruited from NIH, affiliated
      hospitals/clinics, and in the community.

      Design

      This is a pilot study with a pre-experimental, test-intervention-retest design.
      Cardiorespiratory fitness, fatigue severity, cognitive performance, and changes in mood
      reactivity will be measured at baseline. The subjects will then participate in a 12-week
      treadmill exercise training intervention protocol known to improve cardiorespiratory fitness
      in the general population. Following the 12 weeks of AET, cardiorespiratory fitness, fatigue
      severity, and cognitive performance will be retested and compared to baseline. Changes in
      mood reactivity will be assessed monthly.

      Outcome Measures

      AET-induced change in cardiorespiratory fitness as measured by peak oxygen consumption (VO2)
      is the primary outcome measure and will be measured by pulmonary gas exchange analysis during
      treadmill exercise tolerance testing. A submaximal, continuous work rate test will also be
      used to measure the ability of the cardiorespiratory system to meet the energy demands of
      work over time (VO2 on-kinetics). The Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) is the principal
      measurement tool for the fatigue outcome variable. FSS scores will be interpreted in relation
      to information from the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form (MOS-36SF), Becks
      Depression Inventory (BDI), The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) and the Profile of Mood States Short Form (POMS-SF). Cognitive
      performance will be tested and interpreted compared to norms by the Finger Tapping Test
      (FTT), the Trail Making Test (TMT) and the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of
      Neuropsychological Status (RBANS). Change in mood reactivity will be measured as the
      difference in the POMS-SF scores before and after 30 minutes of recovery. The outcome
      variable for time-course related change in mood reactivity is the week of onset for
      significant improvement in mood reactivity.
    
  