
    
      This is a natural history study with a cross-sectional design of Moebius syndrome (MIM
      157900), a heterogeneous developmental disorder defined as a congenital, non-progressive
      facial weakness with limited abduction of one or both eyes, often associated with additional
      features such as other cranial nerve dysfunction, craniofacial, skeletal and limb
      deformities, as well as intellectual or behavioral impairments. In this study we will attempt
      to characterize the clinical phenotype of Moebius and associated congenital facial weakness
      syndromes, collect thorough information on possible prenatal environmental exposures and use
      genetic studies, including whole exome sequencing, on DNA from patients and family members of
      patients to identify disease-causing genes. We will also conduct brain magnetic resonance-
      and diffusion tensor imaging- studies in these patients in order to explore brainstem and
      cranial nerve structure and associated white matter tract anomalies. Through this combined
      clinical, molecular and imaging approach, we anticipate that phenotype-genotype correlations
      will be revealed. These results will lead to new insights into the clinical definition of
      these conditions, molecular pathways, and potential networks involved in the pathogenesis of
      facial weakness and associated multisystem dysmorphogenesis. Our population will consist of
      patients, ages 2 to 80 years, inclusive of any gender, race, or ethnic group, with congenital
      facial palsy, isolated or combined with other congenital anomalies, and their families. We
      will continue to recruit approximately 24 probands each year, ages 2 to 80 years, inclusive
      of any gender, race, or ethnic group, and their parents and unaffected family members for a
      total of 72 patients/families. In most cases, patients will be referred through the Moebius
      Syndrome Foundation, a patient organization with a current membership of 2000 people in its
      database, 1400 of whom have been diagnosed with Moebius syndrome. Outcome measures will
      include the results from a battery of clinical evaluations, including ophthalmology,
      audiology, neurology, psychiatry, and rehabilitative medicine. Patients will also undergo
      neurocognitive and autism screening assessments, electromyography/nerve conduction, and blink
      reflex studies. Imaging and genetic studies will provide the most robust data for analysis in
      this study. A skin biopsy may be performed on some patients in order to culture fibroblasts
      for additional biochemical, cell biological, and molecular analyses.
    
  