
    
      Problem description Approximately 20-30% of patients with pT4 colon cancer develop peritoneal
      metastases (PM). The only proven curative option for macroscopic PM is cytoreductive surgery
      (CRS) followed by hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC), but the efficacy and
      morbidity highly depend on the extent of peritoneal involvement. Unfortunately, due to
      restricted accuracy of imaging modalities and the absence of early symptoms, PM are often
      detected at a stage in which only about 20-25% of patients are eligible for CRS+HIPEC, and
      even these patients appear to have a relatively high peritoneal cancer index (PCI). New
      diagnostic strategies are urgently required to detect PM at an early stage, resulting in a
      higher percentage of patients eligible for CRS+HIPEC, which will translate into better
      survival because of the uniformly reported direct association between PCI and survival.

      Proposed solution Preliminary findings of the COLOPEC trial (NCT02231086) revealed that PM
      were already detected at intentionally adjuvant HIPEC within 2 months after resection of the
      primary tumour in 10% of patients with pT4 colon cancer. Based on these findings and
      literature, second look diagnostic laparoscopy (DLS) to detect PM when the disease is still
      potentially curable by CRS+HIPEC may be considered as an essential component of early
      follow-up of pT4 colon cancer. This needs confirmation in a larger patient cohort before
      implementing this in practice. Furthermore, metachronous PM develop later on (>12 months) in
      an additional 15-20% of the patients. These patients will be missed by a second look DLS and
      might therefore benefit from a third look DLS later on, which will be investigated in the
      COLOPEC II trial.

      Objective The primary aim of this study is to determine the added value of third look DLS
      after a negative second look DLS in pT4 colon cancer patients to detect PM at a clinically
      occult stage.

      Study design This is a randomized multicentre trial in which eligible patients will have
      routine CT-abdomen at 6 months postoperative (+3 months for those still treated with adjuvant
      chemotherapy), followed by second look DLS within 1 month after CT if no PM or other
      metastases not amenable for local treatment are detected. Patients without PM found during
      second look DLS will subsequently be randomized between routine follow-up including
      CT-abdomen at 18 months in the control arm, or an experimental arm with a third look DLS
      provided that PM or incurable metastases are absent at the 18 months CT-abdomen. The primary
      endpoint of the study is the proportion of PM detected after negative second look DLS. The
      primary endpoint will be determined at 20 months.

      Study population Patients aged 18-80 years who underwent intentionally curative resection of
      pT4a,bN0-2M0 colon cancer or rectosigmoid cancer above the peritoneal reflection, either with
      or without adjuvant systemic chemotherapy, who are fit enough and surgically accessible to
      undergo second look DLS between 6-10 months postoperatively and subsequent treatment of PM if
      detected.

      Intervention DLS will be performed in patients not already diagnosed with PM and without
      other metastases that impede curative intent treatment. Access to the abdominal cavity is
      obtained under general anaesthesia by open introduction away from areas of expected
      adhesions, followed by adhesiolysis if necessary. Complete staging of the intra-abdominal
      cavity is performed, with biopsy of any lesion suspicious of PM, and determining the PCI for
      those patients with suspected PM.

      Expected outcome It is hypothesized that in patients who had a negative second look DLS, PM
      become clinically apparent in 5% until 20 months postoperatively with routine follow-up. A
      third look DLS following a negative CT-abdomen at 18 months postoperative is expected to
      detect an additional 10% of PM. It is expected that detection of PM at a clinically occult
      stage will translate into survival benefit, based on the observation that survival rates
      after CRS+HIPEC are higher if the PCI is lower.
    
  