
    
      Approximately 1900 transplants are performed in the US annually. Lung transplantation remains
      the gold standard treatment for patients with end stage lung disease. This includes patients
      with range of etiologies such as Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, COPD and Cystic Fibrosis. One
      of the more common post-operative complications in patients undergoing lung transplantation
      is the development of atrial fibrillation. Recent studies have demonstrated that
      approximately 1/3 of patients will develop atrial fibrillation during their post-operative
      course. While it is uncertain if the development of post-operative atrial fibrillation
      affects survival, it does significantly increase length of hospital stay. Importantly, a
      portion of the patients that develop atrial fibrillation post-operatively will require
      cardioversion prior to discharge.

      Currently one of the main stays of treatment for post-operative atrial fibrillation is
      systemic (oral or intravenous) amiodarone, which is a class III antiarrhythmic agent. While
      this particular drug is effective, it does carry the risk of several known complications. Due
      to the drug's pharmacokinetics, amiodarone concentrates in organs with high lipid content
      such as the thyroid, liver and lung. Amiodarone has several known adverse effects on the lung
      ranging from acute respiratory distress syndrome to more chronic disease such as Interstitial
      pulmonary fibrosis. Amiodarone can have detrimental effects on the liver which in rare cases
      could lead to cirrhosis. Additionally, amiodarone can cause thyrotoxicosis as early as a few
      weeks after the initiation of amiodarone.

      The adverse events listed above are related to the cumulative dose of amiodarone. Typically,
      when amiodarone is initiated, patients receive a loading dose of 600-800mg daily until the
      cumulative dose reaches 10 grams, after which patients will receive 200mg daily as a
      maintenance dose. Minimizing the cumulative dose of amiodarone by using a local application,
      could mitigate the potential adverse drug toxicities. In a previous study, the application of
      an amiodarone releasing hydrogel performed intraoperatively was shown to significantly
      decrease the rates of post-operative atrial fibrillation in patients undergoing coronary
      artery bypass. Currently for patients undergoing lung transplantation, there is not a safe
      and effective measure available to prevent post-operative atrial fibrillation.

      The Investigators aim to study the intraoperative application of an amiodarone containing
      hydrogel for prevention of post-operative atrial fibrillation in lung transplant patients.

      In patients undergoing lung transplantation, post-operative atrial fibrillation is common and
      leads to prolonged hospital course and increased healthcare expenditures. Amiodarone is a
      main stay of therapy for atrial fibrillation, however this drug does have potential serious
      complications when administered systemically. The local application of amiodarone, could
      potentially decrease the rates of atrial fibrillation, while avoiding the systemic
      complications. This has the potential to decrease length of stay and decrease additional
      procedures (ie. Cardioversion) in patients undergoing lung transplantation.
    
  