
    
      The research was designed as a prospective randomized-controlled study.Prior to the study,
      approval was obtained from the local ethics committee of our hospital (reg.:162)The diagnosis
      of all patients was carried out through physical examination, imaging, and histopathology.
      Prior to the treatment, microbiological analysis was conducted concurrently with the
      biopsy.Patients who had contraindications with the use of steroids, those with active
      infections, as well as patients who were pregnant, and who had been diagnosed with breast
      cancer, were not included in the study. The patients were sub-divided into two groups as
      Group S (systemic-peroral steroid) and Group L (local-intralesional steroid) by using the
      sealed envelope randomization method. Group S: Medication of oral methylprednisolonewas
      administered to the patients following the adjustment based on the severity of the lesion and
      regarding the clinic. The prednisolone dose was 0.5 mg/kg/day in patients with painful, small
      (<5.0 cm) unilateral lesions whereas in multiple, bilateral lesions with the diameter of ≥5
      cm or for those who had significant cutaneous ulceration, the prednisolone dose was specified
      as 1 mg/kg/day. Patients were informed about potential adverse effects. The medication was
      completed by reducing the dose. Patients in the systemic steroid group were advised to
      receive the medication after eating, to restrict salt and sugar consumption throughout the
      treatment, to quit smoking if they are using, and a proton pump inhibitor was started.Group
      L: Triamcinolone acetonidewas administered to the patients through injecting inside the
      lesion.The occurrence of systemic adverse effects in the course of the treatment was
      considered as the reason to discontinue the medication in all groups. Follow-up examinations
      of all patients at the 6th month were regarded as the endpoint of the treatment. As a
      consequence, it can be stated that the local (intralesional) steroid administration is also a
      treatment method, which is comparable to systemic steroid administration and had similar side
      effects. Nonetheless, it will be appropriate to promote this method by performing studies,
      which involve a larger population with more patients, and which is also long termed.
    
  