
    
      When parents or adults express interest in the study they will be approached by the Principal
      investigator (LKB) or the 2 research nurses (RS or RA) who will make contact with the
      children and their parents and explain the study, ,answer all their questions and concerns
      and inform them about the study benefits/potential risks (see recruitment script appendix B
      in proposal). If a parent approves to participate in the study, he/she will sign an informed
      consent and any child above 7 will be asked to sign an assent form. The investigator will
      also assure the parents that participation is totally voluntary and it is not a part of the
      conventional treatment and that they have the full right to refuse participating and withdraw
      from the study at any time, even after signing the consent.

      Recruitment activities will take when the children are hospitalized at the Children's cancer
      center in Lebanon (CCCL), 8 North and the Bone Marrow unit (BMT). Patients, parents and
      children will also have access to flyers in the unit briefly explaining the study. Potential
      subjects will be identified through reviewing daily census on the inpatient unit of CCCL, 8
      north or the BMT unit. Participates will be screened for eligibility and will be excluded if
      they have any condition that may affect the efficacy of treatment as listed in the exclusion
      criteria. Participants will be randomly assigned to 1 of 3 groups, 20 patients in each group.
      The randomization method will be prepared in advance by a statistician not involved in the
      study, using a paper list-generated random assignment sequencel. Based on group assignment,
      participants will receive a different compound applied topically to the oral mucosa 3 times
      daily until healing, or for 7 days, whichever comes first.

      Group 1 will receive 10cc of honey for adults and 5 cc for children, which will be supplied
      directly from a New Zealand.

      Group 2 will receive maximum 5 g of extra virgin olive oil for adults and 2 cc for children
      directly from a local distributor in south Lebanon. It will be stored in dark containers at
      room temperature for use in the study.

      Group 3 will serve as control, which at our institution is 5cc sodium bicarbonate, 5cc
      rinsidin and 5cc of mycostatin 4 times daily for children. For adults it is Caphosol in the
      BMT unit and in the Basile inpatient unit it is the magic solution (without xylocaine).

      Groups 1 and 2 patients will be instructed to slowly rinse the honey or olive oil in their
      mouths, swish it around for 1 minute duration, so as to make the honey or oil in contact with
      the oral mucosa and slowly swallow so as to make better contact with the pharyngeal mucosa.
      For group 3, patients will swish the respective solution for 1 minute then spit it out. The
      order of the different solutions will be written in each medical record by the attending
      physician and the nurse will observe the patient taking the solution and will document the
      administration on the hospital flowsheet.

      The independent variable for this study is either olive oil or honey The dependent variables
      will be primary and secondary:

        1. The primary outcome will be the severity of OM measured by recovery time, defined as the
           number of days from the initiation of treatment until healing or day 7 assessed by four
           trained nurses on a daily basis and who are blinded to the study group using the scale
           presented by the World Health Organization (WHO). The WHO scale is based upon the
           ability to eat and drink combined with objective signs of mucositis, namely erythema and
           ulceration (7). Visualisation of the oral cavity is critical for scoring, as the
           presence of oral ulcers delineates a WHO mucositis grade which ranges from 0 to 4 where
           higher scores correspond to worse mucositis. The WHO scale is classified as follows:
           grade 0=normal, no mucositis; grade 1=soreness and erythema; grade 2=erythema, ulcer,
           can eat solids; grade 3=ulcers, require liquid diet only; grade 4=alimentation not
           possible. The PI will establish inte-rater reliability with the four nurses by assessing
           patients on the WHO scale. Each nurse will conduct the assessment and compare her/his
           results with the PI, this will be done until a reliability of >. 80 is achieved.
           Reliability will be done before the study begins and then every month until the
           completion of the study.

        2. The secondary outcome will be a pain assessed as per the institution's policy using the
           Visual analogue 10cm scale (VAS) or the Wong faces scale. A 0 indicates no mouth or
           throat pain and 10 indicates the most severe mouth or throat pain ( see appendix E in
           the proposal). The construct, convergent and predictive validity of the VAS and the
           Faces scales have been widely published (26). Pain scores of the oral mucosa will be
           conducted twice a daily for study purposes. The patients will be assessed by their RNs
           for pain which is documented in the patient charts twice per day in the morign and in
           the evening (even in the absence of pain).
    
  