
    
      This is a single center, randomized, controlled trial in adult subjects undergoing total hip
      arthroplasty that will receive one of two different nerve block regimens for pain management
      as part of standard of care.

      Effective pain control after surgery for total hip replacement is a critical element in
      patient recovery. Particularly, in the first few days, as majority of patients may experience
      significant pain. Improved pain management after surgery contributes to better healing,
      faster patient mobility, shortened hospital stays, and reduced healthcare costs. While pain
      management is an important factor in total hip replacement, pain after surgery has yet to be
      improved. Inadequate pain control can lead to delayed movement, thereby increasing the risk
      for complications such as blood clots in the legs (deep venous thrombosis - blood clots in
      your veins) with some patients developing blood clots in their lungs (pulmonary embolus). In
      addition to pain medications after surgery, nerve blocks such as the femoral or fascia
      iliaca, have been used as supporting therapy for pain management after a total hip
      replacement. While these nerve blocks are used on a regular basis, they do have limitations
      which can produce inconsistent results for pain control and use of pain medications after
      surgery. With no clear superior nerve block for total hip replacement, a new nerve block,
      called the pericapsular nerve group (PENG) block has emerged. It has demonstrated the ability
      to prolong pain relief and decrease the use of pain medications after surgery. Therefore, a
      randomized study comparing the PENG block to other blocks established within the anesthesia
      community (e.g., fascia iliaca block) will allow for providers to understand the capabilities
      this block has in the setting of a total hip replacement.

      In addition to your normal standard clinical care, there will scheduled pre-operative,
      operative, 2-week, and 4-6 week follow-up visits.
    
  