
    
      Radiotherapy play a critical role in the treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
      Concurrent chemoradiotherapy can increased patients' survival rate. Most of head and neck
      squamous cell carcinoma patients are in the age range from 60 to 80 years old. Head and neck
      cancer begin in concealed anatomic sites that make it difficult to found the disease.
      Therefore, a larger proportion of patients diagnosed with cancer at a late stage.The tissues
      of head and neck are closely related to important functions such as respiratory, swallowing.
      Therefore patients are often accompanied by poor nutritional status, cardiac dysfunction and
      other chronic diseases.Since the tumor is extensive and it cannot be completely
      resected.These patients are not suitable for surgery alone. Radical radiotherapy or adjuvant
      radiotherapy is often administered. In order to increase the treatment efficacy, patients
      with high risk are commonly treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy often cause serious side effects. For older patients who often have chronic
      health conditions or poor ECOG(Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) score are difficult to
      tolerate.It is crucial to enhance the efficacy of treatment of head and neck squamous cell
      carcinoma in older patients without causing significant side effect.

      Raltitrexed is a direct and specific thymidylate synthase (TS) inhibitor and it is an
      alternative option for patients unsuitable for cisplatin based chemoradiotherapy. It is more
      suitable for the treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma in older patients. It is
      deserved to further investigation. Researches indicated that raltitrexed has shown efficacy
      and good safety profile in the treatment of colorectal cancer.

      It is rarely reported that intensity modulated radiotherapy plus raltitrexed in the treatment
      of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma,particularly in older patients.The aim
      of this study was to compare the efficacy of intensity modulated radiotherapy plus
      raltitrexed with intensity modulated radiotherapy alone in older patients with squamous cell
      carcinoma of the head and neck.

      According to EORTC(European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer)22931 study, The
      2-year PFS(progression-free survival) was 48% with chemotherapy alone in squamous cell
      carcinoma of the head and neck. Planting A et al studied raltitrexed at escalating doses
      combine with radiotherapy in locally advanced head and neck cancer. The results showed that
      12 out of 17 patients remained free of locoregional recurrence after a median follow-up of
      24(+) months (range 3-60+ months).The study was designed to detect a 15-20% clinic benefit
      for patients, using α of 0.05 and a β of 0.20. To achieve this, the number of patients
      required was 101 per group, according to drup-out rate 10%.
    
  