
    
      Choline is a micronutrient used for the structural integrity of cell membranes, lipid
      transport/metabolism, methylation reactions and cholinergic neurotransmission. Prenatal and
      early postnatal choline exposure plays a critical role in brain development and cognition
      based on animal data. Although it is recognized that choline use is particularly high during
      pregnancy and lactation, the level of choline intake needed to optimize maternal and fetal
      health outcomes is unknown. The primary objective of this study was to investigate the
      metabolic and genomic effects of two doses of choline intake, 450 mg/d (the adequate intake
      level for pregnant women) and 900 mg/d in pregnant, lactating, and nonpregnant control women.
      A secondary objective was to examine the effect of extra maternal choline intake on the
      child's cognitive performance (i.e, learning, memory and attention). To accomplish these
      objectives, pregnant women (wk 27 gestation), nonpregnant control women, and lactating women
      consumed controlled choline intakes of 480 or 930 mg/d for 10 to 12 weeks. The basal diet
      provided 380 mg/d; supplemental choline chloride, 100 or 550 mg/d, was used to achieve the
      target intake levels. During the last half of the study, a small portion (~ 20%) of the total
      choline intake was derived from deuterium labeled choline, a stable isotope. Blood, urine
      and/or breast milk were collected at baseline and at select timepoints throughout the study
      duration. For pregnant women, a maternal blood sample was obtained at the time of delivery
      along with a cord blood sample and the placental tissue. Genomic and metabolomic profiling
      were performed on the collected biological samples along with specific measurements of
      choline status. Non-invasive tests assessing cognitive function were performed on the
      children of the pregnant and lactating study participants. This controlled feeding study has
      also been extended to investigate dose-response relationships for other micronutrients
      including folate, vitamin B12, vitamin D, and biotin.
    
  