
    
      High blood pressure affects a third of the United States population; it is one of the most
      common health problems in this country. With proper treatment, including weight loss, diet,
      exercise, or medication, individuals can usually maintain adequate blood pressure control. A
      large percentage of people, however, do not have their blood pressure under sufficient
      control. Prompting individuals to ask their doctors specific medical questions has proven
      effective in improving overall preventive medical care, but its effect on blood pressure
      control among hypertensive individuals has not been evaluated. "My Expert Doctor" is a
      web-based program that helps patients to ask the right questions regarding specific tests and
      treatments during their doctor visits. Upon entering medication and treatment information
      into the web site, patients are provided with individualized feedback and recommended
      questions to ask their doctor. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of
      the individualized, web-based intervention in improving blood pressure control in individuals
      with high blood pressure.

      Both physicians and their patients will be enrolled in this 1-year study. Participating
      physicians will be randomly assigned to either the web-based intervention group or a control
      group. Recruitment materials describing the study will be mailed to their patients who have
      high blood pressure. Eligible patient participants will attend a baseline study visit, which
      will include blood pressure measurements and self-report questionnaires. Patient participants
      in the intervention group will receive access to the interactive section of the web site for
      1 year. They will have the ability to enter their medication history, blood pressure
      measurements, and blood test results. This information will then be analyzed against a
      database containing the National Institutes of Health (NIH) blood pressure control
      guidelines. Questions that participants may want to ask their physician, reasons for asking
      the questions, and links to reputable web sites (e.g., American Heart Association) will then
      be displayed. Automated email reminders will encourage participants to use the web site on a
      monthly basis and prior to any doctor visits. Participants in the control group will be given
      access to an area of the web site that does not provide individualized feedback, but does
      contain information related to the prevention of high blood pressure. Baseline evaluations
      will be repeated at a Year 1 study visit. Study researchers will review participants' medical
      records to analyze serum creatinine test results and blood pressure measurements during the
      1-year study and 1 year prior to the study.
    
  