
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the addition of whole-brain radiotherapy with hippocampal avoidance
      (HA-WBRT) increases time to neurocognitive failure at months 2, 4, 6, and 12 as measured by
      neurocognitive decline on a battery of tests: the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised
      (HVLT-R) for Total Recall, Delayed Recall, and Delayed Recognition, Controlled Oral Word
      Association (COWA), and the Trail Making Test (TMT) Parts A and B.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the addition of HA-WBRT preserves neurocognitive function at months 2,
      4, 6, and 12 as separately measured by each test, the HVLT-R for Total Recall, Delayed
      Recall, and Delayed Recognition; COWA; and TMT Parts A and B.

      II. Evaluate the potential benefit of HA-WBRT in symptom burden, as measured by the M. D.
      Anderson Symptom Inventory-Brain Tumor Module (MDASI-BT).

      III. Assessment of quality adjusted survival and cost analysis using the five-level version
      of the EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D-5L).

      IV. Compare cumulative incidence of progression and overall survival after WBRT versus
      HA-WBRT.

      V. Compare adverse events between the treatment arms according to the Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.0 criteria.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Collect serum, plasma, and imaging studies for future translational research analyses.

      II. Evaluate magnetic resonance (MR) imaging biomarkers of white matter injury and
      hippocampal volumetry at baseline and 6 months as potential predictors of neurocognitive
      decline and differential benefit from HA-WBRT as compared to WBRT.

      III. Association of symptom burden and anxiety/depression with neurocognitive function.

      IV. Evaluate the potential correlation between the prognostic scoring systems Radiation
      Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) and the
      diagnosis-specific graded prognostic assessment (DS-GPA) and neurocognitive function at
      baseline and overtime.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12 months.
    
  