
    
      Background: The triage of patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome in the emergency
      room is a time-consuming diagnostic challenge. Triage and management of patients with low
      probability of coronary artery disease often cause excessive hospital costs. Therefore high
      sensitive early markers for myocardial damage are needed for more rapidly rule out of acute
      myocardial infarction (AMI).

      Cardiac troponins (T and I) are currently the gold standard for definitive AMI diagnosis due
      to their high sensitivity and specificity for detection of myocardial cell injury.
      Unfortunately, troponin is undetectable by current assays in peripheral blood within 3 to 4
      hours after onset of chest pain in AMI ("troponin-blind" period).

      New cardiac markers such as the novel high-sensitive troponin I/T, ischemia modified albumin
      and placental growth factor have demonstrated certain advantages compared to troponin such as
      high negative predictive value for AMI, earlier verifiability in peripheral blood and
      possible value as independent risk marker. However, clinical evaluation in a large cohort of
      unselected patients presenting to an emergency department is still lacking.

      Aim: To test the hypothesis that the use meticulous patient history and novel cardiac markers
      (including high-sensitive troponin I/T, myeloperoxidase, ischemia modified albumin, placental
      growth factor) can provide a faster detection or exclusion of AMI in patients presenting with
      acute chest pain to the emergency department.

      Patients and Methods: The prospective cohort study is designed to enrol unselected patients
      presenting with acute chest pain at rest within the last 12 hours to the emergency
      department. Several blood samples for detection of the new markers will be drawn (baseline,
      1, 2, 3 and 6 hours) and compared with the gold standard for the diagnosis of AMI
      (high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T). Timing and treatment of patients are left to the
      discretion of the attending physician and will be performed according to the standard house
      routine of the hospital. All patients will be contacted by telephone at 6, 12, 24 and 60
      months to determine functional status, major adverse cardiac events (death, myocardial
      infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting, percutaneous coronary intervention), and the
      results of cardiac examination (stress test, coronary angiography) if performed.

      Expected results: It is our hypothesis that the use meticulous patient history and novel
      cardiac markers can improve the detection of AMI by providing an early diagnosis for AMI with
      a high negative predictive value within the "troponin-blind" period.

      Significance: The earlier detection of myocardial necrosis in peripheral blood could help to
      rule out AMI more rapidly. In addition it will allow a more rapid diagnosis and appropriate
      therapy of AMI. This can lead to a significant improvement in patient management and a
      reduction of in-hospital costs.
    
  