
    
      The study is an investigator-initiated, single centre, prospective observational trial. The
      study will be carried out in university hospital on electrocardiology ward. The study will
      consist of two independent groups of patients whose ECG will be collected using the standard
      12-lead ECG or 24-hour Holter monitoring. The study groups will be as follows: cardiac
      resynchronization therapy (CRT) recipients with pacemaker or defibrillation function,
      patients after cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIED) such as : cardiac pacemaker,
      patients with implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) with indications for periodic
      heart stimulation. Approval for all study groups was obtained from institutional review
      board. In patients with already implanted device signal will be recorded in pacing mode and
      standby mode. What is more, in patients with CRT-D/CRT-P signal will be registered with
      different configurations of stimulation (no stimulation, right ventricle pacing, left
      ventricle pacing, biventricular pacing) and by stimulation different regions of left
      ventricle. Patients medical history will be acquired : comorbidities, qualification for
      device implantation, and other examinations at that time. In selected patients with typically
      good response for CRT, ECG signal will be registered with Holter method. Based on collected
      ECG, the correlation between clinical data parameters predicting good therapy response will
      be determined. ECG platform. The analysing system for arrhythmia detection consists of
      cloud-based software platform. The captured electrocardiographic signal uploaded to the
      platform is analysed using deep neural networks algorithms. The software allows the ECG
      standard report visualisation of signal and analysis of acquired data in terms of CRT
      sufficiency. The platform is a medical device certified in the European Union.
    
  