
    
      INTRODUCTION: Post-Mastectomy Pain Syndrome (PMPS) is a chronic pain that persists for more
      than three months after a surgical breast procedure. It has 11-70% incidence in patients that
      underwent a breast surgery. It consists of mixed pain, frequently associated with myofascial
      pain. Trigger point injections (TPI) are classically used for the treatment of myofascial
      pain in other etiologies. However, there are no controlled trials assessing the efficacy of
      TPI in the treatment of PMPS

      OBJECTIVE: Assess the efficacy of TPI in patients with PMPS, when associated with a
      comprehensive rehabilitation program and pain management.

      METHODS: Double-blind randomized controlled trial with intention-to-treat analysis. Both
      groups will undergo comprehensive rehabilitation program, as well as pain medications,
      delivered by Physiatrist and interdisciplinary rehabilitation team blinded to group
      allocation. Active group will undergo TPI with 1% lidocaine in each identified trigger-point,
      weekly, for three consecutive weeks. Control group will undergo subcutaneous saline injection
      superficial to the same trigger points, with the same frequency and number of sessions.
      Primary outcome is the mean difference between groups for pain levels, as assessed by Visual
      Numeric Scale (VNS), from baseline to 3 months after the procedure.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Difference between groups at baseline, one and three months after
      injection, using Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) for the following outcomes: VNS; Presence of
      active trigger points, Pressure pain threshold (PPT); Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire
      (SF-MPQ); Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI); Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and
      Hand Questionnaire (DASH); Range of motion (ROM) of affected shoulder, for abduction and
      external rotation; adverse events; use of pain medication.

      Total sample size is 120. Alpha=5%, power=80%.
    
  