
    
      Primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an acquired autoimmune disorder affecting both
      children and adults, characterized by a platelet count below 100 x 109/L in the absence of
      any underlying disease explaining the thrombocytopenia. Clinical manifestations may be absent
      or include cutaneous mucosal or organ bleeding, resulting in an overall mortality rate of
      less than 1-2%.

      Previously, 'acute ITP' was used to describe a self-limited form of the disease and 'chronic
      ITP' to describe the disease if it lasted for more than 6 months. In 2009, a new terminology
      for ITP was agreed upon based on the duration of the disease. The new terms for ITP are:
      'newly diagnosed ITP (from diagnosis to 3 months), 'persistent ITP' (3-12 months) and
      'chronic ITP' (lasting for more than 12 months) [2].

      Chronic primary ITP in adults is slightly more common in women of childbearing age but the
      sex incidence is similar in patients over 60. The incidence of ITP in adults is around 4 per
      100.000 people per year, with a UK prevalence of up to 24 per 100.000 people [4-6]. No more
      than 2 per 100.000 will require ITP treatment.

      Bleeding is highly variable and there is great heterogeneity. Bleeding is most commonly
      mucocutaneous, involving the skin and subcutaneous tissue (petechiae, ecchymoses,
      subcutaneous hematomas), the external mucosae (epistaxis, gum bleeding, blood blisters in the
      mouth), muscles (muscle hematomata) or the various organs and internal mucosae (hematuria,
      gastrointestinal bleeding, menorrhagia, intracerebral bleeding). Major bleeding is not common
      if the platelet count is above 30x109/L. Intracranial hemorrhage is rare and is most often
      seen in older patients who have additional comorbidities and in patients who fail to respond
      to therapy. The yearly risk of fatal hemorrhage is around 1.6-3.9% in unresponsive patients.
      This risk varies with age, from 0.4% per year in patients below 40 years old to 13% per year
      in those over 60. The natural history of ITP with currently available treatments is not well
      known. Available data are mostly based on the era when rituximab and thrombopoietin-receptor
      agonists (TPO-RA) were not in use.

      There is a lack reliable data on how recent treatments have modified the course of the
      disease. Bleeding frequency and severity, complications like infections, thrombosis,
      ITP-related symptoms like fatigue, etc. are also largely unknown as are women's related
      issues. Similarly, the cost of treatment for a patient with ITP is not available. Safety and
      efficacy of specific recent treatments have been measured mostly in industry-sponsored
      studies. Furthermore, most studies did not conform to the International Working Group (IWG)
      on ITP recommendations concerning terminology, definitions, outcome criteria and assessment
      of bleeding.

      To the investigator's knowledge, an ITP Registry is ongoing in UK and in Australia and
      registries are being planned in other European countries with a prospective of creating an
      international network. The only established international registry, the ITP PARC study, is
      operative since 2004 but covers different aspects of the disease. The few Italian registries
      are of regional dimension and are not aligned to collect standardized information in a
      uniform way.
    
  