
    
      Inpatients who are consented to have cardiac device implantation will be given study
      information as soon as the decision to implant a device is reached. The patients will have
      time to decide to participate in the study up until they are called for the procedure (2-72
      hours, most commonly > 24 hours). The decision to participate in the study is conveyed to the
      investigator in the holding room, and written consent is obtained if the patient agrees to
      participate in the study.

      The nerve block is performed in the holding room as a 2-step procedure by trained physicians.

      After the nerve block approximately 30-60 minutes will be allowed for the anesthetic to take
      effect prior to the cardiac device implantation procedure. The patient will be monitored by
      the nurses in the holding room. Once the patient is taken to the operating room and prepped
      for the cardiac device implantation procedure, testing of the nerve blocks is performed. The
      superficial pin-prick test will be performed to determine the success of the SCN block, and a
      deeper test will be performed with a 22ga needle to ensure the deeper muscular layers are
      anesthetized and the PECs I block is successful. If both blocks are successful, the patient
      will receive optional light sedation with midazolam 0.01 mg/kg based on their preference, and
      the procedure can commence. If either the SCN or PECs blocks are not successful based on the
      sensation test, usual care is provided.

      Immediately after the procedure, the patient is asked to rate the pain during the procedure
      on a numerical scale. Any adverse effects reported by the patient will be documented. The
      patient will then be reassessed 1 hour after the procedure in the holding room and then
      called the following day. One of the investigators will contact the patient by telephone on
      the following day (24hr later), and perform a similar assessment. The assessment will involve
      inquiring how the patient is feeling, documenting any unintended adverse effects, and asking
      the patient to rate their pain on a numerical scale.
    
  