
    
      Introduction Diesel and its products represent one of the most common pollutants affecting
      people living in urban and rural areas of the world. The majority of patients attending
      emergency departments are likely to have been subjected to chronic exposure to diesel engine
      exhaust fumes particularly those living in proximity to busy city roads and highways. Diesel
      exhaust fumes are considered to contribute to over 50% of atmospheric particles with a mass
      of less than 10 μM (PM10) average aerodynamic diameter, which is responsible for air
      pollution. For fine particle matter lower than 2.5 μM (PM2.5) and extremely small particles
      below 0.1 μM in diameter, the contribution to air pollution is much greater. These particles
      are small enough to be inhaled and deposited in the lungs where they can exert deleterious
      effects.

      In Europe and Japan, epidemiological studies have demonstrated high rates of cardiovascular
      morbidity, as well as acute and chronic respiratory disease, following occupational exposure
      to diesel exhaust fumes. Experimental animal studies have also shown that exposure to diluted
      diesel engine emission impairs left ventricle systolic performance, sympathetic drive,
      fibrosis/fibrinolysis and accelerates atherosclerosis. Epidemiological studies and
      experimental animal models are, however, rather imprecise regarding the mechanisms
      responsible for these effects and the clinical impact of chronic diesel exhaust fumes
      exposure. Moreover, although a relationship has been documented between acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS) and acute exposure to diesel engine exhaust fumes, it is not known whether
      relatively short-term exposure can cause prolonged inflammatory responses and/or affect
      endothelial function and vessel wall properties in such a way as to potentially promote the
      development of atherosclerotic changes.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the impact of short-term exposure to Diesel exhaust
      fumes on arterial elasticity, vascular function and inflammatory biomarkers.

      Methods Study population Volunteers will be included in this randomized, double blind,
      crossover study All volunteers who qualified for study entry will be free of cardiovascular
      disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, pulmonary disease and acute inflammatory or chronic
      diseases. Subjects who will be found to have an abnormal baseline 12-lead electrocardiogram
      and/or impaired respiratory function tests will be excluded from the study.

      Individuals taking cardiovascular medications, antioxidant or vitamin supplementation, oral
      contraceptives or anti-inflammatory agents during the two months prior to inclusion in the
      study will be excluded.

      Women receiving hormone replacement therapy and premenopausal women with irregular menstrual
      cycles will also excluded from the study. All women selected for the study will underwent
      pregnancy tests before each study session.

      Study Design This is randomized double-blind, cross-over study. All subjects will be exposed
      to air or pollutants in two sessions which will took place 4 weeks apart between 8.00 and
      10.00 a.m. in an ad hoc laboratory. In each session, the subjects will underwent a 2-hour
      exposure period to controlled amounts of diesel exhaust fumes or filtered air. In each
      session, measurements of markers of vascular function (flow mediated dilation, pulse wave
      velocity and augmentation index), sympathetic activity and blood tests depicting the
      inflammatory and fibrinolytic profile will took place. These measurements will be performed
      at baseline (before exposure-T0), at the end of the 2-hour session (T2) and 24 hours after
      the end of exposure (T24) (Figure 1).

      Measurements in each women participating in the study will be performed at the same phase of
      the menstrual cycle (late luteal phase). The participants will refrained from drinking
      alcohol or caffeinated fluids and using medications containing caffeine, or smoking. All
      volunteers will be assessed after having been in the fasting state for at least 8 h.
      Participants will instructed to avoid changes in diet and physical activity habits during the
      study period.

      Diesel exhaust and filtered air exposure Volunteer exposure to diesel exhaust fumes will
      carried out on a specially designed 30m2 room which was hermetically sealed. The diesel
      exhaust fumes will be produced by a diesel engine (2500 cc and 100-150HP) and dispensed
      through a pipe system into the exposure room. Prior to study entry, indoor levels of carbon
      monoxide (CO) along with concentrations of fine airborne particulate matters (PM2.5) will be
      measured, controlled and kept within the desired limits using portable environmental
      instrumentation. In order to secure adequate levels of exposure to PM2.5 and CO, all
      measurements will be controlled and compared to the respective standards of the European
      Commission. Specifically, 25 µg/m3 (mean annual limit) for PM2.5 particles and 10 µg/m3
      (maximum daily 8 hour mean) for CO.

      Vascular measurements Endothelial function evaluation Using a linear array ultrasound (U/S)
      transducer endothelial function will be evaluated by estimating flow mediated dilation (FMD)
      in the brachial artery, as per standardized protocols.

      Central arterial stiffness measurements Carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV), an index
      of aortic stiffness, will be calculated from measurements of pulse transit time and the
      distance between 2 recording sites (PWV = distance, in meters, divided by transit time, in
      seconds) using a well-validated non-invasive device (SphygmoCor; AtCor Medical, Sydney,
      Australia) as previously described.

      Measurement of wave reflections The AIx of the central (aortic) pressure waveform will be
      calculated as a composite index of wave reflections and arterial stiffness using a validated,
      commercially available system (SphygmoCor; AtCor Medical, Sydney, Australia) which employs
      the principle of applanation tonometry. Waveforms of radial pressure will be calibrated
      according to sphygmomanometric systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure measured
      in the brachial artery. Because the AIx is influenced by changes in HR, it was corrected as
      appropriate (corrected for a steady HR of 75 bpm; AI75).

      Sympathetic activity assessment Heart rate variability (HRV) expresses the impact of the
      autonomic nervous system on heart activity. Low HRV may be attributed to increased
      sympathetic tone and has been found to be associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity
      and mortality. Sympathetic activity will be evaluated by calculating HRV with continuous
      electrocardiographic study (ECG) which was recorded for 20 minutes by a Holter device. ECG
      data will then transferred onto a computer for assessment of HRV, which was performed in
      accordance with current international guidelines, and standard deviation of normal to normal
      intervals (SDNN) will be measured. (Holter software, Synescope, version 3.1, ELA Medical,
      France).

      Fibrinolysis and inflammation markers A fasting venous blood sample will collected by
      venipuncture at baseline (before exposure-T0), at the end of the 2 hours session (T2) and 24
      hours after the end of exposure (T24). Venous blood samples will be centrifuged at 3000 rpm
      and serum was collected and stored at -80 C until assayed.

      The prothrombotic status was assessed by measuring levels of fibrinogen using the
      Multifibren® U system. Fibrinolytic activity will be assessed with measurements of protein C
      plasma levels and protein S activity, which were measured by the STA® - Staclot® Protein C
      kit and HemosIL™ Protein S Activity kits, respectively. Furthermore, changes from baseline in
      the inflammatory profile induced by diesel exhaust fumes will be studied by measuring serum
      C-reactive protein (CRP) using the Architect Abbott device.
    
  