
    
      This goal of this competitive revision is to expand our original project to adapt, implement
      and evaluate a multi-level intervention to mitigate the multi-dimensional toll of COVID19
      among Latino immigrant communities in Philadelphia. Evidence of effective strategies to curb
      the pandemic, reduce disparities and mitigate its impact is lacking and very urgent. In the
      US, Latino immigrants are one of the groups hardest hit by this pandemic, with recent steep
      increases in COVID-19 deaths among this group corroborating their continued increased risk of
      infection and increased susceptibility. Latino immigrants have long exhibited disparities in
      diabetes, obesity and hypertension, factors known to increase COVID-19 related severity, and
      also in Substance Abuse, Violence exposure, HIV/AIDS, and MEntal health (SAVAME) syndemic.
      These syndemic conditions have been worsened in the context of COVID-19. Latino immigrants
      represent a hard-to-reach and marginalized population, with extremely limited access to
      adequate health care and safety nets. This group faces many structural barriers, and social
      vulnerabilities, that hinder their capacity to access COVID-19 testing and treatment services
      and to adhere to public health interventions and measures to decrease the spread of COVID-19.
      Latinos often rely on a thin and fragmented network of health and social services
      organizations. Intervention to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on this population will need
      to have a broad stakeholder engagement and address a wide range of health determinants.
      Peer-driven interventions have been effective for the prevention and control of infectious
      diseases such as HIV, STIs among Latino populations. Strengthening the links between
      community members and these organizations and promoting inter-organizational coordination to
      meet syndemic health, behavioral, economic, and legal needs of Latino communities are
      essential elements to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on this low-resource population. In
      direct response to the NOT-MD-20-022/PAR PA-18-935, our ongoing community-academic
      partnership proposes to evaluate "CRISOL Contigo," a multi-level intervention to address the
      needs created or magnified by the COVID-19 pandemic among Latino communities in Philadelphia.
      CRISOL Contigo includes a peer-driven program and mobilization of Latino-serving
      organizations. In aim 1, the investigative team will adapt an ongoing Popular Opinion Leader
      (POL) program to address the unique health, social, and economic needs related to COVID-19
      and the SAVAME syndemic. In aim 2, the investigative team will assess the efficacy of CRISOL
      Contigo to improve COVID-19 related preventive health behaviors and use and access to
      COVID-19 related testing and care (co-primary outcomes). In aim 3, the investigative team
      will examine the impact of CRISOL Contigo on community assets, interagency collaborations,
      and coordination among the Latino-serving organizations in Philadelphia. There are almost 20
      million Latino immigrants in the US, and they play a central role in sustaining the vital
      parts of the US economy Tailored, multi-level interventions that consider the unique needs of
      Latinos are urgently needed to mitigate the impact of this and future outbreaks of COVID-19
      on this disadvantaged population.
    
  