
    
      The investigators run a large-scale randomized controlled trial (RCT) to understand
      behavioural processes that guide decisions to vaccinate and test alternative strategies to
      communicate the concept of herd immunity. The experiment varies the text of postal letters
      send to individuals eligible for free influenza vaccines. The experiment is run in
      collaboration with the municipal health authorities.

      The investigators identify from the Population Register all individuals who are born in year
      1953 or before and resided in the participating municipality on October 01, 2018. The
      investigators will obtain the postal addresses of these individuals using the Population
      Register and randomly assign individuals to treatment conditions that differ in the wording
      of the information material and reception of a text message. Importantly, the extract from
      the Population Register will also include an individual identifier (social security number)
      that can be used to match the received type of letter (treatment) with the actual vaccination
      decision recorded in the Care Register for Health Care to objectively evaluate the impact of
      received information on vaccine uptake. The matching of postal addresses and vaccination data
      will be conducted using pseudonymized identifiers. The pseudonymization of individual
      identifiers will be performed separately for both datasets by professional data management
      and data security staff of the National Institute for Health and Welfare. The investigators
      conducting the data analysis will be able to access only pseudonymous data without a
      possibility to directly identify individuals from the data set. The data will be stored
      according to the data protection legislation and regulations of the National Institute for
      Health and Welfare during the research project.

      The investigators randomly assign individuals to treatment conditions that differ in the
      wording of the letters. The authority's standard letter serves as the baseline condition
      (T1). This letter is extended by communicating the concept of herd immunity and appealing to
      pro-social preferences by highlighting the fact that vaccinations may effectively prevent
      infections among people who are not able to vaccinate themselves (especially babies) (T2). To
      summarize, this study includes a control treatment (T0, no letter) and two active treatment
      arms with the following contents:

      T1 (Mailing) - Standard letter T2 (Herd) - Herd immunity letter
    
  