
    
      The overall objective of this research is to improve the safety of iron-chelating therapy
      (ICT) in patients with transfusional iron overload by developing an accurate non-invasive
      measurement of the liver iron concentration (LIC), the best measure of the body iron burden
      in all forms of systemic iron overload. The scientific premise is that quantitative
      susceptibility mapping (QSM) provides a quantitative biophysical connection to LIC. Safe ICT
      requires careful adjustment of the iron chelator dose to the body iron burden to optimize
      iron excretion while avoiding chelator toxicity, including gastrointestinal disorders,
      audiovisual impairment, neutropenia, arthropathy, growth retardation, and hepatic and renal
      failure. QSM enables accurate measurement of LIC by overcoming the inherent cellular
      interference in current R2 (=1/T2) and R2* (=R2+R2') estimates that lack a well-defined
      biophysical connection to the LIC. A fundamental biophysical limitation of the R2 and R2*
      approaches is that intravoxel contents other than iron, including fibrosis, steatosis and
      necroinflammation, also alter relaxation. In the liver, paramagnetic iron stored in ferritin
      and hemosiderin is the dominant susceptibility source for QSM. Consequently, magnetic
      susceptibility measured by QSM has a simple linear relationship with the concentration of
      iron in the liver and is little affected by fibrosis, steatosis and necroinflammation. The
      investigator's research plan has 3 specific aims:

      Aim 1. Develop hQSM for accurate measurement of LIC without interfering errors. Investigators
      will optimize data acquisition and processing for free-breathing navigator acquisition with
      robust fat-water separation.

      Aim 2. Validate hQSM using histology and chemical measurement of LIC in liver explants.
      Investigators will assess the accuracies of LICs measured by hQSM and R2* in patients before
      liver transplant with histologic examination using the reference standard of chemical
      measurement of LIC in liver explants.

      Aim 3. Evaluate hQSM in patients with transfusional iron overload under ICT. In patients
      regularly transfused for thalassemia major, investigators will conduct a double-blind
      clinical study comparing the accuracy of hQSM and R2* in measuring annual changes in LIC,
      using regression against the year-long amount of iron administered in red blood cell
      transfusions and the year-long cumulative dose of iron chelator.
    
  