
    
      This was a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-arm, parallel group study with a
      run-in period and up to 5 years treatment period. Following a screening visit (Visit 1) and a
      screening period of up to 2 weeks, treatment-naïve patients, meeting all eligibility criteria
      entered the run-in period at Visit 2.

        -  Run-in period: At Visit 2, in all eligible patients, metformin treatment was initiated
           and/or up-titrated. At the end of the 3-week run-in period, patients who were able to
           tolerate a total dose of at least 1000 mg and up to 2000 mg daily proceeded to
           randomization and started in Period 1.

        -  Period 1 (vildagliptin/metformin combination versus metformin): At Visit 3, patients
           were randomized 1:1 to one of the following study regimens:

             -  Metformin up to 1000 mg bid plus vildagliptin 50mg bid or

             -  Metformin up to 1000 mg bid plus matching placebo bid

      The duration of Period 1 could differ between patients depending on the time when the second
      of two HbA1c measurements taken at two consecutive visits after randomisation confirmed HbA1c
      ≥ 7.0%.

      • Period 2 (vildagliptin/metformin combination versus vildagliptin add-on to metformin): In
      the case of two consecutive HbA1c measurements ≥7.0% from two consecutive study visits during
      Period 1, patients who were randomised to the placebo arm in Period 1 received vildagliptin
      50 mg bid. Patients who were randomised to the active vildagliptin 50 mg bid arm in Period 1
      continued to receive vildagliptin 50 mg bid. All patients continued to take their metformin
      dose unchanged. Period 2 remained masked to the patient and both patients and investigators
      remained masked to the treatment allocation in Period 1.

      If, during Period 2, therapy intensification was required in accordance with the local
      guidelines, the patient entered Period 3. The duration of Period 2 could differ between
      patients. End of Period 2 was considered when insulin treatment was initiated, or
      alternatively when the patient was discontinued because insulin treatment was not initiated
      in Period 3.

      • Period 3 (insulin initiation): In Period 3, patients were to be initiated on open-label
      insulin. The study drug regimen continued unchanged and remained masked to the patient in
      Period 3 and both patients and investigators remained masked to the treatment allocation in
      Period 1.
    
  