
    
      The Generic Database (GDB) is a registry of very low birth weight infants born alive in NICHD
      Neonatal Research Network (NRN) centers. The purpose is to collect baseline and outcome data
      in a uniform manner on a large cohort of VLBW and other sick infants admitted to neonatal
      intensive care units.

      The GDB collects observational baseline data on both mothers and infants, and the therapies
      used and outcomes of the infants. The information collected is not specific to a disease or
      treatment (i.e., it is "generic"). Baseline data is collected soon after admission to the
      NICU; outcome data is collected at the time of death or discharge from the hospital. The data
      collected includes information on:

        -  Demographics of mother and infant

        -  Mother's health (e.g., pregnancy history and complications)

        -  Labor and deliver (e.g., rupture of the membranes, steroids and antibiotics given, mode
           of delivery)

        -  Infant's health (gestational age, Apgar scores, weight, length, delivery room
           resuscitation, respiratory support, etc.)

        -  Infant's medical outcome (heart, lung, nervous system, gastrointestinal system, hearing,
           and vision, known infections, and major malformations/syndromes, and mortality or number
           of days hospitalized).

      These data are used: to examine associations between baseline characteristics, treatments,
      and outcomes; to track trends in incidences of disease and effectiveness of therapies; and to
      identify questions requiring additional in-depth research.

      Informed Consent: As required by local IRBs.

      Secondary Studies include:

      A. The All Birth Cohort (ABC) Study. A time-limited observational registry to determine the
      incidence of intrapartum stillbirth at 20 0/7 - 28 6/7 weeks' gestation and its associated
      factors at Network sites.
    
  