
    
      This study will investigate how PATHWEIGH, a weight management tool built into the EPIC
      electronic health record, in combination with clinician and staff training on the use of
      PATHWEIGH as a tool, education on effective weight management practices, and practice
      facilitation to support implementation can facilitate weight loss and maintenance for primary
      care patients. The study examines patient weight loss and maintenance, associated predictors
      (patient health characteristics and demographics), and contextual factors in the practice
      environment that influence the intervention's adoption, implementation, and sustainability.
      This will be achieved through a mixed methods implementation study including collection and
      analysis of de-identified clinical data, surveys, observations, and interviews.

      This study is being conducted because despite obesity being the leading cause of preventable
      death in the U.S. and a major risk factor for disease, people with any degree of overweight
      or obesity are rarely offered anything other than lifestyle advice, rather than more rigorous
      and evidence-based weight management strategies. Poor reimbursement for weight-related
      visits, competing priorities, lack of appropriate tools, and limited time in visits also
      prevent more widespread use of weight management interventions. PATHWEIGH helps primary care
      clinicians and teams prioritize weight management with their patients when appropriate and
      ensures that they have the tools and knowledge handy to do so effectively. As part of the
      assessment of the PATHWEIGH intervention, the study will identify predictors of patient
      weight loss and weight loss maintenance using mediator and moderator analysis. Relevant
      factors (patient demographics, health metrics (e.g. vital signs, anthropometrics,
      comorbidities), behaviors and goals, provider age, sex, years and % time practicing, and
      clinic information (e.g. size, location, culture scale)) will be evaluated by including
      interaction terms between the treatment variable and possible moderating variables in outcome
      regression models .
    
  