
    
      Marijuana dependence is one of the most common substance-related disorders in the United
      States. Despite its prevalence, there is a lack of clinical research addressing treatments
      for marijuana dependence. Research has shown that marijuana abuse is associated with
      affective disorders. This may be caused by repeated use for relief from anxiety. The use of
      an anxiolytic agent, a drug that relieves anxiety, may help treat marijuana dependence.
      Motivational enhancement therapy has been shown to reduce marijuana use. Therefore, it is
      likely that buspirone, which is an anxiolytic agent, combined with motivational enhancement
      therapy will prove beneficial in treating marijuana dependence. This study will assess the
      effectiveness of a combination of buspirone and motivational interviewing in the treatment of
      marijuana dependence.

      This double-blind study will last a total of 16 weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to receive either buspirone or placebo for a period of 12 weeks. There will be one follow-up
      appointment 4 weeks post-intervention. Baseline assessments will include a physical exam and
      urine and blood tests. Study visits will occur weekly throughout treatment in order to
      monitor compliance, assess adverse affects, and obtain substance use data. Mood assessment
      scales, marijuana craving questionnaires, and a withdrawal symptom checklist will be used to
      gather the data. Urine drug screens will be collected weekly to test for marijuana use. In
      addition to this, the presence of opioids, cocaine, amphetamines, and benzodiazepines will be
      tested at baseline, Weeks 6 and 12, and at follow-up. A 10-day supply of medication will be
      dispensed to participants each week. Meetings for motivational enhancement therapy will last
      30 to 90 minutes each and will occur at baseline, Week 2, and Week 4. Participants' perceived
      quality of life will be measured at baseline and Weeks 6 and 12 to determine the effect of
      buspirone.
    
  