
    
      1. Basis for the study/study rationale Patients with congestive heart failure have high
           rates of mortality and morbidity (1). There are 5 million people in the United States
           that have congestive heart failure (CHF) and 52,828 new cases are diagnosed annually.
           There are 995,000 hospital visits with 52,828 deaths annually due to this condition.
           Although there have been numerous medical advances in drug therapy, there was a 164%
           increase in the number of hospital admissions for CHF since 1979 (1, 2).

           Biventricular (BiV) pacing has been shown to have acute and chronic benefits in a subset
           of patients with CHF (3-6). Those that have been shown to benefit from this mode of
           therapy have left ventricular systolic dysfunction with a widened QRS duration on the
           electrocardiogram. Acute hemodynamic studies comparing patients at baseline with either
           right ventricular (RV) or BiV pacing show significant improvements in the systolic blood
           pressure and cardiac output in patients with BiV pacing compared to either RV pacing or
           baseline measurements (3, 4). Furthermore, BiV pacing was associated with decrease in
           the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) and diastolic mitral regurgitation. These
           acute hemodynamic benefits are sustained and manifest as improvements in clinical
           symptoms. The Multisite Stimulation in Cardiomyopathies (MUSTIC) study showed that BiV
           pacing was associated with a 23% increase in the distance walked in six minutes
           (P<0.001), a 32% increase in the quality-of-life score (P<0.001), an 8% increase in the
           peak oxygen uptake (P<0.03), and a 66% decrease in the need for hospitalization (P<0.05)
           compared to no pacing (5). Patients also preferred BiV pacing compared to no pacing
           (P<0.001). The Multicenter InSync Randomized Clinical Evaluation (MIRACLE) study not
           only confirmed many of the findings of the MUSTIC trial, but also showed improvement in
           the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) with BiV pacing (+4.6% vs. -0.2%,
           P<0.001), compared to non-paced controls (6). Such data has led to the classification of
           BiV pacing in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy as a class IIa recommendation by
           ACC/AHA/NASPE guidelines (7).

           Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with left ventricular dysfunction
           carries a high mortality (8). Furthermore, patients with a low LVEF have a greater need
           for intraaortic balloon pump (P<0.0001) and inotropic support (P<0.001) with a longer
           length of hospital stay (P<0.002) compared with those with normal LVEF (9, 10).

           Conduction system abnormalities following CABG are common (11, 12). The majority of
           these abnormalities are transient and are often managed using temporary epicardial
           pacing. Hence, all patients that undergo CABG receive epicardial leads as a
           precautionary measure. These leads are placed on the right or left ventricle and the
           right atrium. When patients are felt to no longer require these, they are removed
           easily. The role of BiV pacing in this setting is unknown. Whether patients that have
           left ventricular dysfunction would have improved post-operative mortality, less need for
           intraaortic balloon pump and inotropic support, and shorter length of hospital stay is
           unknown.

        2. Objectives Our hypothesis is that BiV pacing immediately following CABG will improve
           in-hospital outcomes in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction.

           Endpoints:

           Primary: -Length of ICU stay

           Secondary: -In-hospital mortality

             -  Length of hospital stay

             -  Duration of inotropic support

             -  Duration of intraaortic ballon pump support

             -  Duration of mechanical ventillation

             -  Change in stroke volume with biventricular pacing

             -  Change in ventricular synchrony with biventricular pacing

        3. Methodology All patients that are scheduled for CABG or valve surgery and meet the
           inclusion criteria will be approached for consent pre-operatively. Once consent is
           obtained the patient will be randomized into one of three treatment arms: usual care, RV
           pacing, or BiV pacing. The patients will then undergo surgery as per routine. During
           cardiovascular surgery patients routinely receive epicardial pacing leads that are
           placed on the right or left ventricle and the right atrium. For the purposes of this
           study, epicardial pacing leads will be placed on both the right and left ventricles as
           well as the right atrium.

           After surgery is completed, the patients will receive either usual care, RV pacing, or
           BiV pacing depending upon their treatment arms. Intraoperative transesophageal
           echocardiography (TEE) is routinely performed during cardiac surgery. If TEE is being
           used in the subject images will be recorded with biventricular pacing, right ventricular
           pacing and no pacing in the first 30 patients studied to quantify changes in vetricular
           synchrony with biventricular pacing. Once the patient arrives in the SICU hemodynmic
           monitoring will be performed as usual. All patients return from the operating room with
           a pulmonary artery catheter. In the first 50 patients the stroke volume will be obtained
           by thermodilution method using the pulmonary artery catheter in their assigned treatment
           arm as well as following 2 minutes of right ventricular pacing and again following 2
           minutes of biventricular pacing. Pacing will be continued in the assigned treatment arm
           until all inotropic and intraortic ballon pump support has been weaned off. Crossover in
           treatment arms is discouraged, but will be at the discretion of the treating physicians.
           The epicardial pacing leads will be removed as per routine.

        4. Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

           Inclusion Criteria:

             1. Age > 18 years

             2. Planned CABG and/or valve surgery

             3. LVEF < 30%

             4. Able to give written informed consent

           Exclusion Criteria:

             1. Enrollment in other research protocols

             2. Inability to give written informed consent

             3. Pregnancy

        5. Methods of data acquisition and analysis Clinical, operative, and in-hospital
           information for each subject will be recorded on standardized case report forms (see
           attached) at the time of hospitalization or soon after discharge. The characteristics of
           those that received BiV pacing will be compared to those that received either no pacing
           or RV pacing. The data will be recorded in a manner such that there are no patient
           identifiers. The information will then be transferred to a computer database. The case
           report forms will be kept under lock and key on the third floor of the WBH Heart Center.
           The computer data base will be password protected. Only the investigators will have
           access to the case report forms or computer database.

        6. References

             1. American Heart Association. Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics - 2004Update.
                Dallas, Texas: American Heart Association; 2003.

             2. Braunwald E, Bristow MR. Congestive heart failure: fifty years of progress.
                Circulation 2000; 102 (suppl 4):IV14-IV23.

             3. Blanc JJ, Etienne Y, Gilard M et al. Evaluation of different ventricular pacing
                sites in patients with severe heart failure. Results of an acute hemodynamic study.
                Circulation 1997;96:3273-3277.

             4. Leclercq C, Cazeau S, Breton HL et al. Acute hemodynamic effects of biventricular
                DDD pacing in patients with end-stage heart failure. J Am Coll Cardiol
                1998;32:1825-1831.

             5. Cazeau S, Leclercq C, Lavergne T et al. Effects of multisite biventricular pacing
                in patients with heart failure and intraventricular conduction delay. N Engl J Med
                2001;334:873-80.

             6. Abraham WT, Fisher WG, Smith AL et al. Cardiac resynchronization in chronic heart
                failure. N Engl J Med 2002;346:1845-53.

             7. Gregoratos G, Abrams J, Epstein AE et al. ACC/AHA/NASPE 2002 guideline update for
                implantation of cardiac pacemakers and antiarrhythmia devices: summary article: a
                report of the Am College of Cardiology/Am Heart Association Task Force on Practice
                Guidelines (ACC/AHA/NASPE Committee to Update the 1998 Pacemaker Guidelines).
                Circulation 2002;106:2145-2161.

             8. Alderman EL, Fisher LD, Litwin P et al. Results of coronary artery surgery in
                patients with poor left ventricular function (CASS). Circulation 1983;68:785-95.

             9. Trachiotis GD, Weintraub WS, Johnston TS et al. Coronary artery bypass grafting in
                patients with advanced left ventricular dysfunction. Ann Thorac Surg
                1998;66:1632-1639.

            10. Antunes PE, Ferrao de Oliveira JM, and Antunes MJ. Coronary surgery with
                non-cardioplegic methods in patients with advanced left ventricular dysfunction:
                immediate and long term results. Heart 2003;89:427-431.

            11. Pires LA, Wagshal AB, Lancey R et al. Arrhythmias and conduction disturbances after
                coronary artery bypass graft surgery: epidemiology, management, and prognosis. Am
                Heart J 1995;129:799-808.

            12. Mustonen P, Hippelainen M, Vanninen E et al. Significance of coronary artery bypass
                grafting-associated conduction defects. Am J Cardiol 1998;81:558-563.
    
  