
    
      15,000 Americans die suddenly each year from rupture of an aneurysm in the aorta,which is the
      ninth leading cause of death in men over age 55. Aortic aneurysms are four times more common
      in men than in women and usually occur in those over age 50. Approximately one percent of men
      between the ages of 55 and 64 will have a significant aneurysm, and the likelihood increases
      to about four to six percent of those men over the age of 75. In a recent population-based
      study of Medicare beneficiaries, 83.2% of patients undergoing endovascular repair of their
      aortic aneurysm were male. Furthermore, 11.9% of patients were 67 to 69 years of age, 26.8%
      70 to 74, 35.7% 75 to 79, 15.8% 80 to 84 and 9.8% > 85 years of age. Ninety-six percent of
      patients were White, 3% Black and the rest either Hispanic or "Other". We have reason to
      believe that the current population of patients in the Pacific Northwest harboring abdominal
      aortic aneurysms match these statistics. Thus, women and minorities will definitely be
      under-represented in this study primarily due to the epidemiology of the disease process.

      Our institution treats a large number of patients with aortic pathology including a large
      number of patients with symptomatic or ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. We recently
      published our results on the implementation of a protocol for managing these patients with
      endovascular techniques and have been able to reduce the mortality rate in half for the first
      time in over 30 years. Unfortunately, not all patients presenting with symptomatic or
      ruptured aortic aneurysms are candidates for endovascular repair. Reasons for exclusion
      predominantly involve lack of a suitable proximal aortic neck. Solutions to this problem
      involve multi-branched or "fenestrated" endografts which are being assessed in other clinical
      trials. However, grafts in these trials require between 6 and 12 weeks to manufacture and
      deliver to the investigational site.

      On-site physician modification has also been described but is currently considered outside
      the Instructions For Use for the intended devices. Our institution's quality improvement
      department recently performed an objective review of 47 consecutive PMEG cases in patients
      presenting with asymptomatic, symptomatic or ruptured aortic aneurysms with highly
      encouraging results (See Many patients in our region do not have access to clinical trials
      involving emerging aortic endovascular therapies, and some have no other option due to urgent
      presentation or poor open surgical candidacy. For these important reasons, we seek to
      evaluate the safety and efficacy of PMEG using FDA-approved, off-the-shelf device in order to
      increase the applicability of these technologies to more patients and thus save more lives.
    
  