
    
      Scientific Background:

      COVID-19 is a global health crisis. The clinical characteristics, disease progression and
      outcome in children and young adults appear significantly milder compared to older
      individuals. Since first being reported in Wuhan, China in December 2019, COVID-19 has
      rapidly spread, affecting over 200 countries worldwide. Children account for 1-5% of
      diagnosed COVID-19 cases; although, many infected children may be asymptomatic and therefore
      not diagnosed without population screening. Most infected children are likely to be secondary
      cases and acquire the infection after exposure to a COVID-19 positive adult, although there
      are no longitudinal data to confirm this yet. Intra-family transmission may be important
      since, an unquantified proportion of children with COVID-19 areasymptomatic and may
      contribute to transmission. Multiple reports have demonstrated that children and young adults
      have a milder form of the disease compared to adults. Asymptomatic, mild and moderate
      infections comprise over 90% of all children who have tested positive for COVID-19 with fewer
      severe and critical cases (5.9%) compared to adults (18.5%). Given that severe COVID-19
      appears very rare in children, an important part of this assessment is ascertaining whether a
      positive RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 is a clinically important factor in explaining the child's
      condition, or whether more occult pathology may be responsible.

      When the COVID-19 pandemic was first reported in Asia and initially spread throughout the
      globe, pediatricians were grateful that children seemed to be only mildly symptomatic with
      the infection in most cases. Then, an alarming warning came from the National Health Service
      in England in April 2020 about cases of older school-aged children and adolescents presenting
      with fever, hypotension, severe abdominal pain and cardiac dysfunction who tested positive
      for SARS-CoV-2 infection either by nasopharyngeal RT-PCR assay or by antibody testing. These
      children had laboratory findings of cytokine storm, including high serum IL-6 levels, and
      generally required inotropic support to increase cardiac output with rare need for
      extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Almost all of these children no longer required
      intensive care after only a few days and completely recovered, although rare deaths resulted
      from complications of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Case series of children presenting
      with this condition have now been reported from the UK, Italy, Spain, France and Switzerland,
      and the United States. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has developed a
      case definition for use in the United States and has termed the condition multisystem
      inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). If MIS-C is indeed related to infection with
      SARS-CoV-2, the pathophysiological mechanism of disease is unclear.

      Very few studies have addressed the immune responses to SARS-CoV2 (either humoral or cell
      mediated immunity) in children. It is therefore necessary to study the immune responses in
      asymptomatic infections, prior infections and MIS-C to understand the pathogenesis of the
      disease.

      Whole-genome sequencing of pathogens, especially viruses, is a powerful tool to generate
      rapid information on outbreaks, resulting in effective understanding of the introduction of
      the infection, dynamics of transmission, and impact of informed outbreak control decisions.
      In- deed, genomic data can be used to identify pathogen genes interacting with the host and
      allows characterisation of the more evolutionary constrained regions of a pathogen genome,
      which should be preferentially targeted to avoid rapid drug and vaccine escape mutants. (1).
      As the SARS-CoV-2 virus races around the world across the different population, there needs
      to be a consolidated effort to understand the divergence of demographically distributed
      strains. Since the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is subject to the extent of human interaction,
      the insights from the correlation of genetic diversity would give vital information to tackle
      this transmission.

      Recent published studies have reported that when comparing the 305 Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomes,
      a number of nucleotide variants or segregating sites being identified. Recent literature
      report that there is the presence of multiple lineages of SARS-CoV-2 in India in different
      geographic regions. 20A and 20B together (belonging to the former haplotype of A2a) are the
      predominant haplotypes at pan India level and in each region. Interestingly, the haplotypes
      were differentially distributed in different regions. While the 20A were most abundant in
      Northern and Eastern India, 20B was found to be the most abundant haplotype in Western and
      Southern India. The ancestral haplotypes of 19A and 19B were mostly found in Northern and
      Eastern India, with 19B being the most abundant in the latter region. While multiple
      haplotypes were introduced during the early part of the outbreak in March-May 2020, the 20A,
      B and C haplotypes (A2a) became the predominant haplotypes in all regions by June 2020.
      However, there are no studies that have characterised the viral diversity in this pediatric
      population and its association with immunological response and disease severity, in
      SARS-CoV-2 infected children.

      Study objectives:

        -  To perform systems immunology of SARS-CoV2 infection, COVID-19 disease and MIS-C in
           children

        -  To identify the SARS-CoV2 viral diversity in the pediatric population and correlate with
           immune responses and disease severity.
    
  