
    
      REGISTRY OBJECTIVE

      To investigate the procedural as well as the long-term clinical performance of the ABSORB
      technology in patients with an indication to percutaneous coronary intervention for:

        1. multivessel disease (at least two significant stenosis in 2 different coronary
           arteries), or

        2. long (>24 mm) single vessel disease.

           REGISTRY FLOW AND CLINICAL FOLLOW-UP SCHEDULE

           The Italian National Registry is a prospective multi-center nation-wide registry
           evaluating the safety and clinical outcomes of the Absorb BVS in daily use in patients
           with de novo lesions in previously untreated vessels with indication to PCI for
           multivessel or long single coronary artery disease.

           Indications, however, are per the most recent Absorb IFU.

           Number of Patients to be Registered and Patient Follow-up

           The Italian National Registry will enroll a of 1000 patients in approximately 50 sites
           throughout the Italian territory where Absorb BVS has regulatory approval and is
           commercially available.

           Patients will have clinical follow-up by telephone contact or office visits.

           Measures Taken to Avoid and Minimize Bias

           In order to minimize bias in assessing MACE outcomes, these events will be adjudicated
           by an independent committee.

           Clinical follow-up plan: 30 days, 6 months, 1 year, and then yearly up to 5 years after
           the index procedure.

           OUTCOMES/ENDPOINTS

           Outcomes are as specified below:

           Primary outcome is set at 1 year: the cumulative hierarchical incidence of major adverse
           cardiac events (MACE) defined as: cardiac death, non-fatal target vessel myocardial
           infarction (MI), or clinically driven target lesion revascularization (TLR);

           Secondary endpoints are set at 1 year: All causes mortality, clinically driven TLR,
           clinically driven target vessel revascularization (TVR), any revascularisation (non TLR,
           non TVR) and ARC-defined stent thrombosis, at any time point. Any type of angina post
           procedure measured by means of the Cardio Test, proposed by the ANMCO (Associazione
           Nazionale Medici Cardiologic Ospedalieri) [21]

           Efficacy parameters: TLR and TVR at 1 year and then yearly up to 5-year follow-up.

           Safety "patient oriented" parameters: at 1 year and then yearly up to 5 years all cause
           mortality, any myocardial infarction, Stent thrombosis based on the ARC classification,
           up to 5-year follow-up. Data on dual antiplatelet therapy use will also be collected and
           analyzed.

           PATIENTS

           Patient Population

           Patients enrolled into this registry will be male and female patients derived from the
           general interventional cardiology population who satisfy the inclusion and exclusion
           criteria. The Italian National Registry will enroll 1000 patients in approximately 50
           sites throughout the national terrritory.

           Informed Consent

           The Investigator or designee, who has been trained on the protocol, will explain the
           nature and scope of the registry and inform the patient of the potential risks and
           benefits of participation, and document consent to treatment with an Absorb BVS device
           according to standard hospital practice. For this registry the patient must consent to
           data collection and follow-up visits. All patients (or legally authorized patients'
           representatives if applicable) must sign, date and time Medical Ethics Committee (MEC)
           approved informed consent prior to data collection for this registry. Obtaining the
           consent, provision of a copy to the patient, along with the date and time must be
           documented in the patient's medical records. The informed consent form must be signed by
           the investigator. In addition, the signed informed consent must be kept in the patient's
           medical records.

           Eligibility Criteria

           General Eligibility Criteria

           Assessment for general eligibility criteria is based on medical records of the site and
           interview with a candidate patient. Patients must meet at least one of the angiographic
           inclusion criteria to be considered for the registry. If ANY of the exclusion criteria
           is met, the patient is excluded from the clinical evaluation and cannot be registered.

           Patient Discontinuation

           Once registered, each patient shall remain in the registry until completion of the
           required follow-up period; however, a patient's participation is voluntary and the
           patient has the right to withdraw at any time without penalty or loss of benefit.
           Conceivable reasons for discontinuation may include but not be limited to the following:

             -  Patient voluntary withdrawal

             -  Patient withdrawal by physician as clinically-indicated

             -  Patient lost-to-follow-up: If the patient misses two consecutive scheduled follow
                up time points, and attempts at contacting the patient are unsuccessful, then the
                patient is considered lost to follow-up.

           No additional data is needed and will be recorded from patients once withdrawn from the
           registry. Patients will not be replaced.

           Registry Completion

           An eCRF registry completion form must be completed when:

             -  the patient is considered lost-to-follow-up per the above definition or

             -  the patient withdraws from the registry or

             -  the investigator withdraws the patient from the registry or

             -  the patient's follow-up is terminated upon registry follow-up completed

           TREATMENT AND SCHEDULE OF EVENTS

           The treatment strategy will be determined by the investigator. It is required that each
           enrolling investigator review the most recent Absorb BVS IFU and assess the
           contraindications, warnings and precaution sections with respect to the risks and
           benefits for treating potential patients.

           Procedure

           During the procedure, patients will receive appropriate anticoagulation and other
           therapies according to standard hospital practice. The Absorb BVS will be inspected,
           prepared, and implanted according to the IFU.

           QCA analysis is recommended pre implantation of the ABSORB, for correct sizing. IVUS,
           VH-IVUS and OCT techniques are encouraged: these imaging tools will be subject of
           subgroup analysis.

           Post-procedure (In-hospital)

           Post procedure data will be collected as per eCRF

           Follow-up Antiplatelet Medications

           A minimum of 6 months duration of DAPT is recommended. Specific type of DAPT will be
           recorded as per eCRF.

           Clinical Follow-up

           Clinical follow-up visits by telephone contact or office visits per the following
           schedule.

             -  30 days: office visit is encouraged

             -  6 months: office visit is encouraged

             -  1 year, and then yearly up to 5 years after the index procedure: office visit is
                encouraged.

           Angiographic follow up

           The angiographic follow up will be clinically driven. However, patients undergoing angio
           follow up and IVUS or OCT follow up will be included in subgroup analysis.

           ADJUDICATION OF EVENTS

           In order to minimize bias in assessing MACE outcomes, these events will be adjudicated
           by an independent Clinical Event Committee, which will also act as Data Safety and
           Monitoring Board for the study.

           STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

           Statistical Overview

           The data will be reviewed by a Data Safety and Monitoring Board.

           The Data Safety and Monitoring Board will be also responsible for:

             -  Determining whether information collected are sufficient to address the objectives

             -  Recommending modifications to the statistical analysis plan to address additional
                research questions based on review of the data

           Analysis Population

           All patients who are successfully registered will be included in the analysis. A limit
           of one third of the entire population will be set for the group of Multivessel Disease
           patients treated with ABSORB and a conventional stent ("hybrid group").

           Sample Size Calculations and Assumptions

           Being this an observational registry aiming at quantifying effect estimates without
           direct comparisons to literature benchmarks, we relied on confidence interval profiling
           for sample size justification, without proceeding with formal power analysis. As the
           main analysis is a pooled analysis of patients with multivessel disease and/or long
           lesions, an overall and comprehensive analysis is planned as the primary analytical
           approach. Accordingly, we computed that a target sample of 1000 patients will enable the
           computation of reasonably precise 95% confidence intervals. Specifically, assuming a
           4.2% MACE rate at 1 year (in keeping with ABSORBD EXTEND data), confidence intervals
           computed with the adjusted Wald method would be 3.1% to 5.6% for a 1000-patient sample
           (point estimate 42/1000 [4.2%]).

           Given that the registry aims to reflect real-world patients and practice, no provision
           to limit or restrict patient enrolment depending on the presence of multivessel disease
           vs long lesions is envisioned.

           Statistical Analyses

           Continuous endpoints will be summarized by presenting the total number of patients,
           mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. Tabulation of categorical
           parameters will include counts and percentages. The outcomes will be summarized as both
           a discrete and a continuous variable using the method described above. Survival analysis
           will be performed with the Kaplan-Meier method. Statistical inference will be based on
           the computation of 95% confidence intervals using the adjusted Wald method. Additional
           analyses will involve key subgroups defined according to baseline, lesion, and
           procedural features, with statistical significance set at the 5% 2-tailed level.
           Specifically, Student t, Fisher exact, and log-rank tests will be used for such
           bivariate analyses, whereas multivariable linear regression, logistic regression, and
           Cox proportional hazard analyses will be used to adjust for confounders. In addition,
           separate analyses for patients with only multivessel disease, patients with only long
           lesions, and patients with hybrid revascularization will be performed.

           DIRECT ACCESS TO SOURCE DATA/DOCUMENTS

           The investigator/institution will permit direct access to source data/documents in order
           for registry-related monitoring, audits, MEC review, and regulatory inspections to be
           performed.

           As part of the informed consent, the investigator or designee will obtain permission for
           registry monitors or regulatory authorities to review, in confidence, any records
           identifying the patients in this registry.

           QUALITY CONTROL AND QUALITY ASSURANCE

           Protocol and Informed Consent Approval The Principal Investigator at each site must
           confirm and agree with the content of the protocol prior to participation in this
           registry. Also, the Principal Investigator will obtain written approval of the protocol,
           informed consent form, and other registry related documents from the MEC. In addition,
           the investigator will take actions necessary for ongoing registry approval at their site
           per established procedures of the MEC.

           The investigator will advise the MEC of the progress of this registry on a regular basis
           until registry completion as required by the MEC.

           The investigator will submit any amendments to the protocol as well as associated
           informed consent form changes and obtain written MEC approval prior to implementation as
           required by the MEC.

           Monitoring

           A monitoring plan will be established. Remote monitoring by the CRO and source documents
           analysis for events throughout the study period by an independent Event Committee, will
           be conducted to ensure compliance with the protocol and applicable regulatory
           requirements.

           DATA HANDLING AND RECORD KEEPING

           For the registry duration, the investigator will maintain complete and accurate
           documentation including but not limited to the following: medical records, registry
           progress records, laboratory reports, electronic case report forms, signed informed
           consent forms, device serial numbers for monitoring malfunctions, correspondence with
           the MEC and registry monitor/Sponsor, SAE reports, and information regarding patient
           discontinuation or registry completion.

           Source Documentation

             -  Medical history/physical condition of the patient before involvement in the
                registry sufficient to verify protocol entry criteria

             -  Dated and signed notes on the day of entry into the registry referencing the
                sponsor, protocol number, patient ID number and a statement that informed consent
                was obtained

             -  Dated and signed notes from each patient visit

             -  Adverse events reported and their resolution including supporting documents such as
                discharge summaries, catheterization laboratory reports, ECGs, and lab results
                including documentation of site awareness of SAEs and of investigator device
                relationship assessment of AEs.

             -  Notes regarding Dual Anti Platelet Therapy medications taken during the registry

             -  (including start and stop dates)

             -  Patient's condition upon completion of or withdrawal from the registry

             -  Any other data required to substantiate data entered into the CRF

           Electronic Case Report Form Completion

           Primary data collection based on source-documented hospital and /or clinic chart reviews
           will be performed clearly and accurately by site personnel trained on the protocol and
           eCRF completion. eCRF data will be collected for all patients that are registered.

           ETHICAL CONSIDERATION

           Medical Ethics Committee Review Medical Ethics Committee (MEC) approval for the protocol
           and informed consent form /other written information provided to the patient will be
           obtained by the Principal Investigator at each investigational site prior to
           participation in this registry. No changes will be made to the protocol or informed
           consent form or other written information provided to the patient without appropriate
           approvals by the MEC.

           Until the registry is completed, the Investigator will advise his/her MEC of the
           progress of this registry, per MEC requirements.

           Further, any amendments to the protocol as well as associated informed consent form
           changes will be submitted to the MEC and written approval obtained prior to
           implementation, according to each institution's MEC requirements.

           APPENDIX I: ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

           %DS: percent diameter stenosis AE: adverse event BVS: Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold
           CABG: coronary artery bypass graft CE: Conformité Européene (EU) DAPT: Dual Anti
           Platelet Therapy DES: drug eluting stent eCRF: electronic Case Report Form GCP: Good
           Clinical Practice IFU: Instructions for Use MACE: major adverse cardiac event MEC:
           medical ethics committee MI: myocardial infarction PCI: percutaneous coronary
           intervention PDLLA: Poly-D,L-lactide PLLA: Poly-L-lactide SAE: serious adverse event
           TLR: target lesion revascularization TVR: target vessel revascularization
    
  