
    
      Elevated lipoprotein concentrations are a major risk factor for the development of
      atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Effective reduction of low density lipoprotein
      (LDL)-cholesterol concentrations has been shown to greatly reduce this risk. The most widely
      used lipid-lowering agents are the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase
      inhibitors (statins), which have been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality from coronary
      heart disease (CHD) in large prospective clinical trials. However, despite significant LDL-C
      reduction approximately 70% of the events are still not avoided and the search for improved
      or alternative lipid-modifying drug therapies continuous. HDL-C has been addressed as a
      potential modifiable target for decreasing this residual risk, since a low HDL-C
      concentration is an acknowledged independent risk factor for CHD. However, recent studies
      showed that an increase in HDL-C concentrations was surprisingly not associated with a
      decrease in atherosclerosis, but with a possible increase. Therefore it seems that not the
      concentrations of HDL-C should be targeted but HDL function in reverse cholesterol transport.

      Lifibrol is a lipid-modifying drug which has been shown to improve HDL particle flux via
      increased apoA-I production, while not having HDL-raising properties. Furthermore, it
      decreases dose-dependently LDL-C by up to 40%. It is of major interest to clarify the,
      apparently unique, mechanisms of action of a compound, whose LDL-lowering effects are
      comparable in magnitude to the ones of statins.

      The mechanisms of lifibrol's LDL-lowering effects are not completely clarified. There is
      evidence suggesting that it increases hepatic LDL receptor expression by a sterol-independent
      mechanism, i.e. not through a reduction in cholesterol synthesis, the mechanism of action of
      statins. ApoB turnover studies have indicated that increased catabolism of LDL rather than a
      decrease in hepatic apoB production may be responsible for its cholesterol-lowering effects.
      Since apoB metabolism and cholesterol synthesis are closely related, we designed a study to
      investigate the effects of lifibrol on the metabolism of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins and
      on endogenous sterol synthesis in parallel, using stable isotope methods. In addition, since
      lifibrol may inhibit cholesterol synthesis at steps earlier than HMG-CoA reductase, we
      investigated [13C]acetate catabolism analyzing 13CO2 appearance in breath. The
      HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitor pravastatin was used as comparator, since its mode of action is
      well characterized. The principle questions addressed were (i) whether lifibrol exerts its
      cholesterol-lowering effects through decreased synthesis/enhanced catabolism of
      apoB-100-containing lipoproteins or through inhibition of sterol de novo synthesis and (ii)
      whether these effects are interrelated.
    
  