
    
      Many patients with hemoglobinopathies have been infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) through
      blood transfusion, mostly before screening of blood donors was introduced in 1992. The
      reported prevalence of anti-HCV-positive thalassemia patients varies between 4.4% in Turkey
      and 85.4% in Italy. HCV infection is associated with decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular
      carcinoma and other liver complications, especially if left untreated. Prevalence of
      cirrhosis in thalassemia patients up to 32% have been reported.

      Thalassemia patients with cirrhosis have an increased risk of death. Progression of liver
      fibrosis is strongly related to the presence of chronic HCV infection and extent of iron
      overload. Thalassemia patients with elevated serum aminotransferase levels for >6 months
      should be tested for HCV infection and, in the event of HCV infection, HCV genotyping is
      recommended in order to plan antiviral therapy and the likelihood of response. Noninvasive
      transient elastography (FibroScan®) can be used to determine the presence of fibrosis in
      thalassemia patients with HCV infection.

      Effective chelation therapy and treatment of HCV infection are needed in order to prevent
      liver complications and decrease morbidity and mortality. For many years, pegylated
      interferon (peg-IFN) plus ribavirin was the standard of care for the treatment of chronic HCV
      infection and decompensated cirrhosis. Studies of peg-IFN plus ribavirin have demonstrated
      sustained virological response (SVR) rates of 25-64% in patients with thalassemia and HCV
      infection. However, peg-IFN and ribavirin are both associated with anemia.
      Ribavirin-associated hemolysis leads to an increased requirement for blood transfusions,
      which in turn can lead to worsening of iron overload. Therefore, European Association for the
      Study of the Liver (EASL) 2015 guidelines recommend interferon-free regimens for the
      treatment of HCV infection in patients with hemoglobinopathies. The aim of this study was to
      evaluate the safety and efficacy of DAA standard regimens in patients with hemoglobinopathies
      and chronic HCV liver disease treated in Italy.

      Antiviral treatments were administered according to Italian Medicines Agency (AIFA)
      guidelines.
    
  