
    
      Methods: This study will enroll patients with renal cell carcinoma Stage III (T3 N1 M0) or
      Stage IV (T4 N0 N1 M0 - any T N2 M0 - any T any N M1) after nephrectomy. Peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells collected through leukapheresis are processed for DC generation.
      Mononuclear cells are separated and cultured for 7 days in GM-CSF and IL-4. Harvested DC will
      be pulsed with renal tumor RNA harvested during nephrectomy. An aliquot of these cells will
      be tested for appropriate phenotype fungal and bacterial sterility as well as for endotoxin
      content prior to lot release. Renal tumor RNA transfected DC will be stored cryopreserved
      until administration.

      The first 3 patients will be enrolled at a low dose and monitored for dose limiting
      toxicities. If no dose limiting toxicities are seen, the next 3 patients will be enrolled at
      the medium dose. If no dose limiting toxicities are seen in the medium dose, 6 additional
      patients will be enrolled on the high dose and will be evaluated for dose limiting
      toxicities. If in preparation of the vaccine insufficient RNA or dendritic cells are
      available to perform the required three injections at the assigned dose level or if the
      patient is withdrawn from the study the treatment position will remain open, i.e., no dose
      fractions will be given. Patients in whom only the minimum number of DCRCC-RNA can be
      produced to deliver one I.V. and one I.D. injection will be able to receive the vaccine, even
      if he or she is assigned to a higher dose level, but will be replaced in order to assess
      toxicity.

      Data Analysis 1. To determine the short and long term toxicities associated with
      administration of DCRCC-RNA in patients with metastatic RCC. 2. To determine feasibility of
      DC vaccine generation according to the proportion of patients for whom sufficient cells are
      generated to provide treatment. 3. To determine the cellular immune response to
      administration of DCRCC-RNA. 4. To measure the clinical responses mediated by administration
      of DCRCC-RNA.
    
  