
    
      14 participants will be assigned research numbers in a consecutive recruitment order.(01-14).

      14 auditory disks will be prepared ahead of study initiation, 7 with the guided imagery
      program and 7 with regular songs.

      All will look similar from the outside. The disks will be numbered 01-14. Disks numbering
      will be performed by an investigator who is not part of treatment team, without knowing which
      disk contains which content. So that the team and participants are blinded to the disk
      content at initiation.

      Children and parents will be aware of the type of auditory disk after initial auscultation at
      visit number 1.

      The team will continue to be blinded to type of disk until end of study. 3. All participants
      will be aware at study initiation that they may receive the auditory guided imagery disk or a
      regular songs / story auditory disk.

      4. Visit no. 1:

        1. Will be arranged on date of their regular clinic visit

        2. Guidance to disk usage

        3. Biofeedback for autonomic parameters assessment

        4. Participants will be connected to the continuous glucose monitoring system (A system
           which the patient is blinded to glucose readings).

        5. Participants and parents will fill QOL questionnaire [The Diabetes Treatment
           Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ) by Bradley C. et Al (16)], if not filled before.

        6. Participants will listen to disk for the first time in clinic, alone in a room with the
           parent

        7. At this stage participants will be aware of the group they are in (treatment vs.
           control), but team is still unaware.

        8. Participants will be able to come with brothers and parents and recreational activity
           will be available at site for all for entertainment 5. Visit no. 2-5: 6. Participants
           will listen to disk twice a day for the next four days alone in a room in our clinic.
           They will be able to come with brothers and parents, and recreational activity will be
           available at site for all for entertainment.

           7. 5th day visit:

      a. Participants will listen to disk for the last times in clinic, alone in a room.

      b. Participants will be disconnected from CGMS c. Biofeedback for autonomic parameters
      assessment 8. Participants will listen to disk at least twice a week, for additional 11
      weeks, at their choice of time and day, and will record the specific time of listening on
      study chart 9. Visit no. 6:

        1. Will be arranged on date of their regular clinic visit (12-14 weeks after visit no. 1)

        2. Biofeedback for autonomic parameters assessment

        3. Participants and parents will fill QOL questionnaires (The Diabetes Treatment
           Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ) by Bradley C. et Al (16)

        4. End of study 10. Data will be collected from charts from dates of visit no. 1 and visit
           no. 3 regarding: weight, height, BMI, 14 days average blood glucose levels, HbA1c.
    
  