
    
      Patients with the most severe type of sepsis, those with septic shock have a mortality rate
      between 30% to 45% due to multiple organ failure. The poor outcome of shocked patients, and
      especially those with sepsis, may by related to microvascular endothelial dysfunction.
      Evidence support that iloprost infusion significantly improved endothelial function and
      integrity,

      The main objective in this trial is to investigate whether continuous infusion of lov dose
      iloprost at a dose of 1 ng/kg/min for 72-hours is safe and significantly reduce organ failure
      score in the intensive care unit (ICU) compared to infusion of placebo in patients with
      septic shock induced endotheliopathy (SHINE).

      Patients that are eligible for this trial will be temporarily incompetent due to acute severe
      illness relating to septic shock, therefore informed consent will be obtained from a
      scientific guardian. Next-of kin and subsequently the patient will co-sign as soon as
      possible hereafter. During the trial, patient will be give continuous infusion of low dose
      iloprost or placebo for 72 hours as well as additional blood samples will be obtained daily
      for the first 72 hours. Follow up on organ failure, mortality and quality of life will be
      performed on dag 28 and 90.

      This trial is conducted in accordance with the Helsinki 2 Declaration and International
      Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use,
      Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP) and in compliance with the protocol. As part
      of the quality assurance on-site monitoring visit will be performed by the an independent
      GCP-unit including source data verification. Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) to address
      protocol specific procedures such as data collection and adverse event reporting are
      developed.

      The number of patients participating is based on a power calculation using the data on mean
      daily SOFA score from a recent randomized, double blind, placebo controlled clinical trial in
      patients with septic shock: Levosimendan for the prevention of acute organ dysfunction in
      sepsis (LeoPARD). If the true effect of the intervention is a reduction in mean daily SOFA
      score of 20% (relative) and providing the trial with 90% power to detect this difference at a
      significance level of 0.05 will require a sample size of 380 patients.

      A pre-planned, blinded interim analysis will be performed after 200 patients have been
      included in the trial and followed for 90 days.
    
  