
    
      This is a single-arm interventional study of 1000 male circumcision procedures using the
      ShangRing device. The primary objective of the study is to enhance understanding of the
      potential clinical and operational challenges and opportunities that may be associated with
      widespread use of ShangRing™ device for circumcision in different settings in Mozambique.
      Specific objectives are:

        1. To monitor the proportion of men who choose circumcision through the WHO-prequalified,
           FDA-approved ShangRing™ device in routine voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC)
           service delivery settings where standard surgical methods of circumcisions are
           available; and

        2. To ensure safety during initial implementation of the ShangRing™ device and confirm that
           adverse event rates are comparable to those found during implementation in other
           sub-Saharan countries.

      Population: 1000 males aged 13 years and above who are seeking male circumcision; 3 clinic
      sites

      Duration: Approximately 3 months of recruitment, 60 days follow-up per participant; total
      duration expected to be approximately 6 months in the field.

      Sample size: Cumulative target of 1000 ShangRing™ procedures, based on guidance contained in
      the WHO Framework for clinical evaluation of devices for male circumcision. The WHO TAG on
      Innovations in Male Circumcision recommends active follow-up of the first 1000 clients when a
      new device is introduced into a program or as a new program is implemented.

      Data analysis plan: Baseline demographic and behavioral characteristics of ShangRing™ clients
      will be summarized using counts and percentages. Association between these variables and
      selected outcome variables (e.g. AEs, failure to return for device removal, preference for
      Shang Ring) will be examined through cross tabulations and tests of association (e.g. Chi
      square statistics).

      Data quality assurance: Data quality control efforts will include members of the national
      VMMC Technical Working Group, including local ShangRing™ Trainers of Trainers, conducting
      scheduled site assessments/monitoring as follows: Prior to the start of the active
      surveillance (site initiation) using site assessment checklist; and every month using a VMMC
      quality assessment checklist. There will be regular monthly supervision visits to the
      facilities to ensure proper record filing and storage of physical forms. Data will be entered
      into an electronic system by trained data personnel at the facility level. This data will be
      reviewed actively and regularly through the central database on a periodic basis. The PI,
      lead local investigator and co-investigators will regularly monitor and evaluate data for
      completeness and specifically to monitor for any adverse events that may preclude or
      terminate the study early. The electronic system will be monitored regularly and by limited
      access of study personnel.
    
  