
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities of ABT-888
      (veliparib) when administered using continuous versus intermittent dosing schedules with
      intravenous carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab using two different treatment regimens;
      or with intraperitoneal cisplatin and intravenous and intraperitoneal paclitaxel and
      bevacizumab in women with newly diagnosed, previously untreated, epithelial ovarian,
      fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

      II. To determine the feasibility of these treatment regimens over four cycles in a 2-stage
      group sequential design once the MTD is established.

      III. To assess the toxicity of these regimens using Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP)
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      version 4.0.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the response rate (in measurable disease patients) and progression-free
      survival in patients treated with these treatment regimens.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the extent of poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibition in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs) on day 1 of cycles 1 and 2.

      II. To assess genomic breast cancer, early onset (BRCA) mutation status in all patients in
      regimens I and II with continuous ABT-888 dosing and descriptively correlate with toxicity
      and efficacy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a feasibility study.
      Patients are sequentially assigned to 1 of 3 treatment regimens.

      REGIMEN I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours, carboplatin IV over
      30 minutes, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes (beginning in course 2) on day 1. Patients
      also receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for 6 courses. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone on day 1. Treatment with
      bevacizumab repeats every 21 days for 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      REGIMEN II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also
      receive carboplatin, bevacizumab, and veliparib as in Regimen I. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for 6 courses. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone on day 1. Treatment with
      bevacizumab repeats every 21 days for 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      REGIMEN III: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and intraperitoneally (IP)
      on day 8, and cisplatin IP on day 1 or 2. Patients also receive bevacizumab and veliparib as
      in Regimen I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses. Patients then receive
      bevacizumab alone on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 16 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  