
    
      Lasofoxifene is a potent SERM that has demonstrated in non-clinical models to prevent and
      treat breast cancer. In a large clinical osteoporosis trial, lasofoxifene reduced the
      incidence of ER+ breast cancer, which most likely represents a beneficial effect on
      clinically undetectable breast cancer. The clinical and non-clinical results are not
      unexpected based on the results seen with tamoxifen and fulvestrant as the mechanisms of
      action are similar. Moreover, the safety profile of lasofoxifene is well established in
      postmenopausal women and therefore a clinical trial investigating lasofoxifene for the
      treatment of breast cancer is scientifically justifiable.

      Subjects with ESR1 mutations have endocrine resistance and shorter time to progression when
      treated with currently approved endocrine therapy. There is an unmet medical need for
      endocrine agents that can provide greater efficacy in this population. Non-clinical in vitro
      and in vivo studies with lasofoxifene have demonstrated efficacy. If this benefit translates
      to subjects with ESR1 mutated breast cancer cells, an important treatment option beyond
      fulvestrant will be available. The population being recruited in this trial are subjects with
      advanced breast cancer who have been treated with an AI in combination with a
      cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 4/6 inhibitor and who have an ESR1 mutation. The efficacy of
      endocrine agents in this population has never been prospectively studied. For this reason,
      this study will evaluate lasofoxifene in a randomized Phase 2 trial against a comparator to
      better evaluate the magnitude of the effect as well as to provide data to estimate the Phase
      3 sample size.

      In both non-clinical and clinical studies, fulvestrant has shown activity in ESR1 mutated
      breast cancer cells and will be used as the comparator in this Phase 2 study to better
      determine the relative clinical efficacy of lasofoxifene. The FDA approved fulvestrant dose
      will be used.

      A major limiting factor in the administration of fulvestrant is its poor solubility requiring
      IM injection. The volume of administration limits the dose that can be administered. Initial
      clinical trials administered 250 mg of fulvestrant in 5 cc of castor oil as a single
      injection once monthly. Because the IM injections were well tolerated, loading and higher
      doses were investigated. This was found to have acceptable tolerability and resulted in
      greater efficacy. Limited by the volume of administration higher doses of fulvestrant cannot
      be investigated further.

      Once the subject has consented to participate in the study, screening tests will be performed
      within 30 days of enrollment.

      All subjects meeting the eligibility criteria will be first stratified into those with
      visceral metastasis and those without visceral metastasis. Each of these stratified groups
      will then be further stratified into those with the Y537S ESR1 mutation and those without
      this particular mutation. Each of the stratified groups will then be randomized 1:1 to
      receive either 5 mg/d of oral lasofoxifene or fulvestrant 500 mg intramuscular (IM) on Days
      1, 15, and 29, then every 4 weeks thereafter. Treatment will continue until radiographic or
      clinical evidence of disease progression. Enrolled subjects will be seen every 2 weeks for
      the first month of treatment and then monthly until progression. Efficacy assessments will be
      done every 8 weeks.

      For subjects randomized to lasofoxifene, blood samples will be drawn to assess the population
      PK. Serum samples will be collected at each visit starting at Visit 0 (Day 1) through
      Final/ET visit to measure serum lasofoxifene concentration at time points outlined below.
      Serum samples for PK analysis will be collected before the time that the next lasofoxifene
      dose is ingested. The actual time and date of dosing on the previous day as well as dosing on
      the visit day, and the PK blood sampling time/date must be recorded for all subjects.
      Pharmacokinetic samples are to be collected before clinical lab blood sampling.

      A maximum of 100 subjects will be randomized and it is expected that all subjects enrolled in
      the study will be treated until documented disease progression. It is estimated that full
      recruitment into the study will occur within 12 to 18 months with another 12 months of follow
      up before the primary outcome measure is analyzed.
    
  