
    
      Nearly three million people worldwide suffer from end stage renal disease (ESRD), which has
      debilitating consequences on the quality of life of patients There is a discrepancy between
      the availability of organs and the increasing number of patients placed on the waiting list.
      Canadians with ESRD requiring kidney transplantation has increased by 38% from 2005-2014,
      whereas the number of transplantable organs has not met this growing need.

      As clinicians use more marginal donors, the effects of ischemic injury from the procurement
      process become more pronounced. This ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) has been linked to
      increased delayed graft function, rejection and decreased long-term function. Approximately
      20% of transplanted patients subsequently return to dialysis due to poor graft function.
      Therefore, one of the major goals of the transplant community has now shifted to ensuring the
      longevity of transplanted organs. Research priorities need to shift towards developing ways
      to ensure the longevity of grafts through modification of recipient factors.

      Patients are also required to remain on immunosuppressive drugs following transplant in order
      to maintain the graft. These have a variety of side effects, including diarrhea and
      intestinal malabsorption, which can lead to a lack of patient compliance with post transplant
      therapy and a reduced quality of life.

      Patients with ESRD also have an expansion of bacteria that produce urease and uric acid and
      produce fewer short-chained fatty acids and vitamins.

      This is important as it is theorized that the production of short-chained fatty acids by
      microorganisms in the GI tract are crucial as both the energy source, and to the maintenance
      of intestinal permeability, which contribute to a healthy gastrointestinal tract.

      The expansion of bacteria that produce urease and uric acid contribute to toxicity and
      inflammation in the GI tract that can cause complications in these patients.

      In order to reduce both delayed graft function and side effects from post transplant therapy,
      novel support options are required. One option is the use of prebiotics.

      Non-digestible sugar prebiotics have potential for use in these patients. The Principal
      Investigator/Sponsor will test this potential in a pilot clinical study with a Human milk
      oligosaccharides (HMO) prebiotic mix that have been shown to stimulate the production of
      short chain fatty acids, especially propionate. Propionate has been shown to be important in
      attenuating hypertrophy, fibrosis, vascular dysfunction and hypertension and is extremely
      important for the gut kidney axis. Prebiotics offer a safe and well-tolerated therapy, which
      could have a positive impact by improving systemic inflammatory responses, improving gut
      barrier function, helping to reduce immunosuppressive drug side effects and stabilizing its
      dosing.

      This study will assess blood, and urine samples collected as part of the participant's
      post-transplant follow up at eight time points to determine graft function.

      Urine and a faecal sample will be collected at 6 time points for microbiome analyses at
      baseline, day 7, 30, 60, 120 and 180 from the date of starting the study product. Prior to
      commencing their treatment, and at days 60,90,150, and 180, the research coordinator (blinded
      to the randomisation) will assess patients using the SF-36 and GI Health questionnaires
      during clinic visits, or by telephone interview.

      Protocol compliance will be tested through product count and interviews at each follow-up
      visit. Side effects will be assessed using standardized case report forms at each visit.
      Participants will be encouraged to report any events they may experience directly to the
      coordinator.

      Participants who withdraw consent to continue treatments, will be encouraged to undergo the
      planned assessments. Withdrawal at the request of investigators or medical personnel may
      include, but are not limited to:

        1. Symptoms are deemed to be potentially related to the study product

        2. New diagnosis of exclusion criteria;

        3. Unacceptable side effects;

        4. Death

      Estimated time to complete recruitment: Averaging 86 weeks, approximately 20 months
    
  