
    
      As worldwide populations become older because of shifts in demography, PXF may become a
      matter of greater concern. The search for genes responsible for PXF may lead to the
      identification of key molecules in pathways critical to the normal functioning of the eye. A
      better understanding of normal eye function may in turn lead to more accurate diagnosis and
      prognosis of ocular development, and inevitably to the emergence of novel classifications
      based on knowledge of the molecular pathology. Such knowledge may lead to more rational
      disease classification, better diagnostic tests, and improved prognostic accuracy. This is of
      particular relevance to PXF since there is a shortage of early reliable diagnostic tests and
      much evidence that the early commencement of treatment can arrest progressive asymptomatic
      loss of vision due to PXF-related glaucoma.

      The search for genes responsible for PACG may lead to the identification of key molecules in
      pathways critical to the normal development of the eye. A better understanding of eye
      development may in turn lead to more accurate diagnosis and prognosis of ocular development,
      and inevitably to the emergence of novel classifications based on knowledge of the molecular
      pathology. Such knowledge may lead to more rational disease classification, better diagnostic
      tests, and improved prognostic accuracy. This is of particular relevance to glaucoma since
      there is a shortage of early reliable diagnostic tests and much evidence that the early
      commencement of treatment can arrest progressive asymptomatic loss of vision for which the
      disease is renowned.

      Identification of responsible genes for POAG development can on one hand broaden our
      knowledge on disease pathophysiology and on the other hand open new doors in the search for
      pharmacological disease modification. Especially the latter is urgently needed as IOP has for
      many years been the only pharmacological target and fails to prevent disease progression in a
      certain proportion of POAG patients.
    
  