
    
      The study will be carried out at multiple practices within Partners HealthCare system and
      will have one Intervention and one control arm.

      Subjects enrolled into the intervention arm will use a OneTouch Ultra2 glucometer and an
      iMetrikus modem device which will upload the blood glucose readings to a secure,
      login-enabled web-based portal. Subjects will be given login information to access to their
      own individual Internet site, where they can view their readings and detailed graphical
      representation of their blood glucose levels over time, read educational material regarding
      diabetes management and receive personalized tips and feedback from their physicians (who
      will also have access to their patients' information on the web portal).

      Subjects enrolled into the control arm will have access to the same glucometer and modem, and
      will have access to another individual internet website (the "Basic Site") which will show
      their glucose readings and graphical representation of glucose levels. Each patient will be
      enrolled for 3 months. and the primary outcome measure will patient and provider satisfaction
      with the Diabetes Connected Health tool.The specific aims along with hypothesis of the study
      are:

        1. To develop a web-based application ("Diabetes Connected Health") that will enable
           home-based glucose monitoring results to be readily incorporated into clinical glycemic
           management.

           Hypothesis: We hypothesize that through a development process incorporating interactive
           feedback loops between software developers, patients, clinicians, and other
           stakeholders, we can create a web-based clinical application that will be adopted by
           clinical practices.

        2. To test the impact of the "Diabetes Connected Health" tool in a randomized clinical
           trial.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that implementation of the tool will have a beneficial impact
      relative to control patients in several critical domains:

      Patient Domains

        1. Increase patients' knowledge of their diabetes management plan.

        2. Increase patients' satisfaction with their clinical care.

        3. Increase patients' awareness of why they have high and/or low glucose readings.

        4. Increase patients' satisfaction with patient-provider communication.

      Provider Domains

        1. Increase clinician satisfaction with clinical care.

        2. Increase clinician knowledge of individual patient care issues.
    
  