
    
      Because programs preventing prenatal HIV transmission are reaching a greater number of
      pregnant women worldwide and are successfully reducing vertical transmission, an ever
      increasing majority of children born to HIV-positive mothers are uninfected. In addition, new
      medical innovations and increasing availability of antiretroviral therapy (ART) have improved
      the health and longevity of HIV-positive parents, which means they are more likely to raise
      their children for many years after the initial diagnosis. For parents living with HIV
      ("PLH"), disclosing their HIV infection to their seronegative children ("parental HIV
      disclosure") becomes an increasingly important issue in terms of well-being of parents,
      children and families. The global literature in parental HIV disclosure suggests that
      developmentally appropriate, well-planned disclosure can greatly benefit the well-being of
      PLH, their children and families. However, for multiple reasons including fear of stigma and
      the psychological burden such knowledge might place on their children, PLH often struggle
      about whether, when, what, and how to talk to their children about their HIV infection. Many
      of them do not disclose their HIV infection to children primarily because they lack the
      confidence and behavioral skills to appropriately and effectively accomplish this task. To
      date, the issues surrounding parental HIV disclosure have been understudied, particularly in
      low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) including China where the HIV epidemic has been
      steadily expanding. In this application, the investigators propose to adapt relevant
      components from two evidence-based programs developed in the US to produce a theory-driven
      developmentally appropriate parental HIV disclosure intervention in Guangxi, China, where the
      investigators have built a strong research infrastructure and community collaboration through
      NIH-funded research since 2004. The proposed project consists of three main operational
      phases. Phase I includes formative research to examine current practices, barriers and
      facilitators, cultural influences, and effects of disclosure on PLH and their children. The
      data to be collected in this phase will complement the data the investigators have collected
      and will inform the adaption of intervention content and delivery modality. Phase II includes
      the development and pilot-testing of a theory-guided parental HIV disclosure intervention
      program with two components (a primary parent component and a secondary care provider
      component) by culturally adapting and integrating aspects of two US-based programs that were
      efficacious in either helping parents to make appropriate HIV disclosure or improving mental
      health status of PLH and their children. Phase III will rigorously evaluate the efficacy of
      the proposed intervention on well-being of PLH, children and families over 36 months through
      a cluster randomized controlled trial involving 800 PLH (either fathers or mothers) and their
      children (6 to 15 years of age). The research will also identify contextual and individual
      factors that potentially mediate or moderate the effect of the proposed intervention on
      parent, child, and family outcomes. The proposed research will address the dearth of targeted
      interventions supporting parental efforts in disclosing their HIV status to their children by
      examining whether a theory-based intervention can improve parental HIV disclosure in a
      low-resource setting. The proposed study will also provide cross-cultural evidence to support
      the role of parental disclosure in the well-being of parents, children, and families.
    
  