
    
      a. Study type: multicenter randomized crossover trial: i. prospective inclusion of
      consecutive patients undergoing first follow-up surveillance colonoscopy after successful EMR
      of colorectal lesion; ii. crossover randomization by computer generated tables; iii.
      allocation concealment by sealed, opaque envelopes; iv. pathologist-blinded - pathologists
      are blinded to the study protocol and samples are received as 'EMR scar for assessment' .

      b. Selection patient method: inclusion by invitation of patients undergoing the first
      follow-up surveillance colonoscopy after successful EMR of colorectal lesion.

      c. Sample size: 210 (two groups of 105 patients). To improve accuracy from 85% (value
      obtained by a study that did not show significant differences in the accuracy of NBI followed
      by WLE vs. WLE followed by NBI) to 95% and assuming a normal distribution and a power of 80%
      (α=0.05), the calculated sample size of each of the 2 groups was 96; allowing for a 10%
      dropout rate, the sample size is 105 per group (210 patients overall).

      d. Procedures and data collection methods: i. Each procedure is performed by the same
      endoscopist. ii. All patients receive split dose bowel preparation. iii. All colonoscopies
      are performed using high definition colonoscopes with NBI ( EVIS EXERA III CV 185 and CV 190;
      Olympus Inc., Tokyo, Japan). iv. Colon inspection is done with WLE during withdrawal. v. At
      the proximity of the scar WLE and NBI were used randomly one after the other (WLE>NBI or
      NBI>WLE). If NBI is the first technique used, it is switched prior to scar detection,
      avoiding, as far as possible, a glance with WLE. The edges of the scar are interrogated
      followed by the centre of the scar and finding are recorded. vi. After both evaluations, if
      there is no suspicion of recurrence, the site is sampled by at least 2 biopsies of the scar
      edge. If there is any suspicion of recurrence, tissue sample is obtained and then treated by
      endoscopic resection using standard methods. At least 2 biopsies specimens from normal
      appearing scar are also obtained.

      e. Analysed variables: i. patient characteristics; ii. data from baseline colonoscopy; iii.
      data from first surveillance colonoscopy (see outcome measures).

      f. Statistical analysis: i. Performed using statistical software IBM SPSS Statistics, Version
      25.0. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp. ii. Continuous variables are reported as mean and standard
      deviation or median and interquartile range, if they have normal or not normal distribution,
      respectively; categorical variables as absolute and relative frequency. iii. Continuous
      variables are compared between two groups using Student's T test if they have a normal
      distribution and homogeneity of variance or Mann-Whitney U if these conditions are not met.
      Categorical variables are compared using Pearson's X2 test or Fisher test. iv. Sensitivity,
      specificity, negative and positive predictive values and accuracy are calculated using 2x2
      contingency tables. v. All hypotheses are two-tailed and a P-value<0.05 is considered
      statistically significant.
    
  