
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of thiotepa in infants with malignant brain or
           spinal cord tumors receiving intensive chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the feasibility and toxicity of intensive chemotherapy with peripheral blood
           stem cell (PBSC) rescue in these patients.

        -  Assess the feasibility of harvesting PBSCs in these patients.

        -  Determine the complete response rate and overall event-free survival rate in patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study.

      Patients undergo surgery for diagnosis and maximal tumor resection.

      Within 6 weeks of surgery or when stable, patients begin induction chemotherapy comprising
      cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 0; vincristine IV on days 0, 7, and 14; cyclophosphamide IV
      over 1 hour on days 1-2; and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 0-2. Twenty four hours after
      the last cyclophosphamide dose, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) and
      undergo peripheral blood stem cell harvest 2 days later. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 6 weeks after induction chemotherapy, patients receive consolidation chemotherapy
      comprising carboplatin IV over 2 hours on days 0-1 followed immediately by escalating doses
      of thiotepa IV over 2 hours. Patients then undergo peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
      48 hours after the last thiotepa dose. Patients receive G-CSF SC daily on days 3 to 21.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients experiencing dose-limiting toxicity due to thiotepa are removed from the study.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and
      then annually for 3 years or until relapse.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 83 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.
    
  