
    
      The role of bronchoscopy in most hospitals has been limited to obtaining lavage fluid for
      culture and assessing the degree of airway injury, which has been shown to be predictive of
      outcome. Severe inhalation injury, which is characterized by pulmonary edema, bronchial
      edema, and secretions, can occlude the airway and lead to atelectasis and pneumonia.
      Aggressive use of bronchoscopy is highly effective in removing foreign particles and
      accumulated secretions that worsen the inflammatory response and impede ventilation. While it
      seems intuitive that bronchoscopy would improve pulmonary hygiene by removing secretions and
      denuded epithelial slough in burn patients, there has not been any published data to support
      or deter the use of bronchoscopy for inhalation injury nor document an improvement in
      morbidity or mortality secondary to bronchoscopy as a therapeutic intervention.

      Recent research has shown that the process of intubation for mechanical ventilation provides
      a portal for bacterial contamination, after which the damaged tracheobronchial mucosa quickly
      becomes colonized with pathogenic organisms in over 50% of the patients. Furthermore, within
      15 minutes of smoke inhalation, there is significant airway edema and thickening, more
      prominently in the lower trachea than the upper portion. These factors place the patient with
      inhalation injury at high risk for pneumonia.

      We have used the National Burn Repository data to previously show that patients who receive
      aggressive use of bronchoscopy after inhalation injury have an improved outcome in terms of
      decreased ventilator days, decreased ICU length of stay, decreased incidence of pneumonia,
      and a trend towards improved mortality. However, that data was unable to document why. It was
      also unable to confirm that the findings were not due to institutional bias. Therefore, one
      of the conclusions from that study was that a prospective trial is needed to confirm the
      findings.

      Our hypothesis is that a scheduled and sequential use of bronchoscopy after inhalation injury
      as a therapeutic tool to remove secretions, slough, carbonaceous material, and screen for the
      early detection of pneumonia by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) will improve outcome. We will
      attempt to document this improvement by using the following endpoints: length of ICU stay,
      length of hospital stay, ventilator days, incidence of pneumonia, overall morbidity and
      mortality with and without bronchoscopy.
    
  