
    
      With spinal cord injury (SCI), individuals are at a greater risk for a number of chronic
      health conditions. Research suggests that these health conditions reduce quality of life for
      individuals with SCI and decrease social engagement. Many of these health conditions are in
      fact preventable by early detection, behavioral changes, and early intervention.

      Self-management programs have emerged as an adjunct to traditional health care services based
      management of chronic conditions. Self-management programs provide necessary knowledge, and
      skills, but ultimately focus on the central role of the individual in balancing medical
      management, maintaining life roles and community engagement, and managing emotional distress.

      Beyond self-management strategies alone, more evidence now exists for increasing
      self-management and knowledge of health related resources for individuals with SCI through
      peer support. Face-to-face peer support programs have been found to improve self-efficacy and
      reduce the occurrence of medical complications. Additionally, peer support is positively
      associated with social participation and life satisfaction.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if an online, peer led self-management program can
      lead to:

        1. An improvement in of quality of life for people with spinal cord injuries

        2. Increase in confidence in your ability to achieve goals (self-efficacy) and community
           participation

        3. Assess if improvements last 3 months after completion

        4. Evaluate participant satisfaction with the program and the materials

      If you decide to take part in this study, you will first be asked to complete an online
      survey which should take about 20 minutes. You will then be randomized (like flipping a coin)
      in the treatment group or the control group. If you are in the treatment group, you will
      begin the online program. If you are in the control group, you will be asked to wait 6 weeks
      before beginning the program. After 6 weeks, both groups will take a second online survey. If
      you are in the control group, we will ask if you want to take part in the online program. If
      you do, you will have one additional survey upon completion of the online program. 3 months
      after completion of the online program, we will contact you to complete the final online
      survey. Each of these surveys should take approximately 15 minutes.

      The first survey will ask some information about you and your background. The first survey
      and the last two will also ask questions about how you manage your health with a spinal cord
      injury, how satisfied you are in various aspects of your life, how much you get around, how
      you spend your time, and interact with people. Some of the most sensitive questions ask about
      satisfaction with income, relationships, and sexual activity. You may refuse to answer any
      question in the surveys.

      When you take part in the online self-management program, you will work through a different
      educational module each week. These will include modules on goal setting, thinking strategies
      and distraction, alternative thoughts, problem solving and decision tools, communication and
      advocacy, applying to your own goals, and relaxations exercises for each session. Each module
      should take approximately 1 hour to complete.

      During the 6 week program, there will be at lease three video/telephone conferences with the
      peer leader and the other participants. The goal of the weekly conference is for participants
      to discuss the materials, what aspects are working or not working for them, provide their
      individual perspectives, and support each other. These conferences will last no longer than 1
      hour.
    
  