
    
      : the sample will be divided into three groups and all participants will receive general
      anesthesia. Patients in the placebo group (PG) will be referred to the post-anesthesia
      recovery room after extubation and adequate hemodynamic and respiratory recovery. Patients in
      the tap block group (TBG) will receive 0.2 ml of 0.25% levobupivacaine between the transverse
      and oblique internal muscles guided by ultrasound (US), on one side and after the other (the
      same dose), after the end of surgery. Patients in the quadratus lumborum group (LQG) will
      receive 0.2 ml/kg of 0.25% levobupivacaine inside the middle layer of the thoracolumbar
      fascia guided by US, on one side and after the other (the same dose), after the end of the
      surgery. In all participants, the monitoring will include cardioscope, oximetry, non-invasive
      blood pressure and monitor of hypnoses level. After peripheral venous puncture, antibiotic
      prophylaxis with 2g cefazolin, and pre-anesthetic medication with midazolam 0.05 mg/kg. After
      5 min pre-oxygenation, the patients will receive venous anesthetic induction with 2%
      lidocaine 1mg/kg without vasoconstrictor; fentanyl 4 µ/kg; propofol 2 mg/kg, or even adequate
      hypnosis guided by proper monitor; cisatracurium 0.15mg/kg, with tracheal intubation and
      mechanical ventilation after anesthetic plan confirmed with proper monitor and adequate
      muscle relaxation. Anesthesia will be maintained with propofol in continuous infusion guided
      by hypnoses monitor and remifentanil in continuous infusion between 0.1 and 0.5 µg/kg/min,
      according to patient need. All study participants will receive ondansetron 8 mg, dipyrone 2
      g, ketoprofen 100 mg, dexamethasone 10 mg and morphine 3 mg. At the end of the surgery, after
      partial recovery from neuromuscular blockade, patients will receive atropine 0.01 mg/kg and
      neostigmine: 0.02mg/kg before tracheal extubation.
    
  