
    
      Secondary research questions include:

        1. what is the feasibility of obtaining study measures through routinely collected program
           participant data and what design adjustments are needed to balance pragmatism and high
           quality data collection?

        2. What are the analytic approaches to be developed to aggregate data from individual
           participants into meaningful units (e.g. care-team level, organizational level, social
           network, and geographic area) to inform ongoing adaptation of the components of the
           intervention?

        3. what are the perceptions of knowledge users on the usefulness of comparative
           effectiveness pragmatic trial evidence?

      The project involves using administrative data from the ICES to create outcome measures and
      feedback systems for communities, and the INSPIRE PHC Unit for expertise in health system
      integration, care in the community, and knowledge translation.

      Inclusion criteria: Seniors (65+) and people who self-identify as having a functional
      disability. Pilot study sites: 7 municipalities and the city of Windsor in Windsor-Essex
      County in Ontario. The combined total eligible population in all 8 sites is about 60,000
      people, from which a minimum sample of 3000 registered patients and 1000 registered
      caregivers will be drawn

      In Year 1, planned enrolment includes a minimum of 1100 intervention clients from all
      recruitment methods in the care model intervention, with similar numbers of control and
      intention to treat clients.

      The primary outcomes are quality of life (QOL); perceived health; experience of care, and
      perceived social connection.

      The primary outcomes for caregivers will be quality of life; perceived burden; caregiver
      perceptions of care; and perceived social connection.

      Secondary outcomes for both will include goal attainment, distress management, symptom
      management, places of care, and health care utilization and costs. In terms of health equity,
      the investigators will measure the difference between the average/median population quality
      of life and cost outcomes compared to patients at the bottom income quartiles stratified by
      risk level. At a systems level, algorithms will be developed and applied to the data
      collected from participants to provide aggregate organization and system-level reports,
      co-designed with end users to support them as learning organizations.
    
  