
    
      Background:

        -  Glioma is the most common malignant brain tumor. Genes coding for isocitrate
           dehydrogenase (IDH), a metabolic enzyme, are frequently mutated in gliomas, particularly
           lower-grade gliomas (LGGs). IDH mutation causes a unique tumor biology, including the
           accumulation of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG), an oncometabolite, which in turn causes
           genomic hypermethylation and tumorigenesis.

        -  Despite having a better prognosis compared to their IDH WT counterparts, IDH-mutant LGGs
           undergo a slow but unremitting higher-grade transformation (HT) and eventually become
           high grade gliomas (HGGs). A subset of patients with transformed HGGs develop a
           hypermutator phenotype (HMP), possibly related to previous treatment with alkylating
           agents and radiotherapy. The timeline for the development of HT and HMP is unpredictable
           and there is no known way to prevent them from happening, largely due to a lack of
           understanding their biological mechanisms and lack of a non-invasive approach for
           potential early detection.

        -  Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of the brain can detect 2-HG in a tumor
           harboring IDH mutation. There has been an increased interest in using quantitative 2-HG
           by MRS as a biomarker for IDH-mutant gliomas. This clinical study will allow a
           longitudinal monitoring of quantitative 2-HG by MRS in patients with IDH-mutant gliomas.
           We hypothesize that a significant increase in 2HG level is correlated with HT and/or
           HMP. The change in 2-HG level in conjunction with evaluation of tumor cellularity and
           other metabolite markers such as choline, creatinine and N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) will
           likely to provide insights into metabolic alterations that may correlate with HT/HMP and
           potentially provide the predictive biomarker for early detection of HT.

      Objective:

      -To monitor the quantitative levels of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) longitudinally in patients
      with IDH-mutant gliomas via proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS).

      Eligibility:

        -  IDH 1 or 2 mutation confirmed by DNA sequencing.

        -  Age greater than or equal to18 years, KPS greater than or equal to 60%

      Design:

        -  This is prospective observational study. We will recruit at least 250 eligible patients
           in the next 5 years.

        -  The relationship between the occurrence of HT and the changes in 2-HG level using the
           proportional hazard model.
    
  