
    
      Initial endocrine therapy (ET) is a common choice for hormone receptor positive (HR+), HER2
      negative (HER2-) metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients for its good tolerability, low
      toxicity and durable response. The median time to progression (TTP) of initial ET in HR+,
      HER2- metastatic patients is about 9 months with aromatase inhibitors (AIs). However, all
      metastatic patients receiving ET will develop resistance to the conventional endocrine
      treatments ultimately. So some novel agents, like palbociclib and everolimus, are approved to
      be effective in improving the efficacy of standard ET. But the fact we have to face is either
      palbociclib or everolimus is focusing on a single checkpoint of pathway that responsible for
      resistance of ET. In clinical, there are some patients without an activation of
      resistance-related pathways have poor response to endocrine therapy. And the mechanisms of
      resistance to endocrine therapy is complicated and not fully understood. So far, these novel
      agents have not completely solved the clinical problems of secondary drug-resistance. Maybe a
      broad spectrum anti-cancer therapy with low toxicity and good tolerability is more practical
      and promising in the near future. Metronomic chemotherapy is administration of low-dose
      chemotherapy to induce disease control in metastatic cancer patients, which has low-incidence
      of adverse effects. More and more evidences showed activity of metronomic therapy in breast
      cancer. Metronomic therapy with or without endocrine therapy in both metastatic and
      neoadjuvant setting showed considerable efficacy. Although the concept of combination of
      chemotherapy and endocrine therapy simultaneously was large abandoned because of previous
      using tamoxifen and intravenous chemotherapy showing no additional benefit, with better
      understanding of the biology of endocrine therapy and metronomic chemotherapy, it's worth to
      evaluate whether endocrine therapy plus low-dose metronomic chemotherapy brings a better
      clinical benefit rate without sacrificing the quality of patients' life. In this phase III
      study, we investigate the efficacy and safety of low-dose capecitabine plus AI to treat
      metastatic HR+, HER2- postmenopausal breast cancer patients.
    
  