
    
      Phase II is an open-label part of the study. We are planning to enroll in this phase 10
      patients, diagnosed with Epidermolysis Bullosa with chronic wounds , and treat them with
      topical application of 3% Cannabidiol cream (AVCN583601) for 4 weeks.

      Full study procedures (phase II of the trial), see below:

      Visit 1: Screening Visit: A screening form will be completed and patients who are willing to
      enroll and meet the eligibility criteria will be asked to sign the consent/assent form .
      Patients already on cannabinoids will be instructed to discontinue their treatment two weeks
      prior to the next visit (wash-out period). Subjects who were not treated with antibiotics or
      corticosteroids in the previous 2 weeks for topical and 4 weeks for systemic agents will
      start the trial at this time.

      Visit 2: Baseline Visit: A baseline data collection form will be completed. We will select
      for the study treatment a chronic wound (present for more than 4 weeks), not measuring more
      than 1000 cm2. The surface area of the wound and quality of the wounds will be assessed and
      documented using the SWIFT medical wound assessment app, a validated tool that allows serial
      estimates and measurements of the wound surface areas. Bacterial swabs of selected target
      wound and medical photographs of the target wounds will be taken. For the pain intensity
      assessment, we will use a 100 mm visual analog scale (VAS), where 0 is no pain and 10- the
      worst pain ever experienced, while the DN4 scale will be used for assessment of neuropathic
      pain. For itch assessments, we will ask patients to determine the degree of itching
      experienced that day using a 100 mm horizontal VAS for itch. Patients will be provided with
      the study medication during this study visit and instructed to apply the cream twice a day
      for 4 weeks.

      Blood sample (3 ml) will be taken to measure cannabinoid level in the blood. Visit 3: End of
      study visit: Patients will be assessed at 4 weeks when we will evaluate tolerability of the
      CBD oil and safety (e.g. burning sensation, pain, itch, local irritation, systemic symptoms).
      In addition, we will calculate the surface area change from previous visit as well as the
      characteristics of the wounds using the SWIFT medical wound assessment app. Patients will
      also be asked to score the average pain (VAS and DN4) and itching at the wound site for the
      prior 2 weeks and to complete a 100 mm VAS of wound change where -100 is the wound is double
      in size, 0- no change, and +100, wound is completely closed. Medical photographs of the
      target wounds will be taken.

      Blood sample (3 ml) will be taken to measure cannabinoid level.

      The study participants, completed phase II , who are willing to take part in phase III, will
      be able to participate , if eligible ( after appropriate wash out period).

      Phase III will be a randomized, placebo controlled, blinded study ( Right versus Left side
      extremity), assessing the efficacy and safety CBD cream in EB patients with acute and chronic
      wounds.

      30 EB patients with chronic or/and acute wounds, will participate in phase III. Randomization
      and Blinding: The name of each patient will be submitted to the research pharmacist. He will
      prepare a randomization scheme and will allocate patients' extremity to either placebo or CBD
      cream. Families and patients, as well as investigators will be blinded to the type of
      intervention throughout the duration of the study.

      The intervention is CBD 3% cream / placebo. The study medications will be dispensed as 100 g
      jars. The study treatment will be applied to the entire or selected area of the extremity
      twice a day for 8 weeks (a drawing will be provided to the patients and to the assessors for
      the purpose of consistency).

      The "placebo" will consist of a cream formulation with same color, consistency and smell as
      the intervention which will be applied on the other extremity (the application will mirror
      the process for the active medication).

      Both jars will be labeled appropriately with the location and dosage instructions.

      Allowable therapies: Patients will continue the same skin care routine and dressings with the
      exceptions of use of topical corticosteroids and topical antibiotics. Dressings that are
      impregnated with antimicrobials (silver, PHMB, honey, etc) are allowed if previously used.

      Procedures: For the purpose of this phase we will select 2 different patient populations: A:
      acute wounds group (wounds that have been present for less than 4 weeks; B: chronic wounds
      group (wounds that have been present for >4 weeks) seen in patients with more severe types of
      EB.

      For patients who have more than one chronic wound in the selected extremity we will add the
      individual wounds' surface areas.

      Visit 1: Screening Visit: A screening form will be completed and patients who are willing to
      enroll and meet the inclusion criteria will be asked to sign the consent/assent form by our
      study nurse. Patients already on topical or systemic cannabinoids will be instructed to
      discontinue their treatment two weeks prior to the next visit (Wash-out period).

      Visit 2: Baseline Visit:

      In addition to the demographic and clinical, disease specific characteristics we will collect
      the following data:

      Blister count, open and closed wound count, evidence of infection, dyspigmentation, EB nevi.

      For patients with chronic wounds: surface area, wound characteristics , wound swab for
      culture and sensitivity, Current wound care regimen Pain score (VAS and DN4) Itch score
      iscorEB (clinician and patient) EBQOL CBD level (blood sample 3 ml)

      Visit 3: Mid study visit (4 weeks): We will collect the same information as for baseline
      visit (Visit 2) and additional data:

      VAS improvement patient Adverse events

      Visit 4: End of study visit (8 weeks): We will collect the same information as for previous
      visit (Visit 3) , plus - the CBD level in the blood will be measured again ( 3 ml sample).

      Wound swab will be taken ( group B), if the study investigator deems it is necessary.
    
  