
    
      Aims and Objectives:

      Primary aim:

      To compare an echocardiography based algorithm of hemodynamic management as compared to
      standard practice in decreasing the incidence of spinal hypotension (number of patients
      developing a decrease in MAP >20% of baseline or MAP <60 mm Hg).

      Secondary aims:

        1. To compare the number of episodes, magnitude of hypotension (lowest value of BP) and
           duration of hypotension in either group.

        2. To compare the amount of fluids and vasopressors administered to maintain hemodynamic
           stability in either group.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:

      This study is designed as prospective, randomized intention to treat trial. After obtaining
      written informed consent, a total of 60 patients, above 40 years of age presenting for
      elective lower abdominal or lower limb surgery and eligible to receive a subarachnoid block
      at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh from 1st January
      2016 to March 31st 2017 will be enrolled in this study. Patients with contraindications to a
      central neuraxial block such as pre- existing coagulopathy, local sepsis at site of
      insertion, ongoing hemodynamic instability (defined as systolic blood pressure< 90 mm Hg or
      MAP< 65mm Hg), unwillingness to undergo a regional anesthesia, co- existing pregnancy, spinal
      dysraphism or, previous history of spinal instrumentation or surgery, chest deformity,
      demonstrated systolic dysfunction on screening echocardiography (defined as left ventricular
      ejection fraction <50% or, fractional shortening < 25%), valvular heart disease (known or
      diagnosed on screening echocardiography), chronic renal or liver disease and unwilling to
      participate in the trial will be excluded.

      After standard preoperative fasting of 8hr, all patients will receive intravenous access and
      non-invasive blood pressure monitor set to be recorded automatically every 2 minutes, five
      lead continuous electrocardiography, pulse oximetry, and capnography for non-intubated
      patients inside OR. In addition, a screening echocardiogram for right and/ or left heart
      dysfunction (fractional shortening< 25% or ejection fraction < 50%/ and tricuspid annular
      plane systolic excursion < 17 mm) and exclusion of valvular heart disease will be performed.
      If an abnormality is detected patient will be excluded from the study at this point,
      enrolment proceeding on an intention to treat basis.

      Thereafter the patients will be randomized into either of two groups using computer generated
      random number and sealed envelope method: Gr (E) echocardiography based fluid and hemodynamic
      management or, Gr (S) standard anaesthetic management. In group E patients, before
      administering spinal anesthesia, a transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) will be performed to
      determine the LVEDA using the mid papillary parasagittal short axis (PSAX) view. The average
      of at least 3 LVEDA measured on above view by an experienced anesthesiologist in TTE will be
      used for fluid management, as per the proposed algorithm . If spinal hypotension does occur
      in patients in group E, it will be managed according to the same proposed algorithm.

      THE PROPOSED ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY BASED ALGORITHM :

      The left ventricular end diastolic area (LVEDA) will be measured by Transthoracic
      echocardiography using the parasternal short axis view. If the LVEDA is more than 10 square
      centimeters, the left ventricular preload status will be deemed adequate and administration
      of spinal anesthesia will be proceeded as usual. If the LVEDA is less than 10 square cms, a
      fluid(NS/Balanced salt solution) bolus of 250 ml will be administered and LVEDA reassessed.
      If more than 10 square cms, spinal anaesthesia will be administered. If less, a second bolus
      of 250 ml fluid will be given and then LVEDA reassessed. If more than 10 square centimeters,
      spinal anaesthesia will be administered, if not the patient will be considered fluid
      unresponsive and spinal anesthesia will be administered after giving a phenylephrine iv bolus
      of 1-2µg/kg and then spinal anaesthesia administered. In the event of postspinal hypotension
      within 30 minutes of giving spinal anaesthesia, the LVEDA will be reassessed. If more than 10
      square centimeters, volume status will be considered adequate and patient will be given a
      vasopressor bolus of 1-2µg/kg of phenylephrine. If less than 10 square centimeters, the
      patient volume status will be considered low and a fluid bolus of 250ml and LVEDA reassessed
      and managed as in a prespinal LVEDA of less than 10 square centimeters.

      The patients in group S will receive fluid and vasopressor therapy (if required) as deemed
      appropriate by the attending anaesthesiologist. The attending anaesthesiologist will be will
      target a MAP, such that it does not fall below 60 mm Hg nor below >20% of its baseline value.

      The anaesthetic management protocol will be standardized for both the groups namely all
      patient will receive 3.0ml of local anaesthetic fentanyl mixture [2.5ml of 0.5%bupivacaine +
      0.5ml(25µg) of fentanyl], ringer lactate/ any balanced salt solution(BSS) for fluid
      management and phenylephrine 1-2µg/kg intermittent boluses to treat hypotension. No i.v
      sedative or analgesic medication will be administered until completion of study. Patient
      position will be kept supine till end of the study period and surgical incision will be given
      thereafter. The attending anesthesiologist managing case will be not be involved in the study
      and will be blinded for the goal and parameters recorded in the study.

      The patient demographic data characteristics such as age, sex, height, weight, observed
      echocardiographic parameters, LVEDA and changes in LVEDA following bolus volume
      administration will be noted. The echocardiographic parameters will be recorded for later
      analysis. The hemodynamic parameters will be recorded for every 1 minutes for 1st 10 minutes
      of spinal drug administration and thereafter at 5 minutes interval till the study period. The
      number of episodes of hypotension and the total fraction of time spent below target values in
      the first 30 minutes post spinal block (defined by decrease in MAP exceeded >20% from
      baseline and absolute value <60 mm Hg), magnitude of hypotension (lowest value of BP), volume
      of crystalloid / colloid, number of times vasopressors were used and total doses of
      vasopressors required will be noted. Any side effect like nausea/ vomiting, persistent
      hypotension defined by decrease in MAP exceeding >20% from baseline for 5 minutes or more
      will be noted.

      The blood pressure values within 30 minutes of administering spinal anesthesia will be
      considered and analysed for study purposes, to exclude the effect of surgical factors on
      hemodynamics.
    
  