
    
      On review of our experience with treatment for brain metastases since 2009, we have treated
      over 100 patients with 6 or more metastases in a single radiosurgery session. In the past
      year and a half (2015-16) there have been approximately 50 patients treated with six or more
      metastases, indicating that there has been a shift in management of intracranial metastatic
      disease with increasing preference for radiosurgery despite the presences of greater
      metastatic burden. The phase I component will accrue 7-15 patients at each dose cohort until
      the MTD is determined. Once the MTD is reached, the phase II component will commence with a
      total of 50 patients total enrolled at the MTD, with a study time of 3 years. The primary
      endpoint of the phase I component is toxicity. The primary endpoint of the phase II component
      is the change in neurocognitive function, defined by a decline in the Hopkins Verbal Learning
      Test- Revised delayed recall. Data from the WBRT-alone arm of the PCI-P-120-9801 phase III
      trial evaluating WBRT plus motexafin gadolinium demonstrated a 30% mean relative decline in
      the HVLT-R delayed recall score from baseline to 4 months, with a standard deviation of 41%
      9,10. More recently, in patients treated with SRS alone for 1-3 metastases versus SRS plus
      whole brain radiotherapy, the 4-month rates of HVLT-R delayed recall deterioration were 6%
      and 22% for the SRS alone arm and SRS + whole brain radiotherapy arm, respectively. Given the
      greater intracranial burden of disease, we estimate the mean relative decline in HVLT-R
      delayed recall to be intermediate between SRS alone for 1-3 metastases and whole brain
      radiotherapy. We predict that after SRS for multiple metastases the mean relative decline in
      delayed recall as 15%, an improvement over the historical control of whole brain radiotherapy
      alone which had a mean relative decline in HVLT-R delayed recall of 30%.
    
  