
    
      Anaphylaxis is a severe systemic reaction caused by release of mediators from mast cells and
      basophils. Manifestations include cutaneous, respiratory, cardiovascular, or gastrointestinal
      signs and symptoms. Although anaphylaxis is frequently attributed to exposure to specific
      foods, drugs, and insect venoms in sensitive individuals, a causative factor is not
      identified in 30% to 50% of patients with recurrent anaphylactic episodes (idiopathic
      anaphylaxis).

      Currently, therapeutic options for the treatment of idiopathic anaphylaxis are limited with
      variable efficacy. This pilot study will examine the hypothesis that omalizumab (Xolair )
      will decrease episodes of unexplained anaphylaxis in patients with idiopathic anaphylaxis.
      Omalizumab is approved for use in asthma. We will examine the safety profile and efficacy of
      omalizumab in patients with anaphylaxis. In addition, the study will investigate whether
      patients with anaphylaxis have unique molecular and cellular defects in mast cells that
      result in these cells being more susceptible to degranulation.

      The study will enroll patients with idiopathic anaphylaxis. Patients will undergo a clinical
      evaluation, blood tests, and a bone marrow biopsy and aspirate. Patients will be randomized
      to either drug or placebo and will receive, in a double-blind placebo-controlled approach, 2
      doses of omalizumab or a matched placebo while hospitalized, followed by continued outpatient
      therapy, every 2 to 4 weeks, for up to 6 months. Patients will remain on the assigned regimen
      if they have experienced anaphylactic events (post 24-hr window) determined to be unrelated
      to study drug or have been followed for 6 months, whichever comes first. These unrelated
      events would be determined by the PI not to jeopardize patient safety or restrict the use of
      additional therapy such as corticosteroids to control symptoms. After this point, the patient
      may be discontinued from drug administration until unblinding. This design ensures that no
      patient will have anaphylactic episodes while on placebo if other therapy is medically
      indicated. Research studies will be conducted to elucidate other markers or pathways of mast
      cell regulation.

      The primary outcome will be a reduction in the number and timing of anaphylactic events
      during the randomized phase. Secondary outcomes will include a reduction in surface IgE
      receptors on basophils, identification of mutations in c-kit, and evaluation of the efficacy
      of omalizumab on other mediator-induced symptoms associated with anaphylaxis. The study will
      improve the understanding of the mechanisms involved in anaphylactic reactions as a response
      to the downregulation of mechanisms involved in mast cell activation that could, in turn,
      lead to development of strategies to better prevent or treat anaphylaxis.
    
  