
    
      DESIGN: multicenter prospective observational cohort study with one year follow-up after
      inclusion in the study.

      SCOPE: Nine hospitals participating in this project: Hospital Universitario Basurto, Santa
      Marina, Donostia, and Galdakao-Usansolo, Hospital de Antequera, Costa del Sol, Universitario
      de Canarias, Universitario Parc Taulí y Bellvitge.

      SUBJECTS: patients with known chronic heart failure (or de novo diagnosed in the emergency
      department visit) attended in the emergency services of the participating hospitals
      prospectively diagnosed with acute or decompensated heart failure and recruited during the
      first year of the study, including patients admitted or given discharge in the hospital
      emergency room. The first admission of each patient during the recruitment period will be
      taken as a reference, and after this episode the follow-up will be carried out during a whole
      year, collecting all the events that happen related to their illness.

      Missing patients: In all patients who meet the selection criteria the investigators will
      collect data on essential sociodemographic and clinical variables in order to be able to
      compare the patients lost in the follow-up with the patients who finally participate in the
      entire study.

      Sample size calculation: Predictive model development studies establish that it is necessary
      to have at least 10 events of the dependent variable of interest (in our case: mortality,
      major complications, recurrence or re-admissions, separately) for each independent variable
      included in the multivariate logistic regression model . Given that our intention is to
      include in the multivariate model a limited but exhaustive number of variables (predictably,
      no less than 10), the investigators estimate that it will be necessary to have at least 100
      events of the dependent variable in the derivation sample (of 1000 patients ) to make sure
      that the regression model converges properly. Data from our centers indicate that the number
      of events of the dependent mortality variable would be> 15% of the patients admitted, with
      the percentages expected from the other parameters with higher results. With all the
      participating centers and 1 year of recruitment, the investigators hope to recruit around
      2000 valid patients (50% for the derivation and 50% in the validation sample) sufficient to
      meet the stated objectives.

      Sample size: Based on data from the year 2012 of our centers for this pathology and according
      to the expected exclusions (80% will meet the selection criteria with their acceptance to
      participate in the study ) and losses (20% of losses in the follow-up of those that meet the
      selection criteria), the recruitment of this number of patients is guaranteed for the
      majority of the participating centers and, therefore, the response to this and other
      hypotheses of the study.

      Sampling: non-probabilistic sampling of convenience of consecutively recruited patients in
      each of the participating centers for 12 months.

      VARIABLES. Sources for the collection of information: it will be done through the medical
      record (of emergencies, hospital admission or primary care), information systems of the
      participating centers (medical/electronic records), hospital and primary care, and directly
      from patients through a survey. Summary of the variables to be collected:

        1. Socio-demographic data: age, sex, level of studies, place of residence, distance to the
           hospital, family situation.

        2. Antecedents: symptoms; time of evolution; risk factors and health habits; previous
           pharmacological / non-pharmacological treatments, previous vaccines; comorbidities and
           their respective treatments; previous income by HF.

        3. Clinical data:

           A.-Presentation in the emergency room: a.1.-symptoms; a.2.-signs. a.3.- Complementary
           tests and their result: ECG, chest x-ray, BNP test, laboratory parameters; urine
           analysis. a.4.- Pharmacological treatment of HF; Other treatments; Specific treatments
           and associated comorbidities. a.5.- Destination at discharge.

           B.-Patients discharge from the emergency room: data at discharge (medication, symptoms
           and signs, laboratory data and complementary examinations, diagnosis, destination at
           discharge, prescribed controls) C.-Patients hospital admitted. Evolution of: c.1.-
           symptoms; c.2.-signs. c.3.- Complementary tests performed: ECG, echocardiography, .
           c.4.- Use of other complementary tests. c.5.- Diagnosis of the HF and type.
           c.6.-Pharmacological treatment of HF; Other treatments; c.7.- Interventional procedures.
           c.8.- Need for more intensive treatment. c.9.-Specific treatments and associated
           comorbidities.

           D.-Outcomes: death; complications during admission; Intensive treatments; Other
           reperfusion treatments; Other complications; days of stay.

           E.-Data at hospital discharge of patients admitted: symptoms, signs, laboratory data at
           discharge, diagnosis at discharge, prescribed treatment, care and established controls.

        4. Alternatives to classic hospital admission: home hospitalization, palliative care,
           medium-stay units-centers.

      5.-Other health care / interventions. 6-Utilization of health services after the emergency
      visit / discharge from hospitalization.

      7-Availability and use of psycho-social support services. 8.- Other results in the follow-up
      until the year: Evolution of symptoms, signs and basic analytics, the latter included in the
      readmissions and the primary care databases.

      9-Quality of life questionnaires: Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLWHFQ;
      EuroQol-5D and Barthel Index) Questionnaires to pass in the first contact and in the 1st
      year, moments in which transitional questions on evolution will be included of symptoms and
      general condition.

      10.-Clinical results to be measured during follow-up: death, re-admissions, complications,
      visits to the emergency department and surgical interventions, both cardiological and other,
      evolution of dyspnea.

      DATA COLLECTION: the above parameters will be collected from the arrival of the patient to
      the emergency room until discharge (from the emergency room or after hospital admission) with
      the patient being followed until one year after the index visit, collecting information on
      the care received in other services (hospitalization), at home, primary care, for social
      services, at the hospital level, (including possible new readmissions) through the clinical
      history (of emergencies, hospital admission or primary care) and information systems of the
      participating centers (medical/electronic records) and evolution of the quality of life
      (PROm) and symptoms, for which the same questionnaires will be passed on again at the
      baseline time per year.

      ETHICAL AND CONFIDENTIALITY ASPECTS. The project has been evaluated by the research
      commissions of the participating centers and the Clinical Research Ethics Committee
      accredited (CEIC autonomic of the Basque Country in this case) receiving their approval. The
      laws on personal data management will be followed, ensuring that the processing of personal
      data will be carried out in such a way that the information obtained can not be associated
      with identified or identifiable persons (Organic Law 15/1999, 13-12, Protection of Data of
      Character Personal).
    
  