
    
      INTRODUCTION Anorexia nervosa (AN) is an eating disorder of unknown etiology. The evidence
      base for treatment is still very limited considering the extent to which this disorder erodes
      lives and still carries the highest fatality rate of any psychiatric disease as well as any
      other chronic disease in adolescence.

      There is no consensus on appropriate effect goals in AN. Assessment of biomedical parameters
      alone is not sufficient, why evaluation tools that consider the patient's own perception of
      their health and well-being are essential. However, patients with AN characteristically have
      a different opinion of their needs to that of the health professionals, which can lead to
      differences in treatment goals, ambivalence towards treatment, and immense compliance
      difficulties.

      Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) can be defined as the overall effect of a medical
      condition and/or its consequent therapy upon a patient. HRQOL is subjective and
      multidimensional, encompassing physical and occupational function, psychological state,
      social interaction and somatic sensation. Discrepancy between one's current level of function
      and one's ideals or expectations can result in lower self-rated HRQOL, while cognitive
      flexibility is believed to contribute to good HRQOL. Patients with AN typically have
      unrealistically high expectations of themselves, are often rigid and usually do not consider
      weight gain to be a necessity for a positive outcome. Therefore, treatment may potentially
      lead to further reduction of HRQOL (for example due to coerced hospitalization), despite
      significant positive improvements in biomedical parameters.

      In a recently published meta-analysis examining the HRQOL of patients with eating disorders,
      several methodological challenges were identified such as variations in study design,
      diagnostic criteria and health outcome measurement. It is essential that HRQOL measures are
      valid and reliable for the patient group in question. These measures can be either generic
      (applicable to all patient groups) or disease-specific (designed to detect HRQOL changes
      specific to a disease).

      Only a few disease-specific HRQOL measures for AN have been developed. The Eating Disorder
      Quality of Life (EDQLS) questionnaire was published by a Canadian research group and consists
      of 40 items on selected topics including relationships with family and others, physical and
      psychological health and eating. Subsequent studies have shown that the EDQLS demonstrates
      excellent psychometric properties in terms of validity, reliability and responsiveness to
      change.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. To validate a Danish version of the Eating Disorder Quality of Life questionnaire in two
           age ranges, 13-17 years and +18 years in patients with AN.

        2. To assess age-specific HRQoL in patients with AN in different treatment settings.

      DESIGN Preparatory study: Testing and adaptation of the Danish version of the EDQLS for use
      by 13-17 year olds with anorexia nervosa.

      Study 1: Concurrent validity and internal consistency. EDQLS, ED symptomatology, distress,
      social function and generic HRQOL assessed in different clinical samples of AN patients aged
      13-17 & +18 years and in a sample of age-matched healthy controls within a normal weight
      range.

      Study 2: Test-retest reliability. EDQLS completed twice with a 2-4-week interval in a sample
      of weight- and treatment-stable outpatients and controls aged 13-17 & +18 years.

      Study 3: Sensitivity to change. EDQLS applied three times over a 4-6-week interval in a
      sample of AN inpatients aged 13-17 & +18 years.

      Study 4: Patients outside the established treatment. EDQLS, ED symptomatology, distress,
      social function and generic HRQoL score among members and followers with BMI<18 recruited
      from the official website for the national patient organizations.

      METHODS

      TRANSLATION Prior to this study, the initial translations of the EDQLS was carried out using
      the method recommended by WHO World Mental Health Initiative Translation Guidelines. After
      permission from the Canadian authors, an expert panel of bilingual staff from an ED
      outpatient clinic worked on the translation from English to Danish, aiming for conceptual
      equivalence between the versions (i.e. similar relevance and meaning in the two
      languages/cultures). After panel discussions to create a consensus version the Danish draft
      questionnaire was completed individually by 18 adult women with AN, who in subsequent
      qualitative interviews commented on their understanding of the items and any difficulties
      they had with the wording. The linguistic comments and suggestions from the patients were
      used to further improve the translation, which was then approved by the expert panel. This
      draft was back-translated and the back-translation was reviewed by the Canadian authors of
      the scale. After the refinement of a single word, it was accepted as the official Danish
      EDQLS translation. Both the Danish version and the original EDQLS are licensed.

      In the present study, the original EDQLS will be tested and adjusted as necessary for use
      patients aged 13-17 years. This will be done by repeating the qualitative interviews with six
      adolescents AN patients (13-17 years) to investigate whether the questionnaire should be
      linguistically modified for this age group. Any modifications will be discussed with the
      Canadian developers of EDQLS.

      MEASURES Screening questionnaire: Patients will be asked to fill out a questionnaire
      regarding current weight, height and information regarding current medication.

      Disease-specific quality of life (EDQLS). WHO-5 Well-being Index (WHO-5). Generic health
      related quality of life: Short Form-36 (SF-36). Eating disorder symptomatology: Eating
      Disorder Inventory-3. Depression: The Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II). Impairment in
      functioning: Work and Social Adjustment Scale (WSAS). Total item burden: Total amount of
      measures is 201 items. Estimated time for administration is about two hours. The
      questionnaires are stored in RedCap, automatically uploading the answers as the patients fill
      them out.

      DATA ANALYSES AND STATISTICS

      POWER CALCULATIONS The sample size is based on the validation work of the original language
      version in Canada. A high response rate of at least 80% is expected because there is a high
      participatory interest in the subject and purpose of the study, and because the participants
      receive a small fee.

      MULTIVARIATE ANALYSES Description of the subsamples is presented as means and standard
      deviations and frequencies. Inter-item correlations and confirmatory factor analyses are
      performed on the full sample across age-groups and health status and in sub-populations.
      Pearson correlations are produced for the included symptom and HRQOL scores.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS According to Danish legislation, surveys are exempt from ethical board
      review. However, a formal enquiry was made and the ethical board determined that the project
      was approved without further application to the ethical committee. Participants will be
      informed that study participation is voluntary, and will have no effect on their treatment
      and management. There are no risks associated with participating in the study.

      All questionnaires and tests used in the study are validated, recommended and widely
      distributed clinically for diagnosing in psychiatry.

      To facilitate a high proportion of completion, all participants (patients and controls) who
      complete the test are honored with Danish kroner (DDK) 150.

      ANONYMITY The project is approved by the Data Protection Agency, File no. 17/3218. The data
      will be stored in a data sheet, REDCap.

      FINANCE The study is a 100 % non-commercial study. The Jascha Fund has supported the post doc
      salary for 18 months. There will be applied for licenses, participation fees, and operating
      expenses.

      DISSEMINATION AND TENTATIVE PUBLICATIONS

      The study findings, both positive and negative results, will be disseminated through
      communication at congresses and written scientific publications. Publications will be made
      according to the Vancouver criteria with the tentative titles:

        -  Health-related quality of life in anorexia nervosa: Validation of a Danish language
           version in young and adult patients.

        -  In-patients treatment of anorexia nervosa: Does it improve health related quality of
           life?

        -  Patients with anorexia nervosa, not seeking established treatment: specific health
           related quality of life.

        -  Gender differences in health-related quality of life in patients with anorexia nervosa.
    
  