
    
      This three-phased study examined ways to improve services for the prevention of STIs among
      commercial sex workers. This study was conducted in identical fashion in two sites (Tamatave
      and Antananarivo) in Madagascar. It tested whether condom promotion through community-based
      counseling or clinic based counseling leads to an increased level of protection among
      high-risk sex acts and a subsequent decrease in STI infection rates.

      In Phase I, women at each site were randomly assigned to a study arm receiving a
      community-based male condom promotion intervention, or a study arm receiving community-based
      male condom promotion supplemented with clinic-based counseling. Randomization was
      accomplished by the use of sequentially-numbered sealed, opaque envelopes containing the
      group assignment. The randomization list was stratified by study site. Phase I began with
      baseline measurement of male condom use and STI prevalence. Participants returned three
      times, at two month intervals, for follow-up. At each visit, face-to-face interviews were
      conducted to estimate the proportion of protected sex acts. At the third visit only,
      participants were tested for gonococcal, chlamydial, and trichomonal infections. This
      reliance on a combination of biologic and behavioral outcomes helped to reduce any bias
      brought on by the inherent limitations of either of these measures on its own.

      Half the women completing Phase I at each site were then randomized to a Phase II study arm
      receiving a community-based male and female condom promotion intervention, while the other
      half entered Phase II receiving the same community-based male and female condom promotion
      supplemented with clinic-based counseling. This sequential randomization scheme allowed
      measurement of the short-term (within 6 months) effect of clinic-based counseling on male
      condom use and STI prevalence, and the short-term effect of clinic-based counseling on male
      condom + female condom use and STI prevalence. A similar data collection process was used,
      with measurement of male and female condom use in all three visits, and STI testing in the
      third visit only.

      In Phase III, participants were followed for an additional 6 months, in the same intervention
      group to which they were assigned at the beginning of Phase II, to assess the medium-term
      impacts of the female condom, after participants had a chance to become accustomed to the
      female condom.
    
  