
    
      Objective: The primary goal of this study is to evaluate which elements add to the
      effectiveness of current CBT programs. Second, it will be investigated whether the effect of
      exposure is reduced by the addition of cognitive restructuring and relaxation exercises. In
      addition, it will be explored how a given element is effective (i.e., mediation), by
      investigating which dimension of anxiety (approach/avoidance behavior, cognitions or bodily
      tension) is changed by which specific element, in a group of adolescents with the
      performance/public speaking subtype of social phobia.

      Study design: Randomized Controlled Trial with three parallel groups (intervention versus
      intervention versus intervention).

      Study population: Adolescents aged 12 to 15 years with subclinical or higher levels of the
      fear of performance/public speaking subtype of social phobia.

      Intervention: Adolescents will be randomly assigned to one of the three conditions based on
      their age, gender and severity of the social phobia. All adolescents will be offered a
      psycho-education session on anxiety, social phobia and exposure. Following this session
      either four exposure sessions (condition A) or two exposure session and two additional
      sessions are offered. The additional session are either two cognitive restructuring sessions
      (condition B) or two relaxation sessions (condition C). Each session will be given in groups
      consisting of five to eight participants. Every session will take up to an hour and is
      implemented by a psychologist assisted by a master student in psychology, who will receive
      training and supervision by a certified CBT therapist.

      Main study parameters/endpoints (see outcome measures paragraph): The main study parameter is
      level of fear of performance/public speaking symptoms. Secondary study parameters are
      subjective level of fear, fearful cognitions, bodily tension, avoidance, coping (possible
      mediator variables), social phobia diagnosis, speech behavior, and self-efficacy. Tertiary
      study parameters are healthcare costs and quality of life (cost-effectiveness), note:
      cost-effectiveness is assessed for another study. Other study parameters are social phobia
      severity, comorbid anxiety and depression, and demographic variables (possible moderator
      variables); and credibility and expectancy of the treatment, treatment satisfaction, and
      treatment compliance (treatment characteristics).
    
  