
    
      Women living in regions with high HIV prevalence are at high risk of HIV acquisition in
      pregnancy and postpartum because they infrequently use condoms, do not know their partner's
      HIV status, and have biologic changes or changes in their partner's sexual partnerships that
      increase susceptibility. Oral pre-exposure antiretroviral prophylaxis (PrEP) may be an
      attractive strategy for HIV prevention in pregnancy/postpartum; however, it is important to
      ensure PrEP reaches women who are at risk for acquiring HIV during pregnancy while avoiding
      unnecessary PrEP use during pregnancy. Clinicians and women are using PrEP in pregnancy; in
      qualitative studies, women, health workers and policy-makers support use of PrEP in pregnancy
      but advocate for models of PrEP delivery that ensure women at risk receive PrEP while
      minimizing unnecessary PrEP use in women not at risk. Targeting PrEP to women at greatest
      risk of HIV may maximize benefits, minimize potential risks, and optimize cost-effectiveness.
      This cluster-randomized clinical trial (RCT) in 20 Maternal Child Health (MCH) clinics in
      western Kenya (10 clinics per arm, up to 250 women per clinic, up to 5000 women overall),
      will compare 2 models of PrEP delivery in pregnancy. Clinics will offer universal
      availability of PrEP (and women self-select whether to use) or targeted offer of PrEP (i.e.,
      offer to women identified as high risk through a standardized risk assessment and partner
      self-testing, and then women identified as high-risk select whether to use). Leveraging the
      pre-existing MCH clinic visit schedule will enable programmatically relevant assessment of
      PrEP uptake, use, and HIV incidence. The outcome of the study will be a model of PrEP
      delivery in pregnancy that optimizes effectiveness, safety, and cost-effectiveness. Our team
      has expertise in maternal-child HIV (John-Stewart, Kinuthia), PrEP clinical trials and
      implementation science (Baeten, Richardson), partner self-testing (Thirumurthy), economics
      and qualitative research (Barnabas, O'Malley).

      AIM 1a. In a cluster-RCT, compare universal PrEP (offer to all; women self-select PrEP) to
      targeted PrEP (limit the offer to women identified as high risk through a standardized risk
      assessment and partner self-testing) for outcomes reflecting the balance of PrEP
      effectiveness and avoiding unnecessary PrEP exposure to women at low or no risk of HIV: HIV
      incidence at 9 months postpartum among all women (including those who did and did not receive
      PrEP) and proportion of women exposed to PrEP.

      AIM 1b. To compare trial arms for proportion of women 'appropriately' on PrEP (risk factors),
      PrEP adherence (drug levels) and duration, partners with known HIV status, partners on ART;
      infant outcomes (growth, birth outcomes, HIV status).

      AIM 2. To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of targeted PrEP compared to universal
      PrEP for women during pregnancy and postpartum, per HIV infection and disability-adjusted
      life-year (DALY) averted.

      AIM 3. To qualitatively assess barriers and facilitators to uptake, adherence, acceptability,
      and feasibility in universal and targeted PrEP models at the organizational, provider, and
      individual woman level.
    
  