
    
      Many gynecologic, urologic and pelvic reconstructive surgeries require accurate
      intra-operative evaluation of ureteral patency. Numerous studies show that cystoscopy detects
      a greater proportion of bladder and ureteral injuries than visual inspection alone.The rate
      of ureteral injury in gynecologic surgery ranges from 0.6 to 11% when discovered on routine
      intraoperative cystoscopy depending on the procedure. In a review by Gilmour et al, the
      incidence of bladder injury in studies performing routine cystoscopy was 4-fold higher than
      those studies that did not. Early recognition of injury and repair during the primary surgery
      most often results in less morbidity for the patient, more successful outcome, and increased
      ease of repair.

      Cystourethroscopy is a surgical procedure in which a fiberoptic endoscope is introduced
      through the urethra to examine the entire lumen of the urethra and bladder for diseases or
      abnormalities in a systematic manner.There are numerous indications for diagnostic
      cystourethroscopy during gynecologic surgery. The most important indications are to rule out
      cystotomy and intravesical or intraurethral suture or mesh placement, verify bilateral
      ureteral jets to ensure patency, and evaluate a suspected urine leak during or after
      laparotomy, laparoscopy or vaginal surgery.

      Historically, indigo carmine, indigotindisulfonate sodium has been used to assist with
      cystourethroscopy. Ureteral function is assessed by visualization of ureteral efflux of blue
      dye after the intravenous injection of indigo carmine. Indigo carmine has many advantages.
      These include no known drug interactions or metabolites, easy dosing of 40mg or 5 to 10 cc of
      0.8% solution, changing urine to a non-physiologic blue color that eases visualization and
      the ability to give the medication intravenously immediately prior to the procedure. In
      patients with normal renal function and adequate hydration, the dye is visible after
      approximately ten minutes, having a half-life of four to five minutes. Because of its large
      molecular size, it is largely excreted rather than reabsorbed. There are few
      contraindications to use of indigo carmine. It should be used with caution in patients with
      cardiovascular diseases secondary to its mild pressor effect.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced the current shortage of indigotindisulfonate
      sodium in June 2014. This is due to the inability to obtain the active agent. There are two
      suppliers of indigo carmine in the United States: Akron and American Regent. Akron has
      discontinued manufacturing indigo carmine with no plan to resume production. American Regent
      plans to continue manufacturing indigo carmine based on component availability.

      Methylene blue is an alternative to indigo carmine. Like indigo carmine, it can be given
      intravenously. However, it does have some risks. Methylene blue is variably metabolized to
      multiple end products but is largely metabolized to leukomethylene, which is colorless and
      therefore, may not be visualized in the urine. It cannot be used in pregnant patients and
      those with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency because of risk of inducing hemolytic
      anemia. It may also cause methemoglobinemia when given in high doses greater than 7mg/kg.
      Lastly, methylene blue is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor and can cause serotonin syndrome in
      patients taking other serotonergic agents.

      Given the shortage of indigo carmine and the risks associated with use of methylene blue,
      investigators need to evaluate other methods for assessing ureteral patency. Ideal
      alternatives are agents that are low-risk, inexpensive, provide comparable visualization, are
      readily available, and are easy to use. Preoperative oral phenazopyridine and intravenous
      urelle and sodium fluorescein are other agents that can dye the urine. The use and safety
      profile of oral phenazopyridine as a bladder analgesic is well established when used for a
      single short course. Within one hour after ingestion, the urine acquires a characteristic
      orange tint. A recent study by Hui et al showed that bilateral ureteral patency and bladder
      mucosal integrity was confirmed in all cases of 124 women that received oral phenazopyridine
      prior to pelvic surgery. Phenazopyridine is a safe, inexpensive dye that assists effectively
      in the confirmation of ureteric patency when cystoscopy is planned during pelvic surgery.
      Consistent with the literature, pyridium has been used at our institution for visualization
      of the ureters. Some reported concerns include obscuring of the bladder mucosa and a striking
      similarity between bloody ureteral efflux and pyridium-dyed urine that can be alarming
      intra-operatively. Doyle et al used sodium fluorescein as an alternative to indigo carmine to
      assess ureteral patency. This study found that ten percent sodium fluorescein given
      intravenously in doses ranging from 0.25 to 1.0 cc results in good visualization of ureteral
      jets. Sodium fluorescein injections have been routinely used for retinal angiography using
      significantly higher doses than cystoscopy requires. They have proven to be safe and cost
      effective. A prospective study measuring adverse reactions in patients undergoing ophthalmic
      angiography found the most common reactions to be nausea (2.9%), vomiting (1.2%) and flushing
      or rash (0.5%).Mannitol is a low-viscosity, isotonic distending media that is commonly used
      during hysteroscopy. As the viscosity is different than that of urine, it may allow for
      better visualization of the flow of urine during cystoscopy. It provides excellent visibility
      for the endoscopic surgeon but also possesses properties that have a potential impact on
      patient safety. Five percent mannitol is typically used during transurethral resection or
      hysteroscopy. Excess mannitol absorption has been known to cause hyponatremia; however, this
      is an uncommon event. The severity of hyponatremia is directly related to the volume of
      irrigation fluid that is retained. Absorption greater than 1000mL is typically required to
      cause clinically significant hyponatremia. In this study, investigators will use only 300mL
      of mannitol to distend the bladder. Therefore, the risk of hyponatremia is minimal.
    
  