
    
      PROCEDURES:

      Patients will be approached at the pre-admission clinic or in the general ward before
      operation. The analgesic modalities will be explained and patient will be recruited into
      study if s/he agrees. Patient will then be randomised into one of the two groups receiving
      intraoperative morphine with dexmedetomidine then postoperative PCA morphine (D), or
      intraoperative morphine only then postoperative PCA morphine (M).

      Randomisation, blinding, and preparation of dexmedetomidine and placebo Patients who undergo
      open and laparoscopic colonic and rectal surgery will be stratified in randomisation. For
      each type of operation (colonic and rectal), randomisation will be based on using blocks of 5
      patients to ensure both groups having equal sample size. A computer-generated random sequence
      will be used to select the allocation order.

      Both patients and investigators will be blinded to the allocated analgesic modalities, i.e.
      the administration of dexmedetomidine. Dexmedetomidine or normal saline (placebo) will be
      prepared by clinical staff who will not participate in observation and data analysis.

      For group D, dexmedetomidine will be prepared by adding 2ml of the drug (100μg/ml) to 48ml of
      0.9% sodium chloride injection, which make up to a total of 50ml. The final concentration for
      administration is thus 200μg in 50ml, i.e. 4μg/ml.

      For group M, a syringe of 50ml normal saline will be prepared as placebo. As both
      dexmedetomidine and placebo will look the same as 50ml clear liquid in syringe, both patient
      and investigator will be blinded to the substance administered.

      Preoperative care:

      The patients will be assessed at pre-admission clinic or at the general ward. Blood for
      soluble CD40L with other routine investigations will be taken. Bowel preparation will start
      one day before operation. Patient will fast since midnight before operation.

      Anaesthesia and intraoperative care:

      Both groups of patients will be anaesthetised according to the protocol as follow:

      Patient will receive no sedative premedication. On arrival in the operation theatre, a
      16-gauge intravenous cannula will be placed under local analgesic. Pulse, pulse oximetry and
      non-invasive blood pressure measurement will be checked every 5 minutes throughout the
      operation.

      Propofol 2mg/kg, fentanyl 1.5μg/kg and atracurium 0.5mg/kg will be used for general
      anaesthesia induction. Anaesthesia will be maintained with mixture of isoflurane, air and
      oxygen. Isoflurane concentration will be titrated to optimal heart rate and blood pressure by
      the anaesthesiologist.

      Thermal blanket and infusion fluid warmer will be used to aim at maintaining core body
      temperature at 35.5 to 37.5 degrees Celsius. A urinary catheter will be inserted to monitor
      urine output. Intermittent pneumatic compression device will be applied to the lower limbs
      for deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis.

      At the discretion of the anaesthesiologist, hypotension will be treated with intravenous
      ephedrine or phenylephrine. Hypertension or tachycardia will be treated with isoflurane up to
      2% end-tidal concentration (~1.5 MAC). If persisted, beta-blockers such as labetalol or
      arterial vasodilators such as hydralazine may be given.

      Isoflurane will be switched off after closure of the inner layer of the wounds. Reversal will
      be achieved by intravenous neostigmine 50μg/kg and atropine 20μg/kg after operation. Patient
      will then be transferred to recovery room for monitoring for at least 1 hour.

      Analgesic modalities and pain assessment:

      Procedures for the two analgesic modalities are described below:

      Group D: intraoperative morphine with dexmedetomidine then postoperative PCA morphine.
      Patient will receive a loading dose of 1μg/kg (0.25ml/kg) intravenous dex-medetomidine over
      10 minutes before induction, and then followed by continuous infusion at a rate of 0.5μg/kg/h
      (0.125ml/kg/h) until wound closure. Bolus dose of 0.1mg/kg morphine sulphate will be given
      intravenously prior to incision. At the third and forth hour, morphine sulphate 0.1mg/kg may
      be given in divided dose titrated to patient's response. On arrival in the recovery room,
      boluses of 2mg intravenous morphine will be given every 5 minutes until NRS pain score is
      less than 4. A PCA machine will then be connected. The machine will be configured to give 1mg
      of morphine at a time and the lockout duration will be set to 5 minutes. No basal infusion
      will be given and the maximum dose limit will be 0.1mg/kg per hour.

      Group M: intraoperative morphine then postoperative PCA morphine. All procedures for Group D
      patients will be followed, but dexmedetomidine administration will be replaced by placebo
      (normal saline) of the same volume and rate.

      Both groups: Starting from postoperative day 1, when patient resumes fluid diet, oral
      celecoxib 200mg will be given twice daily for 3 days or until discharge, whichever earlier.
      From day 4 onwards, one tablet of dologesic (paracetamol plus dextropropoxyphene) will be
      given every 4 hours as needed until discharge.

      From postoperative day 0, rescue analgesic in the form of intramuscular pethidine 0.5mg/kg
      will be prescribed every 4 hours if necessary.

      During the administration of PCA morphine, respiratory rate, SpO2 and sedation score will be
      monitored every hour; blood pressure and pulse, numerical rating scale (NRS) pain scores at
      rest and during cough, cumulative doses and tries/goods, as well as side effects will be
      recorded every 4 hours. Patient will be seen by anaesthesiologist every day to assess the
      adequacy of analgesia.

      PCA morphine will be administered for at least 2 days. On postoperative day 2, if NRS pain
      scores during cough is less than 4 on a clinically low morphine consumption, PCA will be
      stopped; if equals or greater than 4, or still on a high PCA consumption, it will be
      continued. Assessment will be repeated daily. If NRS pain score during cough remains at 4 or
      above on day 5, patient will be evaluated for complications and managed at the discretion of
      the anaesthesiologist.

      After PCA morphine has stopped, NRS pain scores at rest and during cough, dose and frequency
      of rescue analgesia used will be charted once a day until discharge.

      Postoperative care and assessment:

      Early mobilisation is encouraged after operation. On postoperative day 1, patient will be put
      on fluid diet.

      The surgical team will be responsible for postoperative assessments, such as recording daily
      gastrointestinal function (bowel sound, flatus and bowel opening), postoperative
      complications (if any) and readiness for discharging patient (good pain control with oral
      analgesics, ambulatory, resumption of bowel function, i.e. stool or flatus, have 2 to 3 feeds
      without vomiting or abdominal distension).

      Blood for soluble CD40L and other routine investigations will be taken at post-operative day
      2.

      Patient's satisfaction on analgesia will be asked using NRS from zero to 10 upon discharge.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      The following data will be collected:

        -  Demographics

        -  Time of admission

        -  Type of colorectal surgery and incision

        -  Intraoperative vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, pulse oximetry)

        -  Estimated intraoperative blood loss

        -  Volume of intraoperative fluid/blood infusion

        -  Duration of anaesthetic/analgesic procedures before surgical procedures

        -  Duration of surgical procedures

        -  Time from end of surgical procedures to extubation

        -  Tries and goods of PCA use

        -  Cumulative morphine consumption

        -  NRS pain scores at rest and during cough and vital signs upon recovery, hourly for 4
           hours, then 4-hourly during PCA morphine up to 5 days, and daily afterwards until
           discharge

        -  Dose and frequency of rescues analgesic (IM pethidine) use

        -  Side effects of analgesics, if any (pruritis, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, etc.)

        -  Time to recovery of bowel functions (bowel sound, flatus and bowel opening)

        -  Time to recovery of food intake (fluid, semisolid and solid diet)

        -  Time to ambulation (bed rest, sit up, sit out of bed, walk with aid, walk without aid)

        -  Surgical and anaesthetic complications, if any (ileus, perineal abscess, wound
           infection, urinary retention, etc.)

        -  Time to discharge

        -  Patient's satisfaction upon discharge

        -  Persistent pain 6 months after operation

        -  Survival status 6 and 12 months after operation

        -  Soluble CD40L preoperatively and at post-operative day 2 If, at certain time point after
           operation, patient is unable to be managed according to protocol due to any reason such
           as development of complication, no further data will be collected.

      DATA ANALYSIS:

      The intention-to-treat principle will be used. In other words, patient will be included and
      remained in their designated groups for data analysis even if there is a change in surgical
      or anaesthetic/analgesic management, as long as they have had an open or laparoscopic
      abdominal incision during operation.

      Statistical methods used:

        -  Intraoperative vital signs, estimated blood loss, duration of anaesthetic/analgesic and
           surgical procedures, time to extubation, tries and goods of PCA use, cumulative morphine
           consumption, dose and frequency of rescue analgesic use, time to recovery of bowel
           functions, food intake and ambulation, time to discharge: Student's t-test

        -  NRS pain scores, patient's satisfaction: Mann-Whitney U test

        -  Side effects and postoperative complications: binary logistic regression
    
  