
    
      Asthma is a very common disorder which causes a great deal of distress for patients, and
      occasionally results in premature death. Approximately 10% of people with asthma have severe
      disease which is not helped by current treatments; The Investigators need to find new
      treatments for these patients urgently. Patients with asthma are not all the same, but have
      distinct features which characterise their asthma.The Investigators therefore hypothesise
      that asthma is not a single disease, but a syndrome resulting from several distinct
      underlying disease processes known as endotypes. There are approximately 30,000 genes in
      humans, and each gene is responsible for the production of a particular protein. Using a
      technique called "whole genome expression profiling" The Investigators have undertaken a
      small study looking at the activity of all 30,000 genes in the airway tissue of people with
      asthma. This work has identified 3 mutually exclusive distinct molecular patterns (endotypes)
      of severe asthma and has identified other potentially important molecular targets
      (manuscripts in preparation).

      In particular, the Investigators have found that 25-50% of patients have asthma associated
      with the activity of proteins called Th2 cytokines (Th2-high asthma). New treatments are in
      development that target this pathway. However, the Investigators do not know what is driving
      severe asthma in patients who do not express these Th2 cytokines. The aim of this study is to
      investigate in more detail the molecular mechanisms driving severe asthma in patients who do
      not express Th2 cytokines (Th2-low asthma), so that the Investigators can identify new
      targets for treatment in this group. To do this the Investigators will collect airway tissue
      via a telescope (bronchoscope), and analyse gene and protein expression in the tissue. The
      Investigators will then compare the molecular activity between patients with Th2-high and
      Th2-low asthma, and healthy control subjects (data obtained from a parallel study).
    
  