
    
      Avastin (bevacizumab) is a recombinant humanized monoclonal IgG1 antibody that binds to and
      inhibits the biologic activity of human vascular endothelial growth factor(VEGF) in in vitro
      and in vivo assay systems. Bevacizumab was first granted marketing approval in the United
      States on 26 February 2004 (international birth date) in combination with IV
      5-fluorouracil(5-FU) based chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with
      metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum (CRC). At present, bevacizumab is widely used in
      the treatment of solid tumors such as lung cancer ,colorectal cancer and so on. It has been
      reported in the literature that bevacizumab may adversely affect wound healing. To prevent
      postoperative complications, some guidelines state that the interval time between last dose
      of bevacizumab and operations should be at least 6 weeks, but the optimal time to discontinue
      bevacizumab before surgery has not been confirmed. This project aims to evaluate the risk of
      perioperative complications in cancer patients with a history of bevacizumab use within 6
      weeks prior to unexpected operation.

      This is a nationwide multicenter,retrospective,observational real-world study.The study will
      collect the medical records and prognosis in 30 days following surgery of patients with
      colorectal cancer and lung cancer who underwent unexpected operation within 6 weeks
      (including 6 weeks) of bevacizumab discontinuation from 01 Jan 2010 to 31 Dec 2019.All
      enrolled subjects aged 18-90 years old; Complete clinical data related to important
      indicators, including preoperative baseline data, surgical information and perioperative
      prognosis information. The patients who used anti-angiogenic agents other than bevacizumab
      within 6 weeks prior to surgery would be excluded.

      Primary Evaluation Measures: To assess the risk of perioperative complications in patients
      with tumor who received bevacizumab prior to unexpected operation:to calculate the total
      incidence of perioperative complications in patients undergoing unexpected surgery after
      discontinuation of bevacizumab, including wound healing complications, non-wound-related
      infections, postoperative bleeding, thrombosis, gastrointestinal perforation, anastomotic
      leakage, secondary surgery, death and other perioperative adverse events;to calculate the
      incidence of each perioperative complication in patients undergoing unexpected operation
      after bevacizumab discontinuation.

      SAS9.4 statistical analysis software will be used for analysis. Measurement indicators will
      be statistically described using number of cases, mean, median, standard deviation, minimum
      and maximum; categorical indicators will be statistically described using frequency and
      percentage. Unless otherwise specified, all statistical tests will adopt the two-sided test
      with α = 0.05, and the corresponding OR value and two-sided 95% confidence interval will be
      provided if applicable.
    
  