
    
      Constipation represents one of the five most common physician diagnoses for gut disorders.
      Obstructed defecation syndrome (ODS) is an under-treated condition which accounts for 30%-
      50% of all patients with constipation and it is more common as people age. ODS is due to the
      abnormal contraction of the puborectalis muscle (a muscle around the anus that should relax
      during defecation).

      Biofeedback therapy and medical management are the standards of care for ODS. Typically
      patients are first managed with dietary modifications (fiber supplementation, increased
      fluids) and medication (laxatives, enemas). If constipation is not improved, they will
      undergo biofeedback, which lasts from 3-8 sessions on average. Biofeedback acts on the cause
      of ODS and it has good short-term success, but around 50%-70% of treated patients
      re-experience constipation after one year. The main drawbacks of biofeedback for ODS are the
      facts that it is expensive, time-consuming, available in few select-centers and its success
      depends very much on the provider. Biofeedback is delivered in multiple 1-hour clinic
      sessions, so many patients don't finish all recommended sessions and their constipation may
      recur faster.

      Botox also acts on the cause of ODS and was shown to improve constipation within 1-3 weeks
      after the injection. Botox is delivered as a one-time injection in the puborectalis muscle
      and external anal sphincter (the muscle right around the anus). The injection can be
      performed in the clinic under local anesthesia, and the patient goes home afterwards.
      Currently, Botox is used for treatment of patients who fail biofeedback and medical
      management, to avoid the options of last resort (resection of the colon with stoma). To this
      day, no adequately designed study has confirmed that Botox is indeed superior to placebo
      (normal saline) for the treatment of ODS. The results from this study will provide valuable
      data on the ability of Botox to improve symptoms of constipation and the duration of its
      effect. This project has the potential to increase the availability of effective treatments
      for ODS.
    
  