
    
      Segmental overgrowth syndromes are very rare diseases with an extremely relevant genetic
      background. In some of them, only about 200 cases are known worldwide, such as for example
      the Proteus syndrome which presents with asymmetric and fast growth of extremities. Further
      overgrowth diseases are the SOLAMEN and the CLOVE syndrome with lipomatosis, vascular
      malformations and epidermal nevus as well as the Cowden syndrome with multiple hamartomas and
      the Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome with lipomatosis and macrocephalus. The patients with
      overgrowth syndromes all show close clinical overlap. For several years, clinical criteria
      (phenotype) for diagnosis and discrimination of these syndromes have been defined.

      Results of genetic research can today help to diagnose most of the segmental overgrowth
      syndromes which means they can clearly be named. Genes of the PI3K/AKT/PTEN/mTOR signalling
      pathway have been identified to be causative for some of these syndromes. PTEN germline
      mutations have been known to be present in SOLAMEN, Cowden and Ruvalcaba syndrome patients
      all showing tissue overgrowth and close clinical overlap. However, very rarely, somatic PTEN
      mutations could be detected in surgical specimen of lipomas or hamartomas of other segmental
      overgrowth patients. Only recently, recurrent somatic activating mutations of AKT1 have been
      identified in overgrowth tissue of Proteus syndrome patients. Because AKT1 is also activated
      by loss-of-function mutations in PTEN, patients with syndromes harbouring germline PTEN
      mutations (SOLAMEN, Cowden and Ruvalcaba) and Proteus syndrome patients with activating
      mutations of AKT1 show close overlap in clinical manifestations. Furthermore, somatic PI3KCA
      mutations have been described to be responsible for the CLOVE syndrome, again a
      phenotypically closely related variant of the other overgrowth syndromes. These genetic
      results confirmed that patients with overgrowth all share a common feature involving the
      PI3K/AKT/PTEN/mTOR signal pathway.

      Next to surgical approaches in functional handicapped patients, a standard medical therapy is
      not available. Therefore, in most cases, a watch-and-wait strategy is followed. Taking into
      account the genetic background of segmental overgrowth patients, mTOR is a promising target
      for a possible medical treatment. For example, because the direct molecular consequence of
      PTEN loss-of-function is an aberrant activation of the mTOR pathway, targeting mTOR holds the
      promise of a causative treatment in PTEN-positive segmental overgrowth patients.

      Until today, three case reports have described the successful use of the mTOR inhibitor
      Rapamycin for the therapy of patients with segmental overgrowth and PTEN germline mutation.
      The Investigator recently started with "off label" use of Rapamycin in these patients. First
      results with successfully treated patients have been presented at The Annual meeting of the
      German Society of Human Genetics in 2011 and the meeting of the International Society on the
      Studies of Vascular Anomalies in 2012. In one patient with segmental overgrowth syndrome and
      response to Rapamycin, the investigators could identify a PI3KCA mutation in one lesion. This
      case is currently prepared for publication. Interestingly, response on mTOR inhibition could
      be demonstrated in some patients although lack of mutation in the published genes responsible
      for overgrowth syndromes.

      A clinical trial sponsored by the National Cancer Institute tested the ability of Rapamycin
      to decrease the activity of proteins that are regulated by mTOR in both benign and cancerous
      tumour tissue in Cowden syndrome patients (NCT00971789). Only patients over the age of 18
      years were included and multiple biopsies were performed before starting treatment and during
      therapy with Rapamycin.
    
  