
    
      Specific Aim 1:

      Specific Aim 3:

      To investigate whether M, or Mf-derived micro-vesicles, delivered to the brain of mouse
      bearing glioma could affect glioma growth and mice survival. This will allow to better define
      the role of M in controlling glioma growth as a function of its activation state and of
      KCa3.1 and Kv1.3 channel expression and activity. OBJECTIVE: from this aim the investigators
      expect to verify whether brain delivery of differently polarized M (or M-derived vesicles),
      or M/Mf, could represent a meaningful approach to counteract glioma growth and to lengthen
      mice survival.

      Investigate the relationship between CD11b+ and NK cells upon KCa3.1 and Kv1.3 inhibition or
      NK cell depletion. OBJECTIVE: data obtained will help to understand whether the activation
      state of M/Mf affects NK cell accumulation in the tumor site and their cytotoxic activity,
      whether NK cells modulate M/Mf activation, with effects on tumor growth, and the eventual
      role played by K+ channels. Our preliminary data showing that TRAM-34 treatment increased the
      mRNA level of IL-15 in the brain of glioma-bearing mice (FIG3) would suggest an
      IL-15-mediated increased accumulation of NK cells in the tumor region, similarly to previous
      evidence (19).

      To investigate the roles of KCa3.1 and Kv1.3 channels in the interaction between glioma and
      the surrounding parenchyma. OBJECTIVE: to identify possible mechanisms of altered
      communication in the brain of mice treated with K+ channel inhibitors by studying K+
      currents, excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission and astrocytes activation state,
      under normal and hypoxic conditions (corresponding to different position in the tumor mass).
      Altered expression and function of ion channels in glioma cells isolated from mice treated
      with functionally different M and M-derived vesicles will also be investigated.

      Experimental Design Aim 1:

      Experimental Design Aim 2:

      Experimental Design Aim 3:

      This will be investigated with M polarized in culture, treated with TRAM-34 or PAP-1,
      silenced by siRNA specific for KCa3.1 (9) or isolated from KCa3.1-/- or Kv1.3 -/- mice and
      transplanted in the brain of glioma bearing mice by brain injection or intranasal delivery.
      Brain injection of M will be performed similarly to glioma injection (21). Intranasal (i.n.)
      cell application will be performed during a short isoflurane anesthesia. Before treatment,
      all animals will receive 100 U hyaluronidase i.n. dissolved in 12 µL of sterile PBS and one
      hour later a microglia suspension (3 × 105 in 12 µL of sterile PBS) or vehicle (PBS) will be
      applied using the same procedure. Microglia application will be repeated every 3 days until
      mice sacrifice. To check for M delivery in brain tumor region, control experiments will be
      performed using GFP-labeled M, obtained from sibling CX3CR1GFP/+ mice, already available in
      our laboratory. To prepare micro-vesicles, M will be treated with ATP (1mM) for 30 min (20).
      Different centrifugation steps will be performed and the homogeneity of vesicle dimension
      will be evaluated in parallel experiments by dynamic light scattering. Fixed volumes of this
      preparation (4microL) will be administrated intra nasally every 3 days until mice sacrifice.
      M and Mf-derived micro-vesicle-transplanted mice will then be analyzed for tumor volume and
      mice survival investigated as described (9).

      This will be performed on cells isolated (by human biopsy and mice brain) by FACS sorting or
      by magnetic separator (CD11b+ cells), and assayed in vitro for phagocytic and cytotoxic
      activity. The investigators will also perform analysis of gene expression and
      electrophysiological recordings (patch clamp) of ion channel function on M and on tumor cells
      in vitro and ex vivo in brain slices. These experiments will be performed in TRAM-34 or PAP-1
      treated or in KCa3.1-/- or KV1.3-/- glioma bearing mice. M/Mf-NK cell interaction will be
      also studied looking at NK-induced M/Mf alteration and M/Mf-induced NK alteration. At this
      aim the investigators will deplete NK cell population with repeated injection of anti NK1.1
      antibody in glioma bearing mice, to analyze the activation state of M/Mf cell population.

      For this aim the investigators will use electrophysiological, fluorescence and confocal
      microscope analysis in acute brain slice preparations. A detailed description of the
      functional role of microglial K+ channels in modulating glioma progression will be provided.
      In particular, the functional properties of KCa3.1 and Kv1.3 channels expressed by microglial
      cells in control and glioma injected mice will be evaluated in acute brain slices by means of
      the patch-clamp techniques. The effects of K channel blockade on neuronal signaling and on
      astrocytes reactivity will be also evaluated in the same conditions. Fluorescence-based
      digital Ca2+ imaging will be used to assess the role of these channels in microglial [Ca2+]i
      regulation. Using electrophysiological measurements, in combination with immunochemical, PCR,
      siRNA analysis, the investigators will also analyze the modulation of K channels in glioma.
      Using acute brain slices from glioma-injected mice, the investigators will also assess
      whether treatment of mice with polarized M affects the expression and function of glioma ion
      channels known to contribute to the transformed phenotype, such as KCa3.1 channels, BK
      channels, and volume-activated Cl channels. These experiments will be performed in hypoxic
      and non-hypoxic areas of the tumor, identified ex post by evaluating the HIF-1alfa
      expression.

      Methodologies and statistical analyses: The iterative method of "Camussi et al." (20) will be
      followed. The investigators will use the following relation where n is the number of animals:
      n>2sigma^2 (z alpha/D)^2. As an example, to estimate the number of mice necessary to obtain a
      significance alpha=0.09, a difference D in treatment effect on a given parameter, the
      investigators need to know the standard deviation sigma. Since sigma^2 is unknown, it must be
      substituted with an estimate of sampling variance s^2. If the investigators give to s^2=0.01,
      the investigators have that n>18, so the investigators predict to use 20 mice per
      experimental group. Our experience with mice suggests that it is a reasonable number.
      Statistical significance will be assessed by one-way ANOVA for parametrical data, as
      indicated; "Holm-Sidak" test will be used as post-hoc test; "Mann and Withney" test for
      non-parametrical data. Where appropriate, Student's t-test or analysis of variance (ANOVA)
      will be used.
    
  