
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      In recent years there has been a global trend towards more radical and aggressive approach to
      thyroid surgery (total or subtotal thyroidectomy against semithyreoeidectomy), almost
      regardless of the pathological cause, even for benign diseases. There is also developed, a
      serious skepticism as complications of total or subtotal thyroidectomy is neither rare nor
      insignificant. In particular, complications of thyroidectomy is the laryngeal nerve paresis
      (0.2% bilateral, unilateral 3,7-3,9%, 2% transient, lasting 1%), bleeding (1-2%), infection
      of the wound (0, 3-1,6%) and hypocalcaemia (permanent hypocalcaemia in over 6 months follow
      up 1,7-4,4%, while transient, manageable with vit D and calcium substitution 8,3-9,9%). The
      post total thyroidectomy hypocalcaemia is not only more frequent but also has the most
      delayed onset after surgery (up to several 24hours later) in relation to bleeding and paresis
      of the laryngeal nerve, which is immediate postoperative complications. This is the main
      cause of prolonged hospitalization and monitoring of patients postoperatively which is linked
      to increased risk of bacterial infections and increased cost.9, 10 Great effort has been made
      in the last 15 years to reduce the length hospital stay of patients in order to perform the
      total thyroidectomy as a one day surgery.6, 11 In this way great importance is the prediction
      of those patients are more likely to experience post-operative hypocalcaemia. The appearance
      of postoperative hypocalcaemia associated with specific diseases such as thyroid disease
      Graves, the thyreotoxicosis and thyroid cancer 7.8, and the surgical technique (the extent of
      excision, the type of thyroid artery ligation, the number of parathyroid recognized
      intraoperative but also those autotransplanted) 12. Moreover, beyond these factors, great
      importance is given to methods of monitoring patients to find reliable indicators to allow
      safe release out of the hospital after the first 24 hours without risk of hypocalcaemia. The
      measurement of parathyroid hormone (PTH) both intraoperative and postoperatively (4 hours) is
      a hot topic in contemporary literature and promises accurate predictions 13, but there is
      disagreement about the precise time of receiving the specimens and great consideration about
      the increased cost 14, 15 (at our hospital is not even available). An older, simple, fast and
      economical method is to measure levels of free serum calcium 6,9. Despite that the
      correlation of the immediate post-operative levels of free calcium, with the likelihood of
      developing hypocalcaemia has variations in different surveys, resulting to early release of
      patients directly when free calcium is in normal range, by some departments, while others
      follow strict protocols of monitoring patients for days . However, the variation in the
      levels of free serum calcium between the first 6 and 12 postoperative hours alone or in
      combination with measurement of PTH seems to give some answers and it is under great
      consideration in the international community.

      It is therefore, in line with the current literature, important to develop a safe, and also
      cost-effective protocol monitoring patients after total thyroidectomy, which, in combination
      with predisposing risk factors of hypocalcaemia, will predict low-risk patients for
      developing hypocalcaemia and allow secure release from the hospital.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      The objective of this perspective study is to correlate the variability of the levels of free
      serum calcium (Ca + +), and also the levels of albumin (ALB), phosphorus (PO-3), magnesium
      (Mg) and total albumin (TPR), between two measurements on 6 and 12 hours postoperatively, the
      incidence of hypocalcaemia in patients undergoing total thyroidectomy for any reason. The aim
      is to develop on the basis of variation in levels of free serum calcium, a secure method of
      prediction and identification of low risk patients for developing hypocalcaemia providing an
      early release from hospital.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      The correlation between development of hypocalcaemia in patients after total thyroidectomy
      with the following factors:

        -  Gender,

        -  Age,

      Intraoperative factors:

        -  Intraoperative recognition of parathyroid glands

        -  Possible autotransplantation of parathyroid glands

        -  Using scissors, ultrasonic Ligasure compared using ultrasonic scissors

        -  use Ultracision ligation

        -  Use of hemostatic

        -  Volume of blood loss;

        -  Volume and weight; preparation

      Postoperative factors based on the histological-pathological report:

      -Underlying thyroid pathology

      CHOICE / NUMBER OF PATIENTS:

      At least 80 patients with any thyroid pathology undergoing a total thyroidectomy regardless
      of gender, age and medication preceding the one exception, patients treated with substitutes
      calcium and vitamin D.

      METHODS (CLINICAL-LABORATORY) The hypocalcaemia is defined in the study as clinical
      hypocalcaemia. Required symptoms of hypocalcaemia are regional or perioral numbness and signs
      of hypocalcaemia: Trousseau sign (karpopodic spasm) and Chvostek sign (spasm CN VII) and / or
      the levels of free serum calcium below 0,5 mg / dl lower than the normal price laboratory
      (8,2-10,6 mg / dl).

      Each patient included in the study is provided with:

        -  Detailed preoperative history and physical examination. Recording; all preoperative
           examinations before the introduction of the clinical (U / S thyroid scan, FNA biopsy)

        -  Receiving laboratory examinations

             -  Preoperative

             -  on the 6th, 12th and 24th postoperative hours,

             -  every 24 hours after the first 24 hours as long a patient remains in clinical

             -  at least 7 days after hospital discharge

        -  The laboratory control, includes

             1. pre-operatively and 6hr postoperatively :

                  -  Complete blood count,

                  -  levels of urea,

                  -  creatinine,

                  -  sodium potassium,

                  -  glucose, -

                  -  albumin,

                  -  total protein, -

                  -  transaminases,

                  -  γ-GT,

                  -  total and immediate cholerethrini,

                  -  alkaline phosphatase,

                  -  lactate dehydrogenase,

                  -  amylase,

                  -  free serum calcium,

                  -  phosphorus,

                  -  magnesium

             2. Ιn all other measurements:

                  -  Free serum calcium,

                  -  phosphorus,

                  -  magnesium,

                  -  albumin and

                  -  total albumin levels

        -  Surgery information, detailed references of:

             1. The time of onset and completion of surgery

             2. The use of ligation, Ligasure ultrasonic scissors or Harmonic

             3. The recognition of intraoperative parathyroid glands, their number and their
                potential autologous transplants

             4. The weight of the specimen

             5. The blood loss (large or small)

             6. The use of hemostatics

             7. The use neuromonitoring

             8. The type of antibiotics used

             9. The technical rehabilitation of the skin and the use of skin glue

            10. The installation of vacuum drainage

        -  Detailed list of all medication received by the patient during hospitalization

        -  No intravenous or oral calcium or vitamin D supplementation before completing 12 hours
           postoperatively except the clinical case of development of significant hypocalcaemia.

        -  Detailed clinical examination, including:

             1. Testing for Regional numbness

             2. Monitored for signs of Chvostek and Trousseau

             3. Detailed analysis of the histological-pathological report with a detailed record of
                findings of the final pathology of the thyroid.
    
  