
    
      Crohn's Disease is a major health issue with a complex etiology and despite available medical
      treatment, patients endure poor quality of life. The disease 's characterization on a
      molecular level will allow for a better management of patients treatment. To do so, the
      strategy is to integrate precise prospective clinical records with extensive biological data
      in a large cohort of patients.

      All the clinical centers, participating to the study, include patients, with a tight
      collaboration between Gastroenterology and Surgery departments. Demographics and clinical
      parameters are collected in an eCRF.

      Inclusion of patients is performed, before a scheduled ileocecal resection or ileal
      resection, and after eligibility criteria checking, and consent form signature. During
      surgery, several samples are collected : blood samples, mucosal biopsies, and surgical
      specimens. As usual practice, post-operative treatment will be prescribed at investigator's
      discretion, with help of a pre-established algorithm. Then, an endoscopic exam is scheduled,
      at least 6 months after surgery, or at least 6 months after intestine continuity restoration,
      in case of temporary stoma. Several samples are also collected during this exam (blood, ileal
      and colon biopsies).

      At the same time as these 2 visits, clinical data regarding medical history, CD history,
      surgical history, treatments history, post-operative treatment if prescribed, treatments
      history between surgery and colonoscopy 6 months later, endoscopic score. Clinical data are
      also collected 18 months after surgery during a scheduled visit organized as usual practice,
      for long-term study : Clinical relapse, surgical recurrence, change in the therapy,
      hospitalizations and complications A patient has achieved the study after the endoscopic
      exam.

      Several studies will be performed along the cohort setting-up:

        -  Transcriptomic analyses of mucosal tissues:

        -  Identification of a molecular signature predictive of post-operative recurrence

        -  Molecular classification of ileal Crohn's Disease

        -  Study of the mucosa-associated microbiota

        -  Study of association of AIEC

        -  Study of anti-TNF efficacy in post-operative recurrence prevention

        -  Study of new biologics in the treatment of post-operative recurrence All the biologic
           samples are stored on sites at -80°C, or at room temperature depending on the samples :
           Samples collected in Formol tubes, are sent immediatly, at room temperature, to the
           central pathology department in Beaujon Hospital, Paris. All the other samples, stored
           at -80°C, are sent to a central department, the Bio-Bank of Pasteur Hospital, Nice
           (every 3 months).

      Samples analyses are performed by dedicated research centers: DNA, and RNA extraction for
      transcriptome analysis, Micobiota analysis, Lipids analysis, AIEC analysis :

      Histological analyzes: Analyzis of the structure and inflammatory status of intestinal tissue
      of patients of the cohort, particularly at the ileal limit of the surgical specimens.

      Molecular Biology: Whole genome expression analyses are performed using microarray and
      followed by Gene Ontology and clustering analyses.

      Microbiology:

      Adherent Invasive E.Coli (AIEC): The search for AIEC bacteria is carried out by culturing and
      investigating the characteristics of adhesion, invasion in Int-407 cells, and survival within
      THP-1 macrophages.

      Microbiota: Bacterial composition of the ileal mucosa associated microbiota is analyzed at
      time of surgery using 16S (MiSeq, Illumina) sequencing. The obtained sequences are analyzed
      using the Qiime pipeline to assess composition, alpha and beta diversity.

      Immunology:

      Phenotype of mucosal and peripheral immune cells: Immune cells are extracted from blood and
      fresh mucosal tissues. The phenotype of these cells is analyzed by cytometry.

      T cell repertoire: T cell receptor analysis on DNA extracted from biopsies is performed by
      next generation sequencing (Adaptive Biotechnology Inc., Seattle, Washington, USA). It is
      hypothesized that the persistence of these clonal expansions could be linked to the presence
      of specific microbial antigens.

      Data Integration: The aim is to predict post-operative recurrence at M6. Integration of all
      datasets will explore the ability to predict post-operative recurrence. This will also allow
      to establish a molecular classification of CD, similar to what is already available in the
      oncology field. It will also be tried to find regulatory genes of the intestinal mucosa
      ("hubs"), using causal models (Bayesian networks) and co-expression networks (WCGNA). These
      findings could help drive potential innovative therapy for the treatment of CD.

      The comparative analysis of the mucosa-associated transcriptome and microbiome will be
      performed. This could allow to elucidate the relations between bacteria and the intestinal
      mucosa, and to uncover pathways implicated in the bacteria-mucosa dialog. The correlations
      between certain groups of bacteria and the activation of a number of genes will be looked at.
      And genes known to play a role in the interaction between the microbiome and the mucosa will
      be specifically studied (MUC, DEF, REG, NOD2, …).

      Lastly, once the patient genotypes will be available, an analysis of the genome together with
      the transcriptome and the relationship between genotype, transcriptome, and microbiome will
      be performed.

      This analysis should help to robustly identify major pathways involved in intestinal
      inflammation, study the role played by genetics, and the impact on the gut microbiome. And
      finally to correlate these results with carefully curated clinical data: relapse/remission,
      post-operative recurrence, efficacy of post-operative therapies (anti TNF agents,
      ustekinumab).
    
  