
    
      Currently, basic training programs do not adequately teach nursing home (NH) staff to handle
      behavioral symptoms at mealtime that typically accompany dementia. When persons with dementia
      (PWD) exhibit mealtime symptoms (e.g. turning away of the head, pushing food away), these
      symptoms may be interpreted as lack of interest in eating, and feeding attempts ceased. This
      misinterpretation poses serious health risks to PWD including under-nutrition and increased
      risk for more aggressive medical treatment (e.g. feeding tube). The Aims of this study are
      to: 1) Identify the adaptive leadership challenges of NH staff for alleviating mealtime
      symptoms for PWD; 2) Determine NH staff evaluation of a dementia feeding skills training
      program that combines adaptive leadership approaches with technical approaches to mealtime
      symptoms; and 3) Conduct a 12-week feasibility study implementing this dementia feeding
      skills training program with NH staff, linking training to resident outcomes. Focus groups
      will be conducted in four NHs during which NH staff will describe adaptive challenges around:
      mealtime symptom recognition, communication patterns, typical responses to mealtime symptoms,
      and feelings when interventions are met with success or failure. Focus group interviews will
      be transcribed and content analysis conducted. Findings from the focus group interviews will
      be used to revise a dementia feeding skills program. The revised training program will be
      evaluated by NH staff to determine how NH staff perceives the coaching intervention, and if
      case scenarios are realistic and compatible with current workplace practices. The training
      program will be implemented in two skilled NHs over a five week period. NH staff outcomes
      include mealtime knowledge and self-efficacy. Through meal observations, NH staff will be
      assessed for time spent assisting with feeding and feeding skill behaviors; and PWD outcomes
      assessed by quantifying meal intake and aversive feeding behaviors. Findings from this study
      will describe adaptive leadership challenges for NH staff, revise and implement a training
      program teaching NH staff adaptive and technical interventions for alleviating mealtime
      symptoms for PWD in the NH setting.
    
  