
    
      Lung cancer is most common cause of death from cancer, of which non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) accounts for ~80% of all cases with most patients presenting with advanced disease.
      Patients medically unfit to receive radical or platinum-doublet palliative systemic therapy,
      because of poor performance status or comorbidity, account for at least 45% of newly
      diagnosed cases and have poor survival. Many oncologists have interpreted single-agent
      chemotherapy data as not clinically meaningful when balanced against toxicities,
      non-significant improvements in quality of life and comorbidity. Hence, in the UK, this group
      of patients are predominantly treated by best-supportive care (BSC).

      This study aims to examine the efficacy and safety of using afatinib (BIBW 2992), an
      irreversible second generation EGFR inhibitor, in patients with non-small cell lung cancer,
      who are considered unfit for chemotherapy and have either suspected or confirmed Epidermal
      Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) mutation.

      Suspected EGFR mutant patients will have clinical characteristics likely to harbour the EGFR
      mutation (adenocarcinoma sub type and ex or never smokers) with EGFR genotype unknown either
      due to no tissue suitable for genotyping or failed genotype.

      There has been only one small prospective study of medically unfit patients with EGFR
      mutation, but it demonstrated good efficacy with a TKI17. This phase II study of East Asian
      patients (n=30) with performance status 2-4 and treated with gefitinib demonstrated a rapid
      improvement in performance status at 1 month, an overall response rate of 66% and median
      survival of 17.8 months. Whilst gefitinib is licensed for EGFR mutant NSCLC, no prospective
      studies have yet been performed on medically unfit patients from Western countries. Despite
      dramatic initial responses, EGFR mutant NSCLC patients treated with gefitinib/erlotinib
      ultimately relapse. In ~50% of cases this is due to the gefitinib/erlotinib-resistant T790M
      genotype acquired through either secondary somatic mutation or clonal expansion. There is
      therefore a need to improve the outcomes of medically unfit patients with suspected EGFR
      mutation, who would otherwise be treated with best supportive care, and in proven EGFR
      mutation cases by using an effective EGFR-directed therapy that inhibits EGFRT790M.

      Prospective data on medically unfit Western NSCLC patients with EGFR mutation are required to
      assess the efficacy of EGFR-TKIs. Additionally, given that 50% of such patients will become
      TKI-resistant through EGFRT790M, new therapies are required to overcome this resistance
      mechanism.
    
  