
    
      The GI is a method of classifying foods based on the food's ability to raise the blood
      glucose level. Low GI foods are recommended as they have a lower impact on blood glucose
      concentrations. The research sets out to determine the effect of GI on 24 hour blood glucose
      profiles and energy regulation in Asians. Healthy, normal-weight, Chinese males will be
      recruited. There will be two sessions (consisting of four days for each session) where they
      will consume either a high or low GI breakfast, lunch, snack (in the whole body calorimeter),
      and a high or low glycaemic index dinner at home. They will take part in two test sessions
      (each spanning over 3 days) with at least five days in between the two sessions. Their
      glycaemic response will be measured using a Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (CGMS)
      throughout the period, while substrate oxidation will be measured over 10 hours in the
      calorimeter (from breakfast, lunch and snack). This study specifically attempts to see how
      having high and low GI meals impact on blood glucose levels and energy regulation in Asians.
      The study is important in that it will be the first of its kind in the whole body calorimeter
      and enable us to compute the rate of fat synthesis and how it is modulated when subjects are
      fed a high GI diet (increased glucose excursions) and a low GI diet ( blunted glucose) over
      24 hours in healthy Asians. Obesity and diabetes rates are increasing exponentially in Asian
      populations and Singapore is no exception. Devising ways and means to staunch the escalation
      is therefore a priority. The findings of the research will contribute towards the long-term
      objectives of developing Asian specific dietary guidelines for weight and glycaemic control.
      The study data will also be important for the provision of practical food-based advocacy for
      better weight and glycaemic control in Singaporeans.
    
  