
    
      Rationale: Increasing evidence suggests an important role of activation of the sympathetic
      nervous system (SNS) in the clinical phenomena of heart failure with normal left ventricular
      ejection fraction and hypertension. Moreover, sympathetic activation of the kidneys is
      directly proportional related to the severity of the heart failure state. Therapeutic renal
      denervation (PRDN), the deliberate disruption of the nerves connecting the kidneys with the
      central nervous system, has been shown to be an effective means of modulating elevated SNS
      activity. The current study aims to evaluate efficacy and safety of renal sympathetic
      denervation for the modulation of the SNS in patients with heart failure with normal LV
      ejection fraction.

      Objective: Primary objectives: To investigate the efficacy of PRDN by means of pulsed wave
      Doppler echocardiographic parameters in patients diagnosed with HFNEF and hypertension.
      Secondary objectives: to investigate the safety of PRDN in patients with heart failure with
      normal LV ejection fraction and hypertension and to compare changes in the following
      parameters in patients with HFNEF and hypertension after PRDN: LV mass, LV volume, LA volume,
      LVEF, MIBG-uptake and -washout, BNP levels, blood pressure, heart rate variability, exercise
      capacity and quality of life.

      Study design: Multicentre, prospective, randomised controlled trial. 60 patients will be
      randomly allocated in a one-to-one ratio to undergo renal denervation with previous treatment
      (n=30) or to maintain previous treatment alone (n=30) at 2 participating centres.
      Randomisation will be done with sealed envelopes.

      Study population: Patients diagnosed with heart failure with normal LV ejection fraction and
      treated for hypertension. Patients should have a stable drug regimen, with at least 2
      antihypertensive agents. This drug regimen should be expected to be maintained for at least 6
      months.

      ￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Endpoints: The efficacy of PRDN will be evaluated primarily using echocardiographic
      parameters. Also, safety of PRDN on major and minor adverse events, LV mass, LV and LA
      dimensions, MIBG uptake and clinical endpoints will be evaluated.
    
  