
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the rate of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) decline and the number of patients
           reaching a PSA nadir of zero after treatment with chemoradiotherapy comprising docetaxel
           and external-beam radiotherapy followed by docetaxel and prednisone in patients with
           hormone-naive prostate cancer who have a persistent or rising PSA after radical
           prostatectomy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival, based on PSA progression, of these patients.

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with chemoradiotherapy for rising PSA
           after radical prostatectomy.

        -  Determine if the velocity of subsequent PSA failure impacts survival of these patients.

      Tertiary

        -  Document subsequent therapy for patients whose previous treatment has failed and if
           there is a response to that therapy.

      Quaternary: To collect data on a contemporary cohort to those on study that received
      radiation alone. We will match cancer and patient characteristics to determine if the
      variable of chemotherapy has any impact on outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43 and
      undergo external-beam radiotherapy on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26, 29-33, 36-40, and 43-47.

      Beginning within 6 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive docetaxel IV
      over 1 hour on day 1 and oral prednisone twice daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month, every 4 months for 2
      years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  