
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of everolimus and docetaxel
           in treating patients with recurrent, locally advanced or metastatic squamous cell
           carcinoma of the head and neck. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of everolimus when
           combined with docetaxel in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To examine the response rates in patients receiving the combination of docetaxel and
           everolimus and those receiving docetaxel alone. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To investigate possible pharmacokinetic interactions between docetaxel and everolimus in
           these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To investigate the effect of everolimus on downstream targets of mTOR in tumor in these
           patients. (Phase I)

        -  To examine the time to progression after docetaxel and everolimus in these patients.
           (Phase II)

        -  To perform a pilot study to attempt to identify predictors of response, including
           evaluation of EGFR family member expression, mutations, or amplifications. (Phase II)

        -  To attempt to identify downstream targets of the EGFR pathway including phosphorylation
           of S6 and phosphorylation of AKT. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of everolimus with docetaxel
      followed by a randomized phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and escalating doses of oral
           everolimus on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 6 courses
           of therapy, patients may continue to receive everolimus weekly as a single agent until
           evidence of progressive disease.

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

             -  Arm A: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1.Treatment repeats every
                21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity. Patients with progressive disease are eligible to cross over into the
                everolimus arm at the investigator's discretion.

             -  Arm B: Patients receive docetaxel as in arm A and oral everolimus (at a dose
                determined in the phase I portion of the study) on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment
                repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity. After the completion of combination therapy, patients may
                continue to receive maintenance everolimus weekly, at the investigator's
                discretion.

      Blood samples are collected for pharmacokinetic monitoring in the phase I study. Tissue
      samples are collected at baseline and periodically during the study for biomarker and other
      laboratory analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for at least 1
      year.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 18 patients will be accrued for phase I and a total of 100
      patients will be accrued for phase II of this study.
    
  