
    
      Emphysema is a progressive pulmonary disease characterized by abnormal and permanent
      enlargement of air spaces distal to terminal bronchioles accompanied by the destruction of
      pulmonary parenchyma. Treatment includes inhaled bronchodilator therapy, rehabilitation
      and/or oxygen treatment. In addition to the above, patients with severe emphysema may benefit
      from surgical lung volume reduction and/or lung transplantation. The rationale for lung
      volume reduction surgery is that reducing lung size would restore elastic recoil of the lung
      and improve chest wall and diaphragm mechanics. It has previously been shown that
      particularly patients with heterogeneous emphysema seem to benefit most from surgical lung
      volume reduction.

      Bronchoscopic lung volume reduction (BLVR) has recently been introduced as a less invasive
      potential alternative to surgical lung volume reduction. BLVR attempts to achieve the effects
      of surgery, by placing bronchial prostheses using a fibreoptic bronchoscope to selectively
      occlude the airways supplying the most affected hyperinflated regions of the emphysematous
      lung, while permitting exhaled gas to escape. This attempts to achieve segmental or lobar
      volume reduction, simulating the effects of surgical LVR. Recent trials of BLVR using
      endobronchial one-way valves demonstrated significant improvements in lung function
      parameters, exercise capacity and quality of life in patients with end-stage emphysema. The
      treatment algorithm for valve implantations to achieve BLVR, however, varied considerably in
      these reports as well as clinical and functional response rates. Subset analysis of these
      studies revealed that particularly, but not exclusively, patients with radiological signs of
      lung volume reduction treated unilaterally showed significant clinical improvements, whereas
      most patients without signs of lung volume reduction did not experience these benefits. The
      present study investigates the response to BLVR based on a new treatment algorithm including
      lung function criteria and computed tomography of the thorax.
    
  