
    
      The general objective of this application is to study reorganization of network interactions
      following a common type of subcortical stroke (i.e. internal capsule) with mechanistic
      studies using noninvasive neurophysiology in humans. The goal is to obtain pilot data and to
      demonstrate the feasibility of the approach that combines transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) with reaching in an advanced exoskeleton robot. As reaching is an essential part of
      many daily activities, this approach will have beneficial impacts on the quality of life of
      these stroke patients.

      The central hypothesis is that bilateral premotor cortical areas, dorsal (PMd) more so than
      ventral (PMv,) develops greater connectivity with primary motor cortex (M1) after stroke and
      thus better ability to produce motor outputs that support reaching with the paretic arm. When
      there is more damage to the corticospinal tract, contralesional areas will take on a greater
      role.

      The relationship between connectivity, behavioral effects of stimulation and motor
      performance will be established. These findings will allow the investigators to formulate
      clear hypotheses about which premotor area should be modulated with TMS, depending on stroke
      extent and deficits in motor control, when reaching the stage of proposing a treatment trial.
      Increased knowledge of the dynamic changes of physiological interactions during various
      phases of reaching movements will allow a more defined study regarding the role of premotor
      areas in recovery of motor function after stroke, and a novel treatment protocol that
      delivers precisely timed stimulations during practice of reaching movements. Ultimately, the
      investigators can test these novel treatments in clinical trials and compare their impact to
      other, less specific, neuromodulatory methods such as transcranial direct current
      stimulation. This study will also lay the groundwork for collaboration in brain computer
      interface and non-human primate investigations in the mechanisms and treatment of motor
      deficits after stroke.
    
  