
    
      Hutchison-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) is a rare "premature aging" disease in which
      children die of severe atherosclerosis at an average age of thirteen years (range 8-20
      years). Children with HGPS appear healthy at birth, but within months display signs of growth
      failure, lipodystrophy, hair loss, and aged skin. Within just a few years they exhibit boney
      abnormalities including osteoporosis and resorption, coax valga and hip dislocation. The
      final height approximates 3 feet. Mortality is caused by generalized artherosclerosis leading
      to strokes and heart attacks. The gene defect causing HGPS has recently been identified as a
      single base mutation in the gene LMNA, coding for the nuclear protein Lamin A. The spectrum
      of effects of this gene defect on cellular function, and how these effects culminate in the
      HGPS disease phenotype, remain to be elucidated. Furthermore, no in-patient multisubject
      clinical evaluation of children with HGPS has ever been performed, and no therapy exists for
      any of the complications of HGPS. Hence, baseline studies are critical to determine the
      extent of organ involvement in HGPS, evaluate disease progression, and design clinical trials
      of potential treatments. The purpose of this study is to longitudinally investigate the
      disease characteristics of HGPS using state-of the-art measures of cardiovascular function,
      comprehensive laboratory testing, in vitro cell culture studies, and extensive medical
      consultations. HGPS patients will be admitted to the NIH Clinical center as inpatients for
      approximately 5 days every two years. The information emanating from the proposed studies
      will assist in assuring appropriate care for children with HGPS, provide a better
      understanding of the variations in phenotype of HGPS, and stimulate new research into HGPS
      and the aging diseases associated with HGPS, such as atherosclerosis. These studies will also
      allow us to evaluate new clinical outcome parameters and to design appropriate therapeutic
      interventions.
    
  