
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the treatment delivery and toxicity of the combination of thalidomide and
      radiotherapy in patients with low-grade primary soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or body
      wall.

      II. Determine the treatment delivery and toxicity of the combination of thalidomide and
      doxorubicin, ifosfamide, dacarbazine, and radiotherapy in patients with high- or
      intermediate-grade primary soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or body wall and compare
      these results with those of patients treated on RTOG-9514.

      III. Determine the feasibility of using specific tissue and circulating biomarkers of
      antiangiogenic response in patients treated with these regimens, in a multi-institutional
      setting.

      IV. Determine the quantitative changes and patient variabilities of these biomarkers before,
      during, and after therapy with these regimens.

      V. Determine the baseline data sets of biomarkers, particularly circulating endothelial
      cells, in patients treated with these regimens.

      VI. Determine the tolerance to long-term post-operative thalidomide in these patients.

      VII. Determine the clinical response to pre-operative therapy in these patients.

      VIII. Correlate local control and disease-free survival with surrogate biological endpoints
      in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, cohort study. Patients with high- or intermediate-grade tumors >= 8
      cm in diameter are assigned to cohort A and patients with low-grade tumors > 5 cm in diameter
      are assigned to cohort B.

      Cohort A: Patients receive doxorubicin, ifosfamide, and dacarbazine IV continuously on days
      1-3, 22-24, and 43-45. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on days
      4, 25, and 46 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients undergo radiotherapy once
      daily on days 7-11, 14-18, 21, 28-32, 35-39, and 42. Patients receive oral thalidomide once
      daily on days 7-21 and 26-42. Patients undergo surgical resection between days 84 and 98.
      Beginning 2 weeks after surgery, patients receive oral thalidomide once daily for 12 months
      in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohort B: Patients receive oral thalidomide once daily beginning on day 1 and continuing
      until 1 week before surgery. Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, on
      weeks 1-5. Patients undergo surgical resection between days 77 and 91. Beginning 2 weeks
      after surgery, patients receive oral thalidomide once daily for 6 months in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 44 patients (22 per cohort) will be accrued for this study
      within 17 months.
    
  