
    
      This proposed study will be a randomized control trial which studies the mechanism of
      positive spirals of mindfulness in mindful breathing. Potential participants will be
      recruited from the community through posters, social media sites and/or emails. About 30
      eligible participants will be recruited after an online screening (with phone support). Prior
      to all study procedures, the research purpose and data collection procedure will be given to
      the participants and an online informed consent will be obtained from them.

      In this study, participants will be randomly assigned to either the mindful breathing group
      (intervention group) or the waitlist group (control group) in a ratio of 1:1. The
      randomization will be performed by an independent assessor using a computer-generated list of
      numbers. No deception is necessary.

      All participants will be requested to wear an actigraphy device (ActiGraph GT9X link)
      connected to a heart rate sensor (Polar H10) for 8 consecutive days, for recording their
      physiological data including HRV and activity level. Ecological momentary assessment (EMA)
      will also be used. A smartphone application will be developed and installed in the
      participants' smartphones. The app will prompt the participants, 4 times each day (9 a.m., 1
      p.m., 5 p.m. and 9 p.m.), to fill in a self-report questionnaire concerning mood. Besides
      that, participants have to complete an assessment at baseline and immediate post-intervention
      assessments.

      Participants in treatment group will receive mindful breathing instructions daily (at 9 a.m.
      after completing the EMA questionnaires). They will be asked to perform a 10-minute mindful
      breathing exercise based on an audio. After that, they will submit a simple record indicating
      the time they have completed the exercise. Meanwhile, participants in the waitlist condition
      will not receive the recording during the study. However, the same set of mindful breathing
      instruction audio will be sent to the waitlist group after the study.
    
  