
    
      In this prospective observational study, 250 patients who underwent EVAR will be studied.
      They will be enrolled after referral for a CT with contrast agent at IRCCS Policlinico San
      Donato or at ASST Santi Paolo e Carlo. Those with absolute contraindications to RM will be
      excluded.

      All enrolled subjects will undergo MR with contrast agent and color-Doppler ultrasound after
      CT. Before and after each examination, they will be submitted a questionnaire to evaluate
      their perception towards the former, and both costs and exposure deriving from such
      examinations will be evaluated along with patients' responses. Moreover, both CT and MR along
      with color-Doppler ultrasound will be analyzed with regards to human resources management,
      operational management, patients' clinical workflow and organization.

      All CT examinations will be independently evaluated by two radiologists with 4- and 8-year
      expertise in thoracic or abdominal CT. Results obtained from CT examinations will be used as
      a reference standard using the "worst case scenario" method: if either reader reported
      endoleak, the CT will be considered positive. The more experienced reader will anonymously
      and randomly repeat CT evaluation after 1 month.

      For CMR examinations, a 15-minute protocol will be used on a 1.5-T device. The following
      sequences will be performed:

        -  steady state free-precession (true-FISP)

        -  half-Fourier single shot spin-echo (HASTE) All examinations will be independently and
           blindly evaluated by the same two radiologists as CT examinations, and they will be
           considered positive if areas (even smaller than 5 mm) of alterate signal in comparison
           to surrounding muscle in the same slice are present inside the aneurismatic sac. The
           more experienced reader will anonymously and randomly repeat CT evaluation after 1
           month.

      Color-Doppler ultrasound will be performed with a 1-5 MHz probe, by a radiologist with 7-year
      expertise in aortic ultrasound, blinded to MR and CT results. Ultrasound images will be
      evaluated both directly and through spectral flow study.

      The sample size was calculated assuming an alpha error of 5%, 90% power and 10% endoleak
      prevalence. In order to prove a negative predictive value of MR without contrast agent and
      color-Doppler ultrasound not inferior to 90%, 250 patients should be enrolled.
    
  