
    
      This research project consists of two parts: (1) Formative study on the use of social
      networking services for relapse prevention; and (2) A RCT to test the effectiveness of social
      networking services for relapse prevention 7.1 Phase 1 - Formative study 7.1.1 Study design
      and objectives Literature review and exploratory data analysis on the existing dataset of
      ICSCs will be conducted to better define smoking relapse and estimate the relapse rate in the
      natural setting. In addition, an extensive review of the effectiveness of other similar or
      relevant intervention studies, including our previous studies and preliminary results of
      using short messaging services at HKU will be conducted. A consultation group formed by the
      ICSCs and smoking cessation research team of HKU will be responsible to develop the
      intervention package through the social networking service, including the content of
      delivered messages, channels, format, time to be sent, intensity, moderator's protocol,
      manpower and other logistic arrangement. This intervention package will then be tested in
      some cognitive interview to assess the relevance, appropriateness, potential effectiveness
      and acceptance level of the SMS.

      7.1.2 Selection of subjects We will invite about 6 quitters (without relapsing for at least
      one month) and 6 relapsers (smoke 5 cigarettes for 3 days after quitting) from the ICSCs by
      (i) gender (M, F) and (ii) age group (18-39, 40-59, 60+) to comment on the relevance,
      appropriateness, potential effectiveness and acceptance level of the intervention package.

      7.1.3 Procedures for the cognitive interview The sites for conducting the cognitive interview
      of the intervention package contents will be the eight ICSCs. A face-to-face semi-qualitative
      interview will be conducted.

      7.1.4 Instruments A semi-structured interview guide and instrument will be used to collect
      their opinions.

      7.1.5 Sample size 12 participants (6 quitters and 6 relapsers) will be recruited. Phase 2 -
      Randomized controlled trial

        1. Study design and objectives: This is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to compare the
           relapse rate at the end of the first and third month between participants who join the
           social network (group A) and those who do not (group B). Research hypothesis: The
           relapse rate at 1-month and 3-month of the intervention arm (Group A) is lower than the
           control arm (Group B)

        2. Target subjects

           Inclusion criteria:

             -  Clients who have received the community-based smoking cessation counseling provided
                by ICSC

             -  Reported tobacco abstinence in the past 7 days at the 8-week follow-up from the
                first enrollment

             -  Aged 18 or above

             -  Able to communicate in Cantonese and read Chinese

             -  Have a local network mobile phone with mobile internet access

           Exclusion criteria:

             -  Those with unstable physical or psychological conditions as advised by the doctor
                or counselor in charge

             -  Smokers with diagnosed alcohol dependence or the score of the Alcohol Use Disorders
                Identification Test (AUDIT) is 8 or higher

             -  Smokers who have difficulties (either physical or cognitive condition) to
                communicate

             -  Currently participating in other smoking cessation programs

        3. Procedures:

      Smokers who finished the 8-week treatment by TWGHs will be followed up by the staff of TWGHs
      through telephone or face-to-face visit. Those who meet the inclusion criteria will be
      introduced the RCT and invited to consent the participation of the RCT through oral or
      written consent. The social networking service for the intervention group will be available
      within 3 to 4 days after randomization.

      Group A: Intervention arm with relapse prevention intervention in the social group via the
      social networking service (Potential channel: Whatsapp or Facebook). In order to sustain the
      abstinence among the participants in the social groups, the intervention content is about how
      to prevent smoking lapse and relapse, how to deal with high-risk situations and facilitate
      mutual support among participants. Moderators of the social groups will send messages of
      brief advice, give feedback to participants' enquiries and facilitate conversations in the
      platform. We propose the moderator to spend about 1 to 2 hours a day for the social group
      conversation in a flexible time schedule, and the duration will be at least one month. More
      details about the intervention will be confirmed at the preparation stage.

      Group B: Control arm without any other interventions Counselors, from ICSCs and HKU, who have
      experience in smoking cessation and familiar with the operation of the social networking
      service, will be recruited as moderators of the social media groups to deliver the social
      networking services.

      1- and 3-month follow up (after the random allocation) will be conducted by a trained
      interviewer (blinded to the group assignment) via telephone interview. Subjects who have
      reported abstinence from smoking at the follow-up will undergo a non-biochemical validation
      to validate their quitting status. They will be enquired a few questions about their quitting
      experience and impression, and their family members will be invited to report the smokers'
      smoking and quitting status thru telephone interview. Also, they will be invited by the
      interviewer to have biochemical validation tests (saliva cotinine test and exhaled CO test).

      4 Randomization and Blinding: Simple randomization method by sequentially numbered, opaque
      sealed envelopes (SNOSE) will be conducted to ensure both the TWGHs counselors and the
      participants are masked from the allocation. The counselors who are responsible for the
      subject recruitment will be masked from the randomization. For each participant who is
      eligible for the study checked by the counselors, the counselor will call the site randomizer
      to allocate group identity for the participant by opening one sealed envelope according to
      the serial number sequentially and inform the counselor for further intervention. Assessors
      in the follow-ups will not be involved in the randomization process and be totally blinded to
      the group assignment (single blindness).

      5 Instruments: The required baseline information related to demographics and background
      information will be confirmed at the preparation stage. ICSCs will collect these information
      from the smokers during the enrollment of the first visit. A structured questionnaire at 1-
      and 3- month from enrollment of ICSCs will be developed by adopting or modifying
      international and/or locally validated instruments. The questionnaire gathers information
      including smoking and quitting history, satisfaction and perceived-usefulness of the social
      networking services, risk perceptions of smoking, intention to quit smoking (stage of
      readiness to quit), antecedent factors of the Theory of Planned Behavior model (behavioural
      beliefs, outcome evaluations, normative beliefs, motivation to comply), pros and cons of
      smoking (decisional balance), self-efficacy to resist smoking, other lifestyle risk factors
      (drinking and physical activities), demographic information such as age, gender, marital
      status, education level and employment status.

      6 Sample size determination: Since this is a pilot study to test the feasibility and generate
      preliminary estimates of effectiveness of the interactive messaging service for smoking
      cessation, the sample size would be 50 for each arm (i.e. total sample size = 100). Taking
      reference from the relapse rate (based on the 7-day point prevalence) of ICSCs of TWGH from
      2009-2010, 251 out of the 763 quitters at 8 weeks reported that they smoked again at 6
      months. In other words, the relapse rate (number of continuing smoking at 6 months among
      self-reported quitters at the 8-week follow-up) was 33%, assuming no new quitters. We assumed
      a similar result would occur for the control group of this RCT of relapse prevention (Group
      B). The effect size is set conservatively at 1:1.5 for the contrast between group A and B. In
      other words, the estimated relapse rates for A and B are 22% and 33%, respectively. As we
      only have 100 subjects in total, the power for detecting this difference using the Fisher's
      exact test is 26%, given alpha is 0.05. That means the study has low probability to reject
      the alternative hypothesis if it is false. The power would reach to 51.4% when the estimated
      effect size is set at 1:2. Alternatively, if the total sample size can be increased to 500,
      the power can reach to 85% for the 1.5 effect size.

      7 Methods of statistical analysis Data will be entered into SPSS for Windows (version 20).
      Descriptive statistics such as frequency, percentage, and mean will be used to summarize the
      outcomes and other variables. Chi-square tests and t-tests will be used to compare outcome
      variables between subgroups. Fisher's exact test will be used to compare the quit rates
      between group A and group B. The intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis will be used such that
      those lost to contact and refused cases at the follow-ups will be treated as failure to
      achieve any cessation outcome.

      8 Process evaluation To understand the perception and effectiveness of the social networking
      services, all the participants in the intervention group will also be invited to give
      feedback through the social networking platform. Furthermore, six participants from the
      intervention group will be selected (3 relapsers and 3 non-relapsers) to participate in an
      in-depth interview after the 3-month follow-up. Questions such as their satisfaction,
      perceptions on the advantages and disadvantages of the intervention, and any other
      suggestions for improvement will be explored and discussed.
    
  