
    
      The rates of pediatric obesity (~19%) and diabetes (0.24%) in the US are alarming and
      behaviors implicated in obesity and type 2 diabetes are highly prevalent. Approximately 69%
      and 73% of adolescents consume less than two fruits and vegetables daily respectively, while
      53% engage in insufficient physical activity. These behaviors magnify adolescents' immediate
      and long-term risks for obesity and obesity-related chronic illnesses, as well as complicate
      the treatment of obesity-related chronic illnesses. Children and adolescents who are obese
      are four times more likely to be diagnosed with type 2 diabetes than normal weight children,
      with serious short and long-term consequences impacting quality of life. Reduced life
      expectancy is the future of America's youth if behavioral changes are not implemented to
      improve health and reduce the obesity burden. Reversing current national trends in obesity
      and type 2 diabetes require novel and sustainable prevention strategies to address children
      and adolescents' obesogenic behaviors.

      Adolescence is marked by increased autonomy in decision-making, yet data suggest that
      adolescents are not equipped with all the skills to make effective health-related behavioral
      decisions. While health knowledge works in conjunction with motivation and behavioral skills
      to predict behavior, most existing adolescent interventions target these variables in
      isolation with modest success. Researchers have argued that health literacy (HL) - the
      ability to access, understand, and use health information to make informed health decisions -
      is a precursor to health knowledge and is necessary for translating health knowledge into
      behavior. Low HL among adults is associated with poor ability to interpret health messages,
      and results in reduced preventive health behaviors. Further, parent and adolescent HL is
      negatively related to adolescents' obesity status. Thus, while research on adding HL to
      existing behavior interventions to improve adolescents' obesity prevention behaviors is
      lacking, it is expected that the inclusion of HL into existing interventions will increase
      intervention effectiveness and positive behavior outcomes.

      The long-term goal of this line of research is to reduce the incidence of obesity in
      adolescents and by extension reduce the risk for obesity-related chronic illnesses using
      interventions that address individual and contextual factors related to long-term health
      decision-making and behavior change. The goal of the proposed study is to examine the effect
      of adding a HL component to an obesity prevention intervention that addresses adolescents'
      obesogenic behavior-related health knowledge, motivation, and behavioral skills. The central
      hypothesis is adolescents receiving HL training as part of an obesity prevention intervention
      will have higher rates of prevention behaviors than those in the obesity prevention only
      condition. Study goals will be achieved through the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Modify successful components of existing obesity prevention interventions into an
      interactive digital platform with and without HL for acceptability and usability in
      adolescents.

      Approach: Use successful components of existing interventions, our completed preliminary
      research, and our research teams' expertise to develop an interactive digital intervention
      including HL, and obesogenic behavior-related health knowledge, motivation, and behavioral
      skills. Assess and modify the intervention for usability and acceptability among
      14-16-year-olds through an iterative process.

      Aim 2: Determine if the addition of HL training to an interactive digital obesity prevention
      intervention will improve adolescents' obesity prevention behaviors over the obesity
      intervention alone.

      Hypothesis: Adolescents in the obesity prevention plus HL intervention will have higher rates
      of obesity prevention behaviors at posttest and follow-up compared to the obesity prevention
      only group.

      Approach: Conduct a two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) intervention (obesity
      prevention only, obesity prevention/HL) and estimate the intervention's effects on obesogenic
      behaviors. Adolescents (n = 76; 14-16-year-olds) will be randomly assigned to each condition
      (38/condition). Conduct pretest, posttest, and 1- and 3-month assessments of HL, obesogenic
      behaviors, and obesogenic behavior-related motivation, behavioral skills, and knowledge.

      Outcomes: Intervention completion will result in effect size estimates of improvements in
      obesity prevention behaviors, health knowledge, motivation, and behavioral skills for both
      groups with greater improvements for the HL group at posttest and follow-up. The obesity
      prevention/HL intervention group will also have higher HL at posttest and follow-up.
      Retention, recruitment, completion and treatment fidelity rates will be established.

      Innovation & Impact: This study incorporates HL, an understudied but potentially critical
      factor in adolescents' health behaviors. The intervention will be developed and implemented
      in a digital format which will increase reach and impact. This is the first study examining
      the effect of including HL in adolescents' obesity prevention interventions. This study sets
      the groundwork for a full scale, RCT to assess the benefit of HL training added to an obesity
      prevention intervention to address adolescents' obesogenic behaviors.
    
  