
    
      Liver injury due to prescription and non-prescription medication use is a medical, scientific
      and public health problem of increasing frequency and importance in the United States.
      Indeed, drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is the most important reason for non-approval,
      withdrawal, limitation in use and clinical monitoring by the Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA). However, detection of signals for liver injury frequently relies upon the reporting of
      cases by practitioners to health authorities in post-marketing surveillance. Under-reporting
      of cases, lack of mandatory reporting systems, and difficulties in establishing a diagnosis
      make the current system sub-optimal. Moreover, with the growing use of complementary and
      alternative medications (CAM), there have also been increasing reports of liver toxicity due
      to various non-prescription herbal, dietary and food additive supplements. Because the
      manufacturing, dispensing and testing of these products is not regulated, the hepatotoxic
      potential of these formulations is poorly characterized or completely unknown.

      The DILIN Prospective Study is a multi-centered epidemiological study designed to gather
      clinical information and biological specimens on cases of suspected liver injury due to drugs
      and CAM. The goals of this study are to develop a database of recent DILI cases, identify the
      clinical, environmental and genetic risk factors that predict DILI, develop standardized
      instruments and terminology and perform careful longitudinal follow-up of DILI subjects.
      Biological samples collected will be used in future studies of the mechanisms and genetics of
      DILI.

      Patients who are referred to one of the DILIN clinical sites and who, in the opinion of
      gastroenterologist/hepatologist, experienced a drug-induced liver injury are enrolled.
      Detailed clinical data and biological specimens are collected. Clinical data will be reviewed
      by the DILIN Causality Committee and the final determination on whether the subject qualifies
      as a bona fide DILI case is made by consensus opinion. DILI cases (only) are followed for at
      least 6 months to derive the longitudinal profile of drug-and CAM-induced liver injury.
      Detailed clinical data including liver elastography (FibroScans) and biological specimens are
      collected. Patients who satisfy the definition of chronic DILI will be evaluated with
      additional FibroScans at 12, 24, 36 and 48 months thereafter.
    
  