
    
      IRIS study is an Italian, multicenter, prospective and non-interventional study aimed to
      observe the safety and efficacy of uninterrupted or shortly interrupted catheter ablation
      procedure with Rivaroxaban in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) patients in real-world
      clinical practice.

      250 patients treated with rivaroxaban undergoing AF-ablation procedure are expected to be
      enrolled in two years. The patients can arrive already taking rivaroxaban or if they are
      naïve, the investigators will start the therapy and taking rivaroxaban for at least 4 weeks.
      The decision to prescribe rivaroxaban is under discretion of the treating physician,
      including the dose and duration of therapy. Also the decision on the ablation technique and
      energy used during the procedure (radiofrequency catheter ablation or Cryoballoon Ablation)
      is up to the investigators.

      Because this study is intended to assess the use of rivaroxaban in routine real-world
      clinical practice, study protocol will not interfere with the clinical management of patients
      or with the prescribing behaviors of attending physicians.

      IRIS study will include all consenting patients and collect data at the following time
      points:

        -  One inclusion/exclusion visit at the hospital (during hospitalization or outpatient
           visit);

        -  Ablation procedure in hospital;

        -  One-month follow-up visit.

      Baseline Data

      The Following information will be collected for each enrolled patient at the initial visit:

        -  Patient demographics (date of birth, gender, ethnic origin, height/weight)

        -  Previous therapies or interventions to treat AF, including cardioversion and ablation

        -  AF characteristics (paroxysmal or persistent)

        -  Cardiovascular risk factors, concomitant cardiovascular diseases and other
           diseases/conditions

        -  Concomitant medications

        -  Stroke and bleeding risk profiles based on CHA2DS2 (Congestive heart failure,
           Hypertension, Age, Diabetes Mellitus, Stroke) - VASc27 (Vascular disease, Age, Sex)
           score, and HAS (Hypertension, Abnormal renal and liver function, Stroke) - BLED28
           (Bleeding, Labile International Normalized Ratio, Elderly, Drugs or alcohol) score.

        -  Data on the AF-related diagnostic assessment, including electrocardiographic assessment,
           blood biochemistry, echocardiography and other diagnostic procedures, if performed as
           part of routine care

        -  Inform consent signature

      Ablation procedure

        -  Type of Ablation procedure

        -  Activated Clotting Time (ACT)

        -  Adverse Event (AE)/Serious Adverse Event (SAE)

        -  Major complication events

      Follow-Up Data Follow-up data at 1 month will be collected for all patients.

      The following information will be obtained by phone or during a visit to the center for each
      enrolled patient:

        -  Any bleedings event described in the study protocol;

        -  Major complications described in the study protocol;

        -  Adherence to Non-VKA Oral Anticoagulant (NOACs) therapy,

        -  Concomitant medications;

        -  Concomitant procedures;

        -  AE/SAE.
    
  