
    
      This study aims to investigate the hypoglycemic efficacy of oral Momordica Charantia extracts
      containing mcIRBP manufactured by Greenyn Biotechnology. The study objectives include:

        1. To evaluate the changes in fasting glucose, hemoglobin A1c (Hb1Ac), glucose tolerance
           test, and insulin sensitivity after taking the investigational products (IP) orally for
           3 months.

        2. To evaluate the safety of the IP, including the liver and kidney function, and complains
           made by subjects after the initiation of the IP.

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, add-on clinical trial to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of Momordica Charantia extracts taken orally for 3 months by subjects
      with type 2 diabetes. A total of 40 subjects who meet the enrollment criteria and give
      written consent will be randomly assigned to (A) Momordica charantia extracts group
      (600mg/day), or (B) Placebo group (Starch 600mg/day) with 20 subjects for each group.
      Subjects will take the IP for 12 weeks and the hypoglycemic medications taken by the subjects
      before enrollment will remain stable over the study period.

      Study procedures for each visit:

      Visit 1: Day 0

        1. Obtain signed informed consent form

        2. Assess vital signs and record concomitant medication

        3. Lab tests: Fasting glucose, HbA1c, liver function, kidney function, hemoglobin (Hb)

      Visit 2: <7 day from Visit 1

        1. Confirm eligibility and randomization

        2. Initiation of treatment

        3. Lab tests: Fasting glucose, HbA1c, insulin, lipids, total protein, uric acid, oral
           glucose tolerance test (OGTT), ketone body

        4. Measure height, weight, thigh circumference, waist and hip circumference

        5. Record concomitant medication

      Visit 3: 1 month after Visit 1

        1. Measure vital signs

        2. Lab tests: Fasting glucose, HbA1c, lipids, ketone body

        3. IP Accountability and dispense IP

        4. Records adverse events

      Visit 4: 3 months after Visit 1

        1. Lab tests: Fasting glucose, HbA1c, liver function, kidney function, Hb, insulin, lipids,
           total protein, uric acid, OGTT, ketone body

        2. Measure vital signs, height, weight, thigh circumference, waist and hip circumference

        3. IP Accountability and dispense IP

        4. Records adverse events

      Statistical Analysis All randomized subjects will be entered for efficacy analysis dataset,
      and subjects who receives at least one dose of IP will be included for safety analysis. Mean
      and standard deviation will be used for data presentation, and changes from baseline for all
      assessments will be plotted against time. Paired t test will be performed for the before and
      after treatment comparison within group, and 2-independent t test will be used to compare the
      changes from baseline between the two groups. All statistical analyses will be conducted by
      using SPSS v.18 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) and p<0.05 is considered to have statistical
      significance.
    
  