
    
      Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is a very effective procedure to treat
      complications of portal hypertension in liver cirrhosis. TIPS implantation is indicated in
      cirrhotic patients to treat or prevent portal hypertensive bleeding and to treat refractory
      ascites.

      During this procedure an artificial connection between portal vein and hepatic vein is placed
      via an image-guided endovascular approach. Although the procedure is very effective and
      reasonably safe, several complications can occur.

      Due to the underlying cirrhosis, morbidity and mortality of TIPS is high, with a 30-day
      mortality between 7 and 20%. Procedural site complications (transhepatic and transvenous
      access), bleeding, development of hepatic encephalopathy or other organ complications and
      stent complications comprise a considerable risk to the patients, however, the improvement of
      mortality, renal function and liver function outweighs the risks of the procedure. Optimal
      patient selection and preoperative preparation is crucial to avoid complications of this
      procedure.

      In liver cirrhosis, coagulation disturbances are common. In hepatic insufficiency, a balanced
      reduction in the levels of most of pro- and anticoagulant proteins produced in the liver does
      not impair thrombin generation until levels are quite low. However, the ability of the
      coagulation system to tolerate or recover from an insult is markedly impaired in liver
      disease. This allows the coagulation system to be more easily tipped into a state favouring
      either haemorrhage or thrombosis. The American Gastroenterology Association has recently
      published best practice advices to manage coagulation in cirrhosis. This review concludes
      that commonly used global coagulation tests are not optimal to assess the risk of bleeding in
      cirrhosis. A randomized controlled trial showed, that the use of thrombelastography (TEG) to
      assess coagulation in cirrhosis resulted in a significantly lower usage of blood products
      with no increase in bleeding rates.

      The bleeding risk for TIPS implantation is not well studied, ranging from 0.6-4.3% of fatal
      bleeding complications in older uncontrolled case series. No evidenced-based recommendations
      exist for the correction of coagulation abnormalities before TIPS - and the few existing
      recommendations are not backed with evidence but rather "eminence based". Currently, global
      tests of coagulation (prothrombin time and platelet count) are used to guide coagulation
      correction. Mostly, cut-offs without sufficient evidence (PT >50%/ INR >1.8 and platelets >50
      G/L) are used for correction of coagulation.

      Also, the risk of stent thrombosis needs to be considered, therefore "blind" substitution of
      clotting factors or platelet transfusions is not advisable. Unfortunately, the study by De
      Pietri et al. (6) did only include one patient undergoing TIPS (in the standard of care (SOC)
      arm), therefore it is yet unknown, whether TEG is useful for guiding the correction of
      coagulation abnormalities in cirrhosis.

      The aim of this trial is to assess, whether TEG guided pre-interventional assessment and
      correction of coagulation in cirrhotic patients is safe and effective

      The study will be performed as a single-center, open-label, randomized prospective cohort
      study
    
  