
    
      Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) is an effective intervention for promoting positive
      cognitive and behavioral changes for improved health. However, MBSR delivery may be
      suboptimal. Recent work on potential neural mechanisms underlying the meditation practices
      that are core to MBSR may be utilized to improve MBSR delivery and efficacy. The
      investigators have shown recently that the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), a brain region
      implicated in anxiety, addiction, Alzheimer's, ADHD, and other medical maladies, is
      selectively deactivated during three meditation practices that are core to MBSR suggesting a
      central role for the PCC in the neurobiology of MBSR. The investigators have also recently
      confirmed that PCC deactivation corresponds with the subjective experience of meditation in
      meditators. The proposed study will use EEG-RTNF from the PCC during meditation as an
      innovative strategy to augment MBSR and improve outcomes.

      The task of mindfulness-the principle component of MBSR-is to maintain attention on and
      acceptance toward present-moment experience, and to redirect attention to one's immediate
      experience when it has strayed. This present-centered awareness may be considered a
      counterpoint to self-referential processing and mind-wandering. Consistent with a role for
      the PCC in mind-wandering, the PCC is specifically deactivated during three meditation
      practices (mindfulness of the breath, loving-kindness, and choiceless awareness) in
      experienced meditators compared to novices). Supporting these findings, a research study.
      showed that PCC deactivation during meditation correlated with a behavioral measure of
      attention (the Rapid Visual Information Processing Task, RVIP) in experienced meditators,
      suggesting that PCC deactivation is associated with improved attention in meditators. Another
      research study showed that the PCC is deactivated when experienced meditators mindfully view
      emotional images suggesting that PCC deactivation is associated with emotional stability and
      enhanced present-moment awareness.

      EEG-RTNF is an emerging technology similar to classic biofeedback in which individuals
      receive moment-to-moment feedback of their brain activity during a particular task, typically
      by a dynamic visual display (e.g., a graph).
    
  