
    
      Eligible patients (< 65 years of age) will be randomly assigned 1:1 to either 'once daily' or
      'at least twice daily' screening for weaning readiness.

      After randomization, RTs in participating ICUs will be informed of the allocated study arm
      and bedside nurses will complete a checklist that documents practices related to sedation,
      analgesia, delirium, and mobilization before each screening period in both study arms. RTs
      will conduct weaning readiness assessments either 'once daily' or 'at least twice daily' as
      per group assignment. The checklists, completed by bedside nurses, will merely record current
      practices in sedation, analgesia and delirium management, and whether patients are being
      passively or actively mobilized before SBTs.

      In the 'once daily screening arm', RTs will screen invasively ventilated patients between
      approximately 06:00 - 08:00 hours daily. If not yet completed, RTs will prompt RNs to
      complete the 'practices checklist'. In the 'at least twice daily' screening arm patients will
      be screened at a minimum between approximately 06:00 - 08:00 hours and 13:00 - 15:00 hours
      daily. If a screening period is missed inadvertently or due to an investigation or
      intervention (operation/procedure) necessitating absence from the ICU, it may be conducted
      later on the same day and ideally within 6 hours of the scheduled screening period.
      Additional screening trials in the 'at least twice daily' screening arm will be permitted at
      the discretion of the clinical team (RTs and physicians). Regardless of group assignment, if
      the SBT screening assessment is passed, an SBT will be conducted.

      In the event of study inclusion before 10:00 am, both study arms will be initiated on the day
      of randomization. For patients randomized after 10:00 am, only one assessment will be
      required in both study arms on day one. Similarly, if patients can breathe spontaneously on
      PS or trigger spontaneous breaths on volume or pressure AC, volume or pressure SIMV ± PS,
      PRVC, PAV, VS, or APRV before 10:00 am, then the allocated screening protocol can resume.
      However if, patients can not be returned to a mode that permits spontaneous breaths (PS) or
      supports triggered breaths (volume or pressure AC, volume or pressure SIMV ± PS, PRVC, PAV,
      VS, or APRV) until after 10:00 am, screening will be conducted only once daily in both
      treatment arms on the day of the return and will resume as per treatment allocation
      thereafter.

      To pass the 'readiness to wean screen' and undergo an SBT, all of the following criteria must
      be met:

        1. The patient must be capable of initiating spontaneous breaths on Pressure Support (PS)
           or triggering breaths on volume or pressure Assist Control (AC), volume or pressure
           Synchronized Intermittent Mandatory Ventilation (SIMV) ± PS, Pressure Regulated Volume
           Control (PRVC) or Airway Pressure Release Ventilation (APRV),

        2. The ratio of partial pressure of arterial oxygen to the fractional concentration of
           inspired oxygen (PaO2/FiO2) greater than or equal to 200 mm Hg,

        3. Respiratory rate (RR) less than or equal to 35 breaths/min,

        4. Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) less than or equal to 10 cm H2O,

        5. Heart rate (HR) less than or equal to 140 beats/min,

        6. The ratio of respiratory frequency to tidal volume (f/VT) < 105 breaths/min/L during a 2
           minute assessment.
    
  