
    
      Plasmodium falciparum malaria continues to evade control efforts in part through the
      complexity of its life cycle, which involves both humans and mosquitoes. While it is known
      that the gametocyte form of the parasite transmits disease, it is unclear which individuals
      constitute the primary gametocyte reservoir in a given human population. It is also unclear
      how an individual s asexual parasite density, acquired immune responses, and red blood cell
      (RBC) polymorphisms affect the presence and transmission of gametocytes. Investigating these
      effects has been limited in part because gametocytes are often present in peripheral blood at
      densities below the limit of microscopic detection. Recent technical advances in the
      molecular detection of gametocytes have set the stage for a better understanding of
      gametocyte epidemiology and biology in humans. In a setting of highly seasonal transmission,
      we are conducting an epidemiological study to estimate gametocyte prevalence over 1 year in
      the village of Kenieroba, Mali. In a cohort of 500 individuals that represents the
      age-distribution of the entire village population, we will explore how age, asexual parasite
      prevalence, season, and RBC polymorphisms affect variation in gametocyte prevalence (detected
      by a sensitive molecular method). From these same individuals, we will purify plasma IgG and
      compare its transmission-blocking activity by age group and season. These assessments will
      provide a foundation for future studies of gametocytemia dynamics within individuals as well
      as the impact of host immunity on gametocyte infectivity in our study population. Such
      information will enable us to identify those individuals that are primarily responsible for
      malaria transmission in Kenieroba. Incorporation of such findings into new or existing
      computer-based models of parasite infection and transmission may improve our evaluation of
      existing malaria control strategies.
    
  