
    
      Malnutrition:

      Malnutrition among elderly is associated with frailty, including loss of weight, muscle mass,
      function and quality of life and also with an increased number of hospital admissions. In
      this study, the investigators aim to describe the development of and the risk factors for
      malnutrition from admission to 4 weeks after discharge, in addition the investigators wish to
      characterize the inflammatory state of the malnourished patients.

      Inappropriate polypharmacy:

      The broad variation among elderly in health, number of chronic diseases, organ function,
      biological age and function makes the prescription of drugs to this population a very complex
      task with a high risk of inappropriate medication. 5-30% of all non-elective admissions are
      caused by inappropriate medications, and many of these are preventable. Therefore, the
      investigators aim to investigate the feasibility of a pharmacist-geriatrician medication
      review in the acute care department and the effect on the Medication Appropriateness Index
      score (MAI-score) .

      Chronic inflammation and biological aging:

      Chronic inflammation and biological aging promote the development of age-related chronic
      diseases. There is a large variation in the rate of aging between individuals, in particular
      among the elderly. This means that the chronological age of a person often does not reflect
      its true state of aging, the biological age. This challenges the ability to provide
      appropriate care and to predict responses to treatment and interventions in elderly patients.
      The underlying causes and mechanisms of biological aging and chronic inflammation are not
      well understood. There are currently no validated methods for measuring biological age and no
      measures of chronic inflammation which can be used in an acute setting. Here, the
      investigators aim to test a novel model for chronic inflammation and investigate the role of
      the NLRP3 inflammasome, NFkB (nuclear factor kappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells)
      and miRNAs in biological aging and chronic inflammation.

      The study is prospective with 3 groups of study participants: one group is included in the
      Acute Medical Department and two healthy control groups (one young and one older). The
      follow-up comprises two predefined examinations and any readmissions at our hospital.
      Furthermore, participants are followed in the national registries.
    
  