
    
      Relational aggression, also known as "female bullying," is a type of psychological aggression
      in which covert tactics are used to harm other people and their relationships. These tactics
      include humiliation, intimidation, coercing, shaming, malicious teasing, shunning, and using
      other forms of emotional abuse in an attempt to harm others. Although aggressive behavior is
      typically common among younger children, most children become less aggressive as they mature
      and develop better interpersonal skills. However, consistent aggressive behavior can lead to
      further problems and increased violence in the aggressor. In this study, a social cognitive
      anger management group intervention called Friend to Friend (F2F) will be evaluated as a way
      to develop more productive social and emotional functioning among relationally aggressive
      urban African American girls.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to either the F2F program or a psycho-educational
      attention control (PAC) group. All participants will attend 40-minute treatment sessions
      twice a week for a total of 10 weeks. The sessions will occur during the girls' lunch or
      recess period. Participants assigned to the F2F program will learn how to identify signs of
      physiological arousal, react to a potential conflict while generating alternatives to the
      solution, and apply previously discussed social cognitive strategies to different situations.
      Culturally specific cartoons, videotape illustrations, and role playing will be used to
      portray these improved strategies and behaviors. Participants assigned to the PAC group will
      learn different organization and homework strategies as well as how to improve their study
      skills in an attempt to improve their overall academic performance. Outcomes will be assessed
      through observation, school reports, and questionnaires for all participants at baseline,
      immediately after treatment, and 9 months after treatment.
    
  