
    
      The current study is a sub-study included in the DIETAPYR2 study (Innovations applied to the
      Pyrenean beef production to enhance consumer-identifiable meat), a randomized-controlled
      crossover trial consisting of two experimental periods with a duration of 8 weeks each.
      Enrolled participants were randomly assigned whether to a Pyrenean beef-based diet or to a
      Conventional chicken-based diet and were instructed to consume this meat three times per
      week. The Pyrenean beef is meat from young calves of native breeds, raised mainly on local
      pastures with a recognized impact in environmental and social sustainability of this rural
      geographical area. The Pyrenees (mountain range between France and Spain) is an optimal place
      for the practice of extensive livestock rearing given the richness of forages and the
      existence of native cow breeds that make use of these natural feedstuffs.

      To ensure harmonization in the study, each chef of the 3 selected student accommodation halls
      was provided with instructions on the cooking methods for chicken and beef and they also
      received examples of recipes. Cooking methods were breaded, stewed and grilled for beef and
      breaded, stewed and roasted for chicken.

      During the 2 weeks before the first period, researchers contacted with participants and
      obtained informed consent from them. Then, the first visit was scheduled where the medical
      history was obtained and the anthropometric measurements, blood pressure (systolic and
      diastolic) and heart rate measures were undertaken. The day after the first visit, in the
      morning, a blood, stool and urine sample was collected from participants after an overnight
      fast. At the time of this visit (period 1), each participant was randomly assigned to
      Pyrenees beef diet (intervention group) or a conventional chicken-based diet (control group).

      Following an 8-week experimental period, participants were invited to perform the same
      assessments as during the first visit. Afterwards, a 5-week washout period took place to
      remove the possible residual effects of the first experimental period. Participants were
      requested not to change their diet or physical activity habits for the 5-week washout period.
      After the washout period, participants were called again to perform the same assessments
      during a 3rd visit right before the second experimental period (period 2). During this period
      those previously on Pyrenees beef diet (intervention group) were crossed to conventional
      chicken diet (control group) and vice versa. Finally, after the 8 week second experimental
      period, participants were assessed again as in previous visits.
    
  