
    
      Liver diseases are worldwide problems including diffuse hepatitis disease and liver space
      occupying lesions. Hepatitis B virus infection is the most important one among difuse
      hepatitis disease. There are 240 million people infected with HBV globally, and more than
      one-third of these patients (approximately 93 million) live in China. For them, a precise
      estimation of the degree of liver fibrosis is important for estimation of prognosis,
      surveillance, and treatment decisions in patients with HBV infection. Hepatocellular
      carcinoma is usually detected in liver space occupying lesions and leading to third common
      death of cancer. Hence, precise diagnosis between benign and malignant tumor is of great
      significance. Many guidelines recommend ablation as first line treatment to small
      hepatocellular carcinoma, especially to those less than 1mm.

      Liver biopsy has been considered the gold standard for assessing liver diseases. However, it
      is limited because of sample errors, interobserver variability and many complications, such
      as pain, bleeding and even death. CT/MR are alternative ways with high cost and
      complications. Ultrasound was a first optional tool to diagnose liver disease. However, there
      are still some problems remained to solve:first, the diagnosis accuracy of liver fibrosis
      remained to be improved. Second,the diagnosis performances for distinguishing benign and
      malignant tumor were poor. Third, there were not objective way to assess progression after
      liver ablations.

      Radiomcis refers to the extraction and analysis of large amounts of image features from
      medical images. Previous studies showed that it can improve diagnosis accuracy and evaluating
      disease progression. Hence,we tried to combined radiomics and ultrasound images together in
      order to improve diagnosis performances of liver fibrosis, benign and malignant tumor and
      progression after liver ablations.
    
  