
    
      This is a prospective observational single-center study of patients referred to secondary
      care for investigation and management of explained chronic cough, refractory chronic cough,
      and unexplained chronic cough. The study will have 4 research visits integrated between
      standard clinical visits. Patients will be recruited from secondary care clinics. Patient
      eligibility will be assessed against the study inclusion/exclusion criteria and patients will
      undergo informed consent in the research centre. Subjects who provide informed consent and
      are enrolled in the study will undergo screening procedures.

      At Visit 1 (screening) data on demographics and medical history will be collected and a
      complete physical examination will be conducted. Subjects will undergo skin prick testing and
      spirometry and complete self-reported questionnaires (Leicester Cough Questionnaire,
      Valuation of Lost Productivity, Work Productivity, Activity, and Impairment, Healthcare
      Resource Utilization, Reflux Disease Questionnaire, Sino-Nasal Outcome Test, and Global
      Rating of Change Scale). Subjects will be fitted with a 24-hour cough monitor.

      At Visit 2, the 24-hour cough monitor will be removed. Subjects will undergo blood sampling,
      methacholine challenge, sputum induction, and provide a urine sample.

      Between Visits 2 and 3, physicians will provide a single clinical treatment pathway to
      address the most likely cause of chronic cough. Treatment for chronic cough will be in line
      with current clinical practice guidelines published by the European Respiratory Society
      Taskforce on Chronic Cough. Treatment plans will range from 2 weeks to 3 months.

      Visit 3 will occur 2 weeks to 3 months following subjects' second clinical visit. Subjects
      will complete self-reported questionnaires (Leicester Cough Questionnaire, Valuation of Lost
      Productivity, Work Productivity, Activity, and Impairment, Reflux Disease Questionnaire,
      Sino-Nasal Outcome Test, and Global Rating of Change Scale) and be fitted with a 24-hour
      cough monitor.

      At Visit 4 the 24-hour cough monitor will be removed. Subjects will undergo blood sampling,
      sputum induction, and provide a urine sample. Subjects will complete a patient satisfaction
      survey.

      All study procedures will be performed according to local standard operating procedures and
      be conducted by trained and experienced staff with supervision by medical doctors. Safety
      will be assessed throughout the study by monitoring for adverse events and serious adverse
      events.
    
  