
    
      The purpose of this study is to develop and evaluate a school-based HIV, STD, and pregnancy
      prevention program for 7th and 8th grade middle school students using a randomized-controlled
      intervention trial. The intervention program consists of a classroom-based curriculum and an
      interactive CD-ROM. Ten middle schools were recruited to participate in this intervention
      trial. Five middle schools were randomized to the intervention group; and five middle schools
      were randomized to the control group. The study is also developing a model for obtaining
      community support for the development of HIV, STD and pregnancy prevention programs for
      middle school youth.

      The primary hypothesis to be tested is: Students attending middle schools who receive a
      multi-component HIV, STD, pregnancy prevention intervention will postpone sexual activity or
      reduce levels of current sexual activity relative to those in the comparison condition. The
      major dependent variables are proportion of students that are sexually active, and the
      proportion initiating sexual intercourse. Intentions to engage in sexual activity, number of
      times of unprotected sexual intercourse, and number of sexual partners will also be examined.
      Secondary hypotheses will examine the effect of the multi-component HIV, STD, and pregnancy
      prevention intervention on the student's knowledge, self-efficacy, attitudes, perceived
      norms, barriers, and communication with parents.

      The specific aims of this project are to:

        1. Develop a model for obtaining community-based support for HIV, STD, and pregnancy
           prevention interventions for middle school students.

        2. Adapt a tested, school-based, HIV, STD, and pregnancy prevention curriculum for middle
           school students using qualitative data from the target population, parents, and
           community representatives.

        3. Develop an interactive CD-ROM-based tailored HIV, STD and pregnancy prevention
           intervention to provide individualized learning opportunities for middle school
           students.

        4. Evaluate the effect of the multi-component intervention (classroom curriculum and CD-ROM
           intervention) on sexual behavior outcomes (proportion of students who initiate sexual
           intercourse, proportion of currently sexually active students having unprotected sexual
           intercourse, number of sexual partners, and intentions to have sexual intercourse) among
           middle school students.

        5. Evaluate the effect of the multi-component intervention on student impact variables such
           as knowledge, self-efficacy, attitudes, barriers, and perceived norms related to sexual
           risk-taking behavior and academic achievement among middle school students.

        6. Disseminate findings to the scientific community, school districts, and community
           agencies.
    
  