
    
      The study will record outcomes related to ICBs for PD patients who have already been selected
      for DBS therapy as a routine clinical treatment in participating in DBS operating centre

      It is routine practice to assess ICBs before DBS decisions are made, but the manner varies
      across DBS operating centres. The only additional factor to the routine DBS clinical pathway
      in this study is that the centres involved will perform assessments in a uniform manner to
      allow data to be combined. A unified set of clinical assessment scales for Impulsive Control
      Disorders ICDs and ICBs, as well as other relevant neuropsychiatric symptom assessment, will
      be added to routine pre- and post-operational clinical assessments for participants.

      The primary endpoint of the study is the change in severity of ICBs. If subjects score above
      1 in any of given questions on QUIP-RS, or if subjects had disagreement with carers regarding
      scores, The Parkinson's Impulse-Control Scale, PICs will be triggered. PICs then will be
      administered by our trained research fellow (AA), over phone or in the clinic.

      Other scales to be administered are listed below:

        1. Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI)

        2. General anxiety disorder-7 (GAD-7)

        3. Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ9)

        4. Parkinson's disease questionnaire-39 (PDQ-39)

        5. EuroQol 5 Dimension (EQ-5D)

        6. Clinical Global Impression - Severity scale (CGI-S) at baseline and Clinician's Global
           Impression - Improvement scale (GGI-I) post-operatively.

        7. Zarit Caregiver Burden Scale

        8. Work and Social Adjustment Scale

        9. UPPS-P Impulsive Behaviour Scale

      Assessments will be performed at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months post-operatively.

      Results will be analysed to ascertain potential predictive measures for ICBS
      development/change.
    
  