
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic put tremendous pressures on the public health system and the health
      workers in almost every country around the world. Egypt was no exception, one of the main
      challenges faced is the limited number of CPR centers, equipment and kits which consequently
      affecting the number of tests that could be performed.

      Although testing is critical, clinical judgement is the first mean to evaluate patients for
      COVID-19. Ancillary Diagnostic Tests and Chest imaging are also important tools before
      proceeding to the PCR testing. However, important gaps remain in screening asymptomatic
      persons in the incubation phase, as well as in the accurate determination of live viral
      shedding during convalescence to inform decisions to end isolation. The main objectives of
      the study: To set an evidence-based protocol with some criteria and procedures to reach - as
      accurate as possible - diagnosis without compromising the limited available resources. Such
      protocol shall make full use of the three main traditional pillars: Clinical picture,
      Ancillary Diagnostic Tests and Chest imaging before proceeding to the PCR testing:

        1. Clinical Picture: Symptomatic COVID-19 presents with a recognizable clinical syndrome
           that is predictable prior to testing. Clinical judgement remains important, particularly
           when interpreting negative test results;

        2. Biomarkers Associated with COVID-19 Patients: The most common laboratory features
           reported in patients with COVID-19 include: • Decreased albumin; • Elevated C-reactive
           protein ; • Elevated lactate dehydrogenase levels ; and • Lymphopenia .

        3. Other biomarkers that have been reported include increased erythrocyte sedimentation
           rates; elevated aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, and creatine
           kinase levels, leukopenia, leukocytosis, increased bilirubin and creatinine levels. No
           biomarker or combination of biomarkers currently exists that is sensitive or specific
           enough to establish a diagnosis of COVID-19, or to pragmatically predict its clinical
           course.

        4. Radiographic Tests: Many centers have evaluated the utility of chest imaging for
           diagnosis: • On chest radiography, bilateral pneumonia is the most frequently reported
           feature (range,11.8% to 100%) and is more common than a unilateral focus; • Computed
           tomography is regarded as more sensitive than radiography, with several cohort studies
           reporting that most patients (77.8% to 100%) had ground glass opacities. Other features
           commonly reported with COVID-19 on chest computed tomography include a peripheral
           distribution, fine reticular opacities, and vascular thickening. Compared with serial
           nasopharyngeal sampling, chest computed tomography may be more sensitive than an RT-PCR
           test at a single time point for the diagnosis of COVID-19. In addition, artificial
           intelligence may help distinguish COVID-19 from other etiologic agents of
           community-acquired pneumonia. However, these findings are not completely specific to
           COVID-19 and do not exclude a co-infection or an alternative diagnosis.

      CPR: Who Should Be Tested? The current situation exemplifies the challenge of how to best
      utilize testing during outbreaks of novel pathogens. The initial testing criteria were too
      narrow to monitor and control the spread of the disease, but the sudden pivot to a far
      broader testing approach, even as capacity remains limited, may be an overcorrection. As of
      March 4, CDC discontinued specific guidance and recommends that "clinicians should use their
      judgment to determine if a patient has signs and symptoms compatible with COVID-19 and
      whether the patient should be tested," advising that "decisions on which patients receive
      testing should be based on the local epidemiology of COVID-19, as well as the clinical course
      of illness." High priorities for testing include patients with serious, unexplained
      respiratory illness and contacts of known cases, Methods: It is a comparative study between
      tests to diagnose COVID-19. In developed countries (in which Egypt is one of them) PCR is
      high cost. Though much of cases escape Diagnosis and clinician depend on clinical picture
      only. This study would allow to find what degree of dependence on other tests. In this study,
      100 cases positive COVID-19 by PCR will be analyzed and tested for other ancillary tests and
      CT chest to compare them and find out which is the most sensitive in both moderate and severe
      clinical condition.
    
  