
    
      Procedural sedation is a common practice in the Emergency Department setting. The purpose of
      procedural sedation is to provide adequate pain relief to patients undergoing an emergent
      procedure. As a result, the time to the patient's symptom relief, the degree of side effects
      and the duration of action of the medication are all critical to selecting an appropriate
      sedative and/or analgesic.

      The community hospital setting may present unique challenges to successfully administering
      procedural sedation techniques. Funding and resource allocation can limit patient access to
      timely sedation/analgesia. This can be compounded by prolonged stays in the Emergency
      Department for recovery and/or complications.

      The current recommendations for 'Procedural Sedation and Analgesia in the Emergency
      Department' outlines recommended medications and policies for adults and children undergoing
      procedural sedation1,2. While a number of cohort and retrospective analyses have been done in
      a variety of research settings, the role for oral or intranasal anesthesia has not been
      adequately explored in ED settings. The initial phase of this research proposal will identify
      current local practices through chart review analysis collected over the last year.
      Subsequent research questions might include a comparative analysis of the current procedural
      sedation techniques compared to medications administered orally or by inhalation. This may
      have considerable future benefit to patient satisfaction and clinical outcomes, as well as
      resource and operational outcomes in the Emergency Department.

      Hypothesis

      To identify interventions requiring procedural sedation and the medication commonly used in a
      Canadian community emergency department (ED). Using standardized medical record review
      methods, primary clinical patient indicators, safety outcomes and secondary ED operational
      outcomes will be reviewed.3

      Study Design

      This retrospective chart review will be obtained from data of patients who have registered in
      the Welland County General Hospital (WHS) from the dates of January 2017 -December 2018. This
      timeframe should capture a sample size of ~300 patients.

      Patients will be included in our study if they have received conscious sedation for a
      diagnostic or therapeutic procedure in the emergency department. They will be identified
      through review of billing records for anesthesia codes. Medical records, specifically
      physician procedural sedation records and nursing documentation, will be our main resources
      for data extraction. The investigators will describe and quantify the procedures requiring
      conscious sedation and identify the medication (and route) used, using a standardized data
      abstraction tool to be created from international ED PSA guidelines.1,2 Primary outcome
      measures will include ED PSA indications, pre-procedural assessments (medical comorbidities,
      difficult airway predictors, other safety factors), medications used, sedation failures/use
      of rescue medications, procedural successes or failures, post-PSA assessments, PSA recovery
      and patient disposition. Further stratification by age and other demographic features will
      help us better understand trends between the adult and pediatric population.

      Patients requiring anaesthesia for the purpose of intubation and ventilator support will be
      excluded from this study.

      Our secondary outcomes involve resource utilization and complications. Duration of procedure
      and time to discharge will be measured. Data on adverse outcomes and unplanned admission
      rates will also be collected. Adverse outcomes of interest will be vomiting, medication for
      blood pressure support, dysrhythmias, unanticipated intubation, laryngospasm, pulse oximetry
      less than 90%, apnea requiring bag-valve-mask ventilation and death.
    
  