
    
      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND: White Matter Lesions (WML) are cerebrovascular abnormalities
      discovered on MRI that are associated with an increased risk of dementia. High blood pressure
      (BP) is a major risk factor for WML. WML are therefore key lesions in the causal chain
      linking vascular factors and dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease.

      However, it has not been shown that lowering BP could limit the progression of the WML in
      people with cognitive impairment.

      OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis of slowing progression of WML by lowering BP in patients
      with memory complaints with a moderate to high grade of WML on brain MRI.

      STUDY DESIGN: PROBE (Prospective randomized open blinded end-point) trial. Blind reading of
      both MRI for every patient in each group. After stratified randomization on age, sex and
      center, patients will be assigned to two strategies:

        -  Reinforced Group (RG): enhanced strategy aiming at a systolic BP <135 mmHg;

        -  Usual Group (UG): usual strategy based on the usual routine care.

      SAMPLE SIZE: patients will be enrolled (410 in each arm) in 12 Memory Resources and Research
      Center (CMRR) with access to 1.5 T or more MRI.

      CONDUCT OF THE STUDY:

      Duration of the inclusion period: 71 months and 2 weeks. Patient participation duration: 36
      months +/- 2 weeks Total study duration: 9 years. Clinical and para-clinical evaluation: MRI
      as part of research at the beginning of the study and before the end of the study at 36
      months (primary endpoint); Clinical evaluation of neuropsychological tests at the beginning
      of the study and yearly ; walking speed measurement single leg stance balance test ; repeated
      BP measurements; monitoring of neurological signs and symptoms; blood test at the beginning
      of the study (electrolytes, lipid profiles, fasting blood glucose, if not existing); MRI if
      not existing for validation of the inclusion criterion and performed in the ordinary course.
    
  