
    
      Meconium passage in newborn infants is a developmentally programmed event normally occurring
      within first 24-48 hours of birth. Intra uterine meconium passage in near term or term
      fetuses has been associated with feto-maternal stress factors and/or infections, whereas
      meconium passage in post term pregnancies has been attributed to gastro-intestinal maturity.
      Meconium staining of amniotic fluid occurs in 12% of all live births per annuum. Aspiration
      of meconium that occurs during intra uterine life or after delivery with the first few
      breaths may result in or contribute to respiratory pathology known as meconium aspiration
      syndrome (MAS) which represents a leading cause of perinatal morbidity, occurring in 5-20% of
      all babies born through MSAF.

      Several studies have shown that by clearing the airways of meconium at the time of birth,
      meconium aspiration pneumonia can be virtually eliminated. Based on these results, the
      American Heart Association and American Academy of Pediatrics had recommended a combined
      obstetric and pediatric approach to the infant with MSAF in the year 2000. As per this
      approach infants mouth, pharynx and nose were to be suctioned as soon as the head of the
      infant is delivered prior to delivery of the shoulders using a 10 french catheter followed by
      tracheal intubation and suction in non-vigorous infants to clear the airways of the meconium.

      Accumulating evidence in the form of a large RCT from developed world has shown the futility
      of intrapartum-oropharyngeal suction leading to, omission of this procedure from
      resuscitation guidelines published in the year 2005.

      Even though International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation recommends no need for IP- OP
      suction based on a single RCT conducted in a developed world with universal institutional
      deliveries and strict fetal surveillance, the same may not be true in set ups with unbooked
      and late second stage arrivals of the mother with prolonged fetal distress and virtually no
      perinatal surveillance.

      Hence the purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of
      intrapartum-oropharyngeal suction in preventing or decreasing the incidence of MAS in term
      neonates born through MSAF in resource poor setting in a developing country.
    
  