
    
      Foster care for older people is an alternative solution to nursing homes, where the resident,
      while still moving out of his/her own home, is taken care of within the foster family instead
      of a collective setting. Foster caregivers, after getting official approval and attending a
      20-hour training course, usually accommodate 1 to 3 people in exchange for a monthly fee.
      Their mission is to ensure the well-being of their residents, and to enable them to maintain
      close social and family relationships. Other professionals may also provide additional
      nursing care if necessary. Little is known about the characteristics of foster caregivers and
      their residents. Epidemiological and medico-economic data on older people in foster families
      are essential to assess the relevance of this type of care, and several and yet unanswered
      questions come to mind: what is the residents' annual hospitalization rate and the associated
      costs? What is the prevalence of geriatric syndromes in this population, and the incidence of
      mortality? What is the incidence of pneumonia, the leading cause of death and emergency
      hospitalization in older people? What is the quality of life of the older residents and their
      foster caregivers? KASAF, an epidemiological cohort, aims to answer these questions. This
      longitudinal study will assess the health status and medical and economic data of 250 foster
      family residents and their foster caregivers over a year. A similar study (KASEHPAD, for
      Karukera Study of Aging in Nursing Homes) will be conducted simultaneously among 500 nursing
      home residents, as to compare these two types of care.

      The main outcome is the number of hospitalizations over a year. Local PMSI (Medicalization
      program of the information system) hospitals databases will provide information on hospital
      admissions.

      250 people aged 60 and older and living in foster families in Guadeloupe will be included.
      Data collection will be conducted using face-to-face interviews with the participants and
      their foster caregivers at baseline and after 6 and 12 months, and phone interviews with the
      foster caregivers, after 3 and 9 months. Anthropometric measures, information on general
      health status and care pathways (hospitalization, medical and paramedical consultations), as
      well as data on medical history, cognition, nutritional status, and physical frailty will
      also be collected. Depressive and anxiety symptoms will also be assessed along with
      functional abilities (mobility, instrumental activities of daily living and activities of
      daily living). A systematic update of vital status (death) and care pathway will be carried
      out at each follow-up. Additional information on the residents' living status and potential
      hospitalizations will be collected after 3 and 9 months. Finally, foster caregivers will be
      interviewed at inclusion, after 6 months and after a year to assess their own quality of life
      and burnout symptoms.

      This study was supported by a grant from the Conseil Départemental de la Guadeloupe,
      Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy.
    
  