
    
      The principal aim will be the pain evaluation (Visual Analogue Scale and McGill pain scale)
      with the use of 200 units of abobotulinumtoxin (Dysport) against placebo in both pectoralis
      major and subscapularis, after 01and 04 months of the procedure The secondary objectives will
      be analysis the active and passive affected shoulder range of motion (goniometer), the upper
      limb function (Fugl-Meyer test), Burden of care questionnaire (apply to caregivers) and the
      use of medicine and therapies.

      The sample size was calculated to a alpha error (5%), statistical power (80%) and a decrease
      of 1.4 points in Visual Analogue Scale, totalizing 10 patients per group, to avoid lack of
      statistical power due to possible drop out we will recruit 12 patients per group.

      The muscles selected for this study are the pectoralis major and subscapularis muscles, each
      receiving 200U of Dysport® distributed in 2 points, guided by electrical stimulation .The
      evaluations will be performed in 0, 1 and 4 months after the procedure.

      The researchers that will apply and evaluate the patients will be blinded. The patients will
      be randomized by 6 blocks of four.

      The inclusion criteria will be spasticity in upper limb due to ischemic or hemorrhagic
      hemispheric stroke; over 18 years old; diagnosis of hemiplegic painful shoulder syndrome,
      regardless of motor dominance; agreement of the patient, family member and / or responsible
      caregiver to participate in the study.

      The exclusion criteria will be pain before stroke in shoulder affected by hemiplegia;
      previous treatment using TXB-A for painful shoulder; cognitive impairment that hinders
      assessment and collaboration with treatment; counterindication to the botulinum toxin use;
      structured joint deformity in the shoulder affected by pain.

      The qualitative variables will be described through percentages of each categories. The
      quantitative variables will be analyzed for normality by the Komolgorov-Smirnov. The
      comparison of the value average of the pain variable evaluated by VAS will be performed by
      the ANOVA test, considering the treatment groups and the moment of evaluation, followed by
      post hoc comparisons, if the ANOVA test indicates a significant effect group time.The
      dropouts will be evaluated according to the intention to treat. We will use software Stata11
      or similar model
    
  