
    
      This is a prospective, interventional, pilot study involving patients recruited from the
      Heart Failure outpatient clinic at St. Joseph's Hospital in London, Ontario. Depending on
      scanner availability, the study visits may also take place at Robarts Research Institute,
      University of Western Ontario. All eligible patients who consent to take part in the study
      will undergo one study visit. During this visit, all study participants will undergo a
      combined proton (1H) and 23Na MRI scan of their kidneys to measure kidney sodium content.
      Prior to the scan, all participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire, will have
      their fluid volume measured using bioimpedance spectroscopy, will have their heart failure
      classified using the NYHA system, will have their weight taken using a clinical scale, and
      will have their sitting blood pressure and heart rate measured three times consecutively
      using a standard automatic blood pressure monitor. In addition to this, all participants will
      undergo a research focused echocardiogram, provide a spot urine sample and have blood work
      collected. All participants will be responsible to complete a 24-hour urine volume test the
      day before the study visit and bring the special container to the team on the visit day.

      Study participants who meet the criteria for diuretic resistance will undergo a second study
      visit within one week of the first one. During this visit, participants will receive an
      additional intravenous dose of diuretic (furosemide) and they will subsequently undergo a
      second proton and 23Na MRI scan of their kidneys. Prior to the scan participants will undergo
      the same study procedures as in visit one excluding the questionnaire. In addition to this,
      participants will be responsible to record their weight at home the morning before the visit
      and bring their weight to the study team. After the scan, all participants will have their
      blood pressure, heart, rate, and weight measured again, and will be asked to complete a
      24-hour urine collection. Furthermore, participants will be asked to take their weight using
      a home scale the morning after the scan and a member of the research team will phone the
      participants to collect this information.
    
  