
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Besides smoking cessation, weight loss and improved nutrition are the most important
      behavioral changes, which can lead to improved health. Weight loss is also a critically
      important behavioral recommendation for treating certain illnesses such as hypertension and
      diabetes; for recovery from stroke or myocardial infarction; and for primary prevention of
      these conditions as well as certain cancers. Unfortunately, adherence is very poor even with
      motivated patients. This is a serious issue for all but especially African American women.
      These diseases affect them disproportionately. They are more likely to be overweight and
      there is a serious scarcity of culturally appropriate programs available. Also, many of these
      women receive their care in high demand/low resource clinics so that any program must also be
      practical and affordable within these constraints.

      The study is in response to a Request for Applications issued in January, 2001 on "Overcoming
      Barriers to Treatment Adherence in Minorities and Persons Living in Poverty."

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The current research involves studying adherence to recommend changes in behaviors related to
      nutritional intake and physical activity designed to reduce weight. The investigators will
      develop and test two versions of a 16-session weight loss program with the content delivered
      by videotape. They are nearing the end of another study, SisterTalk, for which a culturally
      appropriate weight control program was designed in partnership with and then delivered to
      African American women by cable television. Based upon that previous study, they plan to
      address a number of specific barriers to adherence by designing one version for clinic
      delivery and another for home delivery. Both approaches, each addressing different adherence
      issues, will be compared to a Wait List Control Group at 4 and 12 months after beginning the
      program. The primary outcome measures are adherence to recommended nutritional behaviors and
      physical activity levels. The program is based upon Social Action Theory and provides the
      opportunity to study many of that theory's mediating variables and their relationships to
      specific adherence behaviors. This will include extensive process evaluation procedures.They
      will also gather a great deal of data concerning the specific barriers and facilitators to
      adherence to nutrition and physical activity recommendations encountered by low-income
      African American women who are hypertensive or at high risk for hypertension.
    
  