
    
      The current optimal therapeutic approach in early RA is to start MTX to target inflammation
      and induce remission.Prediction of MTX therapy response remains a key clinical need to enable
      the identification of patients who would benefit from an alternative, more aggressive
      treatment strategy. Multiple predictors of remission with MTX have been reported over the
      years but none have entered routine clinical practice.

      We previously reported that T-cell phenotyping at baseline could predict remission in
      DMARD-naïve early RA treated with MTX. Reduced naïve CD4+ T-cell frequency was the most
      predictive factor, using both a pilot and a replication cohort.These data confirmed the
      potential value of using naïve CD4+ T-cells as a biomarker of MTX induced remission in early
      RA.

      The clinical utility of measuring T-cell subsets is therefore strongly indicated by these
      data and suggests that measurement of T- cell subsets can be used to rationalise the use of
      MTX as first-line therapy.Predicting response to MTX has important clinical value to identify
      patients who will do well on MTX but furthermore for directing those who will have a
      sub-optimal response to MTX to receive alternative therapy without any harmful delay and in
      line with the treat to target principle.

      The current study aims to confirm/validate the clinical value of T-cell subset quantification
      for the prediction of MTX response in early RA, by stratified interventions based on baseline
      naïve CD4+ T-cell status.

      This is a Single centre, phase IV, open-label, prospective, longitudinal cohort study with an
      embedded pilot randomised controlled trial that aims to assess whether MTX can be
      rationalised as a first-line treatment for DMARD-naïve early RA patients, according to
      baseline naïve CD4+ T-cell stratification.

      Patients with newly diagnosed RA satisfying the inclusion criteria will be recruited from our
      early arthritis clinic. Eligible patients will be provided with written information on the
      study and will be given a minimum of 24 hours to read this information prior to being
      contacted by a research nurse (within one week). If interested they will be invited to a
      screening appointment within four weeks to confirm eligibility, obtain written consent and to
      collect the necessary clinical and laboratory data as per the study schedule. Following the
      screening visit, patients will attend a baseline assessment within four weeks.

      Patients will be stratified based on their naïve CD4+ T-cell frequency (normal or abnormal
      based on our pre-defined cut-off values according to age and sex-matched controls). Patients
      with a normal T-cell frequency (Arm A) will commence MTX 15mg/week PO (+HCQ 400mg od) as per
      standard T2T practice. Follow-up (4, 12 and 24 weeks), dose escalation of MTX and treatment
      of flare will also be conducted in line with T2T care.

      Patients with an abnormal T-cell frequency will be randomized 1:1 into 2 groups using
      randomly permuted block sizes and also followed up as per T2T care:

      The first group (Arm B) will receive MTX 15mg/week PO (+HCQ 400mg od) The second group (Arm
      C) will receive MTX 15mg/week PO (+HCQ 400mg od) in combination with 50 mg subcutaneous
      Benepali® administered weekly.

      Patients will be followed up for a period of 24 weeks and will undergo clinical,
      immunological and imaging assessments as stated in the study schedule. Following completion
      of the study, patients will either be followed up in our established inflammatory arthritis
      or biologics clinic. Patients in group C will discontinue their Benepali®.

      This study will take place at the rheumatology out-patient department in Chapel Allerton
      Hospital, Leeds.
    
  