
    
      Endophthalmitis is a sight threatening eye infection that can complicate any type of
      intra-ocular surgery including vitreo-retinal surgery. The incidence, risk factors,
      management, microbiology and prognosis of endophthalmitis following vitreo-retinal surgery
      has been well described by a prospective international study, which demonstrated that this
      complication is quite rare but has a poor prognosis(1,2).

      It is a common practice to administer antibiotic at the end of surgery(3), to reduce the risk
      of post-operative endophthalmitis. In Canada and Europe for anterior segment surgery,
      intracameral injection of an antibiotic is a common practice(4). In vitreo-retinal surgery,
      the anterior segment is often not breached, so rather than the antibiotic being delivered
      into the anterior chamber, it is administered by subconjunctival injection. However, such
      subconjunctival injection of antibiotic, such as cefuroxime (a second generation
      cephalosporin) is often associated with high levels of post-operative pain(5).

      Local anesthesia for vitreo-retinal surgery is routinely achieved by either subtenon or
      retro-bulbar regional anaesthesia. Vitreo-retinal surgery at Toronto Western Hospital
      typically is performed with retro-bulbar anaesthesia, which involves the transcutaneous
      injection of anesthetic solution, often 2% lidocaine and 0.5% marcain, into the retrobulbar
      space using a needle6. At the end of surgery, subconjunctival cefazolin (Ancef) and
      steroid(Solucortef) are given, and surgeons have noticed that this often appears to cause
      discomfort in the end of surgery.

      Although previous study has explored the reduction of pain through the use of buffered
      lidocaine injected in the subconjunctival space before cefuroxime for cataract surgery(5),
      the utility of mixing 2% lidocaine with cefazolin before subconjunctival injection has not
      yet been evaluated. This may serve as an effective method of lowering pain associated with
      cefazolin delivery in the retinal surgical setting.
    
  