
    
      Objective: The objective of this protocol is to pilot test the efficacy of a Mindful Tai Chi
      (MTC) intervention as an integrative approach to facilitate durable weight loss and
      well-being among sedentary obese and overweight individuals. Numerous interventions for
      obesity are available but the results are temporary, with most individuals returning to or
      exceeding their baseline weights. Contrasting with conventional emphases on quantitative
      weight reduction with factual didactics, exercise and diet, this protocol will focus on
      enhancing individuals integrative resources utilizing mindfulness principles facilitating
      changes in self healthcare behaviors.

      MTC is a combined form of Tai Chi and mindfulness meditation. Tai Chi and mindfulness both
      have common philosophical underpinnings that address health promotion and well-being. Tai Chi
      is a gentle moving meditation that fosters individuals body-mind-spiritual integration
      through specific movements. MTC is a systemic intervention with multidimensional effects on
      health and well-being that facilitate healthy lifestyle by applying the skill of
      non-judgmental awareness on a moment-to-moment daily basis. We hypothesize improvements in
      health and well-being variables of the participants.

      Study population: Healthy ambulatory volunteers 18 years and older with BMI between 25 and <
      40 will be recruited from the greater Washington area. Exclusion criteria include mental or
      physical health limitations that impede participation in the treatments or assessment of
      outcome variables.

      Design: A randomized controlled clinical trial: comparing the MTC group to an active health
      education (HE) control group. These groups will participate in the assigned activities in a
      90 minute session twice a week for 10 weeks. All groups will be assessed at baseline and upon
      completion of the treatments at week 10 and at a 2 month follow-up.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcomes are changes in weight and multiple domains of
      well-being. BMI and intra-abdominal fat by abdominal ultrasound will measure weight changes.
      Physical well-being variables include biomarkers (lipid profile, BP, CRP, Leptin, IL 6, and
      A1C), aerobic fitness from VO(2) max measurement with 6 to 10 minutes of a treadmill test,
      and telomerase activity in leukocytes. A battery of questionnaires will measure
      psychological, cognitive-affective, socio-spiritual and overall well-being. Secondary
      outcomes include mindfulness quality and lifestyle indices.
    
  