
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether ablation (through stereotactic body radiation therapy [SBRT]
      [stereotactic radiosurgery] and/or surgical resection of all known metastases) in
      oligometastatic breast cancer patients provides a sufficient signal for improved
      progression-free survival (PFS) to warrant full accrual to the Phase III portion of the
      trial. (Phase II-R) II. To determine whether ablation (through SBRT and/or surgical resection
      of all known metastases) in oligometastatic breast cancer patients significantly improves
      overall survival (OS). (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate treated metastasis control according to tumor receptor status (estrogen
      receptor [ER], progesterone receptor [PR], human epidermal growth factor receptor [HER]-2),
      use of chemotherapy, surgery vs. ablative therapy, and solitary metastasis vs. 2 metastasis
      (may expand to >= 2 to =< 4 following completion of a Phase I trial).

      II. To evaluate whether the addition of ablative metastasis directed therapy significantly
      reduces the number of distant recurrences (new metastases) in patients who progress according
      to tumor receptor status (ER, PR, HER-2); use of chemotherapy, and solitary metastasis vs. 2
      metastases (may expand to >= 2 to =< 4 following completion of the Phase I NRG-BR001 trial).

      III. To evaluate adverse events in patients who receive ablative metastasis-directed therapy
      to all known metastases in addition to standard medical therapy alone.

      IV. To explore the most appropriate and clinically relevant technological parameters to
      ensure quality and effectiveness throughout the radiation therapy processes, including
      imaging, simulation, target and critical structure definition, treatment planning, image
      guidance, and delivery.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether < 5 circulating tumor cells (CTCs) (per 7.5 ml of blood) is an
      independent prognostic (outcome) marker for improved PFS and OS in oligometastatic breast
      cancer.

      II. To determine whether < 5 CTCs (per 7.5 ml of blood) is an independent predictive
      (response to therapy) marker for improved PFS and OS in oligometastatic breast cancer.

      III. To determine whether eliminating CTCs (0/7.5 ml of blood in patients with at least 2
      CTCs at registration) is both a prognostic and predictive marker for improved PFS and OS.

      IV. To evaluate the prognostic and predictive properties of CTC count as a continuous measure
      of PFS and OS.

      V. To store material for retrospective analysis of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid
      (ctDNA).

      VI. To store material for retrospective analysis of circulating micro-ribonucleic acid (RNA).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM 1: Patients continue to receive their current planned systemic therapy at the discretion
      of the treating physician.

      ARM 2: Patients continue to receive their current planned systemic therapy at the discretion
      of the treating physician. Patients also undergo stereotactic radiosurgery in 1, 3, or 5
      fractions within 3 weeks and/or surgery at the discretion of the treating physician.

      ARM 1: Patients are followed every 3 months from randomization to 2 years. ARM 2: Patients
      are followed 25-35 days post-ablation, every 3 months from randomization to 2 years, and then
      yearly thereafter.
    
  