
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients with cancer cachexia, as defined by various
      criteria including The European Society of Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (ESPEN) as well
      as an International Consensus Criteria (ICC), in a group of ambulatory patients with advanced
      cancer who are referred to a Supportive Care Clinic at University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
      Center (UTMDACC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients with complications anorexia (Appetite Score
      Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale [ESAS] [>= 3] & Functional Assessment of Anorexia
      Therapy-Anorexia/Cachexia Subscale Questionnaire [FAACT-A/CS] =< 37); and the proportion of
      patients that have both anorexia and cancer cachexia.

      II. To examine the association between symptoms of anorexia and/or cancer cachexia and the
      degree of symptom distress in cancer patients seen in a supportive care clinic, as measured
      by Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS - total score), Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale (HADS), and the Functional Assessment of Anorexia Therapy-Anorexia/Cachexia Subscale
      (FAACT-A/CS Questionnaire) and in their primary caregivers, ESAS-Caregiver, Caregiver Quality
      of Life-Cancer (CQOLC), and Brief Illness Perception (Brief-IPQ) questionnaire.

      III. To elucidate the frequency of Nutritional Impact Symptoms (NIS), evaluated by a
      Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment (PG-SGA-SF), and alterations in body
      composition (Inbody 770 Bio-Impedance Machine) experienced by patients with advanced cancer.

      IV. To evaluate the patient's perception of body image, Body Image Scale (BIS), as related to
      their change in weight and physical appearance due to cachexia in patients with advanced
      cancer.

      V. To evaluate the perception of need for nutritional support in cancer patients seen in a
      supportive care clinic.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants complete 8 questionnaires about appetite, quality of life, symptoms, history of
      weight loss, nutritional status, body image, and nutritional support over 30 minutes.
    
  