
    
      In developed countries, HIV infection is now considered a chronic disease and thus the life
      expectancy of people infected with HIV is approaching that of the general population.
      Therefore many HIV positive women are choosing to pursue pregnancies. An important concern
      for antenatal and intrapartum management is decreasing the risk of vertical transmission.
      With the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and intrapartum IV zidovudine
      (ZDV) the risk of transmission is decreased significantly, however there is some debate
      surrounding optimal mode of delivery. Possible mechanisms leading to perinatal transmission
      include transfusion of the mother's blood to the fetus during labour contractions, infection
      after rupture of membranes and direct contact of the fetus with infected secretions or blood
      from the maternal genital tract.

      When maternal viral load is detectable, The Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of
      Canada (SOGC) and other governing bodies recommend that elective cesarean section be
      performed for delivery as there is a 12-fold increased risk of perinatal transmission.
      However, the evidence suggests that for women at very low risk of transmission, such as those
      with an undetectable viral load and on HAART, the benefit of transmission reduction provided
      by cesarean section may be negligible.

      The question of length of time of rupture of membranes prior to delivery and transmission
      risk has been a source of controversy, especially in the context of women on suppressive
      therapy (HAART) with an undetectable viral load. Traditional thinking has stated that the
      length of time of rupture of membranes should not be longer than 4 hours, as the benefit of
      cesarean section is lost after this time. However, this thinking is based on data where
      maternal viral loads were not known and only intrapartum IV ZDV was used. Many practitioners
      believe that in women with undetectable viral loads, virally suppressed on HAART, the safest
      route of delivery is vaginal, irrespective of length of time of rupture of membranes.

      This is a retrospective cohort study which plans to examine the mode of delivery and median
      length of time of rupture of membranes for HIV positive women in two downtown academic
      institutions in Toronto.
    
  