
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine (liposomal
      cytarabine and daunorubicin [CPX-351]) in combination with gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) in
      relapsed refractory (R-R) patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and post-hypomethylating
      agent (post-HMA) failure high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (HR-MDS).

      II. To determine the efficacy of liposomal cytarabine and daunorubicin (CPX-351) in
      combination with gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) in relapsed refractory patients with acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML) and post-hypomethylating agent (post-HMA) failure high-risk
      myelodysplastic syndrome (HR-MDS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the preliminary assessment of efficacy by response to revised International
      Working Group (IWG) criteria and time to response variables including overall survival (OS),
      event-free survival (EFS) and duration of response (DOR) of patients treated with this
      combination.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the minimal residual disease (MRD) after treatment with this combination and
      its impact in long-term outcome.

      II. To determine the effect of the level of pre-treatment expression of CD33 with response to
      this combination.

      III. To determine the baseline CD33 genotype via CD33 polymorphism study, and its effect on
      response to this combination.

      IV. To determine the effect of this treatment combination on responding patients
      transitioning to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).

      V. To evaluate the effect of the treatment combination on Health Related Quality of Life
      (HRQoL) parameters.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CYCLE: Patients receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine intravenously
      (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 of cycle 1 and days 1 and 3 of cycle 2 and
      gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 120 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to
      2 cycles in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION CYCLE: Patients receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over
      90 minutes on days 1 and 3 and gemtuzumab ozogamicin over 120 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE CYCLE: Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 120 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 14 months.
    
  