
    
      In France, 59,000 new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed per year, but with systematic
      screening, more than 400,000 women will be biopsied each year. Less than 50% of women in
      France respond to organized screening and one of the reasons put forward is in particular the
      anxiety linked to waiting for the result of the biopsy if it turns out to be necessary.The
      BIOPSY SCANNER LLTECH © technology would allow images on fresh unprepared tissue to obtain
      images allowing immediate diagnosis by a non-pathologist (Annex 2: description of the
      manufacturer), the same tissue could then be technically analyzed for a complete analysis
      pathologic.

      The BIOPSY SCANNER LLTECH © is an optical imaging device for the microscopic evaluation of
      deep tissue samples. It enables rapid imaging of samples on a cellular scale, in a
      non-invasive and non-destructive manner, and to reveal their microarchitecture and cellular
      organization.

      The Biopsy Scanner uses the patented technique of full field white light interferometry. This
      technique is considered to be the equivalent of optical resolution ultrasound (≈ 1 μm) in 3
      directions. A sample placed in the system is illuminated by an inconsistent light source.

      The light reflected by the sample is collected by the interferometer and interferes with the
      light reflected by a reference mirror. This interference signal is recorded by a camera. The
      interferometric technique and the coherence properties of the light source make it possible
      to select the signal which comes from a limited volume in the depth of the sample. This
      property of the system is called optical sectioning and ensures good axial imaging resolution
      (1 μm). The transverse resolution is good (1.5 μm) thanks to the integration of microscope
      objectives in the interferometer.

      Currently, it is necessary for an immediate diagnosis of breast cancer to have a second
      expert cytologist doctor (it is a difficult learning technique) in the radiologist's room to
      check that the tissue removed is sufficient. In addition, a second sample is necessary to
      obtain a complete histology. The BIOPSY SCANNER LLTECH © technology could allow patients to
      be informed more quickly while avoiding mobilizing on-site expertise and taking 2 samples.The
      investigators hypothesize that the BIOPSY SCANNER LLTECH © technique will allow the
      radiologist to provide immediately after the breast or lymph node biopsy, on fresh unprepared
      tissue, a positive or negative diagnosis of cancer, with sufficient diagnostic performance to
      consider its generalization.

      The study will also allow us to see whether a learning curve is necessary and to assess its
      duration. It should be noted that there is no reason to think a priori that the sensitivities
      / specificities will be different depending on the type of biopsy (breast or lymph node)
      which will therefore be analyzed in the same group in the main analysis.
    
  