
    
      Introduction The number of Israel's elderly (65 plus) has increased from just 85,200 (4.8% of
      the population) in 1955 to approximately 670,000 people (about 10%) in 2003 (Brodsky et al.,
      2005). According to the most conservative of three projections offered by the Israeli Central
      Bureau of Statistics (CBS), the number of seniors is expected to be approximately 676,500
      (9.8% of the population) in 2005, to rise to 722,500 people (10.7% of the population) by 2010
      and increase to 1,025,800 (almost 12% of the population) by the year 2020.

      The increase in life expectancy in the 20th century has resulted in a major growth in the
      prevalence of age-related diseases and conditions. Depression has been found to be the most
      prevalent among various mental disorders in later life and is the third most common reason
      for consultation in primary care (Shah, 1992). Research shows that 10-15% of the persons over
      65 years of age suffer from various levels of depressive symptoms (Jacob& Palmer, 1998).

      Sadock & Sadock (2003) state that depression among elderly may reach up to 15 percent and
      among these suffering from dementia from 25- 50 percent. Israeli studies show similar rates
      of depressive symptomatology as performed in other Western countries. A prevalence of 21.5
      percent of depressive symptomatology was found among a random sample of 937 Israeli adults.
      (Iancu et al., 2003).

      Depression represents a heterogeneous set of disorders, usually characterized by sad mood and
      inability to experience pleasure. Among the elderly it often may present itself atypically,
      with somatic symptoms dominating the clinical picture (Jacob & Palmer, 1998). Common physical
      complaints, start with the most common features as loss of energy or fatigue, unexplained
      pain, gastrointestinal symptoms, headache, dizziness, palpitations, heartburn, numbness, loss
      of appetite, insomnia specifically early morning awakening. In general, the more unexplained
      somatic complaints and physical symptoms a patient have, the higher the likelihood of
      depression (Glass 2003). Elderly depression impairs significantly the quality of life by
      leading to disability, cognitive impairments, intensified symptoms from medical conditions
      and increases utilization of health care services and the direct and indirect medical costs
      (Luber et al., 2001).

      Herrman et al.,( 2002) argue that health care utilization among depressed patients is higher
      then among those without depression. Elderly with depressive symptoms found to be at least as
      twice as likely to use emergency department and medical inpatient hospital services compared
      to patients without depressive symptomatology ( Himelhoch et al., 2002). Simon & Ormel(1995)
      as well as Katon et al. (2003) stated that patients with depressive symptoms account for
      43-52% higher health care costs than patients without depressive symptoms.

      The increase in costs associated with depressive symptoms was noted even after adjusting for
      the severity of chronic medical illness (Glass, 2003). According to the WHO the significance
      of illness burden attributable to depression increases with age and thus will grow further by
      the year 2020 based upon projected demographic shifts towards an older population (Peveler et
      al., 2002).

      This trend was showed in Israel by Brodsky et al.( 2005). They reported an elderly average of
      11.5 visits at the FP per year while, in the USA, only 25% of the elderly population visited
      any physician 10 or more times annually - including visits to the ER and home visits (Health,
      United States,2003).

      Consequently detecting and treating elderly patients with depressive symptoms in Israel, may
      be cost-effective and produce improvement in health and well-being for the money spent in the
      care of these older adults.

      However depression in the aged patient may be atypical in nature and more difficult to
      diagnose from that in the general population. Therefore it is often under-diagnosed and
      under-treated (Jacob & Palmer, 1998). In contrast to younger depressed patients, elderly
      patients often avoid reporting or showing that their mood level and tend to hide their state
      of disease or, worse, they lack the consciousness of the disease and think that enjoying life
      less than before is an inevitable consequence of aging. Moreover, elderly sometimes attribute
      their depressive symptoms to general medical conditions. Other factors that may hinder
      distinguishing depression from other conditions are also concomitant diseases, especially
      dementia, polypharmacy and drug reactions (Glass, 2003). Furthermore Hybels et al. (2001)
      compared in their study the demographic and risk factor profiles of elderly individuals with
      less and more severe depression. The obtained results indicated the need to recognize that
      elderly adults who do not meet the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
      (DSM) criteria for depression, and those who fall below the threshold on instruments such as
      the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression scale (CES-D), may still experience
      depressive symptomatology that warrant attention.

      The current scales used today measure physical deterioration as part of the depressive state,
      while among the older people these are part of the aging process and may confuse the
      therapist. The Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) is a more specific tool for the measurement
      in this age group. It was developed during the 80's (Brink et al., 1982) proven valid and
      reliable at 1986 and was translated to many languages including Hebrew. (Zalsman et al.,
      1998). Today it is one of the most widely used instruments for the screening of depression
      among the elderly population.

      To simplify the screening process a Yale Task Force on Geriatric Assessment has recommended
      the use of a single question, "Do you often feel sad or depressed?" (Lachs et al., 1990).
      Mahoney et al.( 1994 ) found this question as a valid and reliable short-form alternative.

      In conclusion depression is a prevalent mental disorder in later life and a considerable
      impending public health problem since it may lay unnecessary cost burden on one hand and is
      difficult to diagnose on the other. Consequently, there is a need to find the most effective
      ways for early detection of this condition. This study will examine the question whether high
      health care services utilization and/ or sociodemographic background may predict the presence
      of depression among aged patients.

      Objectives:

      The purposes of this study is to examine the relationships between socio-demographic
      variables, comorbidity, depressive symptomatology and high primary care utilization.

      METHOD:

      Participants:

      The study will be conducted in 10 primary health care clinics in urban communities of
      Beersheva, Israel. According to the average health care utilization, 11.5 visits to the FP
      per year (Brodsky et al., 2005)) among elderly in Israel, we classify two groups: "low care
      utilizers" with ≤ 6 visits per year and "high care utilizers" with ≥ 16 visits. Primary lists
      of "high and low care utilizer" will be obtained by query to "Clicks" electronic medical
      chart system ( Roshtov Soft wear industry ltd.) .
    
  