
    
      Determination of application groups: Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD) classified by a pulmonologist in accordance with the GOLD criteria will be randomly
      divided into 2 groups and application groups will be determined.

      Applications to be made:

      The first group (n = 25) accompanied by CAC; Progressive resistance exercise (DE) 3 times a
      week, 1RMx 30% intensity, 10 repetitions, 3 sets, 30 seconds rest interval, and cycling after
      5 minutes rest, progressive aerobic exercise in the target heart rate range of 40-80%
      intensity (AE ) (KAK DE + AE group) will be applied.

      To the second group (n = 25) without CAC; 3 times a week, 8 weeks, 1RMx 30% intensity, 10
      repetitions, 3 sets, 30 seconds of rest interval, and after 5 minutes of rest, AE (DE + AE
      group) will be applied in the target heart rate range of 40-80%, which is done by cycling.

      Calculation of 1RM: Epley formula will be used in the calculation. According to this; 1 RM =
      (1 + .0333 x number of repetitions) x weight removed.

      Progress in resistance exercise; According to the modified borg scale (MBS), the amount of
      the lifted weight calculated on the basis of the increase in the 1RM value measured in every
      three consecutive sessions will be provided by increasing the amount of weight, on the
      condition that it remains between 4-6 intensity.

      This too; It will be calculated from the formula "Target heart rate = (Maximal heart
      rate-resting heart rate) x% desired intensity ratio + resting heart rate".

      The target occlusion amount in the lower extremity will be calculated by calculating 45% of
      the complete occlusion rates reported by Michael et al. The proximal border of the thigh
      cuffs in the CAC group will be tied at the level of the gluteal lines on both sides.

      Exercise tolerance and dyspnea condition; Measurement properties in COPD will be evaluated
      using a modified Borg scale (MBS), which has well-defined characteristics. Individuals will
      use bronchodilators approved by their physician before each trial and continue drug therapy
      throughout the study.

      The target aerobic exercise intensity will be reached in the last minute of the first
      five-minute warm-up period by maintaining a 4-6 feeling of dyspnea in the MBS, by increasing
      pedal resistance and speed. The intensity increase will be increased by 5% for each
      subsequent session and the target heart rate will be limited to 80%. In case of extreme
      shortness of breath, the intensity of exercise will be reduced down to the resting heart
      rate.

      In case of oxygen desaturation (85%) during interventions, the intervention will be suspended
      until the next session.

      Aerobic exercise study protocol: warm-up at 50 RPM speed and lowest pedal resistance for the
      first 4 minutes, reaching the target exercise intensity range in the next 1 min, aerobic
      training at the target heart rate range and appropriate MBS for the next 20 minutes, the last
      5 minutes It will be applied in the form of cooling. The duration will be reduced in case of
      extreme shortness of breath, fatigue and muscle pain due to increased exercise volume. The
      distance, calories, and maximum speed values measured during the first, 9 and 24 sessions
      will be recorded.

      Before the study and at the end of the 8th week, oxidative stress markers (plasma protein
      carbonyl concentration, lipid hydroperoxides, total antioxidant capacity (TAK)), muscle
      damage status (creatine phosphokinase, myoglobin), anti-inflammatory response (interleukin 6
      (IL-6), risk of venous thromboembolism and thrombus formation (D-dimer, thrombin-antithrombin
      3 component (TAT), c-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen), body mass index, respiratory
      function tests (FEV1, FVC), oxygen saturation and heart rate ( pulse oximetry), six-minute
      walking test, and quality of life (SF-36) will be evaluated at least 6 hours prior to taking
      medication.

      The change in the quadriceps muscle mass will be examined by a radiologist who is not
      involved in the study, by measuring the transverse and anteroposterior lengths of the
      relevant muscle using Toshiba aplio 300 brand ultrasound device.

      Statistical evaluation of results: Paired t-test, repeated measurement analysis of variables
      (RMANOVA), Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, post hoc contrast analysis, bonferroni correction will be
      used in the statistical analysis of intervention results.
    
  