
    
      Rationale:

      Mechanical ventilation can cause ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI). Lung protective
      ventilation, consisting of a low tidal volume (VT), a low plateau pressure (Pplateau) and a
      low driving pressure (ΔP) improves survival and shortens duration of ventilation in patients
      with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Lung protective ventilation may also benefit
      critically ill patients with respiratory failure not caused by ARDS. 'Mechanical Power of
      ventilation' (MP), the amount of energy per time transferred from the ventilator to the
      respiratory system, is a summary variable that includes all the components that play a role
      in VILI. With fully-automated closed-loop ventilation, these components are no longer set by
      the operator, but under control of the algorithms in the ventilator.

      Objective:

      To compare MP under INTELLiVENT-adaptive support ventilation (ASV), a fully-automated
      closed-loop ventilation, with MP under conventional ventilation.

      Hypothesis:

      INTELLiVENT-ASV compared to conventional ventilation results in a lower MP.

      Study design:

      National, multicenter, crossover, randomized clinical trial.

      Study population:

      Invasively ventilated critically ill patients.

      Methods:

      The ventilator will be randomly switched between INTELLiVENT-ASV for 3 hours and conventional
      ventilation for 3 hours. The amount of MP is calculated using various equations proposed in
      the literature.

      Study endpoints:

      The primary endpoint is the amount of MP with each form of invasive ventilation.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Differences in burden and risks of the two ventilation strategies compared in the current
      study are not expected. Both modes of ventilation are interchangeably used as part of
      standard care in the participating centers. No other interventions are performed. Neither the
      collection of demographic and outcome data, nor the capturing of ventilation characteristics
      causes harm to patients.
    
  