
    
      Survival to adulthood is now common for children born with congenital heart defects (CHD).
      This improved survival is in large part due to advances in cardiac surgery over the past 4
      decades. However, few cardiac surgical repairs are curative. Many 'repaired' children with
      congenital heart defects later develop problems as adults. Arrhythmias, need for additional
      surgery, and heart failure are the more common late sequelae of congenital heart disease (1).
      In addition, many adults with CHD will need a pacemaker for sick sinus syndrome (inability of
      the inherent pacemaker of the heart to function properly resulting in bradycardia sometimes
      alternating with tachycardia), tachyarrhythmias or heart block (2, 3). Certain group of
      patients, such as those with congenital corrected transposition of the great arteries
      (CCTGA), d-transposition s/p atrial switch procedures and those with single ventricle
      physiology are at particular risk of developing heart failure (4). Attached figures show the
      anatomy of these congenital heart defect. Cardiac resynchronization therapy improves exercise
      tolerance, symptoms and reduces mortality in adults with heart failure due to acquired left
      ventricular dysfunction.(5-8). In addition, automatic internal cardioverter - defibrillators
      (ICD) have now been shown to decrease mortality in patients with low ejection fraction due to
      ischemic or non-ischemic etiologies (9, 10).

      Patients with CHD pose a challenge to traditional transvenous pacemaker lead placement due to
      either complex venous anatomy that precludes conventional percutaneous approaches for
      pacemaker implantation or occlusions of central venous form multiple prior procedures (11,
      12). As evident in the study by Janousek et.al, 7 out of 8 patients enrolled in this study
      required a thoracotomy for lead placement (4). While thoracoscopic epicardial lead placement
      has been described for placement of pacemaker leads in adults without congenital heart
      defects (13, 14), it has not been described for adult patients with congenital heart disease.
    
  