
    
      The multiple-antigen specific cell therapy which was developed by Hengrui Yuanzheng is
      optimized continuously and has been upgraded from the first-generation MASCT technology to
      MASCT-I. MASCT-I is to add PD1 antibody in vitro cell culture process of MASCT technology to
      block PD1 receptor on immunocytes, relieving the brake at immunocytes' reinfusion and
      interaction with tumor cells for enhancing the effectiveness of immunocytes killing tumor
      cells.

      This is a phase I study to evaluate the safety and tolerance of MASCT-I combined with PD1
      antibody in patients with advanced gastric cancer who failed in first-line chemotherapy.

      About 19-28 cases patients with advanced gastric cancer are to be recruited.

      This study is divided into three stages:

      The first, second stage is the stage of the dose climbing, and the third stage is the dose
      expansion stage. The first stage is MASCT-I, using 3+3 design, if the DLT≥33.3% from the
      mononuclear cell collection to 14 days after the first MASCT-I infusion of T cells,the
      experiment will be end. If the DLT<33.3%, enter the second stage. The second stage is divided
      into two groups: MASCT-I+PD1 antibody in low dose group and MASCT-I+PD1 antibody in high dose
      group, using 3+3 design, if all patients in low dose group, the DLT≥33.3% from the
      mononuclear cell collection to 14 days after the first MASCT-I infusion of T cells, the
      experiment will be end. If DLT<33.3% began high dose group. If all the patients in the high
      dose group, DLT ≥33.3%, the corresponding high dose group treatment will be terminated,
      entered the third stage, the dose of expansion, only by low dose treatment group of 10
      patients of reentry. If all the patients in the high dose group, DLT<33.3%, entered the third
      stage. Only 10 patients in the high dose group were treated with the corresponding high-dose
      group.
    
  