
    
      Although parent-based programs have shown promise in reducing adolescent risk behavior, few
      have been rigorously evaluated and shown to be effective. Recruitment and retention of
      parents into lengthy workshops has been a problem and few programs have been developed
      specifically for inner-city, minority populations who are at greatest risk for a number of
      adverse health outcomes. Linking Lives was designed to address these issues.

      Parent Intervention. The primary feature of the parent component is a written manual
      distributed in modules to mothers that teaches them how to communicate effectively with their
      children about sex or tobacco risk behaviors and how to improve their relationships with
      their children. This is accompanied by two face-to-face intervention sessions for mothers,
      during which they are given the intervention materials and an opportunity to participate in
      role playing activities with other parents, and by regular contact by trained parent
      volunteers to determine if the parent has implemented the manual contents. Mothers and their
      adolescents attend Linking Lives events together at the school in the evenings and on
      weekends during which time adolescents attend their own intervention sessions at the same
      time mothers are attending theirs (mothers in the control condition participate in sessions
      on helping their children choose a high school).

      Sample. Nine middle schools in the Bronx, New York and two schools in the Harlem neighborhood
      of New York are participating in the study. The schools are located in communities that are
      financially disadvantaged. Approximately 70% of the students in the schools are Latino and
      30% are African American. A total of 4,750 adolescents and their mothers will participate in
      the study, 1,900 for tobacco and 2,850 for sexual risk reduction. Students are randomly
      sampled and their parent is contacted regarding family participation in the study.

      Evaluation. Based on input from elicitation studies, focus groups with adolescents and
      mothers, a pre-intervention survey of 668 mother-adolescent pairs, a psychometric study for
      both English- and Spanish-language instruments, feedback from community and school leaders,
      and a scientific panel of experts, the instruments, manuals and intervention protocol have
      been developed. All measures and intervention materials have been developed in English and in
      Spanish. The evaluation includes a baseline, 3-month post-test and a 15-month delayed
      post-test assessment of adolescents and mothers. For tobacco, within schools, students will
      be randomly assigned to an experimental group (school-based curriculum plus parent component)
      or a control group (school-based curriculum only). For sexual risk reduction, students will
      be randomly assigned to the combined experimental condition (school-based curriculum plus
      parent component), a parent-only experimental condition (parent component is distributed to
      mothers, but no school component is delivered) or a control group (school-based curriculum
      only).
    
  