
    
      This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of BPS-314d-MR in subjects with
      PAH who are treated with background therapy such as ERA and/or a PDE-5 inhibitor.

      Subjects who consent to the study will be assessed at the Screening and Baseline visits to
      determine eligibility for the study. Subjects meeting eligibility criteria at the Baseline
      visit will be enrolled into the study and treated by either active or placebo study drug. The
      subject, the clinical site staff and the Sponsor will be blinded to the treatment assignment.
      Treatment assignment will be random.

      Following the Baseline visit, subjects will return to the clinical site at Week 6, Week 12,
      Week 20 and every 12 weeks thereafter. Subjects will undergo all scheduled efficacy and
      safety assessments, as defined by the protocol. Between scheduled clinical site visits, the
      clinical site staff will be required to contact the subject by a telephone call to assess
      tolerability to study drug and change subject's dosage as appropriate. Telephone calls should
      occur at least once weekly for the first 20 study weeks when dose changes will occur most
      frequently and subjects are becoming familiar with the study procedures. Telephone calls will
      occur at least once monthly thereafter. Subjects will be provided with an electronic diary to
      record doses taken and help in tracking of health issues for conversations with the clinical
      site staff.

      Subjects will continue their participation in the study until the Sponsor formally closes the
      study. At that time the subject will return to the clinical site for an End of Treatment
      visit to complete all scheduled tests. Subjects who are participating in the study at its
      conclusion may be offered the opportunity to enroll in a long-term extension study. Subjects
      who do not continue into an extension study are required to discontinue from study drug.

      Subjects will be urged to remain in the study for long-term follow-up even if study drug is
      discontinued.

      In the event that a subject withdraws consent for participation in the study or the
      Investigator terminates the subject from the study the subject will return to the clinical
      site for an End of Treatment visit to complete all scheduled tests. After study drug has been
      permanently discontinued, and if the subject is terminated from the study, the subject will
      return to the clinical site after 30-37 days for a final Safety Follow-up visit and to return
      any remaining study drug.

      The optional Pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation will be offered to all study subjects at
      clinical sites. Subjects within those sites will decide if they wish to participate in the
      optional PK evaluation. For those subjects electing to participate, two blood samples will be
      collected at three clinical site visits (Weeks 6, 12 and 20).

      The optional hemodynamic sub-study will be offered to all study subjects at clinical sites.
      All subjects at the selected research centers will be offered the opportunity to volunteer in
      the sub-study. Hemodynamic measurements will be assessed by Right Heart Catheterization
      (RHC). For those subjects who consent to the RHC, the RHC procedure will be performed at the
      Baseline visit and during Week 20.
    
  