
    
      Cognitive impairment after major cardiac or non-cardiac surgery occurs in a high rate for
      older adults. The results of previous studies indicate that certain neuro-imaging markers can
      determine which individuals pose a greater risk for memory and thinking changes after
      surgery. Based on a pilot study, there is evidence that pre-surgical neuroimaging biomarkers
      associate with memory and executive decline after a well controlled surgical procedure (total
      knee antroplasty). In this study, researchers will use brain imaging studies to determine
      which patients are most likely to be affected by cognitive changes after this type of
      surgery. The use of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) will help investigators identify brain
      biomarkers that are associated with cognitive problems, such as white matter abnormalities
      and changes to small blood vessels. Patients undergoing total knee replacement surgery, as
      well as a group of non-surgery participants of similar age, education and health status,will
      receive cognitive testing and MRI brain scans before and after surgery/non-surgery.
      Researchers will compare and monitor both groups up to one year after surgery/non-surgery.

      Prior to enrollment, participants will be asked to review the informed consent and provide
      written consent to participate in the study. The enrollment phase will involve in-person
      baseline assessment of cognitive functioning within two weeks of the scheduled
      surgery/non-surgery in order to rule out exclusion criteria. Testing will be in cooperation
      with the University of Florida General Clinical Research Center. Post-baseline MRI will be
      conducted on all participants (surgery/control) within 48 hours of the surgery/pseudo-surgery
      date to identify acute stroke differences from baseline. Cognitive assessments will be
      conducted for each participant at three-weeks, three-months, and one-year after surgery.

      The research is highly significant because it will be the first study to use in-vivo
      diffusion imaging methods to examine the contribution of specific presurgical neuroanatomical
      vulnerabilities on executive and memory cognitive decline after one of the most common
      orthopedic surgeries sought by older adults. Additionally, it will be the first study to
      examine how specific neuroimaging biomarkers interact negatively with specific peri-operative
      variables including emboli number during surgery, embolic changes to the brain, anesthesia
      depth, and cerebral oxygenation.

      The findings of the study will improve pre-surgery screening procedures for older adults and
      assist with the development of peri-operative interventions that will prevent
      neurodegenerative disease acceleration.
    
  