
    
      Patient care will follow routine clinical practice, involving regular follow-up visits,
      without any mandatory visit. In daily practice, patients are usually seen by their treating
      dermatologists every 3 months. In this study, patients will be followed-up for a least 6
      months and at most 18 months after apremilast treatment initiation. Patient data will be
      collected until 31st December 2018. Assuming a recruitment phase of 18-month duration
      starting as of December 2016, individual patient follow-up times will range from 6 to 18
      months, depending on the inclusion date. During the first months of the study, the
      recruitment rate has been slower than expected. Therefore, it has been decided in October
      2017 to increase the period of recruitment to 18 months in order to have enough evaluable
      patients to keep the accuracy required for the statistical analysis.

      During the study, it is expected to collect data at inclusion and at 6 months after
      apremilast initiation in all patients. As per NIHDI recommendations, patients should consult
      their treating dermatologists 6 months after apremilast initiation in order to evaluate
      treatment response and decide on treatment continuation for an additional period of 12
      months. For patients recruited early in the study, data will be collected during the next
      follow-up visits up to 18 months after apremilast initiation. Only data pertaining to visits
      occurring at 9 (± 1), 12 (± 1), 15 (±1), and 18 (± 1) months after treatment initiation will
      be collected. If a study visit occurs approximately 3 (± 1) months after treatment
      initiation, the data will also be recorded.

      All clinical data collected during this non-interventional study will be routinely documented
      in the patient's medical records, which are the main source of information. The study data
      will be collecting via an eCRF. Data from source documents including PRO-questionnaires will
      be entered in the eCRF by the investigator or other authorised appropriately designed and
      trained study site personnel. Data entered into the eCRF will be reviewed for consistency by
      the Data Manager using both automated logical checks (issuing in automatic queries generated
      by the system) and manual review (issuing in manual checks set by the Data Manager or the
      Monitor into the eCRF). All data collected within the eCRF will be approved and
      electronically signed and dated by the Investigator or designee. At the conclusion of the
      study, before the final statistical analysis, the eCRF and other study data will be locked to
      further additions or corrections.

      During the study, the Clinical Research Associate (CRA) will contact each study site on a
      regular basis in order to check the progress and conduct of the study. If issues regarding
      study conduct arise, additional on-site visits may be performed. In particular, a quality
      analysis will also be performed and based on data quality, it will be decided whether on-site
      monitoring is necessary, for which site and on which percentage of patients. During
      monitoring visits, eCRFs, patient's source documents, and all other study documentation will
      be reviewed by the CRA. Accuracy will be checked by performing source data verification that
      is a direct comparison of the entries made onto the eCRF against the appropriate source
      documentation.

      Adverse events AEs will be coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities
      (MedDRA) terminology. The detailed methodology of the statistical analyses will be documented
      in a statistical analysis plan (SAP). The SAP will be written by the Clinical Research
      Organisation (CRO) in charge of the study and will be validated by sponsor prior to
      performing the analysis and obligatory before the database lock. A scientific committee has
      been selected for this study. This committee will provide advice on the SAP.
    
  