
    
      Hospital admissions or deaths by worsening heart failure are often preceded by distinct
      trends of clinical parameters such as heart rhythm disturbances, daily physical activity of a
      patient, or mean heart rates.

      The Home Monitoring™ capability offered by many BIOTRONIK implants has the potential to
      detect some of these trends early. During Home Monitoring surveillance, medical and technical
      data from an ICD or CRT device are sent to a modified mobile phone, the so-called Cardio
      Messenger. This device transmits the data via a mobile phone network to the BIOTRONIK service
      center. There, the data are put into an easily accessible form and can then be viewed by the
      physician online via the internet on a secure website. Additionally, the occurrence of heart
      rhythm disturbances or device problems will be transmitted by fax, SMS or email.

      This unique system allows the attending physician to monitor each patient very closely and to
      react early enough to prevent worsening of heart failure at an early stage, to optimize
      therapy, and to secure the correct functioning of the implant.

      The goal of IN-TIME is thus to analyze the impact of a regular Home Monitoring evaluation on
      the health status of heart failure patients receiving such an implant as part of their
      therapy.

      A total of 720 patients with heart failure symptoms and a severely reduced pumping function
      receiving an ICD or a CRT-D device from up to 50 European clinical centers will be enrolled
      into the study. About 4 weeks after discharge from the implanting hospital, patients will be
      randomly assigned to prospective patient management by Home Monitoring or standard care
      groups. Patients in the Home Monitoring group will be monitored at least once per week,
      patients in the control group will not be monitored during the study, but their transmitted
      Home Monitoring data will be analyzed after their ending of participation in the study.

      The health status of patients will be measured using the well established "Packer Score".
      This score is a combined measurement of death rates, hospital admission rates, heart failure
      symptom classification and quality of life. Patients will be classified at their end of study
      participation as worsened, unchanged, or improved based on these parameters. To this end, the
      health status of participating patients will be determined regularly during further
      outpatient follow ups. These will take place at regular intervals due to the standard care.

      Additionally, some special parameters sent to the physician via Home Monitoring will be
      analyzed whether they could possibly predict an imminent worsening of a patient's health -
      leading to an unplanned hospital visit - so that it could perhaps be prevented in the future.

      Patients remain within the study for 12 months after randomization or until their
      participation is ended prematurely, e.g. by withdrawal of their consent, a low data
      transmission rate, or death.
    
  