
    
      This study will be a randomized, double blinded, placebo controlled trial.

      Patients will be assigned by chance to receive 200ug of misoprostol or placebo (empty gelatin
      capsule) vaginally twice (for a total of 400ug). There is no standard of care, but to receive
      misoprostol or not are both accepted practices and that Standard of Care is for the
      clinicians to use clinical judgment .

      Patients will be randomized to one of the following treatment regimens:

      Group 1 will received 200ug of misoprostol, to be placed into the posterior vaginal fornix 12
      hours and 2 hours before their scheduled surgery (a total of 400ug of misoprostol). St.
      Mary's pharmacy will prepare capsules with each containing 200ug of misoprostol.

      Group 2 will received placebo (empty gelatin capsule), to be placed into the posterior
      vaginal fornix 12 hours and 2 hours before their scheduled surgery.

      The two groups, will be compared in terms of side effects, resistance, dilation time, size
      and surgical complication.

      Randomization will occur using a computer program called Research Randomizer,
      http://www.randomizer.org/form.htm. A set of 100 non-unique numbers will be randomized. Once
      the randomization list is generated, envelopes will be made. Based on the randomizer results
      a folder slip of paper with the treatment (misoprostol or placebo) written on it will be
      placed in sequential numbered envelopes. The number on the envelope will be the patients code
      number. An unblinded member of the research team will open the randomized envelope, and log
      into a master drug log the randomization.

      The medication and/or placebo will be place in numbered sequentially bottles with a master
      drug log containing which is misoprostol and which is placebo. Each bottle will have child
      proof lids for dispensing and will be labeled misoprostol 200ug/each/placebo), physician name
      (Ward) and contact number, and "For investigational use only" will also be noted.

      The unblinded staff will notify the research member consenting the patient and inform them of
      what number bottle to give to the patient, in the office before surgery
    
  