
    
      Overview of Collaborative R01. The investigators propose to conduct two, coordinated studies
      testing the impact of the "Translating Evidence-based Interventions for ASD: A Multi-Level
      Implementation Strategy" (TEAMS). TEAMS focuses on improving implementation leadership,
      organizational climate (Teams Leadership Institute; TLI), and provider attitudes and
      engagement (TEAMS Individualized Provider Strategy for Training; TIPS) in order to improve
      two key implementation outcomes - ASD evidence-based intervention (EBI) fidelity, and
      subsequent child outcomes. The TLI module applies the LOCI ("Leadership and Organizational
      Change for Implementation") strategies, and the TIPS module applies MI (Motivational
      Interviewing) strategies to facilitate individual leader and provider level behavior change.
      These studies will use a randomized Hybrid implementation/effectiveness, Type 3, trial. Study
      #1 (PI: L Brookman-Frazee/UCSD) will test the TEAMS model with An Individualized Mental
      Health Intervention for ASD (AIM HI) in publicly-funded mental health services. Study #2 (PI:
      A Stahmer/UC Davis) will test TEAMS with Classroom Pivotal Response Teaching (CPRT) in school
      settings.

      The Collaborative R01 mechanism will advance implementation science by allowing the research
      team to: 1) obtain a sufficient sample size to isolate the impact of individual and combined
      modules targeting different change mechanisms (implementation leadership/climate, attitudes);
      examine change mechanisms as mediators of outcomes; and provider background and
      organizational structure as moderators of outcomes; 2) enhance generalizability by testing
      TEAMS in combination with two clinical EBI in two public service systems critical for
      children with ASD; and maximize the diversity of the target population. Each site has unique
      expertise in one of the two EBI to be tested. The PIs have a strong history of collaboration
      and a clear management plan.

      The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimates that 1 in 68 children have ASD. Long term
      outcomes for this populations are poor and the annual cost in the US is estimated to be $268
      billion. Research on the effectiveness of methods to scale up EBI in routine care is critical
      to meet this growing public health need. The efficacy of a growing number of ASD EBI has been
      established. Emerging data from AIM HI and CPRT studies support the overall effectiveness of
      ASD EBI for improving child outcomes only when providers complete training and deliver
      interventions with fidelity. Unfortunately, adoption and provider training outcomes,
      considered key implementation outcomes, are variable (e.g., up to 35% of providers in our
      studies either do not complete training or have poor fidelity). These findings are especially
      concerning given the link between fidelity and child outcomes and the rapid increase of
      large-scale usual care implementation of EBI with little attention to training completion or
      fidelity, even with well-established training and consultation methods. Therefore, testing
      methods of improving implementation outcomes is key to ensuring positive child-level outcomes
      when EBI are implemented in routine care.

      AIM HI and CPRT data indicate that (1) implementation leadership/climate and (2) provider
      attitudes towards EBI are promising targets of implementation interventions. The roles of
      both factors have been indicated for broader patient populations and also in current AIM HI
      and CPRT projects. As such, the project will apply two, established interventions (LOCI, MI)
      in the TEAMS model to target these specific mechanisms of change. This study will test the
      impact of combining standard, EBI-specific training with the two TEAMS modules individually
      and together on multiple implementation outcomes. A dismantling design will be used to
      understand the effectiveness of TEAMS and the mechanisms of change across settings and
      participants. The specific aims and hypotheses are:

        1. Test the effectiveness of the TEAMS modules individually and in combination on
           implementation outcomes when paired with two ASD EBI.

           a) Compared to standard ASD EBI training (control) and individual TEAMS modules (LEAD or
           PROV), the full TEAMS model will lead to more positive implementation outcomes for
           providers (training completion, fidelity), and children (improvements in targeted
           symptoms).

        2. Test the impact of TEAMS modules on organization and provider level mechanisms of
           change.

           a) TEAMS-LEAD will increase use of implementation leadership strategies and TEAMS-PROV
           will lead to greater changes in provider attitudes and engagement in EBI training.

        3. Identify moderators and mediators of implementation outcomes.

             1. Identify provider and organization characteristics that moderate implementation
                outcomes; and

             2. Identify provider and leader level mechanisms of change that mediate implementation
                outcomes.

      Impact: This implementation intervention has the potential to increase quality of care for
      ASD by improving effectiveness of EBI implementation. The process and modules will be
      generalizable to multiple service systems, providers, and interventions, providing broad
      impact in mental health, educational and community services.
    
  