
    
      Chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) is the main cause of long term kidney transplant failure.
      Its main histological determinant is interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy, but
      mechanisms of these changes are not completely elucidated and seem to be multifactorial. It
      seems that these histological changes develop as a consequence of immunological and
      non-immunological mechanisms. Study from Nankivell and al. defined two phases of CAN, early,
      attributed to immunological mechanisms; acute rejection, persistent subclinical rejection and
      ischemic- reperfusion injury, and late injury, characterized with progressive arteriolar
      hyalinosis, glomerulosclerosis andInterstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy (IF/TA), which
      was attributed in part to calcineurin inhibitor use and in part to ongoing immunologic
      injury.

      In vitro studies and animal studies have shown epithelial mesenchimal transition as one of
      possible mechanisms and early markers of subsequent IF/TA. EMT is defined as process where
      completely differentiated epithelial cells undergo transition into fibroblast phenotype
      cells.

      It is known that on molecular level RAAS has crucial role in development of progressive renal
      injury and fibrosis. Role of angiotensin II in progression of chronic kidney injury is
      established and well known. It mediates kidney injury by increasing intraglomerular capillary
      pressure leading to ultrafiltration of plasma proteins and by promoting cell growth and
      fibroproliferative effects.

      It is hypothesized that aldosterone as a component of RAAS may also have direct role in
      proinflammatory and profibrotic mechanisms of initiation and progression of kidney injury.
      Aldosterone is a mineralocorticoid hormone produced in adrenal cortex zona glomerulosa and
      has crucial role as a regulator of extracellular fluid volume and sodium and potassium
      balance.

      It has been shown in the rat models that aldosterone activates mTOR kinase, which promotes
      cell proliferation and contributes in early phases of injury healing. However, a prolonged
      activation of mTOR seems to promote development of interstitial fibrosis.

      Although the molecular pathways of aldosterone-mediated renal injury have not yet been fully
      elucidated, aldosterone may directly contribute to the final common pathway of renal
      fibrosis. In vitro studies have shown that aldosterone significantly increases TGF beta and
      fibronectin production by mesangial cells in culture and that this event is abolished by the
      aldosterone antagonist spironolactone. Randomized studies have shown beneficial role of
      blockade of mineralocorticoid receptors in heart failure. Also studies have shown beneficial
      role of mineralocorticoid receptor blockade with nonselective antagonist spironolactone in
      reducing albuminuria in both diabetic and non diabetic chronic kidney disease (CKD) and
      antiproteinuric effect of a selective aldosterone inhibitor, eplerenone in type 2 diabetic
      patients with microalbuminuria. Role of mineralocorticoid receptor blockade in kidney
      transplant recipients has not been extensively evaluated so far.

      In this study we hypothesized that use of a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist,
      spironolactone, may contribute to slower progression of chronic histological changes in renal
      allografts.
    
  