
    
      The optimal approach to management of sedation in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) has become a
      topic of increasing interest. The most recent guidelines outline the pharmacologic mechanisms
      of commonly used medications as well as scales on which to measure goals of pain, sedation,
      agitation and delirium in the critically ill patient. This guideline is based on a cadre of
      randomized controlled trials examining the medications in the medical intensive care unit and
      post cardiac surgery patient. Notably, in each of the trials, patients presenting with acute
      myocardial infarction, heart failure or cardiogenic shock have been excluded or largely
      underrepresented.

      Using the current guidelines as a foundation, a new pain, agitation and delirium (PAD)
      protocol, which prioritizes the use of propofol or dexmedetomidine for sedation, was
      developed and instituted at Duke University Hospital. However, use of this protocol in the
      CICU has raised important considerations. Some of these stem from the specific hemodynamic
      characteristics of the population, including significant bradycardia and hypotension, which
      can be worsened due to known side effects of propofol and dexmedetomidine. It remains unclear
      whether the benefits of these medications outweigh the risks in CICU patients as the use of
      these medications has not been studied previously in this population. This study aims to
      examine the use of protocol directed sedation using the Duke PAD protocol with the current
      sedation medications of propofol or dexmedetomidine compared to the PAD protocol with
      midazolam, per CICU usual care, as an initial step toward understanding the best management
      of sedation in these patients.

      Project Aims Include:

        1. Examine the efficacy of the PAD protocol using propofol or dexmedetomidine versus
           midazolam with regard to goal sedation, pain control and level of delirium in intubated
           Duke CICU patients.

        2. Determine differences in duration of ventilator days, CICU stay and total hospital stay
           with the PAD protocol using propofol or dexmedetomidine compared to midazolam in the
           Duke CICU.

        3. Compare the rates of adverse effects of the current PAD protocol with propofol or
           dexmedetomidine versus midazolam for sedation in the Duke CICU, including hypotension,
           bradycardia, difficulty with ventilator weaning due to sedation, and delirium.
    
  