
    
      A priority focus in palliative care, oncology, and geriatrics is preparing the 2.8 million
      U.S. family caregivers of persons with cancer to effectively partner with patients in
      healthcare decision-making from diagnosis to the end of life. Over 70% of patients with
      cancer report involvement by relatives, friends, and partners in healthcare decisions,
      including choices about cancer treatments, surgery, transitions and location of care,
      accessing palliative and hospice care, and many others. Hence, there is a critical need to
      train cancer family caregivers to be supportive of patient decision-making; however, few
      palliative care interventions exist that enhance skills in effective decision partnering.
      Patients making healthcare decisions with unprepared family caregivers may experience
      inadequate family decision support leading to heightened distress and receipt of
      care/treatments inconsistent with their values and preferences. This in turn may increase
      distress for family caregivers.

      Becoming better decision partners with patients is one among several skills targeted within
      our evidence-based model of early concurrent oncology palliative care for family caregivers.
      Decision partnering relevant content for family caregivers has included principles of
      effective social support, communication, and Ottawa Decision Guide training; however it is
      unknown which of these components and component interactions influences patient and caregiver
      decision-making outcomes. Traditional research approaches typically treat interventions as
      "bundled" treatment packages, making it difficult to assess definitively which aspects of an
      intervention can be reduced, eliminated, or replaced to improve efficiency. Using traditional
      research methods (e.g., two-arm randomized controlled trials that test new features one at a
      time) requires conducting multiple studies, which is an exorbitantly expensive and time
      consuming process. This paradox prompts us to consider methodologies that may offer a more
      efficient way to test multiple intervention components simultaneously.

      Using a highly innovative methodology, the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST), the
      purpose of this study is to pilot test, for the first time, an optimization trial approach to
      develop and refine the decision partnering skills of family caregivers of persons with
      newly-diagnosed advanced cancer (CASCADE: CAre Supporters Coached to be Adept DEcision
      partners). Using a 2x2x2 factorial design, 40 family caregivers of persons with
      newly-diagnosed advanced cancer will be randomized to receive one or more nurse
      coach-delivered decision partnering training components, based on the Ottawa Decision Support
      Framework and Social Support Effectiveness Theory4: 1) psychoeducation on effective decision
      partnering and social support principles (1 vs. 3 sessions); 2) decision support
      communication training (yes vs. no); and 3) Ottawa Decision Guide training (yes vs. no).

      This study's conceptual foundations incorporate Rini's Social Support Effectiveness Theory
      and the Ottawa Decision Support Framework. Caregiver decision partnering training is designed
      to modify family caregiver skills, including their ability to: 1) provide effective social
      support through psychoeducation on key social support principles that will optimize emotional
      and informational support to patients; 2) elicit patient decisional needs, including patient
      values, preferences, and coping through better decision support communication, enhancing the
      quantity of decision-making conversations; and 3) provide structured decision support using
      an evidence-based tool (i.e., the Ottawa Decision Guide, see Appendix) to help patients
      clarify choices and guide deliberation through Ottawa decision guide training, reducing
      patient decision conflict. Modification of these skills and improvement in patient mediating
      outcomes is hypothesized to lead to more positive decisional influence from the patient's
      perspective and better patient and caregiver mood.

      The specific aims of this study are to:

      Aim 1: Determine the feasibility and acceptability of using a highly innovative experimental
      design to enroll and retain 40 caregivers for 24 weeks to complete 1 or more components of
      caregiver decision partnering training. Feasibility: ≥80% of participants will adhere to and
      complete assigned intervention components and study-related assessments. Acceptability:
      Through post-intervention qualitative interviews, the investigators will elicit feedback from
      caregiver participants on intervention experiences and clinical trial procedures.

      Aim 2: Explore the preliminary efficacy of individual decision partnering training components
      and component interactions on patient and caregiver outcomes at 12 and 24 weeks after
      baseline, including a) patient-reported positive decision influence (primary) using Rini's
      Decision Influence Scale and b) patient and caregiver mood (depression/anxiety symptoms)
      using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.

      Exploratory Aim: Explore mediators and moderators (e.g., sociodemographics, coping, social
      support, decisional conflict) of the relationship between intervention components and patient
      and caregiver outcomes.
    
  