
    
      Painful vasoocclusive crisis (VOC) is the most frequent acute clinical manifestation of
      sickle cell disease (SCD), frequently necessitating emergency department visits and/or
      hospitalization. Approximately 10-30% of patients admitted to the hospital with a VOC will go
      on to develop acute chest syndrome (ACS), a complication of SCD resulting in significant
      morbidity and mortality. While ACS related mortality appears to be improving in the United
      States, the number of hospital admissions for ACS is on the rise. Unfortunately, the
      diagnosis of ACS is often delayed with up to 50% of cases diagnosed two to three days after
      an admission for VOC. The clinical diagnosis of ACS is often delayed as it mimics other
      respiratory diseases. Furthermore, the lack of definitive laboratory and radiological
      biomarkers further confounds the ability to detect rapidly progressive ACS, a phenotype
      accounting for considerable ACS-related mortality. Currently, a key criterion for the
      diagnosis of ACS is the presence of new airspace disease on a chest radiograph in a sickle
      cell patient with respiratory symptoms. However, the appearance of abnormalities on chest
      radiography (CXR) often lags behind clinical signs and diagnostic techniques such as computed
      tomography (CT) which tends to reveal radiologic changes much earlier than CXR. Early
      diagnosis and treatment of ACS improves outcomes, hence the scientific rationale to perform
      such studies and develop diagnostic algorithms to facilitate early detection of ACS.

      In the current study proposal, we will utilize stored blood samples and review CT scans and
      CXRs from 65 participants of the DeNOVO trial (NHLBI protocol # 05-H-0019). This multicenter
      trial conducted between 2004-08 at 11 centers including the NIH, showed that among patients
      with SCD hospitalized with VOC, the use of inhaled nitric oxide compared with placebo did not
      improve time to crisis resolution. In this study, patients enrolled at the NIH study site had
      baseline admission research blood drawn and thoracic CT scans performed. A repeat CT scan and
      repeat blood work was subsequently obtained during the development of ACS. The archived data
      from this subset of the study cohort therefore provides an opportunity to rigorously test the
      hypothesis that CT scans performed early in the setting of VOC in patients going on to
      develop ACS would have utility in the rapid diagnosis of this condition. Furthermore, the
      availability of stored plasma samples from this cohort permits the study of both imaging and
      plasma biomarkers in a prospectively defined sample of SCD patients. Specifically, we will
      identify patients admitted with VOC that went on to develop ACS and study their CT scans and
      plasma to determine whether these biomarkers will rapidly diagnose ACS. The patients in the
      same study who did not develop ACS will serve as controls.
    
  