
    
      Study population Adults aged ≥ 60 years with essential hypertension were recruited through
      nursing homes and physical activity groups in the state of Colima, México. 45 subjects were
      assessed for eligibility at our out-patient clinic. We excluded subjects with impaired renal
      or hepatic function; also subjects who had been treated with vitamin D within the last three
      months.

      None were on hormone replacement therapy, but we included subjects on anti-hypertensive for
      more than 10 years and the dosages were unchanged during the study. Before randomization, two
      subjects withdrew the informed consent because of personal reasons, and two subjects were
      excluded due to the diagnosis of severe hypertension.

      Design The design was a double-blind, placebo controlled randomized clinical trial. The
      participants were randomly assigned using a computer-generated randomization code into two
      groups: group 1 (calcitriol group)with 22 subjects whom were enrolled for 6 weeks of
      treatment with a daily dose of 1000 IU of cholecalciferol (administered as 1 capsule of 25 μg
      each) and group 2 with 23 subjects (control group) whom received a similar placebo tablet for
      also 6 weeks.

      During treatment, nine subjects (20%) left the trial due to personal reasons. All patients
      provided written informed consent. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration
      of Helsinki II and the guidance on Good Clinical Practice (GCP). Approval was obtained from
      the bioethics committee of the Faculty of Medicine from the University of Colima
      (FM014/2012).

      Measurement At the screening visit prior to randomization, subjects had a routine clinical
      examination and data concerning medical history. BP was measured 3 consecutive days at the
      same time, using a kit integrated aneroid sphygmomanometer with stethoscope (medimetrics
      5769) with the patient seated and with at least 5 min rest. The subjects with average BP
      >140/90 mm Hg were included in the study.

      Once enrolled in the study groups, anthropometrics measurements were collected. The
      measurements performed were weight and height with light clothing and no shoes, and the
      indicator body mass index (kg/m2) was calculated. For the determination of serum 25(OH)D,two
      blood samples were collected in the morning after an overnight fast of minimum 8 h on the day
      of the randomization and at the end of the study.

      The patients attended control visits every week for safety measures, adverse event
      registration and assessment of compliance.Returned pills were counted at each visit, and
      compliance was calculated as the percentage of used pills compared to the expected number.

      Biochemistry Serum 25(OH)D concentration were measured with the use of competitive
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA: immunodiagnostic, Bernheim, Germany) after
      solid-phase extraction (reference range: 17-53 pg/mL). The intra- and interassay CVs for the
      2 Vitamin D metabolites were <7,0% and 9,0%, respectively.

      Statistical Analysis The data were analyzed with the SPSS version 21. The variables studied
      were described as frequencies, percentages and as median (interquartile range); inferential
      statistics were performed with non parametric tests (Mann Whitney and related sample Wilcoxon
      test), and correlations between variables were analyzed by bivariate correlation analysis by
      Pearson's correlation. Statistical significance was set at a p value < 0.05.
    
  