
    
      The FB-11 study is a Phase II, randomized, open label, four arm study to examine the
      biological and clinical effect of neoadjuvant letrozole with or without palbociclib in the
      first-line treatment of estrogen-receptor (ER) positive, HER2-negative early invasive breast
      cancer. The co-primary aims of this study are to to compare the changes in the proliferation
      marker Ki67, and to compare clinical response after 14 weeks of therapy with letrozole with
      or without palbociclib.

      The FB-11 study initiative is a joint partnership between the NSABP Foundation, Inc. (NSABP)
      Department of Site and Study Management (DSSM) and United Kingdom (UK) co-investigators at
      the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and the Institute of Cancer Research (ICR). Parallel
      protocols will be conducted in the US and Canada (FB-11), and the UK (PALLET) with joint
      analysis of interim and final data.

      Postmenopausal women, newly diagnosed with ER-positive/HER2-negative early breast cancer, who
      are suitable candidates for neoadjuvant endocrine therapy will be invited to join the
      FB-11/PALLET trial. Approximately 306 patients will be accrued to this study. Each
      collaborative group will recruit at least 1/3 and no more than 2/3 of the target accrual.

      Patients will be randomized to one of four treatment arms (3:2:2:2 ratio). Treatment in the
      first 14 weeks of neoadjuvant therapy will be:Arm A Letrozole alone; Arm B Letrozole for 2
      weeks followed by letrozole + palbociclib to week 14; Arm C Palbociclib for 2 weeks followed
      by letrozole + palbociclib to week 14; Arm D Letrozole + palbociclib to week 14.

      Letrozole will be administered orally as a 2.5mg daily tablet. Palbociclib will be
      administered orally as 125mg capsules, daily on a schedule of 3 weeks (21 days) on, 1 week (7
      days) off of a 4 week [28 day] cycle.

      The end of study therapy for patients in Arm A will be completion of week 14. Patients in
      Arms B, C, and D will complete study therapy following 14 days of palbociclib in the final
      treatment cycle past 14 weeks if treatment delays have occurred.

      Note: After week 14 (end of study therapy) all patients should continue letrozole until
      surgery. Letrozole is not considered study therapy beyond completion of week 14 for Arm A or
      after 14 days of palbociclib in the final treatment cycle for patients in Arms B, C, and D.

      Following completion of study therapy, surgery will be scheduled for 15-18 weeks
      post-randomization. Post-surgical treatment will be at discretion of treating clinician,
      following local protocols, and not influenced by allocation of treatment within the
      FB-11/PALLET study.

      Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0).
    
  