
    
      This is a phase II clinical trial with the goal to explore safety, tolerability, and efficacy
      of NAC on motor behavior in children with NF1 aged 8 through 16 years old. The investigators
      hypothesize that NAC therapy will improve motor function evaluated by the PANESS scale. This
      is based on studies demonstrating that NAC significantly improved impairments in the animal
      model of NF1. The investigators will also analyze NAC effects on attention deficit and
      impulsivity in children with NF1.

      This study will also help develop novel predictive biomarkers of response to neurocognitive
      therapies in patients with NF1 which are needed to evaluate treatment outcomes.

      The investigators will gain information in children with NF1 about possible clinical benefit
      of anti-oxidant treatment and to develop and evaluate quantitative brain-based and blood
      biomarkers relating to presence of NF1, symptom severity, and response to antioxidant
      therapy. Clinically, 50 percent of children with NF1 are underperforming or failing at
      school. This frequently leads to decreased educational attainment and fewer opportunities as
      adults. An important first step was preliminary work using the PANESS scale and Transcranial
      Magnetic Stimulation (TMS)-evoked Short Interval Cortical Inhibition (rSICI) in children with
      NF1. The investigators propose to develop and extend understanding of NF1-related motor and
      learning behavior in response to antioxidant therapy with NAC. The purpose of the present
      study is to 1) evaluate tolerability, safety, and clinical benefit of NAC in this
      double-blind placebo controlled study using the motor function scale (PANESS); 2) to evaluate
      the effects of NAC on measures of NF1 neurocognitive symptomatology (ADHD/impulsive symptoms,
      executive function, working memory); and 3) to determine if TMS measurement (SICI) in
      children with NF1 will correlate with clinical effects of NAC treatment and evaluate utility
      of advanced brain imaging and spectroscopy measurements in children with NF1, and effects of
      NAC therapy.

      The investigators propose to study 58 children with NF1, ages 8-16 years, at baseline and
      after completion of 8 weeks of treatment with NAC, followed by a washout period of 4 weeks.

      The investigators believe this work has the potential to lay groundwork for future use of
      relevant biomarkers for treatment and outcomes research for NF1 as well as other biologically
      similar conditions, collectively designated the "RASopathies" (due to involvement of the RAS
      family of proteins) and ultimately to guide development of more effective treatments based on
      disease pathophysiology.

      STUDY OBJECTIVE:

      NAC Trial at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC) The investigators propose
      performing a single center randomized double-blind placebo controlled, prospective, Phase II
      study to explore safety, tolerability, and efficacy of NAC on motor behavior in children with
      NF1 aged 8 through 16 years old.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that NAC therapy will improve motor function evaluated by the
      PANESS scale. This is based on studies demonstrating that NAC significantly improved
      impairments in the animal model of NF1. The investigators will also analyze NAC effects on
      attention deficit and impulsivity in children with NF1.

      Specific Aim:

      The primary outcome of this study is to characterize the effects of NAC treatment on motor
      function in children and adolescents with NF1 using the PANESS. The investigators hypothesize
      that motor function scores rated with the PANESS scale will improve after treatment with NAC.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. To evaluate the effects of NAC on measures of NF1 neurocognitive symptomatology
           (ADHD/impulsive symptoms, executive function, working memory), the investigators will
           use Response Evaluation in Neurofibromatosis and Schwannomatosis (REiNS) committee
           recommended assessments tools DuPaul ADHD rating scale (ADHD-RS), Behavioral Rating
           Inventory of Executive Function second edition (BRIEF-2), Wechsler Intelligence Scale
           for Children, Fifth Edition (WISC-V) subtests, and Test of Variables of Attention
           (TOVA).

        2. To determine if TMS measurement (SICI) in children with NF1 will correlate with clinical
           effects of NAC treatment.

        3. To quantify microstructural properties of brain tissue based on water diffusion,
           glutathione GSH concentrations, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) concentration using
           brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in
           children with NF1. This will allow for regional correlation between imaging,
           spectroscopy and neuropsychometric outcomes. The investigators will also determine if
           these magnetic resonance based outcomes correlate with clinical effects of NAC
           treatment.

        4. To evaluate safety and tolerability of NAC in children with NF1.
    
  