
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility and safety of cellular immunotherapy utilizing ex vivo expanded
      autologous memory-enriched T cells that are genetically modified using a self-inactivating
      (SIN) lentiviral vector to express a HER2-specific, hinge-optimized, 41BB-costimulatory
      chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), as well as a truncated human CD19 (HER2[EQ]BBzeta/CD19t+)
      for participants with recurrent/refractory malignant glioma in one of the following ways: Arm
      1 (intracavitary/intratumoral HER2(EQ)BBzeta/CD19+ T CM), Arm 2 (dual delivery [both
      intracavitary/intratumoral and intraventricular] of HER2(EQ)BBzeta/CD19+ T CM), or Arm 3
      (dual delivery [both intracavitary/intratumoral and intraventricular] of HER2(EQ)BBzeta/CD19+
      T N/MEM).

      II. To determine maximum tolerated dose schedule (MTD) and a recommended Phase II dosing plan
      (RP2D) for arm 3 (dual delivery).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe persistence and expansion of CAR T cells in tumor cyst fluid, peripheral blood
      and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF).

      II. To describe cytokine levels (tumor cyst fluid, peripheral blood, and CSF) over the study
      period.

      III. In research participants who receive the full schedule of 3 CAR T cell doses:

      IIIa. To estimate median progression free survival (PFS) rate. IIIb. To estimate disease
      response rates. IIIc. To estimate median overall survival (OS).

      IV. In research participants who continue to receive infusions after progressing:

      IVa. Estimate disease response. IVb. Describe CAR T cell and endogenous immune populations,
      as well as cytokine and microenvironment profiles (cerebral spinal fluid [CSF], cyst fluid,
      peripheral blood) considering post progression therapy(ies), if applicable.

      V. For study participants who undergo an additional biopsy/resection or autopsy:

      Va. Evaluate CAR T cell persistence in the tumor micro-environment and the location of the
      CAR T cells with respect to the injection.

      Vb. Evaluate HER2 antigen expression levels pre and post CAR T cell therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of autologous HER2(EQ)BBζ/CD19t+ T cells.
      Participants are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive autologous HER2(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ Tcm cells via
      intratumoral/intracavitary catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3 weeks. Beginning as early as
      1 week later, patients may receive additional T cell infusions as long as patients remain
      eligible and there is product available. Patients who progress on intracavitary or
      intratumoral administration may move to alternative delivery routes for the optional
      infusions.

      ARM II: Patients receive autologous HER2(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ Tcm cells via
      intratumoral/intracavitary catheter and intraventricular catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3
      weeks. Beginning as early as 1 week later, patients may receive additional T cell infusions
      as long as patients continue to remain eligible and there is product available. Based on
      clinical response after the first 3 infusions, the study principal investigator may decide to
      continue with the optional infusions at either one or both sites (instead of requiring
      injections at both sites).

      ARM III: Patients receive autologous HER2(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ Tn/mem cells via
      intratumoral/intracavitary catheter and intraventricular catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3
      weeks. Beginning as early as 1 week later, patients may receive additional T cell infusions
      as long as patients continue to remain eligible and there is product available. Based on
      clinical response after the first 3 infusions, the study principal investigator may decide to
      continue with the optional infusions at either one or both sites (instead of requiring
      injections at both sites).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks, 3, 6, 8, 10, and 12
      months, then annually for at least 15 years.
    
  