
    
      The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of Explorer Baby Early Intervention Program
      on explorative motor behaviors, motor, language, and cognitive skills. The study is designed
      as a randomized controlled trial in which infants and their families are randomly assigned to
      the intervention group (Explorer Baby) or control group (neurodevelopmental therapy),
      stratified by birth weeks and educational level of the mother.

      There is no developmental support program as standard care in Turkey for premature babies. So
      that neither intervention nor the control group doesn't take any other support. There will be
      an average of six intervention sessions during the 6 months intervention period. The
      assessments will take before intervention (T0), after 3 months after T0 (T1) and after six
      months after T0 (T2), corrected age one (T3), corrected age two (T4).

      Intervention: EXPLORatory motor behavior based Early Intervention Program (Explorer Baby) is
      a developmental support program for babies and their families. Parents visit the early
      intervention center with their babies in a variable frequency. The first step of the program
      is to build up interaction between therapists and parents; worries of parents for the
      development of their babies, knowledge about child development, knowledge about play
      behaviors, how babies learn new skills, age-specific requirements of babies, build up
      interaction with babies and family members, describing blocks for development.

      The second step is setting the play in the natural environment working with the family; how
      do families describe the play? If families want to support the ability of their babies
      kicking, reaching, rolling, communicate, or social interaction how should they organize the
      playground? Showing families some examples of enrichment of playground for specific aims.

      The third step is observing babies' reactions; how do families motivate their babies for
      play? How do families encourage their babies for self-starting explorative behaviors? How do
      parents support making the voice of the baby more if the play context is meaningful for
      creating a voice? The program doesn't give specific play homework to improve specific skills.
      The program tries to enrich parents' knowledge about the effect on the behavior of babies in
      meaningful situations.

      The control Group: The control group will take neurodevelopmental therapy. Neurodevelopmental
      therapy is commonly accepted as traditional therapy.
    
  