
    
      About 66% of stroke survivors present gait impairment and mobility limitation. Rehabilitation
      techniques for people with walking and mobility disability after stroke have been broadly
      investigated in recent decades. However, few rehabilitation approaches have been shown to be
      effective in resolving these devastating problem.

      Constraint-induced Movement Therapy (CIMT) presented robust evidence on increasing the amount
      and the quality of the paretic upper extremity (UE) functional use in daily situations of
      individuals with brain injuries (e.g. stroke, traumatic brain injury). The UE CIMT protocol
      consists of 4 components: 1) repetitive and intensive training; 2) motor training following
      shaping principles; 3) application of a groups of behavioral strategies called transfer
      package (TP), and 4) prolonged use of a restriction device on the non-paretic (or less
      affected) UE.

      Considering the importance of repetition, intensity and specificity of the motor training to
      induce neuroplastic changes (3), CIMT is a potential tool to improve gait and mobility
      function in people with stroke. The translation of the UE protocol for Lower Extremity (LE)
      rehabilitation demanded some modifications for use with gait and mobility. For example,
      restraint of the less affected LE is not used because a different gait pattern would be
      induced using the restriction device. Also, the TP has been modified for LE function because
      of its inherent differences from UE function (e.g. both LE are more often used together and
      because there are more safety consequences involved with gait and mobility (e.g. falling).

      In view of the significant efficacy of the UE CIMT for individuals with stroke, the extension
      of this approach to LE CIMT is promising, but investigation of its effect on mobility and
      motor function has been insufficient. The few studies that have applied a modified CIMT
      protocol in people with stroke did not use the full TP component. Thus, information about the
      effects of the complete CIMT protocol (i.e., including the TP) is greatly need. The addition
      of the enhanced TP in the LE protocol might have a great impact on both motor outcomes and
      retention of the results, as observed in previous studies about the UE approach. Considering
      the high intensity of the complete protocol, the added safety concerns, and the demand of
      involvement of the therapist, participant, and caregivers, the acceptability of the TP should
      be explored in order to provide a better understanding of the feasibility of this strategy.

      The purpose of this single-subject, concurrent mixed methods study is to investigate the
      relationship between the effect of the CIMT protocol on gait and mobility and participants'
      and caregivers' expectations and perceptions regarding the treatment (e.g. intensity,
      physical and emotional demands, changes in routine). The goal of the quantitative strand is
      to assess changes in quality of movement and functional use of the paretic lower limb after
      the treatment and to investigate the participants' expectations in regards the intervention
      using the Participant Opinion Survey (POS). The qualitative strand (participant interviews)
      will determine perspectives of caregiver and participant perspectives regarding protocol
      acceptability. Both quantitative and qualitative data will be collected and analyzed
      concurrently, through triangulation and complementarity rationales; both data will be equally
      prioritized (4). We hypothesize that: 1) the enhanced LE CIT protocol will be effective for
      improving functional use of the paretic LE in people with chronic stroke; and 2)
      participant's and caregivers opinions are related to changes on functional use.

      Aim 1: Assess the effects of the enhanced LE CIMT protocol on LE use and motor function. A
      single-subject ABA design with chronic stroke participants will be conducted. Individuals
      with different levels of severity will receive the LE CIMT, including intensive motor
      training and TP.

      Aim 2: Richly characterize participants and caregivers acceptability of the LE CIMT protocol.
      A qualitative approach will be used for evaluating the acceptability of the protocol. The
      authors will conduct individual interviews with all participants and their caregivers or
      family members to determine perspectives of intervention.

      Aim 3: Examine how participants and caregivers acceptability can influence changes in motor
      outcomes after LE CIMT. A mixed method approach will be conducted in order to investigate if
      there is relationship between effect on motor outcome and individuals' perceptions about the
      intervention.
    
  