
    
      Background

      Recent scientific evidence suggests that diets largely based on plant foods, such as
      well-balanced vegetarian diets, have potential to improve health, in contrast with
      predominantly meat-based diets. However, many consumers may not wish to exclude meat from the
      diet, despite current advice to reduce, in particular, processed meat. One way to achieve
      this is to increase consumption of plant-based protein components in the diet.

      Making a comparison of the nutritional content of high protein plants (i.e. those with > 20 g
      protein/100 g dry weight), several candidate sources were identified. In particular, these
      belong to the Fabaceae family and include pulses (green peas, fava beans, lupin seeds) and
      certain common bean species. Species from plant families other than the Fabaceae generally
      have less protein. An exception is hemp seed (Cannabaceae family), which can have a protein
      content around 40g protein /100g dry weight, is a source of fibre, and has favourable fatty
      acid and amino acid profiles. Other families of interest include the Amaranthaceae species
      (Quinoa), Polygonaceae (Buckwheat) and the Poaceae (Wheat, Barley and Oats). Protein content
      of these pseudocereal and cereal crops ranges from 12-20 g protein /100 g dry weight.
      Although lower in protein content compared with the Fabaceae species, they are generally rich
      in fibre and consequently will impart additional benefits to a high-protein plant based diet.

      According to the Scottish Health Survey (2009), nearly two-thirds of men (66.3%) and
      approximately half of women (58.4%) were overweight. Obesity is a major risk factor for
      metabolic syndrome, which is linked to conditions such as type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
      Having impaired glucose tolerance doubles the chance of morbidity and mortality from
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). CVD is the leading cause of death and accounts for nearly 30%
      of deaths worldwide each year. Clinical studies have shown that regular consumption of pulses
      can reduce blood levels of total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (LDL).

      The recent meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials provides the strongest evidence to
      date that non-soya legume consumption lowers serum total and LDL cholesterol and therefore,
      may lower the risk of CVD. Eating pulses regularly may also lower CVD risk via favorable
      effects on blood pressure, blood glucose and insulin levels and by satisfying hunger and
      helping manage body weight. Higher legume intakes were associated with lower body mass index
      (BMI), blood pressure, serum total cholesterol (TC) and a lower incidence of T2DM, compared
      with lower legume intakes. In addition to achieving energy balance and improving the overall
      diet, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that people increase consumption of
      legumes (pulses), as well as vegetables, wholegrain and nuts to prevent obesity. There does
      not seem to be differential effects of pea-protein as compared to other meat and dairy
      proteins when fed at similar amounts as a pre-load.

      Technically a nut, hempseed typically contains over 30% oil and about 25% protein, with
      considerable amounts of dietary fibre, vitamins and minerals. The two main proteins in
      hempseed are edestin and albumin (high-quality storage proteins are easily digested and
      contain nutritionally significant amounts of all essential amino acids); hempseed has
      exceptionally high levels of the amino acid arginine. Hempseed is an excellent source of
      nutrition and has been used to treat various disorders for thousands of years in traditional
      medicine. Animal studies and only few humans study (on hemp seeds oil) agree as well that
      hempseed has health promoting properties; supported by results from nutritional analyses of
      the seed, oil and seed meal. Being a rich source of polyunsaturated fatty acids and proteins
      which contain all of the essential amino acids in nutritionally sufficient amounts as
      detailed by the FAO/WHO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/World Health
      Organization) suggested requirements for infants or children. Hemp proteins have a Protein
      Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS) equal to or greater than certain grains,
      other nuts, and some pulses. Hempseed, in addition to its nutritional value, has demonstrated
      positive health benefits, including the lowering of cholesterol and high blood pressure.

      Buckwheat has attracted increasing attention from food scientists for its potential
      beneficial effects in chronic diseases. In the early 1970's the nutritional properties of
      buckwheat were first demonstrated. The cholesterol lowering effects of buckwheat protein
      extracts in rats with cholesterol-enriched diets has been reported.

      There has been much research conducted on the functionalities and properties of buckwheat
      proteins and other phytochemicals in buckwheat seeds. Among them, the most promising are the
      flavones, flavonoids, phytosterols, fagopyrins, and the thiamin-binding proteins. Buckwheat
      proteins have unique amino acid compositions Experiments, both in animal models and with
      human studies revealed that buckwheat flour can improve T2DM, obesity, hypertension,
      hypercholesterolemia and constipation.

      For the social science element of the project, the proposed study will employ qualitative
      research methods which emphasise the importance of 'lay' knowledge and the subjective
      experience of research participants. Within the field of nutrition research, qualitative
      methods and techniques still remain comparatively rare. This is partly because of the
      privileged status of quantitative research, but also because of the length of time and amount
      of effort that goes into each qualitative study and the small pool of qualified researchers
      in this field .As qualitative research efforts require that researchers seek to understand
      people and the social and cultural contexts in which they live from the participants' points
      of view, this type of knowledge has much to contribute to our understanding of why people eat
      what they do. For the purposes of this study, qualitative methods will enhance our
      understanding of the acceptability, to consumers in Scotland, of foods based on sustainable,
      plant-based protein. It will also tell us much about any barrier that exist to the uptake of
      such foods, from a consumer perspective.

      Planned work for the study

      From a health perspective it is essential to establish the bioavailability and metabolism of
      plant proteins and other dietary constituents in humans. Certain metabolites are absorbed
      early in the gastrointestinal tract, whereas others are transported to the colon where they
      are extensively metabolized by the gut microbiota. In this acute study, we will characterise
      the bioactive metabolites present in the urine and plasma samples obtained. This will inform
      on their availability to the systemic circulation, as well as their excretion profiles. We
      will employ targeted quantitative analysis using both LC-MS and GC-MS which will provide the
      identity of metabolites and their in vivo concentrations. We will focus on metabolites that
      are considered to impact on human health. The principal metabolites analysed will be those
      produced by the phenylpropanoid pathway and products of protein and carbohydrate metabolism.
      These will include derivatives and metabolites of the simple phenols, benzoic acids, phenolic
      acids, phenylacetic acids, phenypropionic acids, phenylpyruvic acids, phenyllactic acids,
      mandellic acids, phenolic dimers, acetophenones, benzaldehydes, cinnamaldehydes, benzyl
      alcohols, cinnamyl alcohols, indoles, isoflavones, coumarins, chalcones, flavanones,
      flavones, flavonols, anthocyanidins. We have also shown that many of these compounds are
      bioactive and exhibit anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activity at in vivo concentrations.
      These studies will provide important information on bioavailability and metabolism, but will
      also allow us to correlate the indices with biomarkers of health. In this study we will also
      examine the effect of different protein sources on post-prandial effects, endocrine responses
      (e.g. PYY (peptide YY) levels) and hunger ratings. The energy intake for each volunteer will
      be measured after lunch (ad libitum) on the intervention day. Volunteer views and
      acceptability towards diets rich in plant protein will be assessed. Some components in pulses
      may contribute to weight control by inhibiting intestinal absorption of carbohydrates and
      other energy yielding nutrients such as protein. Correlating the metabolic profiles with
      biomarkers of health will provide information that will be fed back into agricultural
      practice to optimise crop breeding strategies for benefits on human health.

      With regard to the social science component of the project, in-depth semi-structured
      interviews will be used. The term 'semi-structured' reflects the intrinsic flexibility of
      qualitative interview approaches, which often use an aide-memoire or interview guide rather
      than a formal schedule. In addition, the form and content of the research questions is likely
      to vary, in response to each particular interview context. This type of built-in design can
      strengthen qualitative research because of its attentiveness to context.

      All interviews will be digitally recorded and fully transcribed. The qualitative analytical
      techniques applied will look for and examine the themes and patterns of meaning within the
      kinds of data generated by this research mode. The interviews and conversations that take
      place as part of qualitative inquiry will generate responses, perceptions, opinions and so on
      from research participants. These can be understood as constituting a 'discourse' (or set of
      ideas) derived from the focus of the inquiry that lends itself particularly well to thematic
      analysis. Themes are derived by the process known as 'coding' (or labelling) specific chunks
      of text according to the ideas which they seem to represent. This interpretative work
      involves the creation of analytical themes by the researcher and is particularly useful in
      bringing together the 'insider' or 'emic' perspective derived from the research participant's
      knowledge and experience, with the 'outsider' or 'etic' perspective of the researcher and the
      relevant literature. Patterns in the data are thus identified through the intellectual work
      of bringing together components or fragments of ideas, perceptions or experiences which might
      be meaningless when considered in isolation. The researcher engaged in thematic analysis
      seeks to understand how different ideas or components fit together in a meaningful way, in
      order to produce a coherent analytical account.

      The analysis will be validated by referring back to the relevant literature, which may
      support (or counter) inferences drawn by the researcher. The interweaving of research
      findings with extant research literature will help strengthen the interpretive account
      provided by the researcher. Research participants will also be engaged in this process in
      that their feedback on emerging patterns will be sought. This process of member checking will
      be conducted during the course of each interview. Through an analytical framework that
      focuses on discourse and acknowledges the importance of participants' own perspectives and
      experiences, analysis will present a contextualised exploration of the ways in which
      consumers perceive plant-based proteins as alternatives or supplements to meat.
    
  