
    
      One of the principal steps to obtain the favorable success is still related to the number of
      retrieved oocytes after hormonal stimulation by gonadotropins in combination with GnRH
      analogues. In the patients with "poor ovarian response" diagnosis, the limited number of
      obtained oocytes remains the main obstacle in optimizing the live birth rates. The objective
      of present study is to evaluate a new procedure to increase a cohort of the growing antral
      follicles and consequently the number of retrieved oocytes after hormonal stimulation by
      gonadotropins in combination with GnRH antagonist. In present study, eligible patients with
      diagnosis poor ovarian responder based on the Bologna criteria are included. Ovarian
      stimulation procedure will be performed by antagonist protocol. All the patients will be
      received two tablets daily of Estradiol valerate (Estraval®, 2 mg, Aburaihan Co., Tehran,
      Iran) starting a week after LH surge until menses. The hormonal evaluation (serum LH and FSH)
      and basic vaginal ultrasound will be performed before the starting ovarian stimulation on the
      2th or 3th day of the menstrual cycle. On this day, the block randomization method will be
      designed to randomize allocation of patients into groups with blocks of size 4.

      In the Group A: treatment with GnRH antagonists (Cetrotide®, 0.25 mg cetrorelix acetate,
      Serono, Inc) will be started on the 2th or 3th day of the menstrual cycle and continues until
      the ninth day. Then, the ovarian stimulation with gonadotropin 300 IU recombinant FSH (Gonal
      - F®, Serono Laboratories Ltd, Geneva, Switzerland) and 150 IU of hMG (Menopur®; Ferring)
      will be started from ninth day of menstrual cycle until the day of hCG administration. The
      monitoring of ovarian stimulation will be done every other day by vaginal ultrasound and
      whenever at least 1 to 3 follicles larger than 13 mm are observed, the antagonist injection
      (Cetrotide®, 0.25 mg cetrorelix acetate, Serono, Inc) will be started again to prevent
      premature LH surge and continues until the prescription of hCG. When at least two follicles
      greater than 17 to 18 mm is seen, two pre-filled syringes of recombinant human chorionic
      gonadotropin (rhCG) (Ovitrelle®, 250 μg/0.5 ml, Merck, Serono, Inc) will be administered. The
      patients will undergo puncture operation 32-34 hours after hCG injection.

      In the control group (B), as conventional antagonist procedure, the ovarian stimulation with
      gonadotropin 300 IU recombinant FSH (Gonal - F®, Serono Laboratories Ltd, Geneva,
      Switzerland) and 150 IU of hMG ( Menopur®; Ferring ) will be started from on the 2th or 3th
      day of the menstrual cycle. The monitoring of ovarian stimulation will be done every other
      day by vaginal ultrasound and whenever at least 1 to 3 follicles larger than 13 mm are
      observed, the antagonist injection (Cetrotide®, 0.25 mg cetrorelix acetate, Serono, Inc) will
      be started again to prevent premature LH surge and continues until the prescription of rhCG.
      32-34 hours after the rhCG injection, the ovum pick up will be performed and subsequently
      intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) /in-vitro fertilization (IVF) will be done for all
      the patients.
    
  