
    
      Overall Objective: Persistent hypervolemia following the initial resuscitative phase in
      sepsis has been shown to predict morbidity and mortality. In patients with sepsis in the
      intensive care unit (ICU) fluid accumulation is associated with a significant increase in
      duration of ventilation, development of acute kidney injury (AKI) requiring dialysis and
      increased ICU length of stay. It is essential to be able to identify and characterize the
      transition from necessary fluid resuscitation to harmful fluid volume accumulation. However,
      current methods for assessing volume status in the ICU are imprecise. Bioelectric impedance
      analysis (BIA) offers a well established and easy to perform bedside technique of volume
      assessment. Our main objective is to prospectively determine if bio-impedance derived
      measures are associated with patient important outcomes including ventilator free days, AKI
      requiring dialysis and overall mortality in septic ICU patients. In addition, we will also
      assess whether BIA derived measures of volume are associated with other measures of volume
      status.

      Hypothesis #1: Bio-impedance derived measures (phase angle, vector length) will be predict
      ventilator-free days by day 30 and a composite outcome of ICU patients with AKI requiring
      dialysis and overall mortality .

      Aim #1: To assess whether a change in bio-impedance vector length (a measure of volume
      status) between day 3 and day 7 post- admission to the ICU predicts ventilator-free days by
      day 30. Secondary outcomes are mortality, AKI and length of stay in ICU.

      Hypothesis #2: BIA derived volume measures (vector length and the RXc graph method) will be
      associated with other clinical, invasive and biochemical measures of volume status

      Aim #2: To determine if BIA derived volume measures are associated with other measures of
      volume status including central venous pressure, N- brain natriuretic peptide (N-BNP) and
      physical examination findings.

      Relevance: Chronic fluid overload states in ICU patients are associated with adverse clinical
      outcomes including prolonged ventilation, mortality, AKI and increased length of stay in the
      ICU. However current methods are inadequate to assess volume status accurately. This pilot
      observational study will determine whether implementation of bio-impedance is useful for
      identifying volume overload in ICU patients with sepsis. We plan to investigate whether a
      correlation exists between a change in vector length between days 3 and 7 post admission to
      the ICU and an important patient outcome of ventilator free days within the first 30 days
      post-enrollment. This study will assess feasibility to inform a larger multi-centre
      observational trial adequately powered to evaluate volume overload states as determined by
      bioimpedance in ICU patients with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and
      patient-important outcomes.
    
  