
    
      Postmastectomy pain syndrome (PMPS) is a neuropathic pain that can follow surgical treatment
      for breast cancer including radical mastectomy, modified radical mastectomy,and segmental
      mastectomy (lumpectomy) . The pain is distributed in the anterior chest, axilla, and medial
      and posterior parts of the arm . This pain can be sufficiently severe enough to interfere
      with sleep and performance of daily activities.

      Patients may develop an immobilized arm, which can lead to severe lymph edema, frozen
      shoulder syndrome, and complex regional pain syndrome. PMPS can result from surgical damage
      to the intercostobrachial nerve( the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal
      nerve) that is often resected at mastectomy .

      The etiology of persistent pain after mastectomy is unclear, although it is likely
      multifactorial and may be partially neuropathic in nature . Previous reports of PMPS have
      suggested a limited number of potential risk factors, which are inconsistent among studies .
      While surgical factors, including more extensive surgery (mastectomy), axillary lymphnode
      dissection, and reconstruction have been postulated as important risk factors for chronic
      pain, many studies do not support this association. Adjuvant treatment, such as radiation,
      chemotherapy, and hormonal therapy, has also been occasionally associated with persistent
      pain .

      Among demographic factors, younger age correlates with increased incidence of persistent pain
      in some studies but not others .

      The antineuropathic medications (antidepressants and anticonvulsants) are disappointing and
      have low success rate, also have multiple drawbacks , specifically excessive sedation that
      affects daily life activities of those patients .

      Radiofrequency has been used for interruption of the sympathetic chain to treat intractable
      pain in the sacral pelvic region or for management of visceral pain and on complex regional
      pain syndrome.

      Radiofrequency has the advantage over surgical resection , in that it is more selective and
      may cause fewer complications.

      Thoracic sympathectomy has been done for many painful conditions that includes complex
      regional pain syndrome , neuropathic pain of upper limb and it has been done for vasospastic
      diseases such as Raynaud's phenomenon it offers the benefit over stellate ganglion block as
      it blocks the Kuntz fibers that connect to the brachial plexus roots without passing through
      stellate ganglion .
    
  