
    
      Abstract: Diabetes technology is changing and has quickly become an integral part of diabetes
      care and management. Typically, patients will need to wait months due to paperwork,
      insurance, and logistical issues before utilizing these technologies. With this project, the
      investigators plan to study the effects of introducing technology to newly diagnosed type 1
      diabetes patients. It is hypothesized that early access to flash continuous glucose
      monitoring (CGM) technology will improve scores in diabetes's measures. The primary outcome
      with be the parent version of the Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ).
      Secondary outcomes will include other diabetes measures such as DTSQ teen version,
      Hypoglycemia Fear Survey (HFS)- Parent and child version, Diabetes Distress Survey
      (DDS)-parent version, PedsQL- parent and child versions. The study team will also look at
      other diabetes outcomes including A1c, time in range, and reduction in hypoglycemia.

      Background: Type 1 diabetes is a complex disease requiring newly diagnosed pediatric patients
      and families to learn how to check blood glucoses, inject insulin, count carbohydrates, treat
      hypoglycemia/hyperglycemia, and perform many other complex tasks, all within the first few
      days after diagnosis.

      Continuous glucose monitors (CGMs) and flash glucose monitors have emerged as important
      diabetes technologies towards providing improved care and easing the burden of disease. These
      technologies are most typically introduced to families in the outpatient setting 2-3 months
      following diagnosis due to logistical issues related to insurance coverage.

      Barriers to access include requirements for insurance prior authorization, lack of immediate
      availability at local pharmacies, need for patient training, and the historical bias towards
      requiring finger stick glucose monitoring as the basis for diabetes management. Despite these
      barriers, the data supports the observation that CGM technology provides for better
      understanding of diabetes, improved quality of life for parents and children, reduced
      frequency of hypoglycemia, and improved A1c.

      This project will potentially show the feasibility of introducing these technologies at
      diagnosis. New onset type 1 diabetes patients will be randomized to receive either a
      Freestyle Libre flash glucose monitoring system immediately at diagnosis or to delayed use of
      CGM (standard of care).
    
  