
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) consists mainly of a respiratory infection that spans
      from a mild involvement of the upper respiratory tract to severe pneumonia leading to
      respiratory distress, shock, and death. Fever, cough, and dyspnea/tachypnea, together with
      myalgia and fatigue, have been identified as the most common presenting symptoms. Most of the
      patients remain in a state of mild upper respiratory tract disease for a relatively long
      period (a median of 8-10 days), after which a proportion of up to 25% may develop severe
      hypoxemia and ARDS with the necessity of mechanical ventilation. Deterioration with ICU
      admission (most likely in older patients with comorbidities) raises the incidence of
      mortality in a range that goes from 3.4 up to 61%. Moreover, ICU admission poses a
      significant strain in terms of healthcare resources. Thus, a treatment able to avoid the
      progression of the disease from the mild to the severe phases would have a substantial
      benefit both in terms of lives saved and hospital resources spared. However, at the time,
      only Remdesivir and Dexamethasone have shown some benefits in robust clinical trials.

      Nitric Oxide gas is a therapy currently approved for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension
      in newborns and is also used as rescue therapy in patients with acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS). The clinical role of NO gas in COVID-19 patients could be of particular
      relevance since there is in-vitro evidence of NO antiviral activity specifically against SARS
      coronavirus. At the time of the SARS pandemic, a small rescue trial on intubated patients
      with SARS showed that NO was effective in improving the oxygenation, fasten the resolution of
      chest X-ray abnormalities, and improve the clinical outcomes. Moreover, in vitro studies
      demonstrated that the NO-donor compound S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine was able to increase
      the survival rate of in vitro mammalian cells infected with SARS-CoV. SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2
      share the same subgenus inside the family Coronaviridae. The literature seems to point
      towards an a-specific rather than pathogen-specific antimicrobial effect of NO. Thus, the
      role of exogenous inhaled NO as a viricidal agent during COVID-19 infection could be
      hypothesized.

      Nitric Oxide at high concentration has been found to be microbicidal but still safe in
      spontaneously breathing subjects in a phase I trial. There are several trials testing the
      efficacy of NO therapy in improving the outcome of COVID-19 patients. So far, only a
      retrospective observational study showed that NO gas is useful in improving the oxygenation
      in spontaneously breathing patients. However, the optimal therapeutic regimens and the
      efficacy of NO gas in improving the oxygenation in hypoxemic COVID-19 patients haven't been
      tested.
    
  