
    
      PROMISE is integrated into the TRANSFORM Capstone Center to promote the next generation of
      research on child maltreatment, translate research findings into clinical and preventive
      interventions, and disseminate research and best practice to varied stakeholders. Informed by
      developmental psychopathology, the research incorporates multiple levels of analysis within a
      lifespan framework. Increasing knowledge of optimal methods for delivering dual mother and
      child preventive intervention has crucial public health significance in preventing child
      maltreatment. PROMISE involves a randomized control trial to evaluate whether expanding a
      Community Health Worker (CHW) outreach model, by adding Child-Parent Psychotherapy (CPP), an
      intensive intervention that focuses on parent-infant relationships for families at risk for
      child maltreatment, increases efficacy for improved mother-child relationships, more
      sensitive parenting, healthier child development, and maltreatment prevention. The efficacy
      of CPP has been demonstrated with maltreated and other high-risk populations. Through the use
      of four intervention arms, the evaluation will assess whether more intensive intervention
      better protects against child maltreatment compared with CHW support alone, and will
      determine the optimal timing of these interventions (i.e., beginning prenatally or
      postnatally), the optimal duration of services (i.e., 6 vs. 12 months), mechanisms of effect
      (mediator analyses), and which intervention strategy works best for mothers with varying risk
      factors (moderator analyses). Pregnant women (N = 300) and their infants after birth will
      participate. Longitudinal assessments will occur during the third trimester of pregnancy, at
      infant's ages of 3 and 9 months, and a post-intervention follow-up at 12 months old. The
      measurements obtained at each timepoint constitute a rich multi-level perspective of maternal
      and child functioning over time in response to the interventions. Maternal parenting
      behaviors, representational models, cognitions, and physiological reactivity, and infants'
      health and development will be assessed longitudinally. CPP groups are hypothesized to
      improve sensitive and responsive parenting and secure attachment, relative to CHW home
      visitation alone, thereby reducing risks for child maltreatment. Improvements in maternal
      attachment representations, parenting cognitions, and stress reactivity are hypothesized to
      mediate treatment outcomes. Moderators, including maternal histories of trauma,
      psychopathology, and intimate partner violence, will advance determination of differential
      responsiveness to CHW and CPP (what works for whom and why?) and allow for tailored
      preventive strategies. Identification of timing, dosage, and intensity of service delivery,
      along with outcome mediators and moderators is innovative and will facilitate development of
      targeted prevention and intervention strategies that support parenting and decrease child
      maltreatment for this vulnerable population.
    
  