
    
      This study is attempting to follow up the original cohort of patients who took part in the
      short- and mid-term study which may mean reduced patient numbers due to some inevitable
      patient deaths. Kaplan-Meier analysis will control for this. In terms of patient numbers,
      effort will be made to recruit as many patients as possible as this will increase the
      validity of the results. This could be a problem not only related to deaths of some of the
      patients but also the timeframe for completion of the project or a refusal of the patient to
      take part. Many of the patients are elderly and may not want to accept the invitation to come
      to the hospital. However, good follow-up rates were achieved in the mid-term study (around
      80%) and familiarity with the team should aid recruitment as the same patients will be
      contacted.

      In order to maintain validity and reliability of the study as part of a follow on, the
      methodology adopted for this project will be similar to that of the short-term study in terms
      of the way in which the information is gathered and the classification of the results. This
      will mean that if a comparison between the two is to be made, similar information is
      available and scientifically comparable. There should not be any significant intra and/or
      inter observer/operator variability with the results (different users technical ability with
      ultrasound) as collaboration between those responsible for collection of all the data and
      performing all diagnostic tests will be done to avoid any potential problems with validity.
      For this reason, assessments will be performed by the principal investigator under the
      guidance and supervision of the main research nurse responsible for data collection on the
      previous project. Results of this study will be analysed, evaluated and disseminated as a
      continuation of the previous short/mid-term study.

      A possible limitation may be that patient recollection of their experience of any ulcer
      recurrences may be unreliable. This is an unavoidable problem but effort will be made to get
      the most accurate account as possible from the participants.

      There is a possibility for bias of the long-term follow up results as it is more likely that
      patients who are having problems with their treatment results will accept the offer of
      additional follow-up rather than those patients who are fine. However, as all patients will
      be asked if they would like to participate via telephone if unwilling to come to the hospital
      for assessment, this should not affect research question 1.
    
  