
    
      Background:

      Worldwide intensive care physicians consider administering systemic corticosteroids in
      patients with an adverse clinical course suffering from conditions like the acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS) and septic shock. Data from recent small studies performed in
      patients with unresolving ARDS (1;2) suggest survival benefits associated with rescue therapy
      with relatively prolonged courses of corticosteroids. Treated patients not only show improved
      respiratory function, but also hemodynamic status and overall multiple organ dysfunction
      score. It has been suggested that that the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
      axis may be impaired in this patient subset (3;4)

      Objective(s):

      To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a non-selective anti-inflammatory strategy, i.e.
      6-methyl-prednisolone, on persistent and unresolving inflammatory states, i.e. multiple organ
      dysfunction syndrome, on the degree of organ dysfunction and mortality.

      Design:

      Multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled. Randomization and data entry is
      internet based (htpp://www.webnaif.com). Patients will be randomized through a
      computer-generated random-number table and stratified by center in blocs of 6. Sample size,
      by group 120 patients. The study is powered to detect a 20% reduction in mortality, from 50%
      to 30% in 100 patients per study group at the 5% significance level with a power of 80%. An
      additional 20% (n=20) per group have been planned to compensate for losses.

      Main Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients with established, unresolving, refractory MODS, in whom all reversible and
           treatable causes of persistent MODS have been treated or ruled out.

        -  Patients under endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation for at least 7 days.

        -  Aggregate Multiple Organ Dysfunction Score (5) of greater than 8 over the first seven
           days of mechanical ventilation and greater than 5 on the day of inclusion.

        -  Written informed consent to participate in the trial signed by next of kin or other
           authorized person.

      Additional Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Main cause or disease at admission: Adequate "source control" is required and refers to
           optimal, complete, and definitive surgical and/or medical therapy.

        -  Infections:

             1. Infectious causes of persistence of MODS have reasonably been ruled out on clinical
                or other grounds (infectious endocarditis, undrained abscesses like sinusitis,
                empyema or abdominal pus). Consider sampling for culture of broncho-alveolar lavage
                fluid, protected specimen brush or other (empyema fluid, lung tissue) in order to
                rule out respiratory infection, as well as intra-vascular catheter change and
                culture.

             2. Present or previous infections, either documented or strongly suspected, have been
                treated for at least 3 days before inclusion.

        -  Supportive Care: Optimal hemodynamic, renal, hematologic, nutritional "supportive care"
           is provided.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Decision not to provide full support.

        -  Immune status and steroid therapy.

             1. Steroid therapy

                  -  Currently indicated for chronic or concurrent disease (meningitis, auto-immune
                     disease, asthma, acute exacerbation of COPD, or other). Inhaled steroids are
                     allowed.

                  -  Administered during current admission (> 20 mg/day of 6-methyl-prednisolone or
                     equivalent for >48 hours).

                  -  Chronic steroid therapy prior to current admission (> 20 mg of
                     6-methyl-prednisolone or equivalent/day for > 1 month during previous 3
                     months).

             2. Other immune-suppressive therapy within the previous 6 months.

             3. Known AIDS.

             4. Neutropenia < 500/mcl.

             5. Preceding organ transplantation.

        -  Irreversible and or ultimately fatal clinical conditions like metastatic malignant
           disease or cardiogenic shock caused by coronary artery disease.

        -  Presence of invasive fungal infection

        -  Other significant pre-existing underlying chronic diseases:

             1. Severe parenchymal liver disease (Child-Pugh grade C)

             2. Severe and irreversible acute or chronic central nervous system disease.

             3. Severe end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (home oxygen or more than 1
                exacerbation in previous year)

             4. End-stage renal disease (Chronic dialysis).

        -  Age less than 18 years.

        -  Pregnancy.

        -  Morbid obesity: body mass index above 40.

        -  Recent (last 3 months) upper GI hemorrhage.

        -  Extensive burns (>30% BSA)

        -  Known allergy to steroids.

        -  Written informed consent not available.

      Intervention:

      Intravenous administration of 6-methyl-prednisolone or placebo(aqueous solution). The
      duration of the study medication administration protocol is 32 days (1):

        -  Initial iv loading dose of 160 mg.

        -  An iv bolus injection of 6-methyl-prednisolone is administered every 6 hours:

             1. 40 mg on days 1 to 14,

             2. 20 mg on days 15 to 21,

             3. 10 mg on days 22 to 28,

             4. 5 mg on days 29 and 30, and

             5. 2.5 mg on days 31 and 32.

      Informed consent form and information sheet have been reviewed and approved by the regional
      Ethics Committee of Madrid (10 centres), the local review boards of the other participating
      centres, and the Agencia Española del Medicamento (Spanish Ministry of Health).

      Ethical Approval:

      The study protocol has been approved by the regional Ethics Committee of Madrid (10 centres),
      the local review boards of the other participating centres, and the Agencia Española del
      Medicamento (Spanish Ministry of Health).

      Stopping Rules:

      The independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will have real-time access to the main
      variable "28-day mortality" (and allocation to study group "A" or "B") and will propose
      premature interruption of the trial based on sequential analysis if significant differences
      become apparent. The DMC will perform 5 interim analysis, one every 48 included patients and
      the criterium used will be a statistically significant difference at the level of p < 0,01
      (S.J. Pocock. Clinical Trials. A practical Approach. John Wiley & Sons. New York. 1994).

      Primary Endpoints:

        1. All cause ICU and 28-day mortality

        2. Organ dysfunction score on days 4, 7, 14, and 28 of the protocol.

      Planned Subgroup Analysis:

      No subgroup analysis are planned.

      Side-effects Quantification:

      The investigators will use the NIH Toxicity Form with a scale from 1 to 5. Severe adverse
      events in this severely ill population are precisely defined and require immediate (less than
      24 hours) communication to the study website. The DMC will have access to the variables that
      define and describe the SAEs.

      Analysis Plan:

      Main comparisons are 28-day and ICU mortality between study groups (chi square test for
      percentages and log-rank test Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Multiple organ dysfunction score
      and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score will be compared at baseline and on days 4, 7,
      14 and 28 (Student's t test and/or non-parametric tests). Independent risk factors for
      mortality will be studied by multivariate analysis (Cox regression) of significant
      comparisons of the univariate analysis. Analysis sample according to the principle of
      intention to treat.

      Finishing Date:

      The finishing date is 18 months after the first inclusion at each centre. Scheduled beginning
      of the trial is August 2005

      Reporting Date:

      First trimester 2007.

      A large study like the present trial is required to obtain definitive data about safety and
      effectiveness of 6-methyl-prednisolone administered as rescue therapy in patients with the
      multiple organ dysfunction syndrome.

      Reference List

        1. Meduri GU, Headley AS, Golden E, Carson SJ, Umberger RA, Kelso T et al. Effect of
           prolonged methylprednisolone therapy in unresolving acute respiratory distress syndrome:
           a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 1998;280(2):159-65.

        2. Biffl WL, Moore FA, Moore EE, Haenel JB, McIntyre RC, Jr., Burch JM. Are corticosteroids
           salvage therapy for refractory acute respiratory distress syndrome? Am.J.Surg.
           1995;170(6):591-5.

        3. Marik PE, Zaloga GP. Adrenal insufficiency during septic shock. Crit Care Med.
           2003;31(1):141-5.

        4. Loisa P, Rinne T, Kaukinen S. Adrenocortical function and multiple organ failure in
           severe sepsis. Acta Anaesthesiol.Scand. 2002;46(2):145-51.

        5. Marshall JC, Cook DJ, Christou NV, Bernard GR, Sprung CL, Sibbald WJ. Multiple organ
           dysfunction score: a reliable descriptor of a complex clinical outcome. Crit Care Med.
           1995;23(10):1638-52.
    
  