
    
      Engaging in regular physical activity (PA) contributes to positive health outcomes, including
      longevity, better quality of life, and reduced incidence of cardiovascular diseases,
      diabetes, depression, certain cancers, and obesity; however, only a minority of U.S. adults
      meet the minimum guidelines for moderate to vigorous PA (MVPA), and Latinos are less likely
      than whites to report meeting the guidelines. Public parks comprise local infrastructure that
      can be leveraged for community PA, but tend to be underutilized, particularly in low-income
      communities. Parks in low-income and minority communities tend to have less PA programming,
      especially targeting adults, and higher crime and other factors that affect park use. There
      is a need for interventions that address community concerns, target the built environment,
      and "activate" park use. Churches are credible, stable entities that have significant reach
      within Latino communities and a history of social service provision and advocacy related to
      health and well-being. The investigators' prior research has found that church-based
      interventions can be effective across a wide range of health issues and types of churches.
      This study combines approaches from the research team's extensive prior work with churches
      and parks to conduct a cluster randomized controlled trial of a multi-level intervention that
      links Latino Catholic churches (n=14) with their local parks to increase PA among Latino
      parishioners (n=1204) in Los Angeles. The specific aims are to: (1) Examine the impact of a
      multi-level church-based intervention that links Catholic parishes to their local parks on
      Latino parishioners' PA and health-related outcomes (effects on parishioners' MVPA and
      self-reported PA, heart rate/fitness, waist circumference, waist to hip ratio, body fat,
      mental health, and perceived social support for PA); (2) Explore differences in the
      effectiveness of the intervention by gender; and (3) Evaluate factors associated with
      intervention implementation (facilitators, barriers, fidelity, and replication costs) for
      future dissemination. The approach targets multiple levels to promote health-enhancing PA
      through park-based fitness classes led by kinesiology students, peer leader-led walking
      groups, park-based church events, and church-based PA support activities. It integrates
      churches' vast social networks, moral authority, and influence with parks' structural and
      organizational capacity and kinesiology student interns' professional expertise. The
      intervention makes use of innovative partnerships within and across sectors - faith-based,
      local parks/city government, and local universities. The inter-sectoral, collaborative
      approach makes the intervention scalable and sustainable in real-world settings and
      incorporates action at multiple levels (individuals, churches, and neighborhoods). To the
      investigators' knowledge, this will be the first study to examine the effectiveness of an
      integrated church and park-based intervention on Latinos' PA, and it will provide a
      sustainable model of PA programming in low-income communities. If the intervention proves
      effective, the increased community capacity through this partnership will lay the groundwork
      for scale-up across the largest diocese in the U.S. and, potentially, the nation.
    
  