
    
      The efficacy of disulfiram in relapse prevention is controversial. Not only are most of the
      studies dated but their methodological rigor is generally poor. The major obstacle to
      disulfiram's effectiveness is non-compliance. No study to date has directly explored whether
      the threat of a disulfiram ethanol reaction (DER), provoked by the ingestion of disulfiram,
      has an effect on craving. Alcohol dependent patients have difficulty tolerating craving, a
      phenomenon that is believed to increase the probability of relapse. We propose in this study
      an evaluation of alcohol craving in relation to the threat of a DER compared to no threat. In
      both of these experimental conditions, we will use a placebo in order to avoid confounding
      the pharmacological effect of disulfiram with the psychological effect of the threat. Craving
      will be evaluated in the context of the multidimensional model of ambivalence (BREINER,
      STRITZKE and Lang, 1999) which provides two independent dimensions, craving and aversion.

      To evaluate the effect of the threat of an aversive reaction on the response during alcohol
      cue exposure in alcohol dependent patients : (1) the subjective response (craving) and (2)
      the physiological response (heart rate and blood pressure).

        -  To evaluate the correlation between the subjective and physiological responses to
           alcohol cue exposure in relation to the threat of an aversive reaction.

        -  To evaluate the moderating effects of mood and personality on alcohol cue exposure in
           relation to the threat of an aversive reaction.

      The design of this study is a within-subject, single-blind, randomized, and monocentric. The
      participants will be exposed to their habitual alcoholic drink. They will receive a placebo
      with two types of randomized inductions : (1) the threat of an aversive reaction and (2) no
      threat. The initial inclusion visit will take place a minimum of six days after the patients
      consumed their last alcohol beverage, the first cue exposure will take place one to seven
      days after the inclusion visit, and the second cue exposure will take place four to eight
      days after the first. This study directly benefits the patient because the experience of cue
      exposure provokes habituation.

      The demonstration of an effect of the threat of an aversive reaction on craving may help
      alcohol dependent patients to better accept treatment using disulfiram as they would view it
      as alleviating craving instead of strictly as a punitive measure in the event of alcohol
      intake.
    
  