
    
      Hypothesis: Identification of events and conditions considered stressful by the
      cardiopulmonary bypass patient would allow the professional team to determine which stressors
      are amendable to intervention and tailor patient care accordingly in order to improve future
      patient care experience in the intensive care unit.

      Research Question: What are the dominant stressors associated with intensive care treatment
      as perceived by the patient, and what measures can be taken by the professional team members
      of the unit to decrease or eliminate these stressors entirely?

      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to reduce or completely eliminate stressors present in
      the CT-ICU as identified by the coronary bypass patient. Identification of events and
      conditions considered stressful in the ICU will allow the professional team to determine
      which stressors are amendable to intervention and tailor patient care accordingly.

      Design: Analytical survey

      Protocol: Patients will be selected based on admission to the ICU following cardiopulmonary
      bypass surgery. We plan to survey 160 patients in order to identify the main stressors in the
      ICU as perceived by the patient themselves. A study investigator will enroll subjects after
      obtaining oral informed consent. We plan to approach eligible candidates once they have been
      discharged from the ICU to the step-down unit (4C). Subjects will be asked to complete a
      short questionnaire that will ask them to assess stressors associated with their stay in the
      CT-ICU. Preliminary analysis will be done to appraise the leading stressors after enrolling
      80 patients in the study. Once dominate stressors have been identified, we will conduct
      several in-services in order to educate the CT-ICU team members of the amendable stressors.
      We will then enroll another 80 patients in order to evaluate whether or not the stressors
      have been reduced and/or eliminated.
    
  