
    
      Introduction Pitted keratolysis is a common skin disease, caused by various gram-positive
      bacteria including Corynebacterium species, Kytococcus sedentarius, Dermophilus congolensis
      and Actinomyces species. These bacteria create small tunnels in the stratum corneum, causing
      pitted lesions at plantar areas. This condition is frequent accompanied by feet malodor and
      is commonly found in young male adults, especially in soldiers, miners and athletes. The
      reported prevalence of pitted keratolysis among naval cadets in Thailand was 38.7%.
      Predisposing factors related to pitted keratolysis are pedal hyperhidrosis and prolonged feet
      occlusion. Although this condition is generally not painful, our previous study in 2018
      revealed adversely affects patients' quality of life.

      Regarding treatment modalities of pitted keratolysis, various medications and life-style
      modification have been recommended. Previous studies revealed efficacy of topical choices,
      including benzoyl peroxide gel, clindamycin-benzoyl peroxide gel, glycopyrrolate cream,9
      erythromycin gel, clindamycin solution, chlorhexidine scrub4 and mupirocin ointment. Oral
      antibiotics and botulinum toxin injection were also beneficial in pitted keratolysis. As to
      life-style modification, wearing cotton socks and opened footwear, and proper hygiene, have
      also been suggested.

      Topical benzoyl peroxide is an over-the-counter drug and is known as off-label medication for
      pitted keratolysis. It has both aerobic and anaerobic antibacterial properties due to
      inhibition of various cell functions and the response against bacteria is dose related.15 In
      addition to antibacterial property, benzoyl peroxide can cause keratolysis. Previous studies
      by Vlahovic et al. (2009) and Balic et al. (2018) demonstrated efficacy of combination of 1%
      clindamycin and 5% benzoyl peroxide gel in pitted keratolysis. However, study of efficacy of
      topical benzoyl peroxide alone or comparison between 2.5% and 5% benzoyl peroxide gel for the
      treatment of pitted keratolysis is currently limited.

      Objective The present study aimed to study the efficacy of topical 2.5% benzoyl peroxide,
      compared to 5% benzoyl peroxide in treatment of unpleasant foot odor, which was considered as
      major problem related to pitted keratolysis.

      Material and Methods First-year naval rating cadets, who had pedal malodor were invited to
      enroll in this study. The cadets who previously received any topical treatment including
      topical antibiotic, antiperspirant or aluminum chloride within 6 months prior to the study
      were excluded. Consent was informed and obtained from all participants. Participants were
      assessed for behavioral risk factors and level of foot odor measured by a self-assessed
      visual analogue scale (VAS), using questionnaires. Clinically examination of feet was done in
      all subjects by treatment-blinded dermatologists. Subjects were randomly assigned either 2.5%
      benzoyl peroxide gel or 5% benzoyl peroxide gel for 2 weeks. Benzoyl peroxide gel in this
      study comprised benzoyl peroxide in a gel base. During the study, using of other topical
      treatment such as topical antibiotics, antiperspirant or aluminum chloride was not allowed.
      Participants were advised to apply the drug on their both soles once per day before bedtime
      to leave it on and were able to regularly participate in physical military training during
      the study. Two weeks after the treatment, clinical examinations by dermatologists and the
      cadets' self-assessment questionnaires, including feet odor by using VAS, treatment
      satisfaction and adverse effects, were used to evaluate the effectiveness. Pitted lesions
      improvement at plantar areas, evaluated by dermatologists, was divided into no improvement,
      slight improvement (decrease of pitted lesions at feet for 1 level) and much improvement
      (decrease of pitted lesions at feet for at least 2 level). Data were analyzed using PASW
      Statistics version 18 (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Duration of study: 3 months Study
      design: Randomized control trial
    
  