
    
      Living donor kidney transplantation is the optimal treatment for end-stage kidney disease
      patients, dramatically improving survival and quality of life, providing significant cost
      saving compared with dialysis, reducing the demand for deceased donor transplants and the
      pressure to increase dialysis capacity and infrastructure. Outcome data shows that only 16%
      of Canadians on dialysis survive past 10 years, whereas up to 74% of Canadians with a kidney
      transplant have a functioning kidney after 10 years. The ideal treatment trajectory is to
      avoid dialysis entirely and receive a living donor transplant prior to dialysis
      (pre-emptive), which unfortunately only occurs in 10.5% of eligible patients.

      Patients with end-stage kidney disease report being overwhelmed with other issues (loss of
      work, family stress, fear of dialysis) and lack the skills needed to comfortably engage
      potential living donors - many feel uncomfortable doing so and do not know how to start. The
      purpose of this research is to test an intervention designed to support patients
      identification of potential donors and communication with their social network and ultimately
      increase the number of living donor kidney transplantations.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that the MuST AKT program will increase the proportion of
      participants with at least one potential living kidney donors who started evaluation and who
      ultimately undergo living kidney donor transplantation (intervention vs control).

      Justification:

      The rate of living kidney donor transplantation is lower in Alberta compared to other
      provinces in Canada. As the rate of kidney failure has increased over the past few years in
      Alberta, it is necessary to improve and facilitate the process of living kidney donor
      transplantation for better patient care.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to examine the efficacy of the MuST AKT program to
      facilitate patients' identification of potential living kidney donors compared to usual care.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate patient outcome improvement by collecting Patient
      Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) to assess the proportion of patients who find at least one
      potential living donor.

      The tertiary objective is to evaluate patient experience by collecting Patient Reported
      Experience Measures (PREMs) to determine whether participants recommend this program to other
      patients and to what extent this program gave them confidence for finding a potential living
      kidney donor.

      The quaternary objective is to evaluate the feasibility of this program by assessing consent
      rate, attendance, adherence, and drop-out.

      Research Methods/Procedures:

      This is a pilot parallel randomized controlled trial. The intervention condition will receive
      a multidisciplinary, tailored person-centered intervention over three months (MuST AKT
      program), and the control condition will receive the current standard of care (social worker
      assessment).

      Patients who have been referred for kidney transplantation assessment in Edmonton will be
      contacted during a standard care kidney transplant education session or over the telephone if
      patients have completed the transplant education and are on the deceased kidney donor
      wait-list. Patients who expressed interest will be contacted via telephone by a member of the
      research team to seek their consent, then complete a baseline questionnaire to assess
      socio-demographics status, and complete the initial screening assessment to confirm their
      eligibility and enrolment. Then participants will be randomized to either the intervention or
      control condition, using predetermined randomly-generated (by Stata MP 15·1) permuted blocks
      of 4 and 6. Assignment to condition will be concealed by the database up until the point of
      assignment. Consent rate, attendance, adherence, and drop-out will be tracked during
      enrollment and the duration of the intervention. Upon completion of the intervention (or
      usual care), participants will complete a post-intervention questionnaire to assess PREMs.
      Kidney transplant status will be tracked for a period of 12 months post-intervention.

      Intervention Condition: MuST AKT is a multidisciplinary, tailored person-centered
      intervention aimed to support participants identification of potential donors and
      communication with their social network. A "welcome to MuST AKT" group session will be
      followed by three 'one-on-one' sessions (A, B and C) and a final session D with participants
      family and friends (potential donors and advocates) identified in session A. All group and
      individual sessions will be arranged virtually during the COVID-19 pandemic, and may be held
      either virtually or in-person, at the participants discretion, in the event that the COVID-19
      pandemic concludes and physical distancing requirements have been eliminated. Each education
      session will take approximately 90 minutes. Sessions will be facilitated by a trained
      licensed social worker, a coordinator or a media expert, with extra training in kidney
      disease, transplantation, living kidney donation, counselling and interviewing, and patient
      confidentiality.

      Usual care (control condition): In the control condition, participants will go through the
      current standard of care, which is a social worker assessment. If the intervention is
      successful in the definitive RCT (to be conducted later) and approved by Alberta Health
      Services as the 'new standard of care', people in control condition will be contacted and
      given the option to participate in the MuST AKT program.

      Plan for Data Analysis:

      All analyses will be completed in Stata/MP 15.1 (www.stata.com), following an
      intention-to-treat approach. The investigators will use the Fisher's exact tests (dichotomous
      outcomes) and the t-tests or Kruskal-Wallis tests (continuous outcomes data), as appropriate.
    
  