
    
      Stage A, a Phase 1 dose-escalation study, will take place at Leiden University Medical Centre
      (LUMC). Stage B, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, will be conducted at
      LUMC and Radboudumc University Medical Centers (RUMC).

      In Stage A, 19 healthy, adult volunteers will be allocated into three groups to receive
      increasing doses of PfSPZ-GA1 Vaccine by DVI. Group 1 (n=3) will receive one dose of 1.35 x
      10^5 PfSPZ of PfSPZ-GA1 Vaccine. If this dose is safe for 28 days after inoculation, then
      Group 2 (n=3) will receive one dose of 4.5 x 10^5 PfSPZ of PfSPZ-GA1 Vaccine. If this dose is
      safe for 28 days after inoculation, Group 3 (n=13) will receive one dose of 9.0 x 10^5 PfSPZ
      of PfSPZ-GA1 Vaccine. Volunteers will be followed closely for monitoring of adverse events
      and possible breakthrough blood infections by testing for the presence of parasitemia by
      qPCR. All volunteers will be treated with a curative regimen of atovaquone/proguanil (A/P)
      should break-through parasites be detected in the peripheral blood, or at the end of the
      follow-up period (28 days) if they are not qPCR positive. Six months after the inoculation, a
      final visit will take place to assess adverse events.

      If inoculation is deemed safe after 28 days for Group 3 and criteria for proceeding to Stage
      B are met, the trial will continue to Stage B. In Stage B, 48 healthy, adult volunteers will
      be randomized into four groups at 2 centers, LUMC and RUMC (24 volunteers at each site). Each
      group will receive 3 repeat doses, 8 weeks apart, of PfSPZ-GA1 Vaccine (low and high doses),
      PfSPZ Vaccine (radiation attenuated sporozoites), or normal saline (NS) placebo (as control)
      via DVI. Group 4 (n=13) will receive 9.0 x 10^5 PfSPZ of PfSPZ-GA1 Vaccine/dose. Group 5
      (n=13) will receive 4.5 x 10^5 PfSPZ of PfSPZ-GA1 Vaccine/dose. Groups 6 (n=13) and 7 (n=9)
      will receive 4.5 x 10^5 PfSPZ Vaccine and NS placebo per dose, respectively. Three weeks
      after the last inoculation, all immunized volunteers and placebo controls (Group 7) will
      undergo a CHMI with five NF54-infected mosquitoes (wild-type) to determine degree of
      protection. After the CHMI, volunteers will be followed closely for monitoring of adverse
      events and blood stage infections, and will be seen once daily from day 6 until day 21 after
      infection and on day 28. All volunteers will be treated with a curative regimen of
      antimalarials, which may be A/P or alternatively artemether/lumefantrine dosed according to
      Dutch clinical practice, at the time of detection of blood stage parasitemia by qPCR or 28
      days after CHMI. Adverse events will be assessed up to 6 months after the CHMI.
    
  