
    
      Pre-scenario standardized workshop:

      First, information about the study will be given and participants' questions are answered.
      Written consent will be obtained and the first part of the questionnaire individually
      completed. Participants will be told that the resuscitation scenario will be stopped after 10
      minutes, independently of their actions and that no feedback will be given.

      Then, the use of i-gel® device use will be taught by one of the investigators (LSt) in
      accordance with Peyton's approach because this approach has shown superiority, and based on a
      standard operating procedure created by study investigators following manufacturer's
      instructions:

        1. The instructor performs a complete insertion sequence in real-time without any comments;

        2. The instructor performs an insertion sequence with step-by-step explanations
           (description of key points);

        3. The learners guide the instructor step by step to perform the insertion;

        4. The learners do the complete insertion sequence then feedback could be given. They will
           perform this step a maximum of 3 times.

      This workshop will last 20 minutes.

      Self-managed training session:

      After the workshop, each team will have 20 minutes to self-train the introduction of the
      device in the complete OHCA management sequence on a CPR manikin permitting airway
      management. They will be supported by a demonstration video, which they could use freely.

      Resuscitation scenario:

      When entering the study room, an overview of the characteristics of the simulation manikin
      and the use of the defibrillator will be given through a standardized video. The team will
      then be asked to perform a 10-minutes highly realistic adult CPR scenario on a high-fidelity
      WiFi manikin. The procedure will be standardized across all sites to ensure that each
      participant is exposed to exactly the same case, with similar challenges in decision-making
      and treatment provided on the same manikin. The uniform delivery of the scenario throughout
      the entire study will minimize confounders. The room will be exclusively devoted to the
      simulation to prevent unexpected interruptions or external stimuli.

      The scenario will start with a clinical statement to recognize the life-threatening condition
      of the patient, given by one of the investigators as follows: " Here is Michael, a 50-years
      old who suddenly collapsed 10 minutes ago. He is now unconscious, pale and seems not
      breathing. The medical reinforcement is already underway and will be on site in about ten
      minutes. No first responder were dispatched to the scene and there is no bystander ". The
      team leader will be asked to reformulate this statement (closed-loop communication) to ensure
      comprehension. He will then open the following envelope of the stack. The opaque, sealed
      envelope will contain the approach they will have to apply: standard care or experimental
      approach. From this point on, there will be no more contact between the participants and the
      study team, except to stop the scenario.

      If the participant checks the breathing, the patient will be apneic and pulse will be absent
      if checked. The first compression will be defined as T0. After placement of the pads, the
      defibrillator's display will show ventricular fibrillation (VF). All following rhythm
      analyses will show refractory VF, regardless of whether a shock is delivered. To increase
      simulation's fidelity, CPR waves will be displayed when compressions will be delivered.
      Participants will be able to obtain an intravenous access on first attempt. They should
      administer first 1 mg of epinephrine (at the earliest after the second shock), then a
      first-dose of amiodarone or lidocaine following local protocols (in accordance with the 2020
      AHA cardiac arrest algorithm. The scenario will be stopped exactly 10 minutes after the first
      compression. There will be no feedback after the study period.
    
  