
    
      Being regularly physically active, defined as exercising at least 3-days/wk for 30-min
      provides essential and seemingly unlimited health benefits. To emphasize the importance of
      the health benefits of physical activity (PA), the United States government recently provided
      us with The Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans (PAG) 2nd edition. This recommended PA
      prescription for improving and maintaining health includes 150-min/wk of moderate intensity
      aerobic PA plus 2-days of muscle-strengthening PA. Yet, an estimated 26% of American adults
      and 36% of college students do not perform any leisure-time PA. A novelty of the PAG 2nd
      edition is the updated research acknowledging that PA exists on a spectrum where any and all
      movement is beneficial to health. This update emphasizes that the steepest decrease in
      relative risk of all-cause mortality among physically inactive individuals occurs with the
      substitution of sedentary behavior for light intensity movement, inherently encompassing
      lifestyle activities as healthy, meaningful PA. The 2018 Physical Activity Guidelines
      Advisory Committee Scientific Report (PAGACSR) conceptualizes this important public health
      message with the creation of a heat map relating PA with all-cause mortality, creatively
      depicting the dose-response effect of increased PA on health. The Office of Disease
      Prevention and Health Promotion contends that this new emphasis on all PA counting towards
      health can serve as a method of increasing PA in physically inactive individuals as
      demonstrated by the launch of the Move Your Way initiative. The all movement counts message
      can encompass the Integrated Behavior Change Theory (IBC) which attributes increased PA to
      perceived behavioral control due to higher autonomy.

      HEAT is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) comparing the PAG exercise prescription (ExRx#1)
      of 150-min/wk of moderate intensity aerobic PA plus 2-days of muscle-strengthening PA to a
      new method of exercise prescription (ExRx) using the everything counts message depicted by
      the heat map (ExRx#2) to prescribe exercise to physically inactive individuals. ExRx#1 uses
      the Frequency, Intensity, Time, and Type or FITT principle of ExRx to relay the PAG; and
      ExRx#2 will be founded in the Integrated Behavior Change Theory (IBC) and emphasize that all
      PA counts to relay the message of the heat map. ExRx#1 communicates the PAG ultimate weekly
      goal ExRx using an image adopted from the PAG website that depicts the 150-minutes of aerobic
      and 2 days of muscle strengthening exercise and provides a weekly prescription on the FITT of
      how to accomplish this weekly goal. ExRx#2 uses the heat map image to communicate the ExRx of
      all movement counts and that exercise can be done along any FITT.

      Both ExRx were created by an expert panel of exercise professionals including the principal
      investigator Linda S Pescatello, PhD, who was senior editor of the American College of Sports
      Medicine Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription 9th edition and one of the 17
      Advisory Committee members of the PAGACSR which provided the scientific foundation for the
      PAG 2nd edition.

        1. ExRx #1: The ExRx given to participants each week represents the ultimate weekly goal of
           150-min of aerobic PA plus 2-days of muscle-strengthening PA to support optimal health.
           For example, the ExRx on week 6 suggests 3-days/wk of 50-min of aerobic PA plus 2-days
           of 30-min of muscle-strengthening PA in the form of resistance or neuromotor exercise.
           The ExRx then gives examples of taking a 50-min moderate intensity Zumba class on one
           day to fulfill part of the weekly aerobic PA guideline and 2-3 sets of 8-12 reps of
           resistance exercises for 30-min of muscle-strengthening PA on another day.

        2. ExRx #2: The ExRx given to participants each week represents the ultimate weekly goal of
           moving more throughout the day across all intensities in order to achieve optimal health
           as represented by the deep green color on the bottom right of the heat map image that
           represented high amounts of activity and good health. For example, the ExRx on week 6
           suggests including a variety of moderate intensity physical activities and light
           intensity physical activities to achieve the deep green color on the bottom right of the
           heat map. The ExRx then gives the examples of taking a Zumba class and weight training.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to receiving either ExRx#1 (n=30), or ExRx#2 (n=30). All
      subjects will participate in a 12-week unsupervised ExRx program that will safely progress
      them from being physically inactive to becoming physically active. Each week subjects of both
      groups will be sent an ExRx in the form of PA recommendations for the week that will be
      matched in terms of intervention setting, behavior change strategies, mode of intervention
      delivery, suggestions for types of PA to do, action planning, goal timeframe, and feedback.
      The difference between the two ExRx methods is the messaging of the specific frequency,
      intensity time, and type to follow in ExRx#1 versus giving only suggestions of exercises to
      do and no frequency, intensity, time or type restriction as "all movement counts" is
      emphasized in ExRx#2. Both groups will be given the main goal of the guidelines they are
      randomized to along with the same information on the definitions of aerobic, resistance,
      neuromotor, flexibility and concurrent exercise along with how to measure intensity of PA
      using the talk test and the Borg Ratings of Perceived Exertion 6-20 scale. Each participant
      will be verbally explained the overall goal of the ExRx and walked through the definitions to
      ensure complete understanding of each mode of PA and how to monitor intensity of activity.
      Both groups will be instructed that the guidelines will progress them from being physically
      inactive to meeting the overall goal of the ExRx from weeks 1-6; then the guidelines will
      stay consistent in prescribing the overall goal of the ExRx from weeks 6-12. In both groups,
      the ExRx is described as effective for improving and maintaining health and that all PA
      participation is at their own discretion and they can do whatever PA type they would like.
      Participants in both groups will be given the same exercise compendium of aerobic and
      resistance exercises to choose from in case they are unsatisfied with the example types of PA
      recommended in the weekly guidelines. Researchers will stress the goal of accurately
      recording PA and exercise regardless of if the recommendations given to them are met or not.

      Currently 36% of University students are physically inactive. Due to barriers such as lack of
      time, exercising 150-min/wk+ and accomplishing a specific FITT such as the ExRx#1 provides
      may seem unattainable. In contrast, the ExRx#2 demonstrates a simple message to move more
      however you can, allowing for practical uptake of increased PA and using the IBC to connect
      the intention to exercise with the behavior through increased self-efficacy and autonomy. We
      hypothesize that ExRx #2 will elicit greater increases in PA volume from baseline (BL) to
      post-test at the end of the 12 weeks of guidelines (12W) compared to ExRx#1. We hypothesize
      that ExRx#2 will produce greater improvement in autonomy and self-efficacy compared to ExRx#1
      at 12W.

      Anthropometrics, health-fitness assessments, PA tracking and questionnaires will be
      administered at BL, 6W and 12W. All questionnaires will be administered in person using
      Qualtrics Secure encrypted database and will be compared between groups at BL, 6W and 12W to
      measure changes over time. Age will be assessed in years. Height (cm) and weight (kg) will be
      measured and used to calculate body mass index in m2/kg. Waist circumference will be measured
      at the height of the iliac crest with a Gulick tape measure in cm. Cardiorespiratory fitness
      will be assessed using a modified and validated Harvard Step Test protocol where participants
      step up and down on a 30cm box at a rate of 30 steps/min for 3-min and recovery heart rate
      (HR) is recorded. Muscular endurance will be measured via the push-up test with males
      performing repetitions until failure in the standard position and females in the modified
      kneeling position. Handgrip strength is a validated measure of overall muscular strength and
      will be measured using a validated protocol in the dominant hand with the Jamar Hydraulic
      Handgrip Dynamometer. Flexibility will be measured in cm using a Sit and Reach Flexibility
      Box. Timeline Follow-Back for Exercise (TLFB-E) is a self-report calendar diary method for
      logging daily exercise and PA, and sitting and sleeping time. Participants will record daily
      PA frequency, type, duration (min) and intensity using the Borg 6-20 scale. Researchers will
      assess the TLFB-E weekly to ensure students are actively participating in reading the ExRx
      guidelines and logging activity. Paffenbarger Physical Activity Questionnaire Question 8 will
      measure duration (min) in each intensity of PA plus time spent sleeping and sitting for a
      typical weekday and weekend day. PA volume will be calculated in MET.min/wk. Actical®
      accelerometers will be given to participants to wear on their hip for 4 consecutive days
      including 2 weekdays and 2 weekend days as an objective measure of PA volume in MET.min/day,
      steps/day and time spent in light, moderate and vigorous intensities. Transtheoretical Model
      Stage of Change will assess readiness to take action to exercise regularly and measures
      transitions in this readiness. Motivation for Physical Activity will determine type of
      motivation for PA (e.g., intrinsic vs external) and self-perceived autonomy. Marcus
      Self-Efficacy questionnaire will measure confidence for exercising when 5 different perceived
      barriers present. Task Self-Efficacy will measure confidence for exercising 3 times/wk at
      increasing durations. Barriers to Self-Efficacy will assess confidence in exercising 3days/wk
      for the next 3 months in the presence of possible barriers to exercise.

      Group descriptive statistics will be presented as mean±standard deviation and ANOVA will be
      performed to determine if there are BL differences between the groups. All BL, 6W and 12W
      measures of PA and the psychosocial questionnaires will be analyzed with repeated measures
      ANCOVA using gender as a fixed factor and age, BMI, WC and other baseline descriptive
      characteristics as possible covariates. Post-hoc analyses will be used to test differences in
      groups and for 3 time points if there are significant time, group or time*group interactions.
      Methods such as multiple imputation and estimated means algorithm will be used to carry out
      statistical inferences in the presence of missing data. All analyses will be set at the alpha
      level of .05 and will be carried out using SPSS Version 25.

      ExRx #1 utilizes the widely-used gold standard FITT principle of ExRx to promote achieving
      the PAG. ExRx #2 uses updated research on the benefits of light intensity movement and the
      all movement counts message founded in the IBC to inherently support autonomy and higher
      self-efficacy to connect the intention to exercise with the behavior. This RCT will inform
      practitioners about which message resonates more with physically inactive students so we can
      more effectively promote healthy, active lifestyles.
    
  