
    
      Purpose of the experiment

      Up to 50-80 % of persons with amputations experience pain in the part of the body that is
      missing. This phenomenon is called phantom limb pain. It is not clear today why phantom limb
      pain occurs, and since the pain can be difficult to treat, it can affect the quality of life.
      Other scientific studies have shown, that the use of electrical stimulation applied through
      surface electrodes, can assist to decrease or alleviate the phantom limb pain. The aim of
      this study is to investigate if daily surface electrical stimulation for a period of 30 days
      can decrease or alleviate the phantom limb pain.

      Methods

      Before the study begins, it will be necessary to test if the participant can tolerate the
      electrical stimulation and that the participant fulfill all criteria for participating in the
      study. During the study, different electrical stimulation sequences will be applied. The
      participant will be asked to fill out a series of questionnaires before, during and after the
      electrical stimulation, to describe how the electrical stimulation is experienced, and if the
      stimulation had an effect on the phantom limb pain and phantom sensations. The participant
      will also be asked about their general mood to investigate if this has an effect on the pain.
      The brain signals of the participants brain signals will be measured twice with either
      surface electrodes or with a scanning technique, while the participant is thinking about
      moving the amputated arm/hand or leg, while moving the healthy arm/leg, or while receiving
      electrical stimulation.

      Plan for the experiment

      The experiment will take place over a period of three months and consists of a series of
      measurement and intervention sessions planned in five phases. All sessions will take place at
      Aalborg University, Denmark except for the days when the brain signals are measured by using
      the scanning technique, which will take place at Aalborg University Hospital, Denmark.

      Phase 1. Interview and meeting with the subject (before the experiment begins, 1 session, 1-2
      hours). Before the experiment begins, the participant is invited to a meeting and interview
      with project responsible to inform the participant about the experiment.

      Phase 2. Preliminary investigation (1 session of maximum 3 hours before the experiment
      starts). Before the experiment starts, but after the participant has signed the informed
      consent, the investigators will test if the participant can tolerate the electrical
      stimulation. If all criteria for participation are fulfilled, the participation of the
      subject will be decided.

      Phase 3. Baseline measurements (day 1-27, 2 weekly sessions, maximum of 3 hours for each
      session). Before the repeated, electrical stimulation sessions begin, a series of baseline
      measurements will be performed. In this phase the sensory threshold (i.e., the level of the
      electrical stimulation that you can feel) will be measured, and the electrical stimulation
      parameters determined. The brain signals of the participant will be measured by a scanning
      technique (so-called functional magnetic resonance imaging or fMRI) and by surface electrodes
      placed oh the scalp (so-called electroencephalographic recordings or EEG). On the day that
      the brain signals are measured the session may last up to 5 hours.

      Phase 4. Intervention period (day 28-56, 2-5 weekly sessions, maximum of 3 hours for each
      session). In these sessions, electrical stimulation will be applied through surface
      electrodes placed on the upper arm/the stump or the leg. The participant will be asked to
      fill out a series of questionnaires to report on the phantom limb pain, phantom sensations
      (i.e., non-painful sensations) and their general mood. Again the participant's brain signals
      will be measured using the scanning and the surface electrode techniques. On the day that the
      brain signals are measured the session may last up to 5 hours.

      Phase 5. Follow-up (day 57-112, 4 weekly session over 8 weeks of maximum 3 hours). To measure
      the effect and duration of the intervention the participant will be asked to fill out a
      series of questionnaires.

      Risks, side effects and disadvantages

      Surface stimulation may cause muscle-contractions. Attachment of the surface electrodes may
      cause the skin to become red or irritated for some hours following the experiment. The type
      of electrical stimulation used in this experiment is not associated with any known risks or
      side effects. When the sensory threshold is determined (i.e., the lowest strength of the
      electrical stimulation that the participant can feel), it may feel unpleasant or painful for
      a short period of time, but the unpleasantness or pain will disappear as soon as the
      electrical stimulation stops. The electrical stimulation applied during the intervention
      period will be adjusted such that is it not painful.

      Measurement of the brain signals using the fMRI-technique (scanning) is safe, and there are
      no known risks or side effects of this procedure. The participant may, however, find that
      being placed inside the scanner is unpleasant. Measurement of the brain signals with surface
      electrodes is also considered safe, and there are no known risks or side effects of this
      procedure. There may be risks associated with the experiment that are unknown to the
      investigators. Therefore, the participant is asked to inform the investigators if the
      participant experiences any health problems during the experiment. If the investigators
      discover any side effects, the participant will be informed immediately.

      Benefits of the experiment

      There will be no benefits for the subject by participation in the study. However, the
      participant may find that his/her phantom limb pain is alleviated during the experiment as a
      result of the electrical stimulation. However, it is not possible for the investigators to
      predict if the electrical stimulation will affect the phantom limb pain, when the effect will
      start, how large the effect will be, or how long the effect will last. It is not possible to
      offer the participants a permanent or lasting solution after termination of the study.

      Exclusion from and suspension of the experiment

      If the participant, according to the assessment of the investigator, react unexpectedly on
      the procedures or in any other way are not suitable for continuing in the experiment, the
      participation in the experiment can be terminated at any time. In general, the experiment
      will be terminated if it turns out that the subjects in general cannot tolerate the
      procedures of the project or find the experiment too exhausting.
    
  