
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the response of pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated with ifosfamide, carboplatin,
      and etoposide combined with rituximab.

      II. Determine the relapse-free survival rate of patients treated with this regimen.

      III. Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients, specifically the
      frequency of therapy delays between courses due to prolonged grade IV hematologic toxicity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether this regimen plus filgrastim (G-CSF) will result in mobilization of
      greater than 2 X 10^6/kg peripheral blood stem cells (CD34+ cells, PBSC) in at least 80% of
      patients for whom peripheral stem cell collection is performed.

      II. Determine the time course of engraftment for patients who undergo peripheral stem cell
      transplantation after collection of stem cells using this mobilization regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by disease (B-cell large cell
      lymphoma or atypical precursor B-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma vs small non-cleaved cell
      lymphoma or B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia).

      Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 2 hours and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 3-5,
      rituximab IV on days 1 and 3, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 3. Patients receive
      filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously once daily beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood
      counts recover. Patients also receive intrathecal (IT) chemotherapy comprising methotrexate
      and cytarabine. Patients with B-cell large cell lymphoma and negative CSF cytology receive IT
      chemotherapy on day 3 of the first course only. Patients with small non-cleaved cell lymphoma
      or B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and negative CSF cytology receive IT chemotherapy on
      day 3. All patients with positive CSF cytology receive IT chemotherapy on days 3, 10, and 17
      of the first and second courses. Treatment repeats every 23 days for up to 3 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42-82 patients (21-41 per disease stratum) will be accrued for
      this study within 2-4 years.
    
  