
    
      Our major unifying hypothesis is that diets comprised of high sugar, energy dense, low fiber
      meals, are associated with a post-prandial metabolic, hormonal and psychosocial profile that
      promotes overeating and sedentary behavior. Specific Aims: (1) Compare the effects of a HIGH
      SUGAR, LOW FIBER (HSLF) meal versus a LOW SUGAR, HIGH FIBER (LSHF) meal on insulin dynamics,
      selected gut peptides, mood and levels of physical activity in minority adolescents, (2)
      Explore the effects of HSLF versus LSHF meals on post-prandial ad libitum food intake, (3)
      Explore differences in reaction to HSLF versus LSHF meals in lean and overweight adolescents
      and (4) Examine ethnic differences in meal responses between Hispanic and African American
      children. Research Design and Methods: We will employ a cross-over design with a 3-4 week
      washout period where normal weight and overweight African American and Hispanic youth come to
      our Observation Lab in a fasting state and consume high sugar and low sugar meals at separate
      visits in random order. Meal consumption will be followed by five hours of intensive
      observation in which we quantify real-time physical activity in laboratory setting that was
      designed to offer equally attractive choices for active or sedentary behaviors. After 5
      hours, participants will be offered food platters with an array of food types and be invited
      to eat ad libitum. Subsequent energy and nutrient intake will be quantified. Rationale: This
      study is prompted by three observations: (1) The disproportionate levels of obesity and risk
      for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in Hispanic and African American children; (2)
      The rapid decline in physical activity during puberty especially in Hispanic and African
      American adolescents, and (3) Children, and particularly minority children, tend to have
      diets high in added sugars and low in fiber. Thus, it is imperative to improve our
      understanding of the interrelationships between dietary intake, physical activity and risk
      factors for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in minority youth, particularly during
      puberty, when physical activity levels significantly decline. Relevance to public health:
      This study will provide new information on the acute effects of meal composition on mood and
      subsequent choices of physical activity in normal weight, healthy overweight and insulin
      resistant overweight Hispanic and African American youth. Furthermore, we suggest that our
      findings may potentially lead to a better understanding the acute affects of poor nutritional
      choices on physical activity in minority adolescent populations at high risk for obesity,
      diabetes type 2, and other obesity-related diseases.
    
  