
    
      Background:

        -  Enzalutamide is established as first-line hormonal therapy in participants with
           metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). However, it is increasingly
           recognized that acquired resistance to therapy (e.g. AR overexpression, AR-V7) could
           limit the durability of response to therapy

        -  Upregulation of HIF-1Alpha in hypoxic tumor cells provides a mechanism of acquired
           resistance to current hormonal therapies and chemotherapies. Acquired resistance
           increases angiogenesis and metastasis, leading to disease progression

        -  Targeting the hypoxia driven tumor microenvironment (e.g. down-regulation of HIF-1Alpha)
           in addition to the androgen receptor (e.g. enzalutamide) has synergistic activity
           against prostate cancer cell line models (e.g. LNCaP, 22Rv1).

        -  CRLX101 is a nanoparticle drug conjugate composed of 20(S)-camptothecin (a potent and
           highly selective topoisomerase I inhibitor with anti-HIF-1Alpha properties) conjugated
           to a linear, cyclodextrin-polyethylene glycol-based polymer

        -  CRLX101 has been to shown to be safe, tolerable, and efficacious in numerous Phase II
           clinical investigations in a variety of tumor subtypes.

        -  Preclinical and clinical studies have shown CRLX101 significantly down-regulates
           HIF-1alpha, impacting tumor-driven angiogenesis.

        -  The treatment combination of CRLX101 and enzalutamide provides a reasonable approach to
           re-sensitizing prostate cancer cells to hormonal therapy via synergistic antitumor
           activity and inhibition of acquired resistance

      Objectives:

      -Primary Objective: To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of CRLX101 at the recommended phase
      II dose (RP2D) in combination with enzalutamide with respect to treatment response, defined
      as greater than or equal to 50% PSA decline or stable disease on imaging following 5 months
      of treatment.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have progressive mCRPC per Prostate Cancer Working Group 3(PCWG3)

        -  Patients must be at least 18 years of age and able to give informed consent

        -  ECOG Performance Status less than or equal to 2

        -  Evaluable metastatic disease on bone scan or measurable disease on CT Scan per PCWG3
           and/or RECIST

        -  Patients must have had disease progression while receiving prior enzalutamide treatment

      Design:

        -  The study will be conducted using an optimal two stage Phase II design (8 participants,
           expandable to 21 participants total) aimed to determine the percentage of participants
           with a PSA decline of greater than 50% or stable disease at 5 months.

        -  The first 3 to 6 participants enrolled on study will follow a lead-in dosing scheme to
           confirm the safety of the combination (CRLX101 12 mg/m(2) every 2 weeks for the first
           two cycles, followed by CRLX101 15 mg/m(2) every 2 weeks at the start of cycle 3, with
           enzalutamide 160 mg administered once daily starting on cycle 1 day 2) prior to
           initiation of the optimal two stage study design.

        -  For participants enrolled on study following the lead-in, the confirmed tolerable dose
           of CRLX101 will be administered via IV infusion every 2 weeks. Enzalutamide 160 mg will
           be administered orally once daily beginning on cycle 1 day 2.

        -  Blood and urine will be collected at multiple time points for PK and PD analyses.

        -  Tumor assessments will be made using 99Tc bone scintography and/or CT scan (chest,
           abdomen, and pelvis) at baseline, prior to Cycle 3 and every 3 cycles thereafter.

        -  The accrual ceiling for the study is set at 30 participants.
    
  