
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of the Newborn Behavioral Observation (NBO)
      on one site, on maternal sensitivity and on other site on Childs responsiveness, assessed by
      EAS at 4 months post partum. The NBO intervention serves to sensitize parents to the infant's
      capacities and individuality and to enhance the parent-infant relationship by strengthening
      parents 'confidence and practical skills in caring for their infants.

      The study will use a RCT design. The NBO intervention group will be compared with a control
      group who will receive usual post partum care offered by primary health care in Reykjavik,
      Iceland. Inclusion criteria are pregnant women with an EPDS sum score above 9 in the third
      trimester and/or a previous history of trauma, anxiety and depression.

      The NBO intervention group (n=30) will receive three home visits during the 2nd to 4th week
      after birth in addition to their usual home visits. The control group (n=30) will receive
      regular follow-up (without NBO sessions). At 4 months all participating mothers will be
      videotaped during daily caring, feeding or play episodes with their infant.

      Baseline questionnaire (T1) contained information on household income, parity, education
      level and the number of children living in the household. Maternal depressive symptoms were
      measured by the Icelandic version of The Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) at 24-28
      weeks of gestation (T0), six weeks postpartum (T5) and again at 4 months postpartum (T6). The
      EPDS is a 10-item self-report scale that assesses current (last week) postpartum depressive
      symptomatology. Each item is rated on a 4-point scale (0-3), yielding a total score ranging
      from 0 to 30, with higher scores indicating increased symptomatology of postpartum
      depression.

      The videos will be coded by use of the The Emotional Availability (EA) Scale to assess
      maternal sensitivity and Childs responsiveness. The EA Scale consists of six dimensions of
      emotional availability in the relationship: four for the adult (sensitivity, structuring,
      nonintrusiveness and nonhostility) and two for the child (responsiveness to adult and
      involvement of adult). The EA direct score for the first dimension, sensitivity for mothers
      and responsiveness for the child, is reported. The score seven (range 1-7) is the
      highest/best possible score on the two first catagories and three (range 1-3) is the
      higest/best score fot the next five catargories. This seven catagories in each domain make
      the direct score, witch can reach from 7-29 where the 29 is the higest. In addition to the 6
      diementions the Clinical Screeners....... The EA Scale is validated in various settings and
      cultures and will serve as the main outcome measure in the RCT.
    
  