
    
      Background and significance: Sepsis and septic shock account for 10% of admissions to the
      intensive care unit and constitute the second most frequent cause of death among admitted
      patients. The mortality rate associated with septic shock ranges from 30% to 50% and death is
      often due to multiple organ dysfunction coupled with systemic inflammation. Given the
      pathobiological relationship between coagulation and inflammation in sepsis, treatment with
      anticoagulants has been investigated in this population. Multiple lines of evidence suggest
      that heparin, a widely available, inexpensive anticoagulant, may improve clinical outcomes in
      sepsis, but high quality evidence to guide practice is lacking.

      Hypothesis: Intravenous (IV) unfractionated heparin (UFH) reduces mortality and morbidity
      when administered to patients with suspected septic shock.

      Study Design: A pragmatic open-label international randomized trial comparing therapeutic
      dose intravenous unfractionated heparin (UFH) to standard care venous thromboprophylaxis in
      patients diagnosed with septic shock.

      Setting: To increase the external validity/generalizability of the trial results, 20 sites in
      4 countries will participate.

      Study Population: Patients with systemic inflammation, vasopressor dependent shock, and signs
      of organ dysfunction.

      Interventions: IV infusion of UFH at 18 IU/kg/hr, dosed according to total body weight and
      pragmatically adjusted according to usual care to achieve an activated partial thromboplastin
      time (aPTT) of 1.5-2.5x that of the reference aPTT value (approximately 59-99 seconds).
      Alternately, therapeutic anti-Xa values (ie. values typically targeted for the treatment of
      venous thromboembolism) can be targeted based on local practice. Duration of heparin infusion
      is for a maximum of 5 days (120 hours) or until death, ICU discharge or discontinuation of
      vasopressors. The dose of UFH has been informed by our observational study and meta-analysis
      that showed a benefit of UFH in patients receiving therapeutic doses.

      Control group: Local standard care for venous thromboprophylaxis (i.e. not therapeutic) which
      may include SC LMWH, SC UFH, sequential compression devices or graduated compression
      stockings.

      Outcomes: At the end of the HALO international phase II trial, an international DSMB will be
      presented with by-group efficacy (vasopressor-free days) data in the context of 90-day
      mortality, and safety (bleeding and transfusion). With these data the DSMB will suggest: a)
      terminating enrollment for futility (lack of efficacy) or harm, or b) continuing to the phase
      III trial along with a recommended sample size to detect a clinically relevant difference in
      90-day mortality. Patients will be analyzed according to the treatment group to which they
      are allocated. By-group data will remain blinded to study investigators so that these
      patients may be included in the HALO international phase III RCT. Our analytic approach
      provides a rationale to either stop, or to justify further investment in a large
      international phase III trial.
    
  