
    
      Little research has been conducted to examine behavior and cognition in children with mild
      PKU/hyperphenylalanemia, but there is evidence of reductions in general intelligence (IQ)
      (Costello, 1994) and impairments in executive abilities (Diamond, 1994; Gassio, 2005) in this
      population. It is important to note that the phenylalanine levels of children with mild PKU
      are approximately equivalent to those of children with classical PKU whose phenylalanine
      levels have been managed through dietary control. In children with diet-treated PKU,
      impairments in behavior and cognition are well-documented, particularly in relation to
      executive abilities (Christ, 2006; White, 2001, 2002). Taken together, these findings suggest
      that children with mild PKU are at risk for behavioral and cognitive impairments, and it is
      possible that these impairments may be mitigated by lowering phenylalanine levels through
      treatment with Kuvan.

      To investigate this issue, approximately 20 children with mild PKU from 6 to 18 years of age
      (inclusive) and their parents will participate in the study. The behavior and cognition of
      children with mild PKU will be assessed using the following methods: (1) Parents will
      complete inventories to rate the behavior and cognition of their children; (2) Older children
      will complete self-report inventories to rate their behavior and cognition; (3) Cognitive
      tasks assessing IQ and executive aspects of attention (i.e., sustained attention and
      inhibitory control) will be administered to all children.

      The primary objectives are two-fold. First, we will determine if behavior and cognition are
      compromised in children with mild PKU prior to treatment with Kuvan (baseline). To accomplish
      this objective, we will administer measures of behavior and cognition that include normative
      data based on age. We hypothesize that children with mild PKU will have ratings and scores
      that are ≥ 1 standard deviation from the normative mean. Second, we will determine if
      behavior and cognition improve in children with mild PKU following treatment with Kuvan. To
      accomplish this objective, we will administer the same measures of behavior and cognition
      after 4 and 24 weeks of treatment with Kuvan(4-week and 24-week follow-ups, respectively). We
      hypothesize that the follow-up ratings and scores of children with mild PKU will improve by ≥
      0.5 standard deviation relative to their baseline ratings and scores.
    
  