
    
      Background:

      Breast Cancer (BC) is the most common cancer in women worldwide. Newly diagnosed BC patients
      are asked to participate in a number of treatment related decisions. No research has
      systematically studied the full decision sequence in a disease such as BC, analyzing demand
      factors, supply factors and patient perceptions.

      Study goal:

      Identify and analyze demand factors, supply factors and perceptions affecting BC patients'
      treatment choices, and model the demand function of BC patients in 5 key decision points:
      participation role in the decision making process, hospital choice, treatment regimen choice,
      surgical extent and surgeon choice.

      Study hypothesis: Patient perceptions will have at least as much impact as demand and supply
      factors.

      Study design:

      Two stage study. A preliminary qualitative study, holding depth interviews with 20 breast
      cancer patients, 2 spouses and 3 staff members is taking place these days. The qualitative
      study findings will be used to develop a survey questionnaire for a cross sectional
      quantitative study, interviewing a quota sample of 425 breast cancer survivors, diagnosed up
      to 5 years prior to joining the study, who have successfully completed all radiation therapy
      and chemotherapy.

      Data analysis:

      Qualitative data will be analyzed according to the Criteria Bases Qualitative Methodology.
      Quantitative data will be analyzed by two-variable statistical analysis and multi-variable
      statistical analysis adjusted to the nature of the dependent and independent variables.

      Possible policy recommendations:

      Forming consulting teams for cancer patients. Improving medical information communication.
      Focusing patients on the key decisions they face. Evaluating patient needs using demand
      factors, supply factors and perceptions to create systemic tools helping them face treatment
      decisions.
    
  