
    
      A cancer diagnosis is associated with high levels of distress in both patients and their
      family caregivers. Although studies have demonstrated that mindfulness-based interventions
      are effective in reducing distress and anxiety of cancer patients, logistical limitations of
      currently available mindfulness-based stress reduction training options restrict their
      potential to benefit patients with advanced cancer and their caregivers. Previous pilot
      mindfulness studies targeting cancer patients and caregivers have demonstrated preliminary
      feasibility and acceptability of mHealth mindfulness interventions and preliminary efficacy
      in reducing depression, anxiety and improving quality of life. The objective of the proposed
      pilot pragmatic cluster randomized trial targeting cancer patients undergoing palliative and
      supportive therapy and their informal caregivers is to pilot test implementation of two
      mHealth mindfulness interventions as part of standard palliative care support within KPNC.
      Using data collected through the mindfulness programs, patient/caregiver surveys, clinician
      surveys, and EHR data, the study aims are: 1) to assess acceptability and feasibility of
      incorporating an mHealth mindfulness intervention as part of palliative care and to obtain
      preliminary efficacy of the intervention on patient-reported outcomes, clinical outcomes, and
      health care utilization; and 2) to gather qualitative feedback regarding the intervention
      from the clinicians, patients and caregivers. Participating oncology clinics will be
      randomized into either intervention or usual care arms. Intervention participants may choose
      from a 6-week webinar-based mindfulness program or a 6-week self-paced mobile app-based
      mindfulness program. Controls will receive usual care. Rates of participation, completion and
      adherence among intervention participants and participant-reported outcomes on distress and
      quality of life among both arms at baseline, post-intervention and 12 weeks will be
      collected. The hypothesis is that participants in the intervention arm will experience
      reductions in depression/anxiety and improvement in immune function and quality of life.
      Clinician surveys and interviews with intervention participants will also be conducted at the
      end of the intervention to obtain feedback regarding the intervention.
    
  