
    
      Necrotizing fasciitis (NF)-commonly known as 'flesh-eating bacteria'-is an aggressive
      soft-tissue infection that has a high mortality rate (30-50%). NF is generally associated
      with traumatic inoculation of extremely aggressive bacteria into the soft-tissues surrounding
      the fascial layer of connective tissue, just deep to the subcutaneous fat. This tissue layer
      provides an ideal environment for bacterial growth and also facilitates rapid advancement of
      the bacteria along the fascia. The result is a soft-tissue infection that often spreads
      centrally prior to detection and/or adequate management, leading to systemic sepsis,
      multi-organ failure, and death.

      Further complicating NF management is that there is no definitive diagnostic test. Patients
      with NF present generally with pain, fever, and elevated inflammatory labs (white blood cell
      count (WBC), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and C-reactive protein (CRP)), other lab
      abnormalities (elevated glucose and creatinine; reduced sodium and hemoglobin); however,
      these are non-specific findings that are associated with numerous other-nonfatal-conditions.
      For this reason, a diagnosis of NF is often missed until the condition has progressed too
      far.

      Medical fluorescence is a nascent form of medical imaging that seeks to improve the
      recognition of important anatomical structures and disease processes through
      machine-assisted, visual identification using fluorescent probes called fluorophores. Several
      types of fluorophores exist: targeted fluorophores, enzyme-activated fluorophores, and simple
      intravascular fluorophores.

      Intravascular fluorophores, primarily indocyanine green (ICG), have been available for ~100
      years. ICG is FDA approved and has an excellent safety record with no demonstrable toxicity.
      When injected intravenously and viewed with an appropriate fluorescence imager, ICG
      effectively maps out the local vasculature, enabling the viewer to distinguish perfused and
      non-perfused tissues. ICG's FDA-approved indications and uses include angiography to
      determine cardiac output, hepatic function, liver blood flow, and ophthalmic anatomy.

      Upon histological examination of tissues affected by NF, there exist four commonly observed
      features: 1) the presence of bacteria; 2) robust neutrophil infiltration; 3) tissue necrosis;
      4) vascular thrombosis. DH-H Department of Pathology currently reviews tissue biopsies with
      respect to these criteria when evaluating tissue for the presence of necrotizing fasciitis
      (Soloman et al, Modern Pathology, 2018, pp 546-552). While useful to guide clinical
      decision-making, histological review is not considered to be a definitive diagnostic finding,
      but these observations do have moderate sensitivity and specificity with culture data, which
      is considered to be the ultimate determinant of an NF diagnosis.

      Because of the profound pro-thrombotic effects of necrotizing fasciitis within the
      subcutaneous tissues, we hypothesize that the administration of ICG and subsequent imaging of
      a bodily region affected with NF will demonstrate substantially reduced fluorescence compared
      to the patient's unaffected tissues. If we can demonstrate that ICG fluorescence voids are
      characteristic of NF, this could potentially lead to a more rapid, and potentially more
      accurate, diagnosis of NF that would lead to more rapid definitive management
      and-likely-improved outcomes.

      The goal of this pilot study is to evaluate whether ICG fluorescence may be used as a
      non-invasive method of identifying the presence of NF.
    
  