
    
      Acute uterine bleeding, unrelated to pregnancy, is a relatively common problem that causes
      many reproductive-aged women to requite emergent medical and/or surgical intervention.
      Although the traditional approaches have generally been surgical in nature, many
      practitioners utilize medical methods to arrest the bleeding. However, despite widespread
      use, there exists a paucity of information regarding the effectiveness, side-effects, and
      patient satisfaction associated with the commonly-used medical regimens. (b) The purpose of
      the study is to compare the efficacy of multidose medroxyprogesterone acetate and a
      multidose, monophasic combined oral contraceptive in the treatment of hemodvnamically-stable
      women with non-gestational, acute uterine bleeding.

      (c) Non-pregnant, hemodynamically-stable, reproductive-aged, women, over the age of IS, who
      present either to the emergency area or to KP practitioner's offices with acute uterine
      bleeding, will be considered for eligibility. If, following a full exam and medically
      appropriate investigations medical management is deemed appropriate, they will be approached
      by a member of the investigating team for possible inclusion into the study. Following
      informed consent, patients will be randomized to receive either medroxyprogesterone acetate
      (20 mg three times daily for 7 days) or monophasic oral contraceptive containing I mg of
      norethindrone and 35 ug of ethinyl estradiol (three dines daily for seven days). Following
      the seven days of therapy, those randomized to MPA will continue with 20 mg per day for three
      weeks while those randomized to oral contraceptives will take one pill per day for three
      weeks, each completing a total of four weeks of therapy. The primary outcome will be the
      number of days until cessation of bleeding. Other outcomes measured will include pad and
      tampon counts, and hemoglobin levels. Chi square tests and student t will be used to evaluate
      differences between the two treatment groups. The hope is that this study will elucidate on
      the efficacy of the two regimens.
    
  