
    
      Initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) can lead to a short-term increase of herpes
      virus-related illnesses including genital herpes flares, higher likelihood of varicella
      zoster virus (VZV), cytomegalovirus (CMV) uveitis or other end-organ disease, and herpes
      simplex virus (HSV) associated encephalitis. Herpesvirus reactivation upon ART initiation may
      be related to immune restoration disease of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
      (IRIS), but the etiology is unclear. We hypothesize that ART initiation can induce
      herpesvirus reactivation causing increased cellular, systemic, and localized immune
      activation and that alterations of interferon (IFN) pathways during initial HIV viral
      suppression are involved in this reactivation.

      To investigate these mechanisms, we propose to document the incidence of clinical herpetic
      disease and viral shedding in vaginal and oral secretions from HIV-positive women initiating
      ART and to assess the associations between viral shedding or clinical disease and cellular,
      mucosal, and systemic immune activation. We will determine the role of IFN pathway in
      herpesvirus reactivation following initiation of ART. We will also evaluate the potential
      impact of herpesvirus reactivation on HIV cellular reservoirs by comparing residual HIV
      plasma viral replication and cell-associated virus prior to and 52 weeks after ART
      initiation.

      We propose to enroll up to 200 HIV-infected women initiating ART at the NIH Clinical Center
      (n=30 to 40) and between the Villa Maria Hospital, Rakai Health Sciences Program (RHSP) site
      in Kalisizo, Uganda and Kalisizo Hospital ARV clinic (n=160 to 170). Women will be recruited
      regardless of CD4+ T-cell count, presence of opportunistic infections and co-infection
      status. Pregnant women will be excluded. During 8 study visits to occur over a 12-month
      period, participants will receive standard-of-care treatment for HIV and opportunistic
      infections. Blood, vaginal fluid and oral swabs collected at study visits will be tested for
      viral levels of HIV and various herpesviruses. Vaginal samples will also be used to study
      differences in vaginal microbiota between women with and without herpetic disease prior and
      after ART. Plasma samples will be tested for antibody levels (IgG) specific for different
      herpesviruses to examine changes in anti-herpetic humoral responses. ART adherence will be
      monitored in plasma using high-resolution mass spectrometry.
    
  