
    
      Currently, NCCN (National Comprehensive Cancer Network) guidelines recommend induction
      chemotherapy combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy as IIA level-evidenced treatment for
      locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (stage II-IVa). However, although induction
      chemotherapy combined with cisplatin based concurrent radiotherapy (CCRT) can significantly
      improve the survival of patients, the side effects during radiotherapy are more serious.

      Previous studies have demonstrated that with a cut-off point of 1500 copies/mL, NPC patients
      could be segregated into a low-risk subgroup and a high-risk subgroup. Besides, our previous
      results showed that patients with plasma Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA= 0 copy/mL and complete
      response/partial response (CR/PR) after induction chemotherapy had a significantly lower risk
      of disease progression than patients with plasma EBV DNA>0 copy/mL and stable disease
      /progressive disease (SD/PD),according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST). As for these low-risk and chemotheray sensitive patients, it can be considered to
      reduce the current standard treatment intensity without affecting the survival rate of
      patients, which reduces the side effects of patients and improve the their life qualities.

      Epidermal growth factor (EGFR) is an important therapeutic target for nasopharyngeal
      carcinoma. A retrospective study suggested that there was no significant difference in the
      3-year overall survival between NPC patients who received nimotuzumab / cetuximab plus
      radiotherapy and those who received standard CCRT. Besides, in terms of hepatorenal toxicity,
      anti-EGFR drugs showed better safety compared with traditional cisplatin chemotherapy. Up to
      now, randomized clinical trial about the application of nimotuzumab after IC is still
      limited.

      This is a phase III randomized clinical trial of definitive radiotherapy plus EGFR blocker
      nimotuzumab versus radiotherapy plus cisplatin for NPC patients with favorable response after
      IC, determining whether radiotherapy combined with nimotuzumab was non-inferior to CCRT after
      IC and may provide new evidence for individualized comprehensive treatment of locoregionally
      advanced NPC.
    
  