
    
      The study is designed as 28-day prospective longitudinal observational study including a 98
      day (14 week) follow-up photography of the wound to test whether wounds open on day 28 have
      closed on week 14, or if they have remained chronically open.

      On days 0, 14 and 28 after enrollment, wound images will be obtained. Wound photographs are a
      part of standard care when patients come to the Comprehensive Wound Center (CWC). Images do
      not include the part of body that could lead to identification of the participants. In
      addition, following standard of care, two biopsies will be taken - one biopsy will be used
      for laser capture microdissection (LCM) and immunohistochemistry studies, while the other
      will be used for determination of infection status using quantitative bacterial cultures and
      Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) imaging for biofilm phenotyping.

      The following will be completed on days 0, 14 and 28:

        1. Wound measurements - Photographs for digital planimetry to measure wound area.

        2. Two Wound-edge biopsies (3mm) - following wound bed preparation with 1% lidocaine local
           anesthetic, as required, two punch biopsies (3 mm each) will be obtained from the
           wound-edge (the leading 3mm edge of the skin at the perimeter) of the same wound/ulcer.

        3. Data Collection - the following information will be collected during the enrollment
           visit and updated at each visit (weekly - on days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28 and 98 (week 14) ),
           as necessary, and entered onto the data collection form: Age; Sex; Race/Ethnicity;
           Current medications; Transcutaneous oxygen measurement(TCOM) <30 mmHg or ABI < 0.8;
           Wound location & Etiology; Other associated illnesses; Wound care modality/treatment;
           and Nutritional status will be recorded as documented by albumin levels and chart
           records.

      Healing outcome: Wound photography will be performed every 7 days (every week) as a part of
      the current standard of care. Based on wound measurements from days 0 and 28 , patients will
      be classified as either healing or non-healing, per criteria described in the study
      proposal/protocol.

      There will be a total of 5 visits for this study (6 total visits for patients with open
      wounds on day 28 of the study). Visits will occur on days 0, 7, 14, 21 and 28.
    
  