
    
      Platelet-Oriented Inhibition in New TIA and minor ischemic stroke (POINT) Trial, is a
      prospective, randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial with the primary null hypothesis
      that, in patients with TIA or minor ischemic stroke treated with aspirin 50-325 mg/day, there
      is no difference in the event-free survival at 90 days in those treated with clopidogrel (600
      mg loading dose then 75 mg/day) compared to placebo when subjects are randomized within 12
      hours of time last known free of new ischemic symptoms.

      Its primary objective is to determine whether clopidogrel 75 mg/day by mouth after a loading
      dose of 600 mg of clopidogrel is effective in preventing major ischemic vascular events
      (ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and ischemic vascular death) at 90 days when
      initiated within 12 hours of TIA or minor ischemic stroke onset in patients receiving aspirin
      50-325 mg/day (with a dose of 150-200 mg daily for 5 days followed by 75-100 mg daily
      strongly recommended).

      Patients over 18 years of age with high-risk TIA (defined as an ABCD2 score greater than or
      equal to 4) or minor ischemic stroke (with NIHSS less than or equal to 3) who can be treated
      within 12 hours of time last known free of new ischemic symptoms will be enrolled.

      Subjects will be randomized 1:1 (clopidogrel: placebo), controlling for clinical center. A
      study participant's eligibility will be determined by site personnel prior to accessing the
      Randomization Module in the WebDCU™, a web-enabled clinical trials management system that was
      developed by the NETT Statistics and Data Management Center (SDMC) at Medical University of
      South Carolina (MUSC).Qualified users will access the Randomization Interface and complete a
      protocol-specific eligibility checklist. If the Randomization Interface finds the patient to
      be eligible based on the information provided, a randomization number and a confirmatory
      e-mail are generated.

      Each subject is followed for 90 days from randomization; the trial will be completed in 7
      years.

      A total of 5,840 patients will be recruited. Recruitment will occur over 90 months, with a
      goal rate of 0.40 subjects/site/month for US sites, and a goal rate of 0.47
      subjects/site/month for OUS sites. Current participating sites can be found at:
      http://www.pointtrial.org/node/18.
    
  