
    
      People with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have a two to fivefold increase in cardiovascular
      mortality compared to non-diabetic controls.

      Endothelial dysfunction (ED) is an early messenger of atherosclerosis and is responsible for
      increased vascular permeability, platelet aggregation and adhesion, leucocyte adhesion and
      smooth muscle cell proliferation and favours a vasoconstrictive and pro-inflammatory state.

      Postprandial ED occurs not only in patients with CV disease or diabetes, but even in healthy
      subjects. Distinctive and cumulative effects of hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia on
      postprandial ED have been demonstrated. Since postprandial dysmetabolism was linked to CV
      disease, the postprandial ED was proposed to be the mechanism connecting them. Considering
      that the postprandial state covers most of our daytime, interventions targeting a reduction
      in postprandial ED might play a decisive role in atherosclerosis prevention.

      For the treatment of postprandial ED several therapeutical approaches have been suggested,
      such as treatment with folic acid, tetrahydrobiopterin, vitamins C and E,statins etc.

      These approaches aim at reducing postprandial oxidative stress (vitamins C and E, statins and
      partly folic acid), postprandial hyperglycemia (insulin), postprandial hypertriglyceridemia
      (statins) or have a direct effect on endothelial NO production (folic acid, insulin and
      tetrahydrobiopterin).

      Recent data suggests that advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) might also play a role in the
      development of ED, leading to the long-term complications of diabetes and accelerated aging.
      AGEs are a heterogeneous group of moieties, one of the most representative being
      carboxymethyllysine (CML). Diet is a major source of exogenous AGEs and the food AGE content
      is highly dependent on food nutrient composition, as well as on temperature, method and
      duration of heat application during cooking. About 10% of ingested AGEs are rapidly absorbed
      and partly retained into the body, where they exert different pathological effects including
      binding with and activation of receptors for AGE (RAGE). AGE precursors such as methylglyoxal
      (MG) can also activate RAGE. Endogenous MG synthesis increases in parallel with hyperglycemia
      in vivo. Postprandially, the absorbed and endogenously generated AGEs and MG act
      synergistically to decrease vascular function through direct NO scavenging or increased
      oxidative stress. Part of these effects can be counteracted by benfotiamine (BT), a
      liposoluble vitamin B1 derivative with much higher bioavailability than thiamine. BT,
      commonly used in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy, is a transketolase activator that
      directs glucose substrates to the pentose phosphate pathway. Thus, it blocks several
      hyperglycemia-induced pathways, one of them being endogenous AGE and dicarbonyls formation.
      We have recently shown that a three day pretreatment with benfotiamine can prevent
      postprandial ED in T2DM (Stirban et al, Diabetes Care, 2006).

      This study aims at investigating the effects of a chronical treatment with benfotiamine (900
      mg/day for 6 weeks) on parameters of endothelial function and autonomic neuropathy in fasting
      and postprandial state in people with T2DM.

      We will therefore investigate 30 people with type 2 diabetes mellitus in a randomized,
      cross-over, double blind, placebo-controlled design. Pre- and postprandial endothelial
      dysfunction (flow mediated dilatation -ultrasound- and reactive hyperemia -laser-doppler-)
      will be investigated before and after chronical treatment with benfotiamine. Investigations
      will be performed in fasting state as well as 2,4 and 6 hours postprandially.
    
  