
    
      Depressive disorders affect 5-10% of older primary care patients, although rates may be
      higher among Latinos, especially among immigrants and those less acculturated. Late-life
      depression may be chronic and recurrent and results in significant morbidity and mortality.
      Despite a growing evidence base for the treatment of geriatric depression, only half of
      depressed older adults receive mental health care; fewer than 10% receive specialty services.
      Treatment rates are even lower for low-income, ethnic minorities who may be more ill and
      disabled, may lack adequate insurance and have different treatment preferences, and who
      frequently face barriers to accessing care. Recent quality improvement interventions for
      geriatric depression have targeted primary care, the location where older patients and ethnic
      minorities are most likely to receive mental health services. A recent multi-site, randomized
      trial of collaborative care for geriatric depression in primary care offered patients their
      choice of treatments, including antidepressant medication or 6-8 sessions of a structured
      psychotherapy. Although the intervention had few cultural accommodations, both processes and
      outcomes of care improved for depressed older minorities. However, because the study only
      included Latinos who were English-speaking and mostly high school graduates, these results
      may not generalize to a large proportion of ethnic minorities.

      This study first examines current rates of depression and patterns of depression treatment in
      a public-sector geriatric clinic that serves mostly Spanish-speaking Latinos. Then depressed
      patients are identified and their depression treatment preferences and barriers to care are
      assessed. Patients are enrolled in a 6-month patient-centered, evidence-based intervention,
      and they, family members, and clinic medical providers are interviewed at program end to
      assess the feasibility, acceptability, and possible effectiveness of the intervention.
    
  