
    
      The primary aim of the current study is a better understanding of the role of Type 2 Diabetes
      Mellitus (T2DM) in heart failure and, in particular, changes in cardiac metabolism, which may
      contribute to heart failure. Various biomarkers in the coronary artery blood, as well as in
      the arterial and peripheral venous blood, are to be identified for this purpose. Included are
      patients with and without T2DM, who have a clinically indicated and guidance-appropriate
      Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) implantation due to their cardiac insufficiency.

      Not all patients currently benefit from the implantation of a CRT system (so-called
      non-responder). Despite narrow inclusion criteria, these "non-responders" cannot be unmasked
      in advance of the implantation. Thus, a further aim of this study is to identify biomarkers,
      which can be determined in advance of implantation to differentiate between responders and
      non-responders.

      Patient selection is based on the previously defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      patient is informed by the physician and gives written consent to participate in the study.
      Prior to the implantation of the CRT system, the patient first responds to a study-related
      questionnaire and performs a 6-minute walk test.

      Afterwards the clinically indicated, elective CRT implantation is performed by experienced
      physicians of the Medical Clinic I. Routinely, an arterial pressure catheter for invasive
      blood pressure monitoring (usually arteria radialis) is inserted. In addition, 2 peripheral
      venous accesses are established. The system of the CRT system is carried out via a small
      pectoral section. The cardiac probes are inserted into the heart via the subclavian vein.
      First, the probe is implanted in the right ventricle and, if necessary, a probe is placed in
      the right atrium.

      To establish the coronary sinus (CS) probe, the intubation of the coronary sinus is performed
      by means of a guide catheter, which can be used to take blood samples. After intubation of
      the coronary sinus, the coronary artery blood is taken from the guide catheter for the study
      as well as arterially via the underlying pressure catheter as well as peripheral venous over
      a horizontal venous catheter. The blood sampling does not take more than 1-2 minutes.

      The surgery is then terminated as planned and postoperative care is performed according to
      the standard operation procedure (SOP) of the Medical Clinic I. Within the framework of a
      control visit routinely performed in the Medical Clinic I , an echocardiographic follow-up of
      heart failure, a history assessment and a laboratory-based blood analysis are performed 6
      months after CRT implantation. In the context of this visit peripheral venous blood is
      collected again for the study. In addition, the 6-minute walk test is performed once more and
      the patient receives the same questionnaire again.

      Laboratory routine blood analysis is performed in the central laboratory of the University
      Hospital of Aachen and is independent of the study. The analysis measures standard parameters
      such as electrolytes, blood count, retention parameters, glucose, HbA1c, liver values,
      N-terminal Brain Natriuretic Peptide (NT-pro-BNP) etc. .

      A blood gas analysis of the study blood is performed out first. The remaining blood is
      processed and stored at -80 ° C, so-called "biobank", for further biomarker analysis, e.g.
      metabolite analysis, peptides/proteins and RNA.
    
  