
    
      Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has emerged as a critical gaseous signaling molecule with a role in
      multiple processes including ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury, angiogenesis, intimal
      hyperplasia, and anti-inflammatory mechanisms. It even appears to hold anti-atherosclerotic
      properties. However, the gas is toxic with a half-life of minutes, and it can be rapidly
      oxidized. Furthermore, no clinically useful pharmacologic H2S donors have been developed to
      date. In a 2015 Cell paper, the study investigators link substantial upregulation of
      endogenous H2S to short-term manipulation of mammalian dietary intake: simple dietary
      restriction. The current project serves as the second phase in the accelerated translation of
      this important discovery toward clinical utility that may substantively impact the vascular
      patient at several levels: protection from IR injury, intimal hyperplasia, peri-procedural
      events such as stroke, cardiac dysfunction and myocardial infarction (MI), and promotion of
      angiogenesis.

      Chronic protein and calorie dietary restriction (PCR; reduced food intake without
      malnutrition) is known for extending longevity in multiple species. PCR is also an
      established approach to positively impact metabolic fitness and resistance to multiple forms
      of acute stress. Despite these wide-ranging benefits, potential clinical applications have
      never been considered feasible in humans due to the practical difficulties associated with
      voluntary food restriction combined with the assumption that PCR benefits take a long time to
      accrue. Recent preclinical studies by the applicants reveal a rapid onset of PCR benefits
      against surgically induced traumatic inflammation, IR injury, and the fibroproliferative
      vascular response to injury in rodents. Mechanistically, rapid changes in adipose phenotype
      and associated adipokine profiles appear to underlie these benefits; but the key mediator
      appears to be endogenous H2S. This field thus stands poised to move to clinical utility, and
      vascular surgery offers an optimal risk/benefit ratio for translation of the PCR/H2S
      hypothesis.

      For the current project the investigators will complete a randomized, controlled trial to
      evaluate patient compliance and biologic mechanisms of a short-term pre-operative PCR diet in
      comparison to a normal ad libitum diet for 4 days before elective major vascular surgery.
      Both Endpoints relate to the long-term primary scientific objective to test the hypothesis
      that brief upregulation of endogenous H2S via pre-operative PCR in elective major surgery
      improves clinical outcomes in humans. After a successful pilot study of the PCR diet
      conducted inpatient before carotid endarterectomy titled Short-Term Endogenous Hydrogen
      Sulfide Upregulation (NCT03303534), the investigators now aim to expand the study to at home
      diet among a variety of vascular surgery procedures.

      Eighty subjects undergoing carotid artery endarterectomy, aortic aneurysm repair (open, and
      endovascular if groin cut down planned), open lower extremity arterial procedures (bypasses,
      aneurysm repair, arterial and bypass graft reconstructions), major amputation of the lower
      extremity (below knee and above knee amputations), or open hemodialysis access procedures for
      either symptomatic or asymptomatic disease will be recruited and enrolled at Brigham and
      Women's Hospital. Using a randomized (3:2), parallel design, patients will receive either the
      PCR diet (n=48; ScandiShake [any of 4 flavors] mixed with almond milk, calculated
      individually for a total daily volume to achieve 30% caloric restriction and 70% protein
      restriction, based on body weight and activity level), or continued routine ad libitum diet
      (n=32). Daily physical activity will be assessed by questionnaire to determine the activity
      factor for accurate calorie restriction calculations. Water intake is ad libitum for both
      cohorts, and both diets can be consumed throughout the day and night (except on the day of
      surgery). Patients will consume their assigned diets for the four days leading up to surgery
      until midnight the day of surgery when both cohorts will be fasted for the procedure (per
      standard clinical guidelines).
    
  