
    
      This study will include 40 subjects, males and females, aged 18-30 years old. Subjects will
      consist of trained individuals whom log at least two days/week of moderate exercise. The
      source of participants will come from New York Institute of Technology community.
      Participants will be selected according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria.Inclusion
      Criteria:

        1. Age range: 18-30 years

        2. Good overall health

        3. Exercise at least two days/week

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Any cardiopulmonary conditions including asthma within the last 6 months.

        2. Any major musculoskeletal injuries (i.e. torn ligaments, bone fractures, etc.) over the
           last 6 months.

        3. Any other health issues that would interfere with a subject's safety during exercise.

        4. Any auditory/vestibular impairments.

        5. Uncorrected visual problems.

      Dr. Douris will be taking the medical history for each prospective subject in order to
      evaluate for the presence of any of the exclusion criteria. We will use the Physical Activity
      Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q) and our own medical questionnaire. All volunteers will sign
      the informed consent before participation in the study.

      Each subject will require one hour to be tested and to undertake their specific condition
      which will be randomly assigned. Upon consent form completion subjects will be instructed on
      how the Stroop and Trails B tests will be administered. The Stroop tests: the subject will be
      asked to read words of colors, state the colors of various letters to test processing speed,
      and state the color of the font of a word when the actual word describes a conflicting color
      to test response inhibition (executive functioning). The Trails B test: the subject is
      instructed to connect a set of 25 dots as fast as possible while maintaining accuracy. This
      test provides information about visual search speed, scanning, speed of processing, mental
      flexibility, and executive functioning. Both tests take approximately 5 minutes to
      administer. They have both been utilized extensively in the literature to measure changes in
      executive function as a result of exercise. The subjects will also familiarize themselves
      with the Brain Age game at the time of consent. Detailed instructions for each testing day
      are as followed: Pre and Post testing of the Stroop and Trails B tests will occur after each
      of the four conditions:1) Aerobic exercise only 2) Aerobic exercise and Gaming simultaneously
      3) Gaming only 4) Control condition of sitting quietly for 30 minutes. All testing will take
      place in the School of Health Professions Research Room, Room 507 of the 500 Building.

      Acute Bouts of Aerobic Exercise:Participants will perform 30 minutes of cycling at an
      intensity of 60 to 70% of maximum heart rate based on 220 - their age. The aerobic exercise
      will utilize a Monarch 818E Monarch Lower Body Ergometer (Monark Exercise, Stockholm,
      Sweden). Participant's heart rate will be monitored using Polar heart rate monitor.

      Acute Bouts of Video Game:Participants will play Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a
      Day! on Nintendo 3DS for 30 minutes in a seated resting position.

      Acute Bouts of both Aerobic Exercise and Video Games :Participants will perform 30 minutes of
      cycling at an intensity of 60 to 70% of maximum heart rate based on 220 minus their age on a
      Monarch ergometer while playing Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day! on a Nintendo
      3DS. Participant's heart rate will be monitored using Polar heart rate.
    
  