
    
      Considerable evidence suggest that lifestyle changes can prevent or delay the onset of type 2
      diabetes, and self-care behaviors largely determine HbA1c. Modifiable lifestyle factors have
      been established as key drivers of disease onset, progression, and prognosis, motivating the
      use of "lifestyle as medicine". Despite this, a substantial number of patients with type 2
      diabetes (T2D) have difficulties attaining adequate glycemic control.

      Digital health tools are increasingly incorporated into diabetes care, and have the potential
      to improve both behavioral and clinical outcomes on a broad basis. However, low levels of
      uptake, reduced user engagement over time, and low acceptance among patients, raise concerns
      about their effectiveness. Knowledge on how to design interventions aimed at inducing change
      by promoting motivation and personal engagement, as well as a better understanding of patient
      interaction with digital health interventions, could help overcome these challenges and
      inform the development of a novel and effective health support.

      The objective or this study is to evaluate a new web-based tool, developed at the University
      Gothenburg, Sweden, that aims to support patient autonomy and motivation to make sustainable
      lifestyle changes.

      The investigators will test the hypothesis that individuals with type 2 diabetes in routine
      care who have access to the tool get improved HbA1c relative to baseline as compared with
      individuals with type 2 diabetes on usual care not exposed to the tool.

      The study is an investigator-initiated single-center study conducted at Scania University
      Hospital, Sweden, and will follow participants over three years.

      Participants with type 2 diabetes will be recruited by sending letters with study information
      to patients with type 2 diabetes in the region. If HbA1c is 52 mmol/mol or above participants
      are included and attend study visits at Scania University Hospital every three months during
      the first year and every sixth month during the following two years for blood sampling and
      physical examination.

      During the first 3 months, only half of the participants get access to the tool immediately
      and the other half remain on usual care (randomized who get access or not). After 3 months,
      all participants get access to the tool and used it during an open-label observation period
      of up to three years.

      Study visits: Every physical study visit lasts appr. 20 minutes and includes measurements of
      length and weight, blood pressure, and estimations of fat and muscle mass by bioimpedance.
      Fasting blood samples are taken for analysis of HbA1c and other cardiometabolic proteins.
      Participants will not receive any counselling or lifestyle advice at the study visits.
      Technical problems are referred to the study coordinator, who may also respond to requests to
      clarify content in a general manner without providing personal advice. Patients are followed
      by their ordinary physician throughout the study, i.e. the tool is provided on top of
      ordinary anti-diabetic treatment and healthcare contacts.

      The tool: The tool is web-based and used via a computer or mobile phone. It is used at each
      individual's preferred pace but participants are recommended to login at least every other
      week. Every round the participants choose a themes (out of appr. 80 possible covering e.g.
      food, exercise, stress, self-reflection aspects), which takes appr. 15-30 minutes to
      complete. Participants then reflect on the content and how it could be implemented in daily
      life. When returning for next round participants are asked to reflect on any changes done
      since last time. There is no interaction between individual participants.

      Statistics: The study has two primary endpoints. One primary endpoint is change of HbA1c
      between participants with and without access to the tool during the first 3-month period.
      Patients lost to follow-up will not be included in the analysis.

      The standard deviation of change of HbA1c is 6 mmol/mol over 3 months. With 80% power at
      alpha=0.05, 142 participants are needed to each randomization arm to detect a significant
      difference between the groups, assuming that the true treatment effect of the intervention is
      2 mmol/mol over 3 months.

      Enrollment will continue until the required number of participants are reached, accounting
      for those lost to follow-up during the randomization period. The participants use the tool at
      their own pace but are within the tool recommended to complete a theme at least every other
      week to enable implementation of changes and maintain an awareness of the tool and its
      content.

      As another primary endpoint, investigators will during the open-label observation period
      compare change of HbA1c at one year relative to baseline between patients using the tool as
      recommended (at least every other week) and matched controls on usual care (1:2 ratio between
      exposed and controls). The controls are matched on gender, age, BMI and HbA1c from existing
      clinical registries in the region.

      The standard deviation of DeltaHbA1c is 7 mmol/mol over one year. With 80% power at
      alpha=0.05, 24 participants using the tool as recommended and 48 matched controls are needed
      to detect a significant difference between the groups, assuming that the true treatment
      effect of the intervention is 5 mmol/mol.

      Subanalysis of MOD patients A data-driven cluster analysis of 9,000 diabetes patients has
      been performed in the ANDIS registry in Sweden based on six variables measured at diagnosis:
      GAD antibodies, age, BMI, HbA1c (reflecting long-term blood glucose), HOMA2-B (reflecting
      insulin secretion) and HOMA2-IR (reflecting insulin resistance). Four clusters of T2D
      patients were highlighted, each with different characteristics and risk of complications. One
      of these cluster, MOD (Mild Obesity-related Diabetes), is characterized by high BMI and
      insulin resistance but relatively well-preserved insulin secretion. It has been suggested
      that patients with MOD characteristics would benefit particularly from lifestyle changes. The
      investigators therefore hypothesize that patients with MOD characteristics would benefit
      particularly well from the intervention. As a subanalysis the investigators will analyse the
      interaction between MOD/non-MOD subgroup and exposure to the intervention using a linear
      model with a term for the cluster variable, a term for the exposure to the intervention and
      an interaction term.
    
  