
    
      Although allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) remains an important
      curative therapy for many patients with hematological malignancies, treatment-related
      morbidity and mortality continue to be a major challenge. Chronic GVHD remains a major
      complication following allogeneic HSCT, with more than half of patients being affected.
      Although cGVHD has been associated with decreased relapse risk due to the well documented
      graft-versus-malignancy effect, it is also associated with significant adverse consequences
      in terms of morbidity, mortality, quality-of-life, and treatment costs associated with HSCT.

      Rituximab has been investigated in a small number of patients with refractory cGVHD using the
      standard regimen of 375 mg/m2/week for 4 weeks. Ratanatharathorn et al. documented a
      sustained response in four of eight patients with steroid-refractory cGVHD with diffuse or
      localized sclerodermatous manifestations. Similarly, Canninga-vanDijk et al. and Okamoto et
      al. observed cases with clinical, laboratory and histological improvement after Rituximab
      treatment. Cutler et al. reported the results of their phase I-II study with Rituximab in 21
      patients with steroid-refractory cGVHD. Treatment was well tolerated, and toxicity limited to
      infectious events, without any hematological toxicities and only a significant reduction in
      circulating immunoglobulins documented after therapy. Objective responses were documented in
      70% of patients (including 10% complete response) primarily for those with skin and
      musculoskeletal involvement, allowing tapering, and in some cases withdrawing, of previous
      immunosuppressant therapy. A correlation between clinical response and decrease in the titre
      of antibodies against Y chromosome-encoded minor HLA antigens was shown. The results of these
      preliminary studies highlight the potential therapeutic activity of Rituximab on some cGVHD
      manifestations and a particularly high efficacy for skin involvement, including scleroderma.
      Recently, Zaja et al. confirmed the activity of Rituximab in refractory cGVHD in a larger
      series of 38 patients. Treatment was generally well tolerated and nearly 60% and 50% of
      patients had a clinical improvement of their skin and mouth manifestations, respectively. The
      median time-to-response was nearly 2 months and in some cases responses were durable.
      Responses were also detectable in some patients with eye, liver, lung, gut and joint
      involvement, allowing reduction and/or suspension of previous baseline immunosuppressive
      therapy in a significant number of patients
    
  