
    
      Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has been increasing used over the past decade as
      supportive therapy in patients with respiratory failure, in order to avoid life-threatening
      hypoxemia, in cases otherwise refractory to conventional treatment. Veno-venous ECMO (VV
      ECMO) removes carbon dioxide and significantly improves oxygenation in patients with severe
      lung failure. System anticoagulation is provided for patients undergoing ECMO therapy to
      prevent clot formation in the ECMO circuit cannulas, circuit tubing, centrifugal pump, and/or
      oxygenator. Heparin is the standard anticoagulant for ECMO therapy.

      Although technological advancements and increasing clinical experience have made the use of
      VV ECMO safer, bleeding and thrombosis are common complications accounting for the majority
      of morbidity and mortality in ECMO-treated patients.The optimal anticoagulation management
      for patients on VV ECMO is not known. Thrombotic episodes, characterized mainly by
      circuit-related clotting, have become more manageable with improvements in ECMO circuit
      technology and heparin-coated lines.

      The Extracorporeal Life Support Organization (ELSO) guidelines describe bleeding as the most
      common complication during extracorporeal life support. Bleeding has been reported to occur
      in as many as 30% of patients receiving ECMO therapy, and depending on the site of the
      hemorrhagic complication, can be fatal. Bleeding may occur from mucous membranes, the uterus
      in women in childbearing years, the GI tract, or bleeding into the head or brain parenchyma.
      Intra-cranial hemorrhage is the most serious and usually extensive and fatal
      complication.Intra-cranial hemorrhage was identified in more than 40% of non-survivors
      treated with ECMO during the H1N1 flu outbreak of 2009. Other less serious complications
      associated with anticoagulation are anemia and the risks associated with transfusions. Review
      of our own institutional ECMO experience revealed 10 cases of VV ECMO during which
      anticoagulation had to be held for clinical reasons, all without subsequent increases in
      thrombotic complications.

      Identifying the safest approach to anticoagulation is essential to the future management of
      patients on ECMO support. In this prospective randomized clinical trial, the investigators
      propose to evaluate the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous heparin anticoagulation compared
      to the standard of care systemic intravenous anticoagulation in subjects requiring
      veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure.
    
  