
    
      Research Design & Methods:

      3.1. Study Design & Setting: A prospective, assessment blinded, randomized study design will
      be used. Patients randomized to the intervention group will be given an ERS communicator for
      a period of 30 days following their visit to the ED. Patients in the conventional care group
      will receive standard advice upon discharge. (See Control Group, below). Sunnybrook and
      Women's College Health Sciences Center is a tertiary, university-affiliated teaching hospital
      with an annual Emergency Department census of 40,000 patients. An audit of patients
      presenting to our Emergency Department for the month of December 2000 identified 87 patients
      over 70 years attending after a fall or fall-related injury who were discharged.

      3.2. Study Population: The study will include elderly patients who present to the Emergency
      Department of our institution with a complaint of a fall, and who are being discharged home
      by the treating physician.

      The proposed trial is designed to guide practical choices rather than merely to acquire
      scientific information. In the terms of Schwartz and Lellouch, it is 'pragmatic' rather than
      'explanatory'. Patients who do not comply with their allocated treatment will be analyzed
      according to the "intention-to-treat" principle .

      3.2.1. Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Age Greater than or equal to 70 years.

        2. Primary complaint of a fall and discharged home directly from the Emergency Department.

      3.2.2. Exclusion Criteria: Definition and Rationale: Exclusion Criteria: Definition
      /Rationale

        1. Admitted to hospital Will not benefit from intervention

        2. Not independently living Not living in own domicile, or Seniors residence if subject
           responsible for own activities of daily life /Dependant individuals not likely to
           benefit from intervention

        3. No Phone Line Required to install ERS Line

        4. Unable to give informed consent Communication barrier, dementia (MMS < 23)

        5. Living outside catchment area Postal code of Residence/Follow-up impractical

      3.3. Patient recruitment: All eligible patients presenting during study hours (08.00h-22.00h,
      7 days a week) will be introduced to the study by a Research Nurse. Patients expressing an
      interest in study participation will be asked to provide formal written consent and will be
      randomized to either control or intervention groups (see "Intervention", below) prior to
      discharge from the Emergency Department. To maximize follow-up, contact information will be
      verified prior to discharge, including information on next of kin and family physician.

      3.4. Control Group Current standard care of the elderly who have fallen at our institution
      involves referral to an Emergency Geriatric Nurse Clinician, who is available between 9 and
      5, seven days a week. Patients referred after hours currently receive a telephone follow-up
      the next day. Based on the face-to face or telephone interview, the Geriatric Nurse Clinician
      arranges follow-up with the Regional Geriatric Assessment program, suggests gait-aids such as
      a cane or walker, or may recommend a change in the client's living arrangement.

      3.5. Intervention Patients randomized to the intervention group will receive standard care as
      outlined above. In addition, they will be given an emergency response system (ERS) for a
      trial period of 30 days following their visit to the ED. The ERS consists of a battery
      operated personal alarm system, kept within reach of the patient at all times. The ERS is
      monitored 24 hours per day by a response team, with access to an updated summary of the
      medical history and social circumstances of the client. Patients are instructed to activate
      the ERS for falls or other events requiring assistance. Once the system is activated, an
      automated log of the event is generated. The response team can communicate with the
      individual via a 2-way speaker, and determine what resources are required (e.g. dispatching
      an ambulance, mobilization of home care, private health care, or family support). The
      proposed benefits of this system are to provide timely access to assistance by a team with
      specific knowledge of the patient for clients with restricted mobility, impaired visual or
      auditory acuity, or cognitive impairments that might interfere with their ability to access
      or choose an appropriate level of response from the health care system using existing methods
      such as 911 or Telehealth.

      3.6. Length of Follow-up All patients will be contacted by telephone after one week to
      arrange a follow-up home visit interview between 30-37 days after discharge from the ED.
      Previous studies have shown that the highest return rates occur during the first month of
      discharge, , and that visits during this first month are more likely to be for the same
      problem than latter visits 31.

      3.7. Primary Outcome: Hospital Anxiety Scale The primary goal of the current pilot study will
      be to determine the impact of the ERS on patient quality of life after discharge from the
      Emergency Department, as measured by the Hospital Anxiety Scale 1. The HAD-A scale has been
      used widely in the assessment of anxiety for many different patient groups, including the
      elderly 21, , both as a screening tool and as an outcome measure, and has been shown to have
      satisfactory levels of psychometric validity 42. The scale consists of seven Likert scales,
      scored between 0 and 3, for a theoretical range of 0 to 21.

      3.7.1. Secondary Outcomes: Fear of Falling Efficacy Scale: The falls efficacy scale is
      previously validated scale designed to measure elders self-confidence in their ability to
      avoid falling in daily living activities 2,28. Elders rate their confidence to avoid a fall a
      0 to 10 scale during ten activities (see Appendix A.). In addition, we will measure patients'
      confidence that, were they to fall, they would be able to get up on their own.

      3.7.2. Health Care Utilization: Health care utilization will be measured by patient reports
      of utilization of the following health care resources in the month following presentation: to
      the ED

        1. Total return visits to an emergency department;

        2. Total family physician visits;

        3. Total contacts with Tele-health;

        4. Total admissions to hospital and length of stay; 3.7.3. Patient and caregiver
           perceptions of the ERS It is important to document the behavioural and social processes
           attendant upon the introduction of any new technology, or any innovative application of
           an existing technology. In this instance we shall, through a short series of
           semi-structured questions, ask patients who are in receipt of Lifeline to reflect on
           their day to day experiences in relation to the possession and use of the equipment,
           during the month following their visit to the emergency department, and the perceived
           impacts of the scheme on family and friends. This component of the study derives from a
           phenomenological paradigm , and will specifically adopt an ethnographic methodology in
           order elicit patient-centered accounts of the technology 3.7.4. Patient Morbidity

      We will compare the following measures of patient morbidity:

        1. Self-reported falls

        2. Self-reported injuries

        3. Length of immobilization or "Down time". The ERS has the potential to reduce patient
           morbidity by preventing the terrifying experience of prolonged periods of immobility or
           incapacitation after falling. In the literature, "downtime" has generally been estimated
           by patient self-report . When the patient is unable to estimate, the last witnessed time
           that the patient was ambulatory or in contact with another individual will be used as a
           proxy.

      3.8. Data Collection Demographic variables (age, gender, home circumstance, mini mental
      status, and social support) will be recorded from the patient's ED chart relating to the
      presenting event. A questionnaire (see Appendix A) will be administered during face-to-face
      interviews with patients in both the treatment and the conventional care groups. Baseline
      interviews will be conducted prior to randomization to ensure blinding. The questionnaire
      includes both the HAD-A scale and the Fear-Efficacy scale 2. In addition to these core items,
      people in the intervention group will be asked to describe their experiences and views of the
      ERS. Their responses will be recorded verbatim.

      3.9. Data Analysis Plan Numerical data will be entered directly into a SAS (v10) database for
      statistical analysis, following the general principles of Pocock in relation to a simple
      one-way trial, and will be by 'intention to treat'. The narrative (or "qualitative") data
      will be analyzed using the framework method .

      3.10. The sample size calculation was based on the ability to detect a difference in anxiety,
      our primary outcome, measured by the HADS-A. There is no definition in the literature for the
      minimal clinically important difference (MCID) for the HADS-A. Two previous large studies of
      community dwelling elders found that a 3 point change in HADS-A represented two-standard
      deviations from their baseline assessment.33 Using 3 points as the MCID yielded a sample size
      requirement of only 11 subjects per group. Such a small sample size would not permit analysis
      of secondary endpoints, and might be judged to lack face validity. Thus, a more conservative
      definition of the MCID for HADS-A of 1.5 points was chosen. Because of uncertainty regarding
      the distribution of HADS-A scores in our target population, we used the Wilcoxon rank sum
      test to estimate the required sample size. Given a standard deviation of 3.4, and an alpha of
      0.05, with 40 subjects per group, the study would have over 95% power to detect a
      between-group reduction of 1.5 points from 6.0 to 4.5 in the mean HADS-A score.

      3.10.1. Recruitment rate A pilot study at our institution demonstrated that during a one
      month period, 87 patients over 70 years of age were discharged from the emergency department.
      Assuming that 45% of attendees were recruited, we estimate that approximately 39 people per
      month will be available for recruitment. Assuming a further 10% loss to follow-up, we
      estimate that a five-month period will be required to recruit 160 subjects.

      3.11. Ethical Considerations Ethical approval is being sought from our institutional research
      ethics board of SWCHSC. The Research Nurse will obtain full written informed consent.

      Patient confidentiality will be strictly maintained. Data will be made anonymous before
      analysis, and results will be published such that it is impossible to identify any
      participant. Documents with patient identification will be kept in a, separate, locking
      filing cabinets. The data will be archived for five years following completion of the study,
      and then destroyed.
    
  