
    
      Women during their fertility treatments will be submitted to the research. The research will
      include 3 meetings with a doctor from the ophthalmology department. Each meeting will be
      individual for each participant of the research.

      The meetings will take place during the day of regular appointment of the participant to the
      fertility clinic.

      Meeting #1:

      During first visit to the fertility clinic for the stimulation process.

      During this day will be done:

      1.Submission of the patient to the research and signing on letter of agreement 2.Blood tests
      for estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone (LH) 3.Eye examination: 3a. Filling of Schein
      Questionnaire 3b. Examination of the external eye: 1.microscope, 2.Schirmer test (paper
      strips inserted into the eye for several minutes to measure the production of tears), 3. tear
      break up time test (checking the eye with the fluorescein light after painting the eye with
      fluorescein dye) 3c. Checking the Intra Ocular Pressure with Tonometer

      Meeting #2:

      During visit to the fertility clinic for the egg collection (about 10 days after meeting #1)

      During this day will be done:

      1.Blood tests for estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone (LH) 2.Eye examination: 2a.
      Filling of Schein Questionnaire 2b. Examination of the external eye: 1.microscope, 2.Schirmer
      test (paper strips inserted into the eye for several minutes to measure the production of
      tears), 3. tear break up time test (checking the eye with the fluorescein light after
      painting the eye with fluorescein dye) 2c. Checking the Intra Ocular Pressure with Tonometer

      Meeting #3:

      During visit to the fertility clinic for the pregnancy test (about 14 days after meeting #2)

      During this day will be done:

        1. Blood tests for estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone (LH)

        2. Eye examination:

      2a. Filling of Schein Questionnaire 2b. Examination of the external eye: 1.microscope,
      2.Schirmer test (paper strips inserted into the eye for several minutes to measure the
      production of tears), 3. tear break up time test (checking the eye with the fluorescein light
      after painting the eye with fluorescein dye) 2c. Checking the Intra Ocular Pressure with
      Tonometer

      Collection and summary of all the data End of the research
    
  