
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival of patients treated with irinotecan, 5-FU and leucovorin
      versus those treated with oxaliplatin, leucovorin and 5-FU versus those treated with
      leucovorin and 5-FU for patients with stage II and III rectal cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine sphincter preservation, tolerance of treatment and patterns of failure.

      II. To describe patterns of failures

      OTHER PRE-SPECIFIED OBJECTIVES:

      I.To prospectively assess rectal function using the Patient Bowel Function/Uniscale
      questionnaire and the FACT Diarrhea Subscale in patients treated with an adjuvant program of
      pelvic radiation therapy and chemotherapy.

      II. To correlate expression of key targets for 5-FU, leucovorin, oxaliplatin and irinotecan
      from tumor tissue biopsies with treatment efficacy III. To correlate tumor molecular
      prognostic markers with survival. IV. To determine physician preference in regard to the
      radiation-chemotherapy sequence in the Intergroup.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG
      performance status (0 vs 1), chemotherapy/radiotherapy sequence (preoperative vs
      postoperative), and risk group (high risk [T3, N+, M0 or T4, any N, M0] vs low risk [T1-2,
      N+, M0 or T3, N0, M0]). Patients are treated in 1 of 2 groups according to physician
      preference and then randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      GROUP I (preoperative chemoradiotherapy and additional adjuvant chemotherapy): Preoperative
      chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive 1 of 3 treatment regimens, determined by the treating
      physician.

      REGIMEN A (radiotherapy and fluorouracil): Patients undergo external beam radiotherapy once
      daily 5 days a week for 5 1/2 weeks (total of 28 fractions). Patients also receive concurrent
      fluorouracil intravenously (IV) continuously 7 days a week for 5 1/2 weeks.

      REGIMEN B (radiotherapy, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium): Patients undergo external
      beam radiotherapy as in regimen A. Patients also receive concurrent fluorouracil IV and
      leucovorin calcium IV continuously for 4 days on weeks 1 and 5.

      REGIMEN C (radiotherapy and capecitabine)*: Patients undergo external beam radiotherapy as in
      regimen A. Patients also receive concurrent oral capecitabine twice daily for 5 1/2 weeks.

      NOTE: *Regimen C is allowed only for patients enrolled on protocol NSABP-R-04.

      Surgery: Within 21-56 days after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo
      surgical resection.

      Additional adjuvant chemotherapy: Within 21-56 days after complete surgical resection,
      patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours
      followed immediately by fluorourcil IV bolus on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV
      continuously over 46 hours beginning on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 courses.

      ARM II: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours
      followed immediately by fluorourcil IV bolus on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV
      continuously over 46 hours beginning on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 courses.

      ARM III: Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV over 1 hour
      on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for 3 courses.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      GROUP 2 (postoperative chemoradiotherapy and additional adjuvant chemotherapy): Within 21-56
      days after complete surgical resection, patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive irinotecan, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in group 1, arm I
      for 4 courses.

      ARM II: Patients receive oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in group 1, arm
      II for 4 courses.

      ARM III: Patients receive leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil as in group 1, arm III for 1
      course.

      Within 4 weeks after the completion of chemotherapy, all patients undergo concurrent pelvic
      chemoradiotherapy as described in group 1 preoperative chemoradiotherapy Regimen A, B, or C,
      followed 4-6 weeks later by 4 additional courses of adjuvant chemotherapy for arms I and II
      and 2 additional courses of adjuvant chemotherapy for arm III.

      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.
    
  