
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Phase

        -  Determine the best dose of treosulfan when administered with fludarabine as a
           reduced-intensity conditioning regimen followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
           transplantation, in terms of incidence of severe to fatal toxicity to major organ
           systems and incidence of graft failure, in patients with acute myeloid leukemia,
           lymphoblastic leukemia, or myelodysplastic syndrome.

      Secondary Phase

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen, in terms of incidence of grade II-IV acute and
           chronic graft-versus-host disease, in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of incidence of
           relapse, overall and disease-free survival, donor chimerism on days 28 and 100, and
           incidence of 200-day and 1-year nonrelapse mortality, in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of treosulfan in patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-finding study of treosulfan.

        -  Reduced-intensity conditioning: Patients receive treosulfan IV over 2 hours on days -6
           to -4 and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2.

      Cohorts of 5-10 patients receive escalating/de-escalating doses of treosulfan until the best
      dose is determined among the 3 pre-selected doses. The best dose is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 4 of 10 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT): Patients undergo allogeneic bone
           marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

      All male patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia OR male patients with acute myeloid
      leukemia who have prior or current testicular involvement receive external-beam radiotherapy
      to the testicles before AHCT.

      After completion of study treatment, patents are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  