
    
      Buprenorphine is classified as a partial mu opioid agonist and a weak kappa antagonist. In
      lower doses, buprenorphine has an analgesic potency 25 to 40 times more potent than similar
      milligram dosages of morphine. Consistent with its partial agonist activity, an apparent
      ceiling effect for opioid-induced ventilatory impairment has been demonstrated. These
      properties would suggest that buprenorphine is an effective analgesic with a favorable safety
      profile.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to determine if there is a clinically significant
      difference in reduction of pain scores, measured by the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS), between
      intravenous (IV) buprenorphine and IV morphine for severe pain in patients presenting to the
      Alameda Health System--Highland Hospital ED. The investigators are evaluating if IV
      buprenorphine is non-inferior to IV morphing. The investigators hypothesize that
      buprenorphine will provide equivalent analgesic effects as morphine at 60 minutes, with a
      lower proportion of medication adverse effects.

      Study Design: This is a double-blinded, randomized controlled non-inferiority trial comparing
      the analgesic efficacy of intravenous buprenorphine versus intravenous morphine for ED
      patients presenting with severe, acute pain.

      Participants: ED patients aged ≥18 years old who present with severe (pain NRS ≥7), acute
      pain warranting (according the treating provider's judgment) and able to receive IV opioid
      analgesia. The investigators will exclude pregnant patients, patients deemed too critically
      ill by the provider, patients with allergy to buprenorphine or morphine, patients in custody,
      patients on methadone, patients who have taken/received short acting opioid medications in
      the last 12 hours, and patients who have taken/received long acting opioid medication in the
      past 24 hours.

      Intervention: In arm A, patients will receive IV Buprenorphine 0.3mg diluted to a volume of
      10mL with NS in a plastic syringe administered over 3-5 minute. In arm B, patients will
      receive IV morphine 0.1mg/kg (max 10mg) over 3-5 minutes. In both arms, at 20 minutes the
      patient will be asked "would you like more pain medication?" If he/she answers "yes", then
      he/she will receive a second dose of the same amount of medication they previously received
      based on the randomized arm they were placed into. At the end of the study time, 60 minutes,
      the patient's ongoing pain management will be left to the attending physician caring for the
      patient in the ED.

      Data Collection: For both arms, the patients' NRS pain scores and adverse effects will be
      queried at times 0, 10min, 20 min, 30min, 40min, 50 min, and 60 min. Demographic and
      comorbidity data points will be abstracted during or after the study's conclusion.
    
  