
    
      Lipofilling is the process of relocating autologous fat to change the volume, shape, and
      profile of tissues. It is considered a simple, inexpensive and minimally invasive technique
      indicated for both congenital and acquired soft tissue defects in many sites. Success is
      heavily dependent on the harvesting technique, preparing and injection of the fat. The main
      limitation of the abovementioned surgical procedure is a loss of transplanted adipose tissue
      which is believed to be caused mainly by cells injury in oxidative, ischemic, and mechanical
      stress mechanism. High graft resorption rate results in undercorrection and requirement for
      multiple-stage treatment. The aim of this study is to assess the effect of new tumescent
      solution for liposuction containing N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) on the autologous fat graft
      volumetric retention used for healthy women breast asymmetry correction by means of
      lipofilling. NAC reduces free radicals using a sulfhydryl chemical group. In authors opinion,
      this antioxidant effect may decrease oxidative stress experienced by adipose graft cells
      during the harvest procedure, therefore potentially improving the long-term survivability of
      the fat graft, lowering the number of re-operations and even maybe the total volume of fat
      graft needed to achieve satisfactory results. The results of this study may justify the usage
      of novel tumescent solution (Pietruski solution) for autologous adipose tissue graft harvest
      in the routine clinical setting.

      The subjects for this project will consist of the group of women who are candidates for
      hypoplastic, asymmetric breasts correction with at least two-staged lipofilling procedure.
      The bilateral character of such defect allows for each patient to serve as her own control.
      In the first lipofilling procedure one breast will be enlarged with autologous fat graft
      harvested from one thigh region after its infiltration with Pietruski solution. The
      contralateral breast will be enlarged with adipose tissue collected from contralateral thigh
      area by performing lipoaspiration after standard tumescent solution infiltration. Only the
      first stage of breasts defect correction is included in this study. Additional, future
      lipofilling procedures will utilize fat graft obtained with a standard tumescent solution
      only.

      The hypothesis that addition of NAC to the tumescent solution used for the fat graft harvest
      procedure will decrease its long-term resorption in breast region will be tested in
      comparison to the fat graft obtained with liposuction using standard tumescent solution. For
      each subject, a breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be performed before and six
      months after the first fat graft transfer enabling quantitative, volumetric analysis of the
      transplanted adipose tissue resorption. In addition, a volume of 50 ml of each harvested fat
      graft will be intended for genetic and immunohistochemical analysis. The results will be
      compared using two-tailed t-tests with statistical significance set at p<0.05.

      The study will be conducted at the Plastic Surgery Department, Centre of Postgraduate Medical
      Education, Warsaw, Poland.
    
  