
    
      Introduction and objective:

      Bangladesh has partly achieved the millennium development goal targets for nutrition and is
      committed to achieving the Sustainable development goals targets. Between 1997 and 2014,
      childhood stunting reduced from 60% to 36% nationally, and wasting has declined from 21% to
      14%. However, 6.4 million children remain stunted, leaving them unable to develop to their
      full physical and mental potential. To tackle the high burden of under-nutrition, the
      government of Bangladesh has identified growth monitoring and promotion (GMP) as a priority
      activity in the National Nutrition Services operational plan. GMP is to be implemented from
      all primary health care facilities of the government health system. Growth Monitoring and
      Promotion (GMP) is a preventive activity comprised of growth monitoring linked with promotion
      (usually counseling) that increases awareness about child growth and improves caring
      practices. Ideally, in GMP, the weight of children usually under 2 years of age is measured
      periodically (for example, on a monthly or bi-monthly basis). The measurement can start at
      birth, accurately recorded on a growth chart, interpreted and explained to the caregivers.
      Additionally, the health workers give information through counseling, facilitating
      communication, and interacting with mothers in a way that aims to generate adequate maternal
      action to promote child growth. Recent systematic reviews question the effectiveness and
      relevance of GMP programs in general. Currently, GMP, which is primarily focused on sick
      child GMP is being implemented through community clinics (CCs), supported by NGOs or other
      programs funded by donors. Besides, GMP is also taking place in areas where there are no
      non-governmental organization (NGO) or donor support activities. However, the quality of
      nutrition data related to GMP is believed to be unsatisfactory. On this backdrop, it is
      important to assess the GMP implementation and its effect on the growth of under 2-year-old
      children. Hence, this study will offer a useful opportunity to examine the effectiveness of
      strengthening the GMP activities in improving growth and infant and young child feeding
      (IYCF) practices among children under 2 years of age in rural Bangladesh.

      Selection of study site:

      From the discussion and list of sub-districts shared by the NGO program, the investigators
      have selected 3 sub-districts where the program will be implemented from January 2018. The
      investigators have selected these 3 sub-districts based on (a) time of implementation of the
      program which matches with the project timeline; (b) available staff and logistics support by
      the NGO program in these sub-districts; and (c) large number of Community Clinics in these
      sub-districts to satisfy the required number of study participants and their caregivers.
      Additionally, the investigators have also selected 3 sub-districts as control keeping an
      adequate buffer zone to avoid intervention spill-over effect. The investigators will select
      30 community clinics from these sub-districts through a community scoring system to have the
      maximum impact of the program.

      Selection of study participants: The community clinics (CCs) and its catchment area will be
      considered as clusters. From the list of community clinics, required numbers of clusters will
      be randomly selected through a proportionate sampling. From the randomly selected CCs, the
      required number of study participants will be enrolled after conducting household listing.

      Data collection procedures: The children will be enrolled from the catchment area of
      community clinics and be followed up for 12 months. During the follow-up period, the children
      will be visited periodically to assess their exposure to GMP service and also their feeding
      practice. Anthropometric measurements will be taken at baseline and then tri-monthly till the
      end of the 12 months follow-up period. Mother's knowledge and attitude about IYCF issues will
      be assessed at baseline and at an endpoint survey. Service provider's skills and perception
      about GMP will be assessed at baseline and at end-line. Quality of GMP implementation will be
      at baseline and periodically during the follow-up period.

      Data collection tools: Household surveys, key informant interviews (KII), and observation.

      Data analysis The survey data will be analyzed using STATA software (version 13). The summary
      statistics would be expressed as means with standard deviations, medians or percentages, with
      95% confidence intervals (CI) where appropriate. To assess differences in mean among the
      factories, ANOVA and for categorical outcomes, chi-square statistical comparisons of
      proportions with 95% confidence intervals, will be calculated. A difference-of-difference
      (DID) analysis of quantitative outcome data will be done. To identify significant predictors
      associated with the main outcome indicators, bi-variate and multiple regression analyses will
      be employed.

      Thematic analysis will be followed for qualitative information collected through
      participant's caregiver interview, key informant interview, and observation. Following
      preparation of the transcript, responses will be coded according to themes (a priori),
      sub-themes and emergent issues, if any. Triangulation of data derived from different methods
      will be carried out to validate qualitative information.
    
  