
    
      Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS) is one of the most common glomerular pathologies in
      children and corticosteroid therapy is its most effective treatment. The main objective of
      our prospective, open-label, observational clinical cohort study is to test the feasibility
      of a shorter duration of corticosteroid therapy in patients who show a quicker treatment
      response. We hypothesize that the clinical outcomes in children with time to remission of ≤10
      days and treated with only 8 weeks of corticosteroid therapy will not be significantly
      different as compared to those with time to remission of >10 days and treated with ≥12 weeks
      of standard corticosteroid therapy. Our specific aims are as follows: First, we will evaluate
      the time to first relapse after 8-week corticosteroid therapy in quick responders in
      comparison to the standard treatment of ≥12 weeks in slow responders. Second, we will assess
      the frequency of relapses during one year follow-up after completion of 8-week corticosteroid
      therapy in quick responders in comparison to the standard treatment of ≥12 weeks in slow
      responders. To complete the study successfully during the funding period of two years and to
      increase the generalizability of its results, the study will recruit 66 patients at six study
      participating sites in five countries, including U.S., India, China, Egypt, and Qatar. The
      sites have been carefully selected on the basis of their reputation, patient volume, research
      experience, and PI's personal rapport with the site investigators. The proposed study is
      innovative because it seeks a paradigm shift from 'one-size-fits-all' to an entirely new
      concept of individualized treatment duration based on "time to remission" with initial
      corticosteroid therapy. The proposed study is the first precision medicine initiative in the
      management of INS. The project is significant because of the potential to improve public
      health by decreasing the side effects of prolonged corticosteroid administration in about
      half of the patients diagnosed with INS. Our long-term objective is to develop additional
      novel therapeutic strategies to optimize the use of corticosteroids in the management of
      initial episode and relapses in children with INS.
    
  