
    
      Description Of Data Relevant to Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to document clinical experience. Specifically, the
      study will collect:

        1. The expectations from both patient and physician. These underlie patient willingness to
           use a topical therapy, and the physician's motivation in prescribing.

        2. What is prescribed and used. The composition of compounded creams vary. Is there an
           association between the agents / concentrations and the effects on different types of
           pain?

        3. Patterns of use of the creams. Do patients follow the prescription; do they adapt
           frequency and location of application? Why?

        4. What happens with use? Do pain scores change? How quickly, and in what ways do pain
           scores change with different diagnoses? What is the impact on patient lives? Are
           expectations typically fulfilled and/or are there surprises and emergent findings?

        5. Observations and structured assessments to tabulate the aspects of successful and
           unsuccessful treatment using topical pain creams of various compositions and for diverse
           underlying complaints.

        6. The level of satisfaction and perceived benefit. If treatment is discontinued, is it
           because the problem has been resolved? Or is there burden, cost or lack of benefit?

        7. Separate confidential information from patients and physicians so that the study team
           can learn how closely the patients' observations match those of the physicians. The
           level and nature of the correspondence between patient observations and clinician
           observations (or lack of it) will be shared in reports sent to study participants. Such
           reports will not disclose the identities of either physicians or patients.

        8. Comments on reports. An area of interest for the study is to investigate the interest in
           physicians and patients in the reports to be generated concerning the observations from
           other patients and other physicians. Will patients be interested in their trajectory of
           treatment? Will sharing the information impact the perceived value of treatment?

      Registry Procedures:

        1. Data capture is done at visits using structured forms developed in consultation with
           treating physicians.

        2. Patient data: Patients enter ratings and information using encoded paper forms that are
           then sent by mail directly to the Lexington data entry service, or online using a secure
           login to send forms to the study database. Such direct from patient transfer is intended
           to reduce bias that would otherwise influence self assessments of treatment benefit
           because of the desire of the patient to please the treating physician.

        3. Diagnostic standards: International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related
           Health Problems, Ninth Revision (ICD9) or International Statistical Classification of
           Diseases and Related Health Problems, Tenth Revision ( ICD10) codes for diagnosis of
           pain conditions to be treated are required.

        4. Checklists for each visit are completed as part of the trial record to ensure standard
           processes are followed by treating physicians.

        5. If missing or illegible data are not resolvable, then there will be NO imputation.
           Reports and analysis will be based only on entries where source values were clear. Data
           entry forms include range and completeness checks, prevention of illogical entry. Free
           text fields are important for capturing unexpected events and observations. These will
           be recorded verbatim into the database.

        6. There is no primary hypothesis under test. Observations reported will include counts for
           instances and trends. Assessments and ratings will be reported as averages and
           distributions.
    
  