
    
      Objectives: Schizophrenia involves numerous difficulties including being aware of ones' own
      thoughts and tolerating painful affects. As a result, persons with schizophrenia find coping
      with life stressors quite challenging and thus have difficulty engaging successfully in
      psychosocial activities such as work in spite of state of the art programs. To address this
      problem this study will evaluate an intervention that has come to the fore that targets these
      impairments called mindfulness. Mindfulness involves teaching individuals skills that improve
      their ability to attend to their experience in the present moment while suspending judgment
      and to purposefully shift their attention. Thus mindfulness enhances the ability to monitor
      and manage emotions and thought processes so that individuals can reflect on, choose, and
      implement more effective responses. Use of mindfulness skills with other populations has led
      to more sustained behavior change than occurs with standard treatments. Recently research has
      begun to indicate mindfulness interventions can be delivered with success for individuals
      with schizophrenia. This pilot study will be a first step in adapting mindfulness as a
      cognitive intervention for individuals with schizophrenia who are engaging in vocational
      rehabilitation in order to maintain their functional gains beyond the end of the program. Key
      questions to be answered through this study include: (1) Can a mindfulness manual be
      developed that helps persons with schizophrenia enrolled in vocational rehabilitation exhibit
      better work function and reduced levels of distressing emotional states and thinking
      patterns?; (2) Can materials necessary for the faithful transmission of the mindfulness group
      intervention/manual (MGI) in the current study be created?; (3) Can mindfulness skills be
      adapted and successfully taught to and accepted by persons with schizophrenia in a group
      setting?: (4) Will individuals with schizophrenia who practice mindfulness benefit?; (5) What
      are the effect sizes with a reasonable control to study the effectiveness of the manualized
      MGI? Research Design: This study will take place over 3 years and is divided into two phases:
      manual development and pilot study. In the manual development phase existing mindfulness
      protocols will be adapted to target work function of persons with schizophrenia. The
      randomized controlled pilot study phase will explore the effects of the intervention on key
      outcome measures.

      Methodology: A total of 52 individuals with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder will be
      recruited from the Roudebush VA Medical Center (18 in the non-randomized, non-controlled
      manual development phase 1 and 34 in the randomized controlled pilot phase 2). In phase one,
      manual development, 18 participants will be recruited and following informed consent,
      screened for eligibility using the SCID and anxiety measures. Once enrolled, three successive
      groups of 6 participants will attend an 8-week mindfulness program consisting of two
      60-minute group training and practice sessions each week. The mindfulness program will
      incorporate didactic and experiential elements aimed at learning mindfulness skills and
      establishing a daily mindfulness practice. Based on the experience gained working with each
      of these three initial cohorts, a mindfulness manual will be created. In phase two, the pilot
      of the mindfulness manual, 34 additional participants will be recruited and randomized to the
      mindfulness intervention or support group control. All groups will complete assessments at
      baseline, monthly, at program end and 6 months after program end as well as formative and
      summative program evaluations.

      Clinical Significance: Results of this study will yield materials necessary to begin the
      process of assembling a body of research validating scientifically the therapeutic value of
      mindfulness for veterans with schizophrenia who are enrolled in vocational rehabilitation.
      Findings may ultimately provide the VA system with information regarding a potentially cost
      effective approach to the care of these veterans who are disabled by a chronic mental illness
      that would be exportable to other VA vocational rehabilitation programs that have patients
      with schizophrenia.
    
  