
    
      Adjuvant chemotherapy with fluoropyrimidines and Oxaliplatin is the current worldwide
      standard of care for stage III colorectal cancer (CRC). This regimen leads to significant
      cost, toxicity, and patient inconvenience. Oxaliplatin induces two distinct forms of
      neuropathy: a common acute syndrome that is transient (dysesthesia, contractures and
      numbness) and a dose-limiting chronic sensory neurotoxicity that is cumulative. Neurotoxicity
      is common; it affects 80% of patients and becomes chronic in 15-20% of cases, sometimes
      irreversibly. Chronic neurotoxicity can severely affect everyday life activities. To date,
      neuromodulators agents have failed to prevent neurotoxicity and Stop & Go strategies,
      intended to decrease the cumulative dose of Oxaliplatin administrated, are more appropriate
      for palliative treatment of advanced CRC. Recent data support the plausibility of a shorter
      duration of adjuvant treatment without loss of efficacy. This hypothesis is tested in several
      international trials.

      Cytotoxic chemotherapy is usually scaled to the body surface area (BSA), and is currently not
      adjusted to the body proportions of lean and fat (i.e. body composition) of individual
      patients. The impact of body composition on drug metabolism is however well known: i.e.
      anesthetics accumulate in adipose tissue and specific precautions are essential to avoid
      overdose. Concerning chemotherapies, the lean body mass (LBM) may be the salient feature
      defining drug metabolism. A theme is emerging from recent studies: in patients with breast
      cancer and treated with 5-FU (whose dosage was calculated from the body surface), severe
      depletion of the LBM is a powerful predictor of excessive toxicity. Indeed, depletion of the
      LBM, as precisely defined by computed tomography, is a unique predictor of clinically
      unacceptable toxicity. Low LBM was shown to be a significant predictor of dose-limiting
      toxicity (DLT) in CRC patients administered 5-FU using a conventional BSA-based dosing and
      DLT was concentrated in patients receiving >20 mg 5FU/kg LBM. Two cohorts of CRC patients
      treated with Oxaliplatin showed that overall DLTs, and specifically Oxaliplatin-due
      neuropathy, occurred mostly in patients who receive > 3.09 mg/Oxaliplatin/kg LBM. Although,
      preliminary findings are available in hepatocellular carcinoma, the area under the
      concentration time curve (AUC) of Sorafenib cancer therapy was doubled in patients with
      depleted LBM (102.4 vs. 53.7ng/mL.h), which seem of interest. Patients with low muscle mass
      behave like patients "overdosed" with chemotherapy resulted in dose-limiting toxicities (e.g.
      dose reductions, treatment delays or permanent treatment discontinuation), independently of
      the patient's weight.
    
  