
    
      The design was that of a prospective quasi-experimental pre-post study. A pre-survey and a
      follow-up survey were used.Investigators selected 4 health centers in the Sanitary
      Jurisdiction in Orizaba, Veracruz, two located in rural areas (Potrerillo and Tlilapan) and
      two located in urban areas (Río Blanco and Orizaba). The pre-survey (phase1) was conducted on
      all consenting individuals older than 15 years seeking health services in selected health
      centers. Before the physician consultation, researchers investigated sociodemographic,
      epidemiologic, clinical characteristics and reason for seeking health services. Immediately
      after consultation, researchers asked the patient his/her diagnoses. Investigators confirmed
      all diagnoses with treating physicians. If the patient had been diagnosed with respiratory
      disease, researchers collected information on prescribed treatment, and classified the type
      of respiratory disease and comorbidities based on the 10th International Classification of
      Diseases (ICD-10). Researchers conducted a home visit one month after the consultation to
      determine clinical evolution, occurrence of referral to a specialist, if the patient had
      obtained prescribed drugs at the health center or at a private drugstore and if the patients
      had been hospitalized.

      During September 2014 researchers trained health personnel from the participating health
      centers on implementation of the proposed model based on the AIRE guidelines previously
      approved by the AIRE committee of the INER. The AIRE guidelines have been adapted from WHO
      "Practical Approach to Lung Health" and include management of asthma, acute respiratory
      infections (ARI, that comprises acute bronchitis and pneumonia), chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD), infections of the upper respiratory airways, and preventive
      measures for smoking, tuberculosis and breathing disorders during sleep.

      The model was presented to the authorities of the participating health services and of the
      local hospital (Regional Hospital in Río Blanco (HRRB, its acronym in Spanish) as well as to
      health personnel involved in treatment of respiratory diseases, to promote their
      participation, counseling and support for the referral and counter-referral of patients.

      The implementation of the guidelines included: 1) availability of the guidelines for the
      management of respiratory diseases in primary care "AIRE", that were revised and modified
      based on the analysis of the first phase of the study. Physicians providing primary care in
      the health centers and at the local hospital revised the guidelines to ensure that language
      was understandable. 2) Distribution of educational materials to health personnel including
      printed and electronic versions of AIRE guidelines, algorithm for management of acute and
      severe respiratory disease, and operational and good clinical practices manuals; 3) Training
      at the INER of the pulmonologist of the local hospital on AIRE guidelines and certification
      in spirometry. 4) Development of two workshops for 97 physicians and nurses of the
      participating health centers on AIRE Guidelines, oximetry tests, spirometry, referral and
      counter-referral of patients and clinical cases with the participation of specialized
      physicians from the INER, HRRB and the Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública (INSP); 5)
      Creation of a respiratory health network between primary care facilities, hospital and public
      health offices.

      Researchers considered that patients participated in one of the two phases according to the
      period in which they sought health services.

      Researchers defined a patient with a respiratory disease as any patient who after
      consultation with a physician was diagnosed with a respiratory disease according to the
      ICD-10. The medical diagnosis was obtained from the patient and confirmed with the treating
      physician and classified according to ICD-10. Respiratory diseases were classified in the
      following categories: emphysema, asthma and bronchitis, allergic rhinitis, lung cancer,
      chronic bronchitis, COPD and TB. Researchers also used a second categorization as follows:
      viral infections, bacterial infections and chronic diseases following the national clinical
      practice guidelines . Comorbidities were classified in the following categories: diabetes,
      hypertension, HIV and heart disease. The reason for seeking medical attention was classified
      into 20 categories. Researchers defined timeliness in requesting of health services measuring
      the interval from the onset of symptoms to request of physician consultation both as a
      continuous variable and as a dichotomic variable using as cut off >3 days. Researchers
      obtained the physician prescription and classified prescribed drugs as antibiotics,
      corticosteroids, cough suppressants, expectorants, bronchodilators, analgesics and
      antihistamines. Researchers also grouped cough suppressants, expectorants, analgesics and
      antihistamines in one category.

      Researchers categorized age in 3 groups: 15 to 44 years, 45 to 59 years and >60 years. The
      variable "type of floor" was classified in two categories (hard floor/earth floor) according
      to the material of the floor.

      Smoking was categorized as whether the patient was a current smoker or not. Alcohol
      consumption was dichotomized in more or equal or less than 14 alcoholic drinks per week. Use
      of drugs was categorized as to whether the patient reported using drugs during the study
      period. Researchers considered a patient was exposed to dust or smoke if he/she had worked
      for more than a year in a place with dust, smoke or vapors. Researchers considered
      occupational exposure to asbestos if the patient had worked for more than a year in a place
      with asbestos. Biomass exposure was categorized as whether the patient was currently exposed
      or not.

      Researchers compared sociodemographic, epidemiologic and clinical characteristics of patients
      demanding physician consultation and of patients who were diagnosed with respiratory disease
      according to study period. In the bivariate analysis researchers used U of Mann Whitney test
      for continuous variables that didn't follow a normal distribution, chi-squared of Pearson
      test for dichotomous variables and binomial test for categorical variables.

      Researchers compared by bivariate analyses the following outcomes according to study phase:
      1) Acquisition of prescribed drugs in the pharmacy of the health center; 2) Treatment based
      on guidelines; 3) Clinical outcome; 4) Referral to a specialist. Using multivariate
      unconditional logistic regression, we built three models to investigate the association
      between phase of the study and 1) Acquisition of prescribed drugs in the pharmacy of the
      health center; 2) Treatment based on guidelines; 3) Clinical outcome. Variables with p < 0.20
      in the bivariate analysis and biological plausibility were included in multivariate models.
      Multivariate models were built considering patients as clusters given that each patient could
      have had more than one drug prescription. Researchers estimated the odds ratio (OR) and 95
      per cent confidence intervals (95% CI), and identified the covariates that were independently
      associated with each outcome.

      All statistical analyses were performed using the statistical package STATA V13.3 (StataCorp
      LP).
    
  