
    
      This trial will evaluate safety and efficacy of combination eltrombopag with standard
      hATG/CSA as first line therapy in patients with SAA. The primary endpoint is going to be
      estimating the rate of complete hematologic response at the point in four months after the
      end of the treatment. Secondary endpoints are probability of relapse, hematologic blood count
      recovery in 6 and 12 months after the treatment, survival, clonal evolution into
      myelodysplasia and leukemia

      Aplastic anemia can be treated effectively with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation and
      immunosuppressive therapy with horse anti-thymocyte globulin (h-ATG) and cyclosporine (CsA),
      allowing to achieve a comparable long-term survival about 80%. However, one third of the
      patients treated with h-ATG/CsA, does not respond, and 25-30% of the responders relapse. The
      analysis of our clinical data suggests that majority of the hematologic responses observed
      following initial h-ATG/CsA are partial, with only a few patients achieving normal blood
      counts, and about 10% tend to have cyclosporine dependence. Although horse ATG/CsA provides
      represented a major advance in the treatment of SAA, such condition as refractory course of
      the disease, incomplete response, relapse, and clonal evolution limit the success of this
      treatment. Thus, new regimens are needed to overcome these limitations and provide a better
      alternative to stem cell transplantation.

      One option of improving the quality of hematologic responses is influencing underlying stem
      cell function. Previous attempts to improve response by hematopoietic cytokines, including
      erythropoietin and G-CSF, have failed. Thrombopoietin is the principal endogenous regulator
      of platelet production. In addition, TPO also has stimulatory effects onto primitive
      multilineage progenitors and stem cells in vitro and animal models. Eltrombopag (Revolade),
      an oral 2nd generation small molecule TPO-agonist, is approved for treatment of chronic
      immune thrombocytopenic purpura and SAA who had insufficient response to immunosuppressive
      therapy. Eltrombopag increases platelets in healthy subjects and in thrombocytopenic
      patients, and recently has showed clinically significant hematologic responses in refractory
      SAA patients. The aim of this tudy to improve hematologic response rate and its quality, as
      well as to prevent late complications such as relapse and clonal progression, by adding
      eltrombopag into standard immunosuppressive therapy This trial evaluates safety and efficacy
      of combining eltrombopag with standard hATG/CSA as the first line of therapy in patients with
      SAA. The primary endpoint is going to be estimation of the rate of complete hematologic
      response in 4 months. Secondary endpoints are probability of relapse, robust hematologic
      blood count recovery in 6 and 12 months after the treatment, survival, clonal evolution to
      myelodysplasia and leukemia.

      This is a trial aiming to increase 4 months overall response rate. The sample size is
      calculated on the hypothesis that the experimental treatment will increase the 4 months
      response rate in 20% in comparison with standard IST treatment arm. Under these assumptions,
      the sample size to reject the null hypothesis is n=100 patients, 50 patients in each
      treatment arm; alpha-error 0.05; power 0.75.
    
  