
    
      An alveolar ridge is the part of the jawbone which immediately surrounds and anchors the
      tooth socket ("alveolus"). Similar to any bone or muscle atrophying when not used, the
      alveolar ridge will shrink ("resorb") following tooth extraction. The volume of an alveolar
      ridge can be measured by both 3 Dimensional ("3D") intraoral scan and radiography, and is
      used clinically as a metric of oral health.

      A dental implant is a medical-grade titanium screw placed into healed alveolar bone or a
      tooth socket following tooth extraction. It replaces the tooth root and supports the crown,
      or "dental cap"; an artificial tooth generally made with porcelain or surgical grade metals.

      Implant success requires both sufficient bone alveolar volume and sufficient mucosal tissue
      to protect against biofilm-mediated inflammation, assure functional comfort and contribute to
      dental implant esthetics. Following dental implant placement, the alveolar ridge resorbs
      approximately 0.5 to 1.0 mm during the first year. Healed ridges are also often
      volumetrically deficient, losing up to 30% of their horizontal volume following tooth
      extraction.

      To remedy this, peri-implant mucosal grafting has been proposed and is currently part of
      dental implant therapy. Both autogenous grafts (mucosal connective tissue from the roof of
      the patient's own mouth or "palate") and allogeneic grafts (collagen-rich grafts derived from
      a genetically non-identical human donor) are used for these purposes, but there is
      controversy regarding the effectiveness of supplemental graft use during implant treatment.

      The purpose of this study is to prospectively evaluate whether including an allogeneic gum
      graft (PerioDerm*) during dental implant therapy improves implant health and appearance.

      On the day of implant surgery, participating subjects will be randomized to either receive or
      not receive a supplemental gum allograft along with the implant. Participating subjects will
      also be asked to complete a brief (about 15 questions) oral health questionnaire.

      Participating subjects will return to the clinic about 8 weeks post surgery for digital crown
      impressions and again at 11-13 weeks after surgery for crown placement. Participating
      subjects will also return to clinic about 1 year after implant placement for assessment of
      the implant evaluation. At this final study appointment, x-rays, a 3D intraoral scan and
      intraoral photographs of the implant will be obtained for the purpose of measuring alveolar
      volume. The health of the mucosa surrounding the implant and subject satisfaction will be
      measured via bleeding upon probing and completion of a brief questionnaire, respectively.
    
  