
    
      Prostate cancer is the development of neoplasia in the prostate, a major gland in the male
      reproductive system. While most prostate cancers grow slowly, some can develop relatively
      quickly and aggressively. In a later stage of the disease, cancer cells may disseminate from
      the prostate to other organs of the body, particularly the bone, lung, brain and lymph node.
      Prostate cancer initially cause no symptoms, but in an advanced stage it can cause difficulty
      in urinating, blood in the urine, or pain in the pelvis. A non-malignant or precursor form of
      prostate cancer known as benign prostatic hyperplasia may produce similar symptoms, although
      it is essentially not invasive.

      Many prostate cancer patients can be safely followed with active surveillance or watchful
      actions. However, the major forms of clinical treatments include a combination of surgery,
      radiation, hormone therapy or chemotherapy. If it only occurs inside the prostate, the
      disease is generally curable. However, when cancer cells have spread to the bones, cytotoxic
      or harsh therapies are necessary. Outcomes depend on a person's age and other health
      conditions as well as how aggressive and extensive the cancer is. Most people with prostate
      cancer do not end up dying from the disease, and the 5-year survival rate in the United
      States is approximately 99%. To date, it is the 2nd most common type of malignancy and the
      5th leading cause of cancer-related death in men. In 2012 it affected 1.1 million men and
      claimed 307,000 deaths. Prostate cancer occur more frequently in the western countries or
      developed world, but incidence rates have been continuously arising in the developing
      countries. Clinical detection increased significantly in the 1980s and 1990s in the global
      range due to development of the gold standard--PSA testing. Studies of males who died from
      unrelated causes have found prostate cancer in 30% to 70% of those over the age of 60.

      Most hormone-naive prostate cancers become resistant to treatments after 1-3 years and resume
      growth despite hormone therapy, a condition termed as "hormone-refractory prostate cancer"
      (HRPC) or "castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC)". The most prevalent chemotherapeutic
      agent docetaxel (Taxotere) has been used as a standardized modality for CRPC and provides a
      median survival benefit of 2-3 months. A second-line chemotherapy involves cabazitaxel.
      Although combination of bevacizumab, docetaxel, thalidomide and prednisone appears effective
      in the treatment of CRPC, these agents are usually used after the occurrence of CRPC, not
      before. Thus, whether or not these patients should receive chemotherapy prior to development
      of CRPC, and whether this approach can prevent the aggressive progression of the disease to a
      treatment refractory status, remain largely open but intriguing questions.

      In this study, investigators performed a Phase I, single agent exploration, multicenter
      clinical trial to establish the treatment efficacy of several chemotherapeutic agents in
      patients with high risk localized prostate cancer who have developed the primary cancer in
      prostate. Up to 5 cohorts have been enrolled to determine the effectiveness and safety of
      single therapeutic strategy. Besides the five-year disease-free survival, overall survival
      and five-year metastasis-free survival post treatment, investigators also take into account
      the anticancer agent-induced tumor stroma damage extent, which may provide further evidence
      to support the treatment efficacy and assess the potential influence of a damaged tumor
      microenvironment on disease progression or regression in clinical settings.
    
  