
    
      Phase I is designed to test the electronic case report form (eCRF) and the ADR ascertainment
      method in the six clinical sites in advance of Phase II (randomization phase).

      In Phase I, we recruited 644 older multi-morbid patients from the 6 clinical sites. After
      obtaining written informed consent, patients' demographic, clinical and medication details
      were entered to the eCRF. In the event of one a 12 item Trigger List of adverse clinical
      events occurring, the eCRF automatically generated a Trigger List assessment proforma. The 12
      items in the Trigger List included:

        1. New onset falls

        2. New onset unsteady gait

        3. Acute kidney injury

        4. Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension

        5. Serum electrolyte disturbance

        6. Symptomatic bradycardia

        7. New onset major constipation

        8. Acute bleeding

        9. Acute dyspepsia/nausea/vomiting

       10. Acute diarrhea

       11. Delirium

       12. Symptomatic hypoglycemia

      In addition, we have included 'Unspecified adverse event' in order to capture the wide range
      of well recognized ADRs associated with various medications. For example, the rapid onset of
      a generalized maculopapular rash in a patient with penicillin hypersensitivity would be
      identified as an ADR under the 'Unspecified adverse event' category.

      ADR adjudication in Phase I was blinded and no ADR adjudications were undertaken by the site
      principal investigator (PI). ADRs were defined as 'definite', probable', 'possible',
      'unlikely' or 'indeterminate' according to WHO-UMC ADR causality critria. ADR severity was
      defined according to a modified Hartwig ADR severity scale ranging from Level 1 (trivial) to
      Level 7 (fatal).

      Consensus on ADR causality was achieved through a potential endpoint adjudication committee
      (PEPAC), whose members were the 6 clinical site PI's. A matrix for achieving consensus was
      devised, such that there was a final decision on the causality of all potential ADRs.
    
  