
    
      The definite goal of periodontal regenerative therapy is to restore the tooth supporting
      tissues, lost as a result of inflammatory periodontal diseases and infections. Numerous
      treatment modalities have been described and tested, including use of non resorbable and
      resorbable membranes (GTR) ; autogenous bone grafts, bone allografts, xenografts and
      synthetic materials, and bioactive molecules (EMD) and growth factors. Furthermore researches
      on cell therapy and gene therapy utilization to boost the reparative potential of the wound
      tissues are also being carried out. Each of the treatment modalities have their own
      limitations and advantages.

      Autogenous bone grafts having good osteogenic and osteoconductive capacity than other grafts
      are considered to be the best but need for a second surgery, postoperative complaints and
      insufficient amount of bone graft obtained restrict their use. Allografts and xenografts use
      is also limited because of their controversial osteoinduction capability, ethical problems,
      infections and immunological rejection risk. As a result of the varying disadvantages of the
      auto-, allo- and xenografts, synthetic bone graft use is slowly increasing. These have
      advantages of good osteoconductivity, no ethical or problems of infection and production of
      these grafts can be unlimited. The disadvantages lies in their lack of osteogenic and
      osteoinductive properties.

      One such synthetic material is bioactive glass developed by Hench and West In late 1960s. It
      is available in particulate as well as putty form. Calciumphosphosilicate (CPS) putty
      (NOVABONE Dental Putty, Novabone products Pvt. Ltd., INDIA) is a new next generation bone
      graft material built with bioactive glass platform with additives like polyethylene glycol
      and glycerin to improve handling and efficiency. It is available as a premixed pliable
      cohesive material. It's not only an osteoconductive material but also imparts
      osteostimulative effect. CPS putty stimulates osteoblast recruitment, proliferation and
      differentiation at the defect site and increases rate of bone formation throughout the
      defect, simultaneously increasing the resorption rate of the graft material. Bembi et al.
      reported that mean percentage change in amount of radiographic bone fill was more in the
      treatment of intrabony defects with novabone putty as compared to calcified algae- derived
      porous hydroxyapatite bone graft. In another study Biswas et al. concluded that use of
      bioactive glass osteostimulative biomaterial yields superior clinical results, including
      increased pocket depth reduction of class II furcation defects as compared to an autologous
      platelet concentrate.

      Controversial reports have been reported on outcomes of healing in reference to number of
      bony walls remaining. Therefore type of periodontal defect might influence the effect of
      grafts and membrane on periodontal regeneration. Contained intrabony periodontal defects (3-
      walled) offer a higher predictability in the regenerative procedures as compared to
      non-contained infrabony periodontal defects (1-,2- wall defects) as the later morphology is
      complex due to limited buccal and lingual periodontal tissue component. The one wall
      periodontal defect offers less favorable support to the flap and clot stabilization,. Studies
      have shown considerable variations of results as these defects have larger width (as compared
      to 3-wall defects); osteoconductivity is difficult to obtain; blood supply to the gingival
      flap at the graft site is insufficient and gingival recession tends to occur. Selvig et al.
      reported that the percentage of 3-wall intrabony defect was less than 30% and a combination
      of 1-wall and 2- wall defects was mainly observed. The prevalence of later is more hence
      development of predictable periodontal regeneration holds a greater importance in these
      cases.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      STUDY DESIGN

      This randomized controlled study will be conducted in Department of Periodontics and Oral
      Implantology, Post Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences, Rohtak.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Patients will be recruited from regular outpatient department of the Department of
      Periodontics and Oral Implantology and Department of Oral medicine, Diagnosis and Radiology.

      The study population will consist of a minimum of 36 systemically healthy patients aged 28 to
      60 years with chronic periodontitis and having at least one tooth with non-contained
      periodontal osseous defect (1-wall, 2-wall defect). In each patient, one non-contained bone
      defect will be selected, in case of more than one defect, the defect which is at the deepest
      in the radiographic and clinical examination will be selected, without stratification by
      tooth type or location. Patients will be randomized into two groups (minimum 18 each) into
      test and control group. Control group will undergo treatment with open flap debridement (OFD)
      and intramarrow penetration (IMP) (OFD+IMP; control group) and test group OFD plus IMP plus
      calcium phosphosilicate putty (CPS) (OFD+IMP+CPS; test group). Prior written informed consent
      will be taken from all the participants after explaining the study objectives and procedures
      in patient's own language.

      METHODOLOGY

      The study will be conducted as follows:

      Presurgical therapy: which will include:

      i. Oral hygiene instructions

      ii. Full mouth supragingival and subgingival scaling and root planning with ultrasonic
      scaler, hand scaler and curettes.

      Subjects will be re-evaluated and those satisfying the inclusion criteria will be recruited

      CLINICAL PARAMETERS

      Assessed Using UNC 15 periodontal probe to measure PPD, CAL, BOP, REC at 6 sites (mesial,
      distal, median points at buccal and lingual aspects) per tooth and at 4 sites per tooth to
      measure PI, GI.

        1. Full mouth indices to be recorded at baseline

           Bleeding on probing (BOP)

           Probing Pocket depth (PPD)

           Clinical Attachment loss (CAL)

        2. Site specific indices (6 sites per tooth)

      Plaque index (PI)

      Gingival index (GI)

      Probing Pocket depth (PPD) - measured from gingival margin to the base of pocket

      Clinical attachment loss (CAL) - measured from cementoenamel junction(CEJ) to base of the
      pocket

      Keratinized tissue width (KTW) - distance from gingival margin to mucogingival junction (MGJ)

      Gingival recession (REC) - distance in millimetres from the gingival margin to CEJ

      Bleeding on probing (BOP)

      Tooth mobility

      RADIOGRAPHIC PARAMETERS:

      Customized bite blocks and long cone paralleling technique will be used to obtain
      standardized radiographs.

      Radiographic defect depth (rDD) - the distance from the projection on the root surface of the
      most coronal point of the residual bone crest to the bottom of the defect.

      Radiographic defect width (rDW) - the distance from the most coronal point of the residual
      bone crest to the root surface, were measured using a caliper and recorded to the nearest mm.

      Radiographic defect angle (ANG) - line tangential to the root surface and a line connecting
      the bottom of the defect to the most coronal part of the crest next to the adjacent tooth.

      All radiographic parameters will be analyzed at baseline, at 6 months and at 9 months.
    
  