
    
      The purpose of this study is two-fold. The first part of the study aims to assess the
      validity of a theory of health behaviour, known as the Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB) in
      predicting condom use in and Australian sample of men who have sex with men (MSM). The TPB
      states that a person's intention to use condoms is the best predictor of their actual condom
      use behaviour. The TPB indicates that intention is predicted by an individual's attitude
      towards condom use, whether they believe their family and friends feel that they should use
      condoms (known as "subjective norm"), and how much control the person feels that they have
      over condom use (known as perceived behavioral control). In order to measure this,
      participants will be asked to complete questions regarding their attitudes, subjective norm,
      perceived behavioral control, intention towards condom use, and actual condom use behavior.
      It is expected that the TPB will be successful in predicting condom use in this population.

      The second part of the study aims to assess whether two different interventions are effective
      in increasing condom use among men who have sex with men (MSM).

      The first intervention is known as "implementation intentions" and asks that participants
      specify when, where and how they might increase their condom use in the future (e.g. by
      buying condoms). It is predicted that in making this plan that the likelihood of preparing to
      use condoms will increase as will actual condom use.

      The second intervention asks participants to practice a task several times per week that is
      thought to improve planning ability. The task is known as "The Tower of Hanoi" which is a
      computer based program that requires participants to shift discs across three different pegs
      in and ordered and planned way. It is thought that this practice can improve an individual's
      planning ability. It is thought that this planning ability may then generalise to other tasks
      such as planning to use condoms. It is predicted that this intervention will increase actual
      condom use among this population.

      A control group that receives no intervention will also be employed.

      Measures of the TPB will be taken at baseline and three months after the interventions have
      taken place to assess any changes to the variables thought to predict condom use, and any
      changes in condom use behavior. It is expected that the the TPB variables will all increase
      in the intervention groups.
    
  