
    
      Surgical and pharmacological management of the motor-based symptoms of PD has made great
      strides over the last few decades. The behavioral management of the speech and voice symptoms
      however, has not grown by the same leaps and bounds. Despite the prevalence of speech and
      voice symptoms associated with PD, few evidence-based treatment options are currently
      available. In the face of good efficacy data, the Lee Silverman Voice Treatment (LSVT LOUD)
      program continues to be the gold standard for voice treatment. LSVT LOUD trains patients to
      monitor and adjust their vocal intensity when they perceive that their voice is soft.
      Therefore, the success of LSVT LOUD is predicated, in part, on an individual's ability to
      self-monitor and self-cue (internal cueing) during speech production. While LSVT LOUD has
      fostered significant improvements in communication for many patients with PD, not all
      patients respond to treatment. It has been postulated that underlying sensory and cognitive
      factors may hinder treatment outcomes. A new behavioral treatment for speech and voice
      impairment has recently been introduced. The SpeechVive, a small in-the-ear device, uses an
      external noise cue to elicit louder speech. While LSVT LOUD and the SpeechVive have both been
      shown to significantly increase sound pressure level (SPL) in patients with PD, the
      physiologic adjustments supporting these changes in SPL remain unclear. This is an important
      area of study for two reasons. First, both treatments are exercised-based programs, yet the
      physiologic changes associated with these treatments are not well understood. Second, there
      is evidence to suggest that the use of an external cue, such as the noise cue used in
      SpeechVive training, elicits more efficient respiratory patterns in neurologically-healthy
      and neurologically-involved patients, in comparison to self-initiated cueing strategies, such
      as those used in LSVT LOUD. This study proposes to compare the influence of cueing strategy
      on treatment outcomes by examining simultaneous respiratory-laryngeal adjustments before and
      after participation in LSVT LOUD (internal cueing) and SpeechVive (external cueing) training.
      It is important to study respiratory-laryngeal interactions because both of these subsystems
      contribute to vocal intensity regulation. In addition, exercise physiology studies have
      indicated that internal and external forms of cueing elicit different perceptions of physical
      and mental effort during exercise. It is important to understand the patients' level of
      perceived physical and mental effort, associated with each treatment program, as these
      variables can effect adherence to the treatment regime. In summary, the proposed study is
      intended to 1) fill a critical void in the investigator's understanding of
      respiratory-laryngeal adjustments used to support increased SPL under two evidence-based
      behavioral voice treatment programs, and 2) to better understand how patients' perceptions of
      physical and mental effort are shaped by each treatment paradigm. The information generated
      in this study could potentially lead to more efficient voice rehabilitation for persons with
      PD.
    
  