
    
      Lung cancer has become one of the leading causes of cancer related death, with increasing
      morbidity and mortality. And non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for about 85% of all
      lung cancer patients. Although more and more molecule target therapies has been in clinical
      use, the overall treatment effects do not come up to expectations. It is urgent that to
      explore new treatment regimens.

      Chemotherapy is the main modality for the treatment of advanced NSCLC, however, the effect of
      chemotherapy in NSCLC has reached to a plateau. Combination of chemotherapy with other
      therapies is the most prospective orientation in the cancer treatment research. It was widely
      accepted that there was a conflict relationship between chemotherapy and immunotherapy as
      chemotherapeutics could destruct the immune system. However, it was convinced that
      chemotherapy could modulate the suppressive immune microenvironment and up-regulate the
      immunogenicity of cancer cells, thereafter enhance anti-tumor effects of immune system.
      Traditional chemotherapeutics are not just cytotoxic drugs, but also immunity regulators.
      Increasing evidences indicate that combination of chemotherapy and immunotherapy would show
      more effective anti-tumor outcome.

      Adoptive cell immunotherapy is one of the most prospective treatments in the battle against
      cancer. CIK cells are heterogeneous cell populations derived from human peripheral blood or
      mice spleen after in vitro expansion with interferon-γ, interleukin-2 and anti-CD3
      antibodies. CIK cells mediate potent major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-unrestricted
      cytotoxicity against a variety of tumor cells and can recognize and kill tumor cells without
      prior exposure or priming. There are two main subpopulations can be distinguished within the
      bulk culture of in vitro expanded CIK cells, one co-expressing the CD3 and cluster of
      differentiation 56(CD56) molecules (CD3+CD56+) while the other presenting a CD3+CD56-
      phenotype. The antitumor activity of CIK cells has been reported to be mainly restricted to
      the CD3+CD56+ cells. Adoptive CIK cells transfer, one of the adoptive immunotherapy
      represents a promising nontoxic anticancer therapy in the treatment of solid tumors
      refractory to conventional therapies. However in clinical studies, the therapeutic activity
      of CIK cells transfer is not as efficient as anticipated, which might be caused by the tumor
      abnormal microenvironment, impeding CIK cell infiltration and cytotoxicity. Thus it is urgent
      to find an effective therapy to enhance the adoptive CIK cell efficacy so as to improve
      clinical effect of cancer patients.

      Tumor immunotherapy is facing numerous challenges such as systemic immune tolerance and tumor
      local immune escape. In the development of immune system, all the T cells with high affinity
      to self-antigen are cleared by the negative selection in thymus, as well as the T cells
      binding to self-antigen expressed by tumor cells. However, the immune suppression cells are
      more important for tumor immune evading, in which regulatory T cells (Treg cells) play
      central role. T regulatory cells are a component of the immune system that suppress immune
      responses of other cells. This is an important "self-check" built into the immune system to
      prevent excessive reactions. Regulatory T cells come in many forms with the most well
      understood being those that express cluster of differentiation 4(CD4), cluster of
      differentiation 25(CD25), Foxp3, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated molecule-4 (CTLA-4) and
      glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor (GITR). As far as now, Treg cells'
      precise mechanisms of action are still unclear, which is supposed including cell-cell contact
      and secreted cytokines (IL-10, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β). In addition, there are
      some other immunosuppressive cells, such as myeloid derived suppressor (MDSC), playing
      important role in cancer immune escape. Tumor cells self could also inhibit the anticancer
      immunoreaction through low expression of tumor associated antigen, low expression of MHC-I
      molecular, defect of co-activating signal for the activation of Cytotoxic T lymphocytes
      (CTL), secreting immunosuppressive cytokines, such as IL-10 and TGF-β, expressing Fas ligand,
      tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) and inducing the apoptosis of
      effect cells.

      Paclitaxel (PTX) is a mitotic inhibitor used in cancer chemotherapy. Paclitaxel stabilizes
      microtubules and as a result, interferes with the normal breakdown of microtubules during
      cell division. Together with docetaxel, it forms the drug category of the taxanes. PTX can
      enhance antigen presentation by inducing tumor cell immunogenic apoptosis. PTX also can
      activate dendritic cells through the toll-like receptor signaling pathways to initiate innate
      immune response. PTX has also been reported to induce T helper Type I cytokine production
      contributing to effective cytotoxic T-cell responses. While cisplatin (DDP) can up-regulate
      the expression of NKG2D ligand (NKG2DL) on tumor cells, thus sensitizing tumor cell to lysis
      of NKG2D-expressing lymphocytes. DDP may also increase tumor cell expression of Fas, thereby
      increasing their vulnerability to Fas ligand (FasL)-positive immune effectors. It has been
      reported that neoadjuvant chemotherapy with PTX could induce infiltration of tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) cells in the breast cancer, which was related to the clinical
      effects. Our previous work also indicated that the frequencies of intratumoral and splenic
      regulatory T cells (Treg cells) were significantly decreased and intratumoral accumulation of
      CD3+ T lymphocytes was enhanced after chemotherapy pretreatment in lung cancer models.

      Based on our previous works, this clinical Trial is proposed to explore whether
      preconditioning chemotherapy of TP regimen (PTX+DDP) combined with autologous adoptive CIK
      cell immunotherapy could benefit NSCLC patients with a better clinical outcome.
    
  