
    
      Selective surgical removal of the pituitary corticotroph adenoma is the ideal treatment of
      Cushing's disease. However, surgery may not be feasible or is unsuccessful in roughly 25% of
      patients. In addition, a recurrence of the disease is observed after a transient remission in
      15 to 25% of patients. Several therapeutic alternatives are available, amongst which medical
      treatment is commonly used. Drugs that are available in France to control hypercortisolism
      target the pituitary adenoma secretion (pasireotide and cabergoline) or inhibit adrenal
      steroidogenesis (ketoconazole and metyrapone). Usual criteria to monitor the treatment and
      titrate the drug dosage include evaluation of relevant clinical endpoints and measurement of
      UFC. However, limitations of UFC for this purpose, include difficulties in obtaining a
      complete 24 urine collection and the fact that UFC assess only short-term cortisol in a
      disease characterized by high variability over time in the intensity of hypercortisolism.
      Elsewhere, a mild to moderate hypercortisolism may persist despite a normal UFC. Several
      groups, including ours, have shown that LNSC is useful tool to diagnose overt and mild
      hypercortisolism and may be more sensitive than UFC to diagnose mild hypercortisolism.
      Despite being more convenient to collect than 24h urine, LNSC also suffers from only
      measuring time-point cortisol. Rare studies have examined whether LNSC could be an adequate
      biomarker for monitoring response to medical therapy in patients with CD and its usefulness
      to monitor drug treatment in CD is yet unknown (one study comparing UFC to LNSC in CD
      patients treated with pasireotide-LAR has been presented but is not yet published).
      Accordingly, the 2015 guidelines of the endocrine society recommend future research to
      accurately monitor patients for their response to medical therapy to guide dose optimization.
      More recently, the measurement of salivary cortisone in 3 saliva samples (SCx3) drawn at
      approximately 8 hours intervals and starting at 7-8 am have been shown to be a reliable
      estimate of cortisol production over 24h in normal subjects. Whether this parameter could be
      used as a substitute of UFC in patients treated with anticortisolic drugs remains unstudied.

      Hair cortisol concentration is a non-invasive way to measure cortisol exposure over much
      longer periods of time (weeks and months) than previously possible with samples of blood,
      saliva or urine. Several studies have shown that measurement of cortisol in a single scalp
      hair sample has a diagnostic accuracy for CS similar to currently used first-line tests and
      may also be used to identify overtreatment in patients receiving hydrocortisone replacement
      for adrenal insufficiency. To date, no data is available concerning hair Cortisol measurement
      in comparison with other usual biological tools in patients with CD receiving a medical
      treatment.

      Since 2016, the departments of endocrine biology and clinical endocrinology of Bordeaux
      university hospital (CHU) have developed the measurement of cortisol and cortisone in scalp
      hair using LC-MS/MS and have established normative values using several cohorts of control
      patients.

      The purpose of the study is to take advantage of the ability of hair cortisol to measure
      long-term cortisol exposure to assess the response to medical therapy in patients with CD.
      More specifically, the working hypothesis is that some patients with a normal UFC may still
      suffer from an occult mild hypercortisolism that will be identified only by hair cortisol. To
      study this hypothesis, the investigators will compare the results of hair cortisol to that
      multiple measurement of UFC, LNSC and SCx3 during a three-month period in patients with CD
      already treated with medical treatments and considered as "controlled" on the basis of
      previous UFC measurements.
    
  