
    
      Traumatic brain injury is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in victims of blunt
      trauma, leading to a tremendous economic cost, chronic neuropsychological sequelae and
      productive years of life lost. Treatment of inoperable primary brain injury consists largely
      of supportive care to support natural healing and prevention or reduction of secondary
      insults (1).

      Many of the phenomena of secondary injury are related to ischemic sequelae of injury
      progression. Brain parenchymal edema increases both regional and global intra-cranial
      pressures, decreasing perfusion pressure, resulting in impaired perfusion, an oxygen debt,
      and ischemic injury (2). Local compression from traumatic hematomas may act in concert with
      edema to further impair perfusion. One strategy that has been successfully employed in the
      treatment of other ischemic insults is an intervention known as "remote ischemic
      conditioning" (RIC). RIC is felt to induce systemic responses which promote physiologic
      adaptations to moderate ischemia and minimize the impact of subsequent ischemic insults.
      Because these effects are systemic, extremity ischemic conditioning may impact brain injury.
      In the setting of TBI, where all patients carry a risk of ischemic secondary injury, early
      intervention with RIC may minimize the harm of secondary ischemic insults and improve
      outcomes.

      The systemic effects of RIC have been demonstrated in a variety of organ systems and
      mechanisms of ischemia. Application of RIC has demonstrable benefits in preventing
      ischemia-induced organ dysfunction in insults to the heart (3-6), kidneys (7,8), and ocular
      organ systems (9). Our recent work has demonstrated its benefit in preventing organ injury
      following hemorrhagic shock (10). The technique has also demonstrated promise in reducing
      brain injury secondary to stroke or neurosurgical trauma (11-13).

      Ischemic conditioning of brain injuries has proven benefits in animal models. Limb
      preconditioning reduces toxic oxygen free radicals, reduces neuronal apoptosis, reduces
      intra-cranial inflammation, improves integrity of the blood-brain barrier, and reduces brain
      parenchymal edema (14,15). RIC also improves microvascular perfusion to ischemic tissues
      which, in the brain, may reduce secondary injury by promoting perfusion to the at-risk
      injured brain (16). Even when performed after the intra-cranial trauma in a
      "post-conditioning" model, limb ischemic conditioning is associated with decreased apoptosis,
      decreased edema, and decreased brain infarction volumes (17,18). A single recent trial of RIC
      in human TBI patients showed a decrease in serum biomarkers of central nervous system (CNS)
      injury in the conditioned cohort (19).

      Given the promising findings of the remote ischemic conditioning technique in reducing
      biomarkers of intra-cranial inflammation, an assessment of the clinical effectiveness of
      post-traumatic remote ischemic conditioning in modifying the outcomes of patients with
      isolated severe traumatic brain injuries is warranted.

      Outcomes of this proposed prospective, randomized controlled trial will fall into the
      following validated categories:

        1. Biomarkers of neuronal injury and systemic inflammation (20-28)

        2. Radiologic evidence of improved acute- and delayed-phase perfusion (29-33)

        3. Clinical course in hospital from admission to discharge

        4. Neurocognitive and neuropsychological outcomes, 6 month follow-up (34-46)

      The known physiologic effects of RIC are theoretically beneficial to patients suffering
      severe TBI who are at risk of clinical deterioration due to secondary injury. By mitigating
      the effects of inflammation and edema and improving microvascular perfusion, at-risk brain
      tissue may be salvaged and thus patient outcomes improved. This theory is supported by the
      existing evidence and a well-planned selection of outcome measures including biochemical,
      clinical, and radiographic outcomes may demonstrate the benefits of RIC in this patient
      population.
    
  