
    
      As with other herpes viruses, infection with CMV is thought to result primarily from
      reactivation of latent virus. Transmission of the virus can also occur from donor marrow
      infusion or from allogeneic red cell, leukocyte or platelet transfusions. However, in
      immunocompromised bone marrow transplant recipients, CMV is frequently reactivated and
      disease resulting from the progression of CMV infection is a major cause of infectious
      morbidity and mortality. CMV infection is a consequence both of the immunosuppression these
      patients receive and also may reflect delayed immune reconstitution in these patients
      following transplant. It is of particular concern to recipients of VUD (HLA-Volunteer
      Unrelated Donor) transplants who often receive lower doses of donor T cells in the transplant
      and who also require greater post-transplant immunosuppression for GVHD prophylaxis. CMV
      reactivation is most frequent in this group of transplant recipient.

      One approach to improve reconstitution of immunity against viruses following allogeneic HSCT
      is to adoptively transfer donor-derived virus-specific T lymphocytes, which has been well
      documented with proven success. Existing evidence suggests that adoptive cellular therapy
      (ACT) can be an effective approach for treating viral reactivation following allo HSCT, with
      a minimal risk of inducing GVHD. The major advantage to the patient is likely to be avoidance
      of extended periods of therapy with antiviral medications that have significant associated
      morbidities, and sometimes require inpatient care. From a pharmacoeconomic viewpoint this
      would translate into a reduction of costs associated with standard antiviral therapies
      compared to the cost of adoptive cellular therapy.

      It is anticipated that the use of very small numbers of highly specific T-cells will allow
      enough CMV-specific T-cells to be obtained in vitro from normal healthy CMV-seropositive
      donors from the peripheral blood transplant product after a single leucapheresis procedure
      and that the absence of concurrent lympholytic immunosuppression combined with a profoundly
      lymphopenic environment should allow for expansion and maintenance of the anti-CMV response
      in vivo.

      This current study is a randomised prospective phase II study of pre-emptive adoptive
      cellular therapy for CMV following T cell depleted allogeneic HSCT from an unrelated donor.
      The study is based on earlier phase I-II studies of CMV-specific cellular therapy and our
      ongoing phase III study of CMV-specific adoptive cellular immunotherapy in immunocompromised
      recipients of allogeneic sibling donor HSCT based on selection of CMV-specific T cells by two
      different methodologies (CMV-IMPACT). The proof of safety in the sibling donor setting now
      strengthens the case for extending the therapy to the unrelated donor setting, where both
      potential risks and benefits are greater. The current study will investigate the use of
      CMV-specific T cells selected from mobilised blood collected at the time of stem cell
      apheresis by the multimer technology in the unrelated donor setting. The selection of
      CMV-specific T cells selected from a mobilised blood at the time of stem cell apheresis is in
      contrast to the methodology used in the CMV-IMPACT study where selection is performed on a
      non-mobilised blood product produced from a second study-dedicated apheresis. Two significant
      issues remain unresolved for the CMV-ACE/ASPECT study; are these infusions safe in the
      HLA-matched un-related donor setting and do CMV-reactive T cells derived from the transplant
      product have equivalent activity in vivo to cells derived from a second apheresis as used in
      the sibling donor study (CMV-IMPACT study). The study will test the hypothesis that ACT can
      augment the impaired CMV immune function post-transplant and reduce the requirement for CMV
      antiviral drug therapy without causing an increase in GVHD; and to determine the efficacy of
      pre-emptive CMV-specific adoptive cellular therapy following T cell depleted allogeneic HSCT
      with respect to reconstitution of CMV-reactive T cells. There are multiple methods for T cell
      depletion available, and differences between them will likely have an effect on immune
      reconstitution. The study will be restricted to patients receiving alemtuzumab-containing
      conditioning protocols, where the risk of CMV infection is greatest. ACT will be administered
      from day 21 post transplant for those receiving ex-vivo T-cell depleted grafts and day 28 for
      those receiving in vivo T cell depletion, as a single dose immediately upon a single CMV-DNA
      PCR+ result.

      In summary the study is a multicentre, prospective, controlled, open label, randomised (2:1)
      study of pre-emptive infusion with CMV-specific T cells selected by the multimer selection
      technique plus standard CMV antiviral therapy versus standard CMV antiviral therapy alone.

      The primary objective will be determine the efficacy of pre-emptive CMV-specific ACT
      following T cell depleted allogeneic HSCT with respect to reconstitution of CMV-reactive T
      cells and subsequent in vivo expansion of CMV-reactive T cells post infusion of ACT. In
      addition individual groups will be compared for duration of antiviral therapy and number of
      reactivation episodes, plus GVHD incidence.
    
  