
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of vincristine sulfate liposome (liposomal
      vincristine) and inotuzumab ozogamicin combination therapy in adult patients with relapsed
      and/or refractory B lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL).

      II. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR consisting of complete remission [CR],
      morphologic CR with incomplete blood count recovery [CRi], of combination therapy with
      liposomal vincristine and inotuzumab ozogamicin in adult patients with relapsed and/or
      refractory B lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the leukemia-free survival (LFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients treated
      with this combination.

      II. To evaluate the number of patients able to proceed onto subsequent hematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation (HSCT) following combination therapy following combination therapy.

      III. To evaluate the overall incidence of unique toxicities associated with these agents,
      specifically peripheral neuropathy following vincristine sulfate liposome and veno-occlusive
      disease of the liver (VOD) following inotuzumab ozogamicin therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore minimal residual disease (MRD) as a potential correlative biomarker of response
      to combination vincristine sulfate liposome and inotuzumab ozogamicin therapy.

      II. To explore potential biomarkers of response to vincristine sulfate liposome and
      inotuzumab ozogamicin therapy.

      III. To perform an analysis of the estimated cost of outpatient administration of vincristine
      sulfate liposome and inotuzumab ozogamicin.

      IV. To evaluate quality of life (QOL) of patients with relapsed/refractory B-ALL treated with
      vincristine sulfate liposome and inotuzumab ozogamicin.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of inotuzumab ozogamicin followed by a
      phase II study.

      INDUCTION/RE-INDUCTION: Patients receive vincristine sulfate liposome intravenously (IV) over
      1 hour and inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who achieve clinical benefit, defined as stable disease (SD), PR or CR, or CRi after
      1-2 cycles, will continue on to maintenance therapy for up to 4-5 cycles. Patients who do not
      achieve clinical benefit after cycle 1 but do not experience dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs)
      receive a second cycle of vincristine sulfate liposome and inotuzumab ozogamicin.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive vincristine sulfate liposome IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15
      and inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 4-5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for up to 12 months.
    
  