
    
      The long-term goal of the research planned under this protocol is to reduce morbidity and
      mortality of patients with PPGLs by improving approaches for management, follow-up and
      therapy of affected patients. As a first step towards attaining this goal, the primary
      objective of this protocol is to investigate whether standardized follow-up results in
      improved long-term outcome in terms of less morbidity and mortality as compared. The central
      hypothesis is that pro-active, structured and periodic disease screening and management of
      patients at risk for developing PPGLs and other neoplasms can lead to earlier detection of
      tumors and reduce adverse outcomes associated with cardiovascular, metabolic and oncologic
      complications of the tumors than standard care follow-up. The underlying rationale is that
      establishing improved outcomes for patients at risk for PPGLs will enable evidence-based
      recommendations for disease follow-up and management, thereby establishing wider acceptance
      and use of outlined practices with ensuing improvements in the health and quality of life of
      affected patients and their families.

      In addition to the primary objective directed at establishing whether standardized and
      structured follow-up of patients with an increased risk for new events of PPGL (recurrent
      tumor, new tumor, or metastases) will result in improved longterm outcome, this protocol will
      enable several secondary objectives to be addressed using clinical (e.g. age, mode of
      presentation), biochemical, metabolic and genetic characteristics. These include:

        1. to identify prognostic markers of disease progression

        2. to assess whether clinical presentation, cardiovascular, metabolic and biochemical
           phenotype, genetic background and tumor characteristics (location, size, recurrence,
           pathology) are useful for development of personalized follow-up strategies.

        3. to investigate whether standardized follow-up affects quality of life
    
  