
    
      The purpose of this prospective, single centre, non-randomised, open-label, phase II study
      will evaluate the activity of dovitinib in the treatment naïve population of patients with
      advanced RCC.

      Background: Prior to the middle of last decade, the only systemic therapy for patients with
      advanced RCC was immunotherapy (interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha) with limited
      effectiveness and a multitude of side-effects. Since 2006, there have been 6 targeted
      therapies that have been FDA-registered for the treatment of advanced RCC; the anti-VEGFR
      tyrosine kinase inhibitors (sunitinib, sorafenib and pazopanib), the anti-VEGF antibody
      bevacizumab (with interferon-alpha) and the mTOR inhibitors (everolimus and temsirolimus).
      These treatments have significantly advanced outcomes for patients with this disease but
      unfortunately they do not represent cures. The median overall survival for patients treated
      with a standard first-line therapy (sunitinib) is just over 2 years and the median PFS for
      subjects receiving this agent is only 11 months. This means that the typical time it takes
      for subjects to develop resistance to standard first-line tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)
      treatment, as evidenced by significant tumour growth on imaging, is under 1 year.

      Despite the recent rapid advancements in the treatment options for subjects with advanced
      RCC, there is still an unmet need for more effective therapeutic options for patients with
      this disease so as to improve survival and make steps towards the ultimate treatment aim for
      patients with metastatic disease - cure. Available data suggests that dovitinib is a very
      active agent in metastatic RCC. If it has efficacy in the heavily pre-treated RCC population,
      one would expect it to be considerably more active when it is moved forward into the
      first-line setting.

      Dovitinib is a broad-targeted receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) primarily active
      against three receptors that mediate tumour growth and survival: vascular endothelial growth
      factor receptor (VEGFR), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) and fibroblast
      growth factor receptor (FGFR). A distinguishing feature of dovitinib (compared to other
      anti-VEGFR TKI's) is its FGFR inhibition. Up-regulation of the fibroblast growth factor
      receptor 1 (FGFR1) pathway has been demonstrated in metastatic RCC and is a postulated
      mechanism of resistance to anti-VEGFR therapies. This is thought to be one of the reasons why
      dovitinib has activity in subjects treated with prior anti-VEGFR therapies. If we move the
      FGFR inhibition forward into the first-line setting (by using dovitinib) we hope to be able
      prevent or delay the development of resistance acquired through FGFR up-regulation. We hope
      this may allow subjects to remain on first-line therapy for much longer and in doing so
      improve survival and outcomes for this group of patients.

      Dovitinib has been studied in heavily pre-treated subjects with metastatic RCC, and in these
      phase I/II studies it looks very active. If it has efficacy in the heavily pre-treated RCC
      population, it is possible it would be more active when it is moved forward in to the
      first-line setting.

      While we have good prognostic markers to risk-stratify subjects with RCC, there is a lack of
      predictive markers to guide us as to which patients are best served with each of the
      different agents available for use. It is therefore imperative that drug development studies
      in this disease have companion biomarker analysis to identify potentially useful predictive
      biomarkers for future research. This study also aims to explore (using FISH) the
      amplification/deletion status of range of genes-of-interest, selected for their relevance to
      the biology of RCC and the mechanism-of-action of dovitinib. Amplification/deletion of these
      genes will be further validated using DNA sequencing. The status of these genes-of-interest
      will be correlated with outcomes of these subjects treated with dovitinib.

      The hypothesis of this study is that dovitinib will demonstrate anti-tumour activity when
      administered to subjects with advanced RCC in the first-line setting and that this activity
      will correlate with FGFR gene amplification status.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the activity of dovitinib in the treatment naïve
      population of patients with advanced RCC.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the gene amplification status for FGFR-1,-2,-3 in this patient population

        -  To measure the strength of the correlation between measures of clinical efficacy and
           FGFR gene amplification status

        -  To further evaluate safety

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  To assess for amplifications/deletions for genes related to RCC biology in this group of
           subjects treated with dovitinib.

        -  To correlate gene amplification status with DNA gene sequence.

        -  To evaluate differences in tumour gene status between primary and metastatic samples
           from same subject and again on post-treatment biopsy to elucidate mechanisms of
           resistance to dovitinib.

        -  To evaluate effects of dovitinib on bone metastases and pain.

      Investigational treatment: Thirty patients from the greater Auckland region will be treated
      with dovitinib (500 mg p.o. o.d., 5 days on/2 days off) until disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicity, patient withdrawal or death.

      The primary analysis will be performed when 20 progression and/or death events have occurred.
      No interim efficacy analysis is planned for this study. However, an independent Data
      Monitoring Committee (DMC) will review data collection (including analysing the adverse event
      information) and will meet at specified time points during the study.

      Visit schedule: Patients will attend clinic visits every 3 weeks while on treatment. Tumour
      response assessments will occur every 9 weeks until week 54, then every 12 weeks thereafter
      until disease progression (estimated median time to disease progression = 16 months). Once
      all patients have completed study treatment, patients will continue to be followed up
      3-monthly until approximately 2 months after 20 death events have occurred.

      For each patient there will be three separate phases in the study: pre-treatment (screening &
      baseline), treatment and follow-up.

      Pre-treatment phase (Screening/Baseline): The patient must provide a signed informed consent
      form (ICF) prior to any study related procedure. A screening period of 28 days is allowed to
      assess eligibility. Radiologic evaluation (CT of the head, chest, abdomen and pelvis) and
      baseline tumour measurement using RECIST v1.1 will be performed. Other screening and baseline
      assessments include ECG & echocardiogram to assess cardiac function, performance status
      assessment (ECOG & WHO), physical examination (including the buccal cavity), height, weight &
      vital signs. Laboratory investigations include haematology, chemistry, amylase, lipase, serum
      lipid profile, coagulation, urinalysis, thyroid function, cardiac enzymes and pregnancy test
      (if applicable). Disease specific information, general medical information including medical
      history, concomitant medications, prognostic group according to Heng criteria and demographic
      data will also be collected.

      Treatment phase: This study does not have a fixed treatment duration, as patients will
      continue therapy until disease progression, intolerable toxicity or withdrawal. Following
      study inclusion and initiation of study treatment, the patient should visit the site on day
      1, 8 and 15 during cycle 1, then day 1 of every subsequent cycle. Patients will have their
      first dose of study treatment on Day 1, Cycle 1. A study cycle is defined as a period of 21
      days.

      Tumour response will be evaluated every 3 cycles after registration until week 54, then every
      4 cycles until documented disease progression. ECOG performance status will be assessed on
      day 1 of every cycle. Safety assessments are routinely performed including collection of
      adverse events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), concomitant medications, vital signs,
      physical examination, weight, haematological and biochemistry assessments, urinalysis,
      thyroid function and cardiac enzymes. ECG, amylase, lipase, serum lipids and coagulation will
      be measured if clinically indicated. An echocardiogram will be performed at weeks 12 and 24,
      and as clinically indicated. Plasma for storage will be collected on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3.
      Participants with bone metastases will have plasma collected for C-telopeptide testing on day
      1 of weeks 1, 2 and 13, and will complete a Quality of Life questionnaire (FACT-BP) at 4 time
      points: on day 1 of weeks1, 2, 4 and 13.

      The End of Treatment (EOT) visit will take place approximately 7 days after the last dose of
      dovitinib. At this visit the following assessments will be performed and the following data
      collected: physical examination, ECOG performance status, weight, vital signs, adverse
      events, concomitant medications, antineoplastic therapies, haematology, biochemistry, amylase
      and lipase measurements.

      Safety follow-up: All patients who discontinue study treatment will have a safety follow-up
      visit within 30 days of the last dose of dovitinib. Safety assessments will include
      collection of AEs, SAEs, vital signs, concomitant medications and any new antineoplastic
      therapies. Patients who progress will be invited to provide an (optional) additional biopsy
      sample of their tumour, at least 10 days after the last dose of dovitinib, but before any new
      anticancer therapies are initiated.

      Efficacy follow-up: Patients who discontinue the study treatment for reasons other than
      progression will continue to have radiologic assessments, using the same schedule as for
      patients who remain on treatment, until documented disease progression.

      Survival follow-up: Patients who have discontinued study treatment will be followed-up for
      survival every 3 months by clinical visits or telephone call until death occurs, the patient
      is lost to follow-up, or withdraws consent for follow-up for survival. Further treatment will
      be at the discretion of the investigator.

      Statistical Methods: All data will be presented descriptively as means, medians or
      proportions. Progression free and overall survival from the first dose of dovitinib until
      disease progression or death will be determined using the method of Kaplan-Meier. The
      correlation between PFS, OS and baseline biomarker status as well as FGFR gene amplification
      status will be measured using Spearman's rho. Generalized estimating equations (GEE) for
      repeated measures will also be used to test the significance of changes in biomarker
      amplification status relative to baseline. Ordinal logistic regression analysis using a
      repeated measures structure will be applied to compare bone pain control over the treatment
      period relative to baseline.

      Sample Size Calculation and Expected Duration: The response rate (RR) reported for sunitinib,
      when studied in a phase III trial versus interferon in the first-line setting was
      approximately 31%, with a 95%CI ranging from 26 to 36% (Motzer, NEJM 356: 115, 2007). The
      target sample size in this phase II study is 30, which was based on the assumption that the
      RR for dovitinib would fall within the range of sunitinib. With such a sample size, the
      prevalence of dovitinib RR using RECIST 1.1 will be measured with a precision that extends to
      15 percentage points, with a 95% probability.
    
  