
    
      The value of MRI in the detection of clinically significant prostate cancer has already been
      shown in many studies [1]. With MRI widely available and general accepted by urologists and
      radiologist for prostate imaging, a good execution and high quality of the images have become
      crucial. Recently Caglic et al published an article about optimizing prostate mpMRI [2]. One
      of the factors that influences image quality is rectal loading and bowel movement. The
      prostate is located anterior in the immediate vicinity of the rectum, so prostatic MRI is
      prone to artifacts caused by bowel movements and to susceptibility artifacts at the
      air-tissue interface [3]. Rectal movements are correlated to the degree of rectal distension
      and result in significant displacement of the prostate gland [4]. Rectal distension has a
      negative impact on the quality of both T2-weighted (T2W) and diffusion weighted images (DWI)
      [5], which are the two most important sequences in the detection of clinically significant
      prostate cancer. A study by Lim et al [6] showed a significant correlation between the amount
      of stool in the rectum and the severity of motion artifacts, however reducing the amount of
      stool with an enema did not improve the quality of T2W, DWI or dynamic contrast enhanced
      (DCE) images compared to the non-enema group. As the authors have declared, this could be due
      to the fact that only a minority of patients in the non-enema group had moderate or large
      amounts of stool (15.6%).

      This study by Lim et al also showed that the amount of rectal gas did not correlate with the
      severity of distortion artifacts on diffusion images, which could mean that even a small
      amount of gas could already cause substantial (susceptibility) artifacts on DWI. A larger
      study by Griethuysen et al [7] showed that a micro-enema shortly before the examination
      reduces both the incidence and the severity of gas-induced artifacts.

      So, moving gas appears to be the main concern and preparation is recommended. There is no
      evidence that one rectal emptying strategy is better than another [8]. In PI-RADS v2,
      different approaches are suggested, the aforementioned micro-enema, performing the MRI exam
      with patient in the prone position or to decompress the rectum using a small catheter [9].

      This study aims to assess the efficacy of small catheter placement just before the MRI
      examination in reducing susceptibility on diffusion weighted images.
    
  