
    
      1.0 BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      Brain tumours are the commonest solid tumours in children and with appropriate treatment,
      nearly half of them achieve long term cure. Radiotherapy is essential in the management of a
      majority of these tumours. Conventional radiotherapy alone or in combination with surgery
      and/or chemotherapy in tumours such as optic gliomas, hypothalamic gliomas,
      craniopharyngiomas, germ cell tumours, and other low grade tumours achieves excellent long
      term control rates ranging from 70 to 95%. However, while the tumour control has been
      effective, there have been concerns about treatment related morbidity.

      which included cognitive dysfunction in 38%, motor deficit in 25%, visual impairment in 20%,
      hormonal dysfunction in 20% and psychological-emotional problems in 14% of the survivors.

      It is difficult to ascertain from these reports the exact contribution of each of these
      factors and how they interact with each other. Radiotherapy is believed to be at least partly
      responsible although its exact role is yet to be quantified. Most of the evidence regarding
      post-radiotherapy neuropsychological and cognitive dysfunction is from retrospective studies
      involving whole brain radiotherapy.

      Neuroendocrine dysfunction is well-documented late sequelae following treatment of patients
      with brain tumours. This could either be due to direct involvement of the pituitary
      hypothalamic axis (PHA) by the tumour or as a result of surgical or radiation injury to this
      region. For tumours not directly involving the PHA, the commonest cause of neuroendocrine
      dysfunction is cranial irradiation. PHA region unavoidably receives radiation with whole
      brain radiotherapy or if the tumour itself is arising from this region. For the treatment of
      tumours adjacent to PHA but not involving it, it may be frequently a part of radiotherapy
      planning target volume, which includes the gross tumour and a margin to account for any
      microscopic disease and possible daily set up inaccuracies and thus receive significant
      doses. The region may also sometimes come in the entry / exit path of radiation beams during
      treatment of tumours even away from this region. Radiation induced hormonal abnormalities are
      generally dose dependent and may develop many years after irradiation. To reduce the impact
      of endocrine dysfunctions on physical, mental and sexual development, it is important to
      detect and treat them timely. Early growth hormone replacement is the only way to minimise
      growth retardation caused by its deficiency but the treatment is expensive with significant
      financial implications, especially in our country. The annual cost of GH replacement is
      approximately Rs 200,000.00, which is prohibitive for the vast majority of the Indian parents
      as is the cost of LHRH analogues, which is useful to prevent early epiphyseal fusion and
      stunted growth in children with post radiation or tumour related precocious puberty.

      1.4 Evolution of Stereotactic conformal radiotherapy (SCRT) Conventional radiotherapy
      techniques generally involve the use of 2-3 radiation beams covering the tumour and a margin
      of 1-3 cms for any subclinical disease and physical inaccuracies in the daily treatment
      delivery. The last decade has seen tremendous technological advances in radiotherapy planning
      and accurate treatment delivery. Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) and stereotactic
      radiotherapy (SRT) techniques involve firm and accurate immobilisation with fixed or
      relocatable frames, high precision three-dimensional (3-D) target localisation with CT/CT-MRI
      fusion and focused radiation delivery. This is achieved either with a multiple source cobalt
      unit (gamma knife) or with multiple arcs using a modified conventional linear accelerator.
      Such conventional stereotactic irradiation techniques typically produce spherical high dose
      volumes and are therefore suitable only for small spherical lesions. A majority of the brain
      tumours considered for radiotherapy however are not spherical and frequently extend to
      adjacent structures. To treat large non-spherical volumes with conventional SRS requires the
      addition of multiple small spherical high dose volumes described as multiple isocentre
      treatment. The overlap of high dose spheres results in dose inhomogeneity, which has been
      associated with a higher incidence of radiation induced complications. It has been previously
      demonstrated that the optimum way of delivering high precision localised irradiation to
      larger non-spherical targets is with the use of multiple conformal fixed fields with
      individualised shielding of each radiation field conforming to the shape of the target. This
      principle of conformal therapy combined with the precision of stereotactic localisation and
      focused radiation delivery is described as stereotactic conformal radiotherapy (SCRT).

      Traditionally, stereotactic irradiation has been delivered in a one session as single
      fraction radiosurgery. High doses of radiation given in one fraction are known to be
      associated with a high risk of radiation induced damage to normal tissue and this is
      particularly true for the central nervous system. Giving radiation in small individual doses
      allows the delivery of higher radiation doses without serious injury to the normal tissues,
      which is especially important for normal CNS structures. Single fraction SRS has been shown
      to be associated with considerable neurological toxicity to the optic apparatus the cranial
      nerves and normal brain. With the application of high precision relocatable non-invasive
      means of immobilisation, it has become possible to deliver stereotactic irradiation in a
      fractionated manner. The technique of SCRT combines the precision of focused radiation
      delivery and the radiobiological advantages of fractionation. It also ensures homogenous dose
      distribution within the irradiated volume further reducing the risk of damage.

      The basic aim of high precision SCRT is to achieve a high dose differential between the
      tumour and the surrounding normal tissues. This allows for either an increase in the tumour
      dose to improve local control or for a potential decrease in radiation damage to the normal
      tissues. Further optimisation of the technique involving 3-4 conformal non-coplanar field
      arrangement has shown a significant dose reduction to the normal brain. Preliminary
      experience, mainly in adults has shown this technique to be feasible during the routine
      practice of a busy radiotherapy department. Early results in terms of local control are same
      as that with conventional radiotherapy, with an increased sparing of the surrounding normal
      brain and adjacent critical structures. While the experience is limited in young children, a
      few reports have suggested it to be feasible in this population also. The technique has the
      potential to minimise the dose to any critical site close to the tumour like
      pituitary-hypothalamic complex, cochlea, brain stem, optic apparatus and the mesial temporal
      lobes, which are believed to be the common sites of radiation injury leading to late
      morbidity.

      NEED FOR THE PRESENT STUDY The finding of significant long-term effects in a large proportion
      of brain tumour survivors mandates the development of treatment strategies designed to
      minimise their impact on the quality of life. Although the precise role of radiotherapy in
      the causation of various post treatment sequelae is not established, it is generally believed
      to be at least partly responsible for these effects. There have been attempts to modify the
      management in terms of avoiding, delaying radiotherapy or reducing the total radiation dose
      to the tumour with a view to reduce its impact on the long-term toxicity. However, reduction
      of radiotherapy doses to the tumour has been shown to result in poorer local control rates.
      Also, a majority of the patients in whom the radiation is delayed eventually do require
      radiotherapy at later stages (37). There is also evidence that radiotherapy given upfront
      yields superior disease control than radiotherapy given at the time of tumour progression
      (38,39). In light of this data, there is therefore, an ever-increasing need to explore
      techniques of radiotherapy minimising the irradiation to the normal brain and critical
      structures without compromising radiotherapy doses essential for tumour control. SCRT is a
      modern high-precision radiotherapy technique, which reduces the volume of normal brain
      irradiated and has the capability to minimise the doses to critical structures.

      The evidence of long term effects of focal irradiation so far is from retrospective studies
      and a few small prospective trials. There is therefore, a great need to evaluate this issue
      in a prospective manner in a large number of patients. The present study is designed to
      prospectively estimate the incidence and severity of neuropsychological, cognitive and
      neuroendocrine dysfunction following radiotherapy delivered with conventional and
      stereotactic techniques and would be one of the most comprehensive studies providing very
      important longitudinal and reliable data regarding these sequelae. The study involving 200
      patients would be to the best of our knowledge not only the largest ever study conducted so
      far but also the only randomised trial assessing these sequelae in patients receiving focal
      brain irradiation.

      The study also examines whether the physical advantages of modern technological progress
      translate in clinical benefit. This could have significant implications in the
      radiotherapeutic management of children and young adults with brain tumours. The study is
      unique in design in terms of evaluating the efficacy of SCRT with respect to conventional
      radiotherapy in terms of long term tumour control and treatment related complications.

      If the present trial succeeds in reducing the incidence and severity of radiotherapy related
      sequelae by SCRT technique, it would undoubtedly result in a tremendous benefit to these
      patients. A possible reduction in the neuroendocrine sequelae not only will improve the
      quality of life of the patients but would also result in major financial saving. This is
      critical in patients living in the developing countries where the cost of endocrinological
      management in terms of hormonal assays and their replacement is largely prohibitive.

      We have until Januray 2009 accrued 128 patients so far in the trial
    
  