
    
      Keratitis is a rare destructive cause of blindness. It typically affects young and healthy
      individuals, is excruciatingly painful, and difficult to treat. With 60% of cases
      mis-diagnosed at presentation, acanthamoeba keratitis carries a far worse visual prognosis
      compared to other cornea infections. Exposure to hot tubs is a widely accepted risk factor.
      However, the mechanism of infection and prediction of who is at risk is unknown as the vast
      majority of hot tub users do not become infected.In vivo changes to ocular microbiology after
      hot tub exposure has never been described.

      Changes to ocular microbiology after exposure to hot tubs have not been described. The
      purpose of this study is to investigate whether there are significant alterations in the
      microbiology of the conjunctiva after hot tub exposure that may contribute to these changes.

      This study will recruit at least 34 subjects, who will be randomized to head submersion
      versus no head submersion, using at least three different hot tubs. A conjunctival swab, a
      minimal-risk test performed routinely in the eye clinic, will be performed before and after
      15 minutes of hot tub exposure on one eye (randomized) per subject. The swabs will be plated
      on blood agar (bacterial cultures) and non-nutrient agar (acanthamoeba cultures).

      In this prospective study, healthy subjects will be recruited. The study will be Health
      Insurance Portability and Accountability Act compliant and approved by the Institutional
      Review Board. All subjects will review and sign an informed consent form.

      Each patient will have the conjunctiva of one eye (randomized) cultured. This practically
      no-risk technique entails touching a polyester-tip swab to the lining of the lower eyelid.
      Each subject will be randomized to head submersion or no head submersion; this exposure will
      be masked by the study coordinator. After 15 minutes of hot tub exposure, the subject will
      have the same eye swabbed for cultures.

      Each sample (pre- and post-hot tub) will be randomly assigned a study number. One study
      coordinator will record and mask data. Water from each tub will be cultured.

      The culture plates will be sent to our microbiology facility at UCSF and identification of
      organisms on the blood agar plates will be performed on our MALDI (mass spectrometry to
      identify bacteria and fungi). Non-nutrient agar plates will be plated with E. coli overlay
      and incubated for up to 7 days. The plates will be randomized and the microbiologists will be
      masked to exposures.
    
  