
    
      This study will assess the feasibility of initiating hormonal contraception in the pediatric
      ED. Currently, all 15-21-year-old patients receiving care in our ED are asked to complete an
      adolescent heath questionnaire to identify risk-factors for sexually transmitted infections
      (STIs). Sexually active female patients who indicate on this questionnaire they are not
      currently using hormonal contraception will be eligible for participation in this study.

      Potential participants will be screened using the EMR and eligible patients will be
      approached. Consent will be obtained from adults directly and from a parent or guardian for
      minors that have one present. For minors that present without a parent or guardian, assent
      only with be obtained from the minor. Participants will be randomized into two groups, an
      intervention group and a control group. Participants in both groups will be given tablet
      computer and, through a software application on the tablet, answer questions electronically
      about their background, medical history, and contraceptive preferences. They will then be
      shown a video that provides an overview of hormonal contraceptive options. Depending on the
      participants medical history and contraceptive preferences, they may be offered more in-depth
      educational videos about specific types of hormonal contraception for which they are eligible
      (e.g. pill, transdermal patch, intravaginal ring, injection, and implant).

      Once they have completed watching the videos, participants in the intervention group will
      have the option of initiating one of the offered forms of birth control during the ED visit.
      They will only be offered medications considered low risk and for which they do not have any
      medical contraindications. Urine pregnancy testing will be done before any method is given.
      They will be able to start any contraceptive method from among those offered after their
      screening. Participants in the control group will be offered outpatient referral to initiate
      contraception, the current standard of care in our ED. All patients in both arms of the study
      will be given referral/follow up options for further contraceptive care.

      All participants in this study will then be followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months to
      determine continuation of contraception practices, follow up practices, satisfaction, and
      pregnancy rates.
    
  