
    
      Overall survival of pelvic cancer patients depends on control of systemic disease. If local
      radiation therapy depletes bone marrow function to such an extent that systemic therapies
      must be withheld, chances of metastatic failure increase significantly. This may be more
      significant for this group of patients because approximately one third of adult bone marrow
      is located in the pelvic region. Strategies to minimize toxicities would benefit a range of
      pelvic cancer patients including gynecologic, anal, rectal, and prostate. New chemoradiation
      combinations improve outcomes for these disease sites, but come at the cost of higher levels
      of toxicity. As many as 40% of cervical cancer patients miss at least one chemotherapy cycle
      due to hematologic toxicity and 36% of anal cancer patients experience grade 3 or 4
      hematologic toxicity when undergoing chemoradiation therapy. A clinical trial of concurrent
      chemoradiation therapy for rectal cancer was terminated due to toxicity, including
      hematologic toxicities. Concurrent chemoradiation therapy shows promise for advanced stage
      prostate cancers, but it also increases grade 3 and 4 toxicities. To successfully limit
      hematologic toxicities for pelvic cancers, it is extremely advantageous to avoid irradiating
      the highly proliferative compartments of the pelvic bone marrow. However, the complex
      structure of the pelvis makes it difficult to assess the efficacy of radiation therapy (RT)
      planning strategies to avoid areas critical to hematopoiesis. Uptake of [18F]fluorothymidine
      imaged with positron emission tomography (FLT PET/CT) can be an accurate and sensitive tool
      for identifying and monitoring the effects of chemoradiation on proliferative pelvic bone
      marrow. Clinically validating the utility of FLT PET/CT imaging for identifying active bone
      marrow in the design of bone marrow sparing RT-plans and the important bone marrow assessment
      time points would provide a method to reduce acute and chronic hematologic toxicities for
      pelvic cancer patients.
    
  