
    
      Due to the extraordinary events of the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic, finding alternative
      delivery-models of treatment has come to the forefront of public health services worldwide.
      Consequently, on-line treatment is rapidly becoming an integral part of public health
      service. For patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA), where non-pharmacological and
      non-surgical treatment is considered first-line treatment, on-line delivered exercise has
      already shown promise and may be a viable treatment option, especially when traditional
      on-site exercise delivery models are unavailable. However, further studies are needed to
      clarify the relative effectiveness of on-line exercise and education when compared to on-site
      exercise and education programs.

      This study aims to evaluate the effects of on-line exercise and education in knee OA compared
      to a cohort of similar knee OA patients completing the same exercise and education program
      through on-site delivery.

      This study includes two cohorts of knee OA patients receiving the same exercise and education
      program through different delivery models (on-line vs. on-site). The on-line cohort is a new
      treatment delivery initiative, born out of the COVID-19 enforced shutdown of all non-critical
      on-site health care. The on-site cohort is comprised of knee OA patients from a patient
      registry, collecting outcome data as part of the exercise and education program.

      The exercise and education program is called Good Life with osteoArthritis in Denmark
      (GLA:D), and consists of two to three disease-specific educational sessions and 12
      neuromuscular exercise sessions (NEMEX-TJR). GLA:D originates from Denmark and has currently
      been implemented in Australia, Canada, China, Switzerland and New Zealand.

      This study will primarily compare outcomes of pain, function and quality of life between the
      two different treatment delivery models and will provide important insights in effectiveness
      of alternative delivery models of recommended first-line care for patients with knee OA.
    
  