
    
      Antibiotics are among the most valuable medical discoveries. Recent research on understanding
      of how bacteria in our gut use energy, however, raises concerns about whether broad-spectrum
      antibiotics, which are over-prescribed for mild infections, prescribed in early infancy may
      cause obesity during childhood. Obesity is a very common and serious condition among US
      children, particularly children from disadvantaged populations. Past studies examining the
      link between antibiotic use and childhood obesity are too small and they lack diversity as
      well as modern scientific tools to gauge the extent to which prescribing antibiotics can lead
      to excess weight gain. PCORnet, the National Patient-Centered Clinical Research Network,
      comprising very large networks of data from electronic medical records, provides an ideal
      test bed to address this question. Further, it is not clear how caregivers and clinicians
      will use the results of earlier studies to decide which antibiotics to prescribe when faced
      with common infections like ear infections.

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the comparative effects of different types, timing, and amount of
      antibiotics used during the first two years of life on body mass index and risk of obesity at
      ages 5 (primary outcome age) and 10 (secondary) years. Hypothesis: There will be a
      "dose-response" relationship between the number of antibiotic courses given during the first
      2 years of life and both higher BMI and the probability of obesity at ages 5 and 10 years.
      This relationship will be strongest for broad-spectrum antibiotics prescribed in the first 6
      months of life.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the comparative effects of different types, timing, and amount of
      antibiotics used during the first two years of life on the rates and patterns of childhood
      growth during the first 5 years of life. Hypothesis: There will be a "dose-response"
      relationship between the number of antibiotic courses given during the first 2 years of life
      and subsequent growth trajectories of children in a pattern that increases children's risk of
      later overweight and obesity. This relationship will be strongest for broad-spectrum
      antibiotics prescribed in the first 6 months of life.

      Specific Aim 3: To explore how the effects of different types, timing, and amount of
      antibiotics on childhood BMI, obesity risk and growth (Aims 1 and 2) vary according to
      patient socio-demographic, clinical, and maternal characteristics, including: 1)
      socio-demographic (Child sex, Child race/ethnicity, Geography, based on location of clinical
      facility); 2) Clinical (Prescription of medications that also cause obesity, esp.
      corticosteroids, Low birth weight or macrosomia in term infants); 3) Maternal for the subset
      of data partners listed in section B above that have linked maternal and child records (BMI,
      Maternal receipt of antibiotics during pregnancy, Type of delivery, i.e., Cesarean v.
      vaginal). Hypotheses: The antibiotic effects will not vary by socio-demographic or maternal
      characteristics. Long-term corticosteroid use will potentiate the effect of antibiotics on
      childhood obesity.

      Secondary Aim: Through focus groups and in-depth interviews, to explore how parents and other
      caregivers and their providers assess information related to current and future benefits and
      risks, particularly for treatments such as antibiotics in early childhood, which can have
      substantial near-term benefits along with moderate long-term risks. The investigators will
      also explore how clinicians, health care organizations, and policy makers should best present
      study findings to help parents understand its strengths and limitations in the context of
      shared clinical decision-making.
    
  