
    
      Numerous epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between acute and chronic
      exposure to air pollution and various adverse cardiopulmonary effects including mortality,
      respiratory tract infections, exacerbation of asthma symptoms, chronic bronchitis, ischemic
      heart disease, and stroke [1] and other health effects. Understanding the components
      responsible for these effects is difficult because ambient air pollution is a complex mixture
      of gases and particulate matter (PM). In this complex mixture of ambient air pollution, ozone
      (O3) and diesel exhaust (DE) are generally major and important components. Controlled
      exposure of volunteers to either pollutant have resulted in biological effects such as lung
      physiological changes. However it is not known if co-exposure to both pollutants, similar to
      polluted ambient air, can induce additive or synergistic effects. Additionally it is also
      uncertain if exposure to DE, or DE with O3, can alter a subsequent exposure to O3 similar to
      multiple day exposures that the general population receives. This study proposes to examine
      whether co-exposures to O3 and DE can induce additive or synergistic effects, and whether a
      previous DE exposure alters a response upon subsequent exposure to O3. The potential effects
      of O3 on cardiac electrophysiology are also not clear.

      Approximately 15 healthy non-smoking volunteers between the ages of 18 and 55 will be exposed
      in a controlled manner to O3 (approximately mean concentration of 0.3 ppm over the 2 hr
      exposure period), or diesel exhaust (DE; ~300 µg/m3), or a combined O3 and DE exposure while
      undergoing moderate intermittent exercise at the EPA Human Studies Facility. A clean air
      exposure will serve as a control. Primary endpoints for evaluating health effects and
      surrogate responses are changes in lung function and heart rate variability. In addition,
      other cardiopulmonary and vascular biological endpoints will be measured, as well as markers
      of exposure and genetic markers of susceptibility.
    
  