
    
      This is a multi-centre (RDH and ASH), phase IV, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled
      Bayesian adaptive trial of oral NTZ for the treatment of acute gastroenteritis requiring
      admission to hospital. A maximum of 300 children aged between three months and less than five
      years of age will be enrolled. Study participation is from the point of enrolment until 60
      days after enrolment. Enrolment will occur within 48 hours of admission to hospital. Enrolled
      participants will be randomised 1:1 to Nitazoxanide (NTZ) or placebo. Other treatment and
      management will be as per the standard of care described in the admitting hospital's
      guidelines and will be ultimately the decision and responsibility of the named medical
      consultant. Stool samples will be collected at the point of admission. Solicitation of
      symptoms will be by review of routinely collected medical data recorded in the participant's
      medical record, and will be supplemented by completion of study specific diary cards until
      discharge (for the first 210 enrolments). Attempts will be made to contact participants at
      day 7 after enrolment (by telephone if already discharged) to ascertain symptoms occurring in
      the intervening period. At days 30 and 60 (for first 210 enrolments ) and Day 60 (for
      enrolment #211 onwards) after enrolment a clinical record review will be conducted for all
      participants to ascertain health care attendances following discharge.

      The sample size for the study is a maximum of 300 children, randomised on a 1:1 basis to the
      two study treatment groups. The trial will stop recruiting when pre-specified decision
      criteria are met based on treatment superiority or trial futilty or when 300 children have
      been enrolled. Based on previously published data it is hypothesised that NTZ treatment will
      result in a decrease in the median duration of medically significant illness by 1 day. A
      decrease of one day is considered to be the minimum useful decrease of relevance to the study
      setting. It is anticipated that there will be minimal lost to follow-up as the primary
      endpoint will be available for the majority of participants in each arm due to the short
      interval between enrolment and meeting the criteria for the primary endpoint.

      The trial will be conducted as a fixed allocation Bayesian adaptive randomised controlled
      trial. This statistical methods in the protocol are written to be practical and accessible to
      individuals with an understanding of common clinical trial designs and classical frequentist
      analytical methods but without training in Bayesian statistics. A formal description of the
      interim Bayesian data analysis fundamental to this design, which assumes substantial
      familiarity with Bayesian calculation of posterior distributions conditioned on observed
      data, is documented in the Statistical Analysis Plan. There is overlap between the protocol
      and statistical analysis plan so that each may serve an appropriate audience as a standalone
      description of the statistical methods. Briefly, within the Bayesian framework, the
      intervention arms are evaluated and sequential Bayesian statistical analyses are used over
      time to incorporate new trial outcome information to determine if a treatment is superior,
      inferior, or equivalent, with respect to the primary end-point. Every child will be randomly
      assigned in a ratio 1:1 to placebo or nitazoxanide. Children will be classified by membership
      in different strata, where membership will be defined by age and geographical region.
      Whenever an interim analysis reports superiority, inferiority, or equivalence with respect to
      the primary end-point this is termed a Statistical Trigger. At any given interim analysis, a
      Statistical Trigger may be reached for all children or for one or more strata.
    
  