
    
      There is a surfeit of literature on musculoskeletal pain especially that of back pain, which
      are commonly associated with lifestyle practices including varied occupations that affect
      individuals of all ages.

      Medical students in the clinical years of training are more likely to be involved in
      strenuous activities such as prolonged standing for ward rounds, bending forward to examine
      patients and sometimes being engaged in manual handling of patients, as compared to medical
      students in the preclinical years. During the early period of preclinical training, medical
      students primarily sit for extended periods in lectures, use computers or tablets, or in the
      library, studying and completing assignments. These practices can all be attributable to the
      increased risk of developing low back among other musculoskeletal problems; especially in
      instances where the strength and stability of the spine is not maintained and safe spine
      precautions are not done.

      There is no published study in Jamaica or to the researcher's knowledge in the Caribbean
      which looks at the prevalence of musculoskeletal pain, specifically low back pain in medical
      students. This study is to determine the prevalence of low back pain in second and
      fourth/fifth year medical students at the University of the West Indies (UWI); assess their
      knowledge, attitude and practice toward good spine health in preventing back and neck pain;
      and using a prospective randomized control study model, evaluate the outcome of a
      standardized spine exercise program on back pain in the preclinical second year medical
      students over an eight (8) week period from September 7, 2015 to November 2, 2015.

      Both groups will be followed up over the stipulated period. The identity of all participants
      will be protected and will only be identified by an assigned study number. Basic
      demographics, presenting complaints and outcome information will be obtained for the purposes
      of the study. Questionnaires will be carefully constructed from the objectives of the study
      to determine the presence of back and neck pain in the medical students and their knowledge,
      attitude and practice towards the musculoskeletal problem of the back.
    
  