
    
      Randomized, multi-center, double-blind, two-armed, parallel active groups, prospective trial,
      to evaluate, in pediatric population undergoing Flat Foot surgery or Inguinal hernia repair,
      the efficacy and safety of chloroprocaine 1% and 2% for peripheral nerve block (PNB) based on
      concentration-response relationships. The present protocol is part of an extensive Pediatric
      Investigational Plan (PIP) which has been submitted to the Paediatric Committee (PDCO) of the
      European Medicine Agency (EMA)in the contest of the marketing authorization application of
      chloroprocaine use for perineural block. The PDCO has adopted a positive opinion on both the
      PIP and the present clinical protocol.

      Chloroprocaine Hydrochloride 1% Sintetica is currently marketed in 9 European countries as
      intrathecal (spinal) anesthetic in adults where the planned surgical procedure is not
      expected to exceed 40 minutes. Since 2015, the Marketing Authorization in Switzerland has
      been extended to chloroprocaine HCl 20 mg/mL and 30 mg/mL solutions for injection, for local
      anesthesia by infiltration, for PNB and epidural block, respectively. Regional analgesia, and
      specifically PNB, is an acceptable means of providing intraoperative anesthesia and
      postoperative analgesia in neonates, infants, and children while decreasing the use of
      systemic opioids and avoiding opioid-related adverse effects. With the advent of ultrasound
      and improvements in equipment in the last decade, the utilization of PNB in children has
      increased tremendously.

      Flat Foot and inguinal hernia repair have been considered the ideal surgeries for testing the
      clinical efficacy and safety of chloroprocaine since they are short procedures with low
      postoperative pain that only require a short- to intermediate-acting agent. The study
      consists of a treatment period of 1 day and of a single perineural injection, administered
      through ultrasound-guided technique in order to avoid the risk of chloroprocaine IV
      injection. A total of 174 (87 per treatment group, allocated to 1% or 2% arm in a ratio of
      1:1) male and female paediatric patients (age range from birth to <18 years) undergoing Flat
      Foot surgery or Inguinal hernia repair, planned for peripheral nerve block anaesthesia and
      equally distributed within the two surgical procedures.
    
  