
    
      Background: Liver cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide.
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) typically presents arterial phase hyperenhancement. For
      intermediate stage disease and the majority of patients not eligible for curative therapies,
      transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is considered as the first-line palliative treatment
      in eligible patients.

      Despite its efficacy on HCC, TACE presents major challenges such as the lack of quantitative
      biomarkers of treatment response. Dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) enables
      quantitative assessment of tumor and tissue enhancement, by acquiring MR signal intensity as
      a function of time.

      Objectives: This study is conducted: 1) to develop a monitoring system based on quantifiable
      measures during intra-arterial treatments from dynamic MRI, using time-activity curves
      analyzed using a dual-input dual-compartment model, and 2) to look at blood flow curves of
      the MRI before the treatment, if any, for at least one tumor, without requiring any breath
      hold.

      Design:

        -  Post-treatment phase group: This will be a prospective study in HCC patients undergoing
           TACE (including DC beads) according to their clinical standard of care. A 4D-THRIVE
           sequence will be performed. Single intensities before/after gadolinium-based contrast
           agent enhancement will be used to create time-concentration curves, which will be fitted
           to a simple perfusion model that accounts for the dual blood supply of the liver through
           the hepatic artery and the portal vein. Perfusion parameters of arterial hepatic blood
           flow, portal venous hepatic blood flow, total hepatic blood flow and arterial fraction
           will be extracted from the model and compared between HCC and surrounding cirrhotic
           liver. When deemed necessary, a CBCT can be acquired before chemo-embolization in way to
           see that the appropriate artery is selected for the treatment. The CBCT will be used
           when available to determine the parameters of the blood flow obtained with our model.

        -  Pre-treatment phase group: This will be a prospective study in HCC patients undergoing a
           MRI according to their clinical standard of care. A 4D-THRIVE sequence will be
           performed. Single intensities before/after gadolinium-based contrast agent enhancement
           will be used to create time-concentration curves, which will be fitted to a simple
           perfusion model that accounts for the dual blood supply of the liver through the hepatic
           artery and the portal vein. Perfusion parameters of arterial hepatic blood flow, portal
           venous hepatic blood flow, total hepatic blood flow and arterial fraction will be
           extracted from the model and compared between HCC and surrounding cirrhotic liver.

        -  Comparison: A comparison between the blood flow curves between the post-treatment phase
           group [apnea] and the pre-treatment phase group [free-breathing] will be done.

      Methods: Forty patients will be selected. For twenty-nine of them [post-treatment phase
      group], a 4D-THRIVE sequence will be acquired within 2 weeks prior to TACE and between 6 and
      8 weeks after TACE. A 4D-FLOW MRI sequence will also be included. For the remaining eleven
      patients [pre-treatment phase group], only a 4D-THRIVE sequence will be acquired within 2
      weeks prior to treatment, if any, including a 4D-FLOW MRI sequence.

      Expected results: The results of this study will provide quantitative DCE-MRI biomarkers for
      identification of viable tumor and tumor response. In addition, presence of increased %
      arterial flow and decreased portal venous flow in HCC using DCE-MRI are expected to help to
      assess treatment response.
    
  