
    
      The high morbidity and mortality associated with both pandemic and seasonal influenza and the
      threat of new potentially pandemic strains emerging makes influenza an important infectious
      disease and public health problem. Public health agencies must continue attempts to reduce
      the public health impact of this important virus.

      Currently, influenza vaccination is the cornerstone of prophylaxis and the most effective
      method available to reduce the impact of influenza on the population. Current vaccines target
      the major surface protein, hemagglutinin (HA), and are standardized by stimulation of serum
      anti-HA antibodies as the primary correlate of protection. Measurements of serum antibodies
      to HA have become the gold standard for evaluating vaccines. The Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
      (CHMP) both define protective titers as a hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) titer of greater
      than or equal to 40. Recent vaccine effectiveness has been limited and, in some populations,
      estimated at as low as 10%. Improved methods of vaccination must be developed, but limited
      information regarding the true correlates of protection is available. Correlates of
      protection in the systemic circulation may be less informative than those located in the
      nasopharyngeal mucosa, which is the site of exposure to and infection with influenza virus.

      This study is designed to characterize the mucosal and systemic immunologic correlates of
      protection from influenza infection in persons vaccinated and unvaccinated against influenza.
      Half of participants will receive current licensed quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine
      (IIV) administered via the intramuscular (IM) route at the standard dose, prior to challenge
      with influenza virus. The other half will receive no vaccination prior to challenge.
      Immunologic response and clinical outcomes in the human challenge model will be determined to
      characterize the two cohorts. In the vaccinated cohort, mucosal and systemic immune responses
      induced by IM administration of quadrivalent IIV will also be carefully explored. The
      thoughtful study of mucosal immunity to influenza is expected to identify novel correlates of
      protection. By administering quadrivalent IIV and then infecting participants with human
      challenge virus, we can evaluate in detail the immunologic responses after immunization and
      subsequent virus exposure. This controlled setting offers the ideal environment to query
      these responses and to identify targets of mucosal stimulation for future vaccine strategies.
      In addition, the detailed characterization of the mucosal and systemic immune responses after
      vaccination and challenge will represent a true advance in understanding influenza immunity.
    
  