
    
      Disease Background:

      Between 1997 and 2001 the incidence of ovarian cancer in Switzerland was 15.8 per 100'000
      women and ranks fifth among the cancer incidence in women. Nearly half of the patients die of
      the disease leading to a mortality rate of 7.7 per 100'000. Together with pancreatic cancer,
      ovarian cancer ranks fifth among cancer related deaths in women. The most common form of
      ovarian cancer is the epithelial ovarian cancer with an incidence of 91.1%. Thus, in the
      following the term ovarian cancer will refer solely to malignant epithelial ovarian cancer
      (78.6% of all ovarian cancers) excluding borderline or low malignancy epithelial ovarian
      tumors (12.5%).

      Early stages of the disease (FIGO I - IIA) show practically no symptoms, thus 80% of ovarian
      cancers are diagnosed at later stages (FIGO IIB - IV), a main reason for the high mortality.
      Treatment for all stages are surgical removal of visible and resectable tumor nodules,
      ovaries, uterus, omentum, pelvic and paraaortic lymph nodes, in advanced stages tumor
      infested organs or organ parts have to be removed (=cytoreduction or debulking). Survival
      time strongly depends on the completeness of the cytoreduction. Surgery is followed by a
      chemotherapy of carboplatin and paclitaxel or carboplatin alone (except for the low risk FIGO
      stage IA, G1).

      Published survival rates after therapy vary considerably and are mainly dependent on the
      stage of the tumor and the remaining tumor size (some tumor masses cannot be resected due to
      the proximity to vital organs like major blood vessels).

      _____Stage______survival after 5 years

        -  FIGO I........76% - 93%

        -  FIGO II.......60% - 74%

        -  FIGO III......23% - 41%

        -  FIGO IV..........11%

      (from J. S. Berek & N. F. Hacker, Practical Gynecologic Oncology 3ed. Philadelphia:
      Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2000, 504.)

      Even with optimal debulking and adjuvant chemotherapy about 55% of all patients suffer from
      recurrent ovarian cancer which is considered essentially an incurable disease, since the
      response rate of a secondary treatment is 30% and the median survival is about 60 weeks.

      Therapy background:

      Hyperthermic intraoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC)

      Unless the tumor has already metastasized (FIGO IV) ovarian cancer tumor nodules are
      restricted to the peritoneal cavity. Since standard chemotherapy is applied intravenously the
      cytotoxic drugs can reach the cancer cells only by diffusion into the peritoneum or via the
      blood stream by the sometimes poor vascularisation of the tumor nodules. To improve the
      exposure of the tumor to the cytotoxic drugs clinical trials were performed to deliver the
      chemotherapy directly into the peritoneum (intraperitoneal chemotherapy). While this type of
      therapy shows very promising results, it also has some serious drawbacks: permanent catheters
      have to be implanted, even distribution of the instillate is difficult and sometimes linked
      with considerable discomfort for the patient.

      Alternatively the intraperitoneal chemotherapy can be applied directly after the
      cytoreductive surgery (intraoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy). Since the peritoneum is
      completely opened, the perfusate can easily reach all surfaces and the surgeon can facilitate
      the distribution by gentle agitation with his hands. Since the whole procedure is performed
      during the surgery under full anesthesia the patient does not have to suffer additional
      discomfort. While intraperitoneal chemotherapy can be applied repeatedly like conventional
      chemotherapy, the intraoperative chemotherapy can only be performed once. Thus, the
      effectiveness of the treatment should be as high as possible. This can be achieved by using
      the highest possible drug concentration and by increasing the temperature of the perfusate to
      approximately 42°C (hyperthermic intraoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy). The rational
      for the hyperthermic treatment is several fold. First, it has been shown that some tumors can
      be killed by elevated temperatures alone. Second, the elevated temperatures increase the
      diffusion rate of the drugs into the tumor and thus the drug can penetrate deeper into the
      tumor nodules. Furthermore, elevated temperatures increase the cell membrane permeability and
      thus the uptake of the cytotoxic drugs by the tumor cells. Finally, with some cytotoxic
      drugs, like cisplatin, the cytotoxicity can be increased about 50 fold by a temperature
      increase from 37°C to 42°C in tissue culture models.

      Rationale for performing the trial:

      Most studies performing hyperthermic intraoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy dose the
      cytotoxic drugs according to the body surface (like 50 mg/m² cisplatin) in analogy to
      systemic, intravenous chemotherapy (usually using the same dose). Although there seems to be
      a correlation between body surface and blood volume, the pharmacodynamics of drugs dosed by
      the body surface is still highly variable and thus dosing on the body surface is increasingly
      considered controversial for systemic administration. However, only very few drugs are dosed
      differently, e.g. carboplatin.

      For hyperthermic intraoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy dosing by the body surface makes
      even less sense, since the aim is the highest possible drug concentration in the peritoneum
      without undue local and systemic toxicity. Furthermore, most studies using intraoperative
      chemotherapy vary the volume of the perfusate according to the size of the patient. Since the
      amount of cytotoxic drug is already fixed by the dosing on the body surface (amount [mg] =
      dose [mg/m²] x body surface [m²]) the effective concentration (mg/l) in the perfusate can
      vary considerably between patients. On the other hand pharmacokinetic analyses have shown
      that reducing the concentration of the cytotoxic drug in the perfusate reduces the efficacy
      even if the amount of the drug remains the same.

      In this study the safety of a new dosing regime will be evaluated. The concentration of
      cisplatin in the perfusate will be held constant independent of body weight or size to
      achieve the highest effectiveness of the chemotherapy. However, if the amount of cisplatin
      would exceed the equivalent of 62.5 mg/m² body surface, dosing would be again based on the
      body surface (62.5 mg/m²) for safety reasons.

      The primary endpoint is the safety of the treatment. All patients should be able to receive
      full dose systemic carboplatin chemotherapy after completion the trial treatment.

      Treatment plan:

      Patients undergo cytoreductive surgery to remove all visible tumor nodules.

      After the cytoreduction the hyperthermic intraoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy is
      performed. For 90 min 42°C warm cisplatin solution (25 mg/l) is perfused through the
      peritoneum. Afterwards cisplatin will be removed by repeatedly rinsing the peritoneum with
      Ringer lactate solution. During the whole procedure the patient will receive a strong
      hydration according to a predefined protocol.

      Cisplatin pharmacokinetics:

      The concentration of platinum will be determined in perfusate, plasma and urine at various
      time points.

      Various published pharmacokinetic models of cisplatin clearance will be tested with the data
      obtained. Furthermore, we want to test whether pharmacokinetic parameters might correlate
      with nephrotoxicity to allow a prediction of nephrotoxic events.

      Translational research:

      Tumor tissue removed during the cytoreduction will be used for various in vitro experiments:

        -  Histological examination for infiltrating lymphocytes and determination of the
           lymphocytes

        -  Determine the depth of platinum infiltration after treatment of the tumor nodules under
           various conditions with cisplatin (in vitro)

        -  Analysis of tumor cell biology after chemotherapy and heat treatment in vitro (protein
           phosphorylation, release of second messengers)
    
  