
    
      This is a 100 patient observational-design study for the purpose of testing the seed loader
      device as a method of arranging and securing the seeds in a carrier in a set pattern for the
      convenient use of the neurosurgeon against the backdrop of a hodgepodge of currently
      available techniques (seed in suture, seed in mesh, loose seeds), all of which currently need
      to be secondarily secured with some additional, not currently standardized material, in a
      cumbersome, time-consuming, and not assuredly accurate manner. An additional primary
      objective will be an assessment of the loader device as a radiation protection tool for the
      user and staff during seed placement in the carrier and prior to intracranial carrier
      placement. Secondary objectives will be conformality of pre- and post-implant dosimetry
      (expected vs achieved) and post implant stability (seed shift) over time as judged on a
      routine follow up MRI. An additional proposed endpoint is an economic (cost) comparison to
      other modalities.

      Eligible patients are those deemed appropriate for and scheduled to undergo adjuvant
      brachytherapy of the central nervous system as determined by the radiation oncologist and
      neurosurgeon. Potential candidates will have a lesion(s) that may be newly diagnosed or
      recurrent, in need of gross total or near gross total resection, and such that in the opinion
      of the operating surgeon it would be both amenable to and in need of the proposed treatment.
      Informed consent will be obtained. Radiation oncologist and neurosurgeon will determine
      appropriateness of the proposed procedure and the radiation oncologist and neurosurgeon will
      determine the volume and configuration of the area to be implanted.

      A carrier using currently available material (lyophilized bovine-derived collagen, Duraform
      or similar) stocked in the BNI OR. The isotope (seeds) are also already approved for use
      anywhere in the body, are in use and on the hospital's radioactive materials license (RML).
      Patients will have pre- and post-operative computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) as routine care, and post-operative CT's as per routine implant case dosimetry.
      All applicable radiation safety procedures will continue to be followed. The sterilizable
      loader(s) will be provided as a non-charge-item, and are anticipated to be classified as a
      "Class 1" device by the FDA as they are not implanted and have no direct patient contact.
    
  