
    
      Definition: Extended description of the protocol, including more technical information (as
      compared to the Brief Summary), if desired. Do not include the entire protocol; do not
      duplicate information recorded in other data elements, such as Eligibility Criteria or
      outcome measures.

      Limit: 32,000 characters.

      Child-to-parent violence was kept secret for a long time. Searchers don't know much about
      this type of domestic violence, however they recently tried to investigate more on the
      subject. Bousquet et al. carried out a review of literature on the subject, and grouped the
      articles that they found. There was only one study concerned with children with Intrafamilial
      Oppositional Defiant Disorder (IODD) which is called in the study Oppositional Defiant
      Disorder with family tyranny (Delaunay et al., 2008).

      IODD is described in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 5 (DSM) as a
      mild form of Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD). This term characterizes children that meet
      the criteria for ODD ("a pattern of angry/irritable mood, argumentative/defiant behavior, or
      vindictiveness") but their symptoms are confined to only one setting: the home. Therefore,
      the aim of this study is to characterize Intrafamilial ODD children and the particularities
      of their families.

      Nowadays, new treatment strategies exist in Montpellier, designed to be used as group
      therapies. In these groups, non-violent resistance methods are taught to the parents. The
      efficiency of this therapy is currently being studied. To improve this therapy and to offer
      appropriate therapies to the children themselves, it is important to improve the
      acknowledgement of these "tyrannical children". This is the aim of this study. To reach this
      goal, the investigators will compare the medical records of the children with IODD to those
      of the children with classic ODD.

      On one hand, they expect children with IODD to be more anxious and smarter than children with
      "classic" ODD. On the other hand, they expect they will have had diseases that changed
      interactions with their parents. They also assume they will come from small families: i.e.
      they may be an only child, educated by a single parent, or they may have wealthy parents.
      Finally, they hypothesize that clinicians won't treat the children with IODD the same way as
      those with "classic" ODD.
    
  