
    
      Headache is one of the most common debilitating chronic pain conditions in either active or
      retired military personnel with MTBI. This high prevalence of persistent chronic headache is
      often associated with neuropsychological dysfunction in mood, attention, and memory, which
      casts a profound negative impact on patients' quality of life and increases stress in their
      caregivers. Unfortunately, as witnessed by the investigators in their clinical practices,
      conventional pharmacological treatments for MTBI related headache (MTBI-HA) has not been
      shown to be effective and drugs such as narcotics contain many long-term untoward
      psychosomatic and abusive side effects. This calls for an urgent need in developing alternate
      and innovative long-term headache management strategies for this rapidly increasing patient
      population.

      Coinciding with other published treatment protocols related to traumatic brain injury and
      pain, this initial clinical evidence provides compelling support for the current proposal
      aiming to assess the effect of a longer duration of rTMS protocol in managing MTBI-HA for up
      to 10 weeks after the initiation of the treatment. Given existing treatment options for
      MTBI-HA are limited, validating such a non-pharmacological and non-invasive treatment option
      will significantly enhance the capability of the VA healthcare system in caring for this
      rapidly increasing patient population.

        1. PRE-TREATMENT PHASE (weeks 1-2) consists of Visit 1 (Screening Visit) and Visit 2
           (Pre-treatment Assessments);

        2. TREAMENT PHASE (week 3-4) consists of Visits 3-12 (Neuronagvigation guided rTMS
           consisting of 10 weekday treatments at >24 and < 72 hours apart, weekends excluded,
           maximum 5 weeks for treatment completion) rTMS will take place in Building 23 Room 105
           at the VASDHS; and

        3. POST-TREATMENT PHASE (week 5-14) consists of two initial weekly visits (Visits 13&14)
           and two additional biweekly visits (Visits 15&16) and one monthly visit (Visit 17).

      Brain anatomical and functional MRI will be performed within 72 hours after Visits 2 and 13.
      Subjects will be required to fill out headache diary between assessment visits. Headache
      assessments along with quality of life, mood and functions assessments will be carried out at
      Visits 1,2, and 13--17. This frequency of treatment and duration of follow-up is in line with
      recently published rTMS articles related to TBI, headache and pain, and also in accordance
      with the 3-month post treatment initiation follow-up guideline/recommendation [32; 55; 80].
    
  