
    
      The current IVM system in use in the clinic has a single step approach and seems to be less
      efficient compared to research and literature findings using a biphasic CAPA-IVM system in
      terms of maturation.

      To ascertain the efficiency of the biphasic CAPA-IVM system, both standard IVM and CAPA-IVM
      will be performed on sibling oocytes: maturation in standard IVM in the investigator's center
      is on average 47.5%, where CAPA-IVM reaches 62% maturation in literature.

      The investigators aim to prove superiority of the CAPA-IVM system in terms of maturation.
      Also fertilization and embryo development will be compared.

      The participants admitted to the study will be receiving both the standard IVM treatment for
      part of the participant's oocytes and the biphasic CAPA IVM system for the second part of the
      participant's oocytes.

      In one ovary a regular oocyte pick up (OPU) will take place with oocytes assigned to the
      standard IVM treatment, in the other ovary the CAPA IVM system will be applied. This means
      oocytes that are liberated from the follicular environment need to be exposed immediately to
      the inhibiting CNP peptide and herefore the tubes to collect the follicle fluid from the
      punctured follicles are prefilled with CNP supplemented medium. The OPU procedure is
      identical for both ovaries and according to our standard OPU IVM procedure with the sole
      difference of empty or prefilled tubes to collect follicle fluid.

      Oocytes from the 2 ovaries are separately processed in the lab according to attributed
      protocol.

      After IVM of oocytes, mature oocytes are subjected to ICSI with partner's sperm or donor
      sperm. Partner's sperm sample will be frozen at the latest the day of egg retrieval and will
      be thawed the day of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI): due to the use of 2 different
      IVM protocols with 2 different time lines (30 hours maturation versus 24 hours+30 hours
      maturation), ICSI will take place on two consecutive days with a freshly thawed straw of
      sperm cells for each day.

      Embryo development is followed until day 3 (cleavage stage) after ICSI. All embryos of
      sufficient quality will be vitrified for a deferred embryo transfer in a hormone replacement
      therapy (HRT) cycle. One embryo will be selected for embryo transfer based on the
      morphological quality assessment parameters, with the better quality as first choice for
      transfer, regardless the preceding IVM method. Frozen single embryo transfer cycles are
      repeated until pregnancy.
    
  