
    
      This is a multicenter (when more than one hospital or medical school team work on a medical
      research study), randomized (the study drug is assigned by chance), double-blind (neither
      physician nor participant knows the treatment that the participant receives) study of
      intetumumab in combination with docetaxel and prednisone for the first-line treatment of
      participants with metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer. There will be 2 study
      groups. One group will receive intetumumab in combination with docetaxel and prednisone
      (study treatment) and the other group will receive placebo (an inactive substance that is
      compared with a drug to test whether the drug has a real effect in a clinical trial) matching
      to intetumumab in combination with docetaxel and prednisone (control treatment). The duration
      of treatment will be 6 months. Participants who respond to treatment with stable disease or
      better will receive extended treatment until disease progression (disease worsening) or for
      an additional 6 months, whichever occurs first. Treatment can be further continued with the
      sponsor's discretion after receiving 6 months of extended treatment, if participant response
      to the treatment (with stable disease, partial response, or complete response). Participants
      who have confirmed progressive disease while receiving study treatment may have their
      treatment unblinded (participants will know the name of drug which was given to them), if
      they wish to be considered for alternative treatment. Participants who were receiving the
      control treatment will be considered to have completed the study treatment, and will have the
      option to receive alternative treatment. Alternative treatment will either be intetumumab
      along with docetaxel and prednisone or intetumumab alone. Participants' safety will be
      monitored throughout the study.
    
  