
    
      The adrenal glands are the major source in the body of the steroid hormones. In normal
      physiology, the pituitary hormone ACTH regulates the secretion of glucocorticoids, while the
      secretion of mineralocorticoids such as aldosterone is controlled by the renin-angiotensin
      system. In addition to these two classes of steroids, the adrenal gland secretes lesser
      amounts of intermediate metabolites as well as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfated
      product (DHEAS) and androstenedione, testosterone, estrogen, and estrone. Dysregulated
      secretion of any of these hormones can be caused by sporadic adrenocortical adenomas or
      carcinomas, with the development of specific clinical syndromes depending on the identity of
      the hormones secreted. In at least a subset of cortisol-producing adrenocortical neoplasms,
      the presence of ectopic or abnormal receptors has been described, resulting in the regulation
      of cortisol and/or aldosterone by non-physiologic stimuli. The present study will serve as a
      mechanism to investigate individuals with steroid hormone-secreting adrenocortical tumors of
      all types for the purpose of identifying hereditary, congenital, or acquired defects leading
      not only to hormone oversecretion, but also to tumor formation. One of the first goals of the
      study was (until very recently) to examine the prevalence of ectopic receptor expression in
      cortisol- and/or aldosterone- hormone secreting adrenocortical tumors. This led to the
      understanding of the ontogeny of these tumors and the development of novel therapeutic
      strategies (e.g., receptor antagonists) to control hormone oversecretion. We currently use
      this information for the evaluation and treatment of our patients. An important research goal
      of the study is to identify novel genetic defects leading to tumors of the adrenal gland.
      This is done through a set of methods, from sequencing of the collected DNA to analysis of
      the expression of large sets of genes using gene array/gene chip analysis. This information
      may help to identify patients who would benefit from more aggressive intervention strategies,
      especially those with potentially malignant tumors. This study also provides the patient
      cohort necessary for the establishment of a bank of tissues of varying tumors of the adrenal
      cortex, which may serve in the future as an experimental resource to test new diagnostic and
      therapeutic methods. Finally, an important and more recent goal of this study is to
      investigate the effects of excess aldosterone on renal, cardiac, metabolic, and bone systems
      in patients with primary hyperaldosteronism, an important subgroup of patients with
      adrenocortical tumors. Patients with hyperaldosetronism have not been studied with the same
      rigor as patients with hypercortisolism in the past; this study aims at investigating the
      relative contribution of hyperaldosteronism in the etiopathogenesis of a number of clinical
      problems in patients with adrenocortical lesions and hypertension.
    
  