
    
      Age is, without any doubt, one of the most important risk factors for adverse events after
      any cardiovascular procedure and because of this it is incorporated in all major risk scoring
      methods. There is abundant literature dealing with the outcome of elderly patients undergoing
      cardiovascular procedures as their operative risk is significantly increased and preoperative
      risk assessment is of great importance in the decision-making process of these fragile
      patients (1). In the very elderly patients percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is an
      attractive treatment method, particularly in those with multiple comorbidities (2). On the
      other hand, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) has been shown to be a durable procedure
      also among octogenarians (2).

      Young patients requiring myocardial revascularization are generally considered at low
      operative risk, but data on their immediate and late outcome are scarce. However, the
      decision-making process in these young patients is complicated by the potentially aggressive
      nature of premature coronary artery disease and their likely long expectancy of life, which
      expose them to a significantly higher risk of recurrent coronary events as well as the need
      of repeat revascularization. CABG seems to more durable compared with percutaneous coronary
      intervention (3), particularly because of excellent late results with the use arterial grafts
      (4). Therefore, young patients with diffuse coronary artery diffuse may likely benefit of
      surgical revascularization. However, no formal comparative analysis of these two treatment
      methods has been previously performed in this young patient population. Since CABG is a major
      procedure with a potential risk of operative mortality and major morbidity, this is an
      argument against surgical revascularization, even if recent pooled data showed that it can be
      performed with an exceedingly low mortality risk (0.9%) (Biancari et al. submitted, Fig. 1).

      Such a low postoperative mortality rate is similar to that reported by Khawaja et al. (5) in
      patients aged ≤ 50 years treated by PCI (0.86%). However, PCI was performed in 41% of these
      patients with single vessel coronary artery disease. This is likely to significantly differ
      from surgical series (6).

      Only two studies evaluated the outcome after CABG in patients aged < 40 years (7) and < 50
      years (8) and estimated a survival rate at 10 years of about 75%. A study by Ellis (9)
      addressed survival after PCI in 86 patients aged < 40 years and showed a 10-year survival
      rate of about 91%, but a significant number of patients underwent repeat PCI (37%) and/or
      CABG (22%). These findings should be viewed in the light of the fact that most of patients
      did not have diffuse coronary artery disease (3-vessel disease was present in 11% of
      patients) and they were treated about two decades ago. Khawaja et al. (6) reported on 2922
      patients aged ≤ 50 years who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention since 1979 and
      having a 5-year survival of about 95%. They reported repeat target revascularization rates
      ranging from 19% to 27% according to different study periods.

      The lack of data on long-term outcome as well as on operative details (in particular, on the
      use of arterial grafts) and peri- and postoperative medication prevent any conclusive results
      on the durability either of CABG of PCI in these young patients. Furthermore, recent advances
      in stents technology as well in peri- and postoperative medical treatment indicate the need a
      comparative study to define the baseline characteristics of patients aged < 50 years
      undergoing either PCI or CABG and to evaluate their current immediate and late outcome.
    
  