
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  A better understanding of the genetic make-up of the individual tumor may offer
           potentially improved therapies. This approach may also give rapid access to response
           data in patients with sometimes rare genetic abnormalities.

        -  In addition, it will allow us to test targeted therapies in a select population of
           patients that is more likely to have a favorable response based on their molecular
           profile and the specific mechanism of action of the drug being tested.

        -  This approach will also speed up drug development and potentially approval, and rescue
           an otherwise ineffective drug candidate for the specific subgroup that can benefit.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To determine the feasibility of the use of tumor s molecular profiling and targeted
           therapies in the treatment of advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), small
           cell lung cancer (SCLC) and thymic malignancies.

        -  To estimate the response rate of molecular-profile directed treatments in NSCLC, SCLC
           and thymic malignancies patients.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients with histologically confirmed advanced lung cancer or thymic malignancies for
           whom surgical resection with curative intent is not feasible.

        -  Patients must either have biopsiable disease and be willing to undergo biopsy for

      molecular profiling or have paraffin embedded tissue blocks suitable for molecular

      profiling analysis.

        -  Individuals are eligible for EGFR germline mutation testing if they have:

        -  a personal history of invasive lung cancer or one of the pre-invasive histologies

      associated with the development of lung cancer and more than two affected family members with
      invasive lung cancer or one of the pre-invasive histologies associated with the development
      of lung cancer; OR

        -  a first-degree relative with a known EGFR germline mutation (EGFR exon 20 T790M, exon 21
           V843I, exon 21 R831C and exon 20 R776G).

      DESIGN:

        -  All patients will have their tumors undergo molecular profiling. Based on these results
           and on other eligibility criteria, the patients will be offered enrollment into
           different targeted therapy arms.

        -  At the NCI site only, individuals eligible for EGFR germline mutation will undergo
           testing for germline mutations affecting the EGFR gene; if a mutation is detected, their
           first-degree relatives would be invited to undergo testing for the index germline
           mutation found in the proband and appropriate follow-up on trial.

        -  Effective with Amendment I, the participating site, OHSU, will discontinue new
           enrollments and data entry for existing patients on the NOS arm on this protocol in
           favor of the OHSU protocol L8639, Personalized Cancer Medicine Registry. The data from
           these patients will be included with the data from 11-C-0096 (8639) NCI patients at the
           time of publication. Any OHSU patients who are eligible for a treatment arm will
           continue to be enrolled and followed per protocol.
    
  