
    
      After the screening procedures confirms that the participant is able to participate in the
      study. The participant will be given a dosing diary for each treatment cycle. Each treatment
      cycle lasts 28 days, during which time the participant will take Palbociclib once a day on
      days 1-21 of each 28 day cycle and the aromatase inhibitor that the participant is already
      taking once a day every day. The diary will also include special instructions for taking the
      study drug(s).

      All participants participating in the research study will receive the same dose of
      Palbociclib.

      While participating in the research study the participant will have the following tests and
      procedures:

        -  Clinical Exams: The participant will have a physical exam on the first day of the month
           for first three months of therapy. After that, the participant will have a physical exam
           every other month until the end of the first year of therapy. After the first year, the
           participant will have a physical exam every 3 months during the second year of therapy.
           During the physical exam, the participant will be asked questions about their general
           health, questions about any problems that they may be experiencing, and any medications
           they are taking.

        -  Blood tests: The participant will have blood drawn on the first and fifteenth days of
           the first three months of therapy. After that, the participant will have blood drawn
           every month for the remainder of the first year of treatment and the every other month
           until the end of therapy. These tests will be used to determine if the participant is
           having any side effects related to the study drug.

        -  Electrocardiograms (EKG): The participant will have an EKG performed on the first day of
           the first three months of therapy. After that, the participant will have an EKG every
           other month until the end of the first year of therapy. After the first year of therapy,
           the participant will have an EKG every 3 months during the second year of therapy.
    
  