
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by
      motor control impairments, such as gait disturbances and postural instability. Beneficial
      effects of exercise are attributed to mechanisms of neuroplasticity, and task-specific motor
      training (repeated practice of a skill) is consequently considered to be a motor learning
      process. Importantly, the formation (acquisition) and consolidation of motor memories is
      impaired in PD compared to healthy individuals of similar age.

      Thus, it is crucial to identify strategies to enhance motor learning in people with PD.
      Recent studies have accumulated evidence to show that acute (single bouts of) and chronic
      (multiple bouts of) cardiovascular exercise can facilitate motor skill learning. However,
      this evidence is mainly derived from studying healthy individuals. In a first study including
      PD patients, the investigators recently found improved motor memory consolidation, but not
      improved skill acquisition, when practice was preceded by a single bout of cardiovascular
      exercise.

      These results suggested that acute exercise may enhance motor memory formation processes, but
      could potentially interfere with motor skill acquisition when performed prior to practice.
      Consequently, in a second study the investigators examined whether performing a single bout
      of cardiovascular exercise immediately following skill practice would enhance motor memory
      consolidation without affecting skill acquisition in PD. The results of this second study
      suggested that even a single moderate intense bout performed immediately following skill
      practice improves motor memory consolidation in PD patients.

      Going onward from the previous two studies, the present study will investigate the effects of
      performing cardiovascular exercise immediately following skill practice over the course of a
      six week intervention period on motor memory consolidation. It will be examined how the
      regular direct coupling of motor learning skill practice and cardiovascular exercise
      influences the consolidation and automation of the practiced movements.

      In an experimental trial, participants will be randomly allocated to one of two groups. Both
      groups will practice balancing on a stability platform (motor learning task). The
      experimental group will additionally perform a bout of aerobic exercise (cycle ergometer)
      immediately following motor practice, while the control group will rest. This intervention
      will be held over a period of six weeks. Subsequently, motor skill retention will be tested
      seven days after the last training session.
    
  