
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a common disease that can be prevented and
      treated, usually characterized by persistent respiratory symptoms and airway restriction due
      to airway and / or alveolar abnormalities due to exposure to harmful particles or gases. At
      the same time, it was emphasized that COPD is a systemic disease according to GOLD (Global
      Initiative for Obstructive Lung Diseases) and extrapulmonary involvement and comorbid
      conditions adversely affect the severity and prognosis of the disease. COPD is a chronic
      condition in which physical function, social function and general health are severely
      affected. Treatment in COPD is mainly aimed at effective disease management, prevention of
      disease progression, improvement of symptoms, and improvement of exercise tolerance. In the
      treatment guidelines for chronic lung diseases, extrapulmonary systems and symptoms should
      also be evaluated. In this context, the number of studies on the effects of postural
      stability, balance and fall has increased recently, especially in COPD patients. It is
      reported that the ability of the trunk to participate in postural stability due to increased
      resting breathing load, weakness of the muscle strength of the diaphragm, one of the major
      muscles with significant impact on balance, weakness of peripheral muscle and systemic
      inflammation lead to postural stability and balance risk in COPD patients. Clinical
      investigations of COPD patients in proportion to the severity of the disease; functional
      balance, coordination and mobility. Postural stability is defined as the act of maintaining,
      obtaining or recovering an equilibrium state during any posture or activity. Loss of postural
      control is one of the most common comorbidities in elderly individuals. Impaired postural
      control is more common when the elderly person has a chronic disease. The PLATINO study
      showed an increased prevalence of COPD in elderly individuals. Factors such as lower
      extremity muscle weakness, functional performance deficit and adaptive capacity, and reduced
      physical activity level in the elderly with COPD affect postural stability. In individuals
      with COPD, responses to postural perturbations have been shown to decrease compared to
      healthy controls. However, the ability to produce a successful postural reaction depends not
      only on motor performance but also on the efficient use of proprioceptive inputs. In a
      comprehensive study characterizing proprioceptive postural control in COPD, patients
      concluded that postural stabilization was impaired compared to healthy controls using ankle
      muscle proprioceptive signals more and back muscle proprioceptive signals less during balance
      control. These findings may be a potential risk factor for the likelihood of falls in COPD
      patients. Among the problems associated with COPD, there is considerable evidence that the
      risk of falls in these individuals increases. Falling problems and COPD are two major
      problems that bring great costs to the health system and especially affect elderly people.
      The well-known fall risk factors in COPD patients are lower limb muscle weakness and loss of
      mobility, characterized by a decrease in daily living activities. Although the efficacy of
      pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) in COPD is well defined, it provides minimal gains in postural
      control and balance. Alternative treatments are needed to improve balance and fall in COPD
      patients.

      Body Awareness Therapy (BAT) is an alternative method developed by French exercise instructor
      and psychotherapist Jacques Dropsy in the early 1970s following the emergence of the concept
      of body awareness and adapted to rehabilitation programs by Swedish and Norwegian
      physiotherapists. Traditional physiotherapy methods are the basis of BAT. Focusing on the
      senses, proprioceptive exercises aiming to improve the quality of movement, rhythm and
      coordination with sensory stimuli. BAT treats the individual physically, physiologically,
      psychologically and socially with a holistic approach and the treatment program is shaped
      according to the patient's needs. Breathing exercises, relaxation exercises, movement
      approaches specific to sensory awareness, positioning, stabilization, improving rhythm and
      coordination, and improving the ability to perform the exercise with maximum awareness are
      used in physiotherapy methods used in BAT. It consists of specific exercises, which include
      focusing on how the body is used during movements, aiming at improving one's awareness,
      ability to be careful, and quality of movement. In the literature, it is seen that Body
      Awareness Therapy reduces pain, fatigue, eating and sleep problems in various patient groups
      and increases the quality, coordination, balance, postural control, quality of life and
      mind-body integration of the exercise.

      VFT has been gaining popularity in recent years among many health professionals, especially
      physiotherapists. In BAT, movement is expressed by how one copes with the balance of the
      person and associates himself / herself with the place and vertical axis in relation to the
      environment. The integrity of postural stability is essential for comfortable breathing and
      awareness, key points for dynamic balance, and quality of movement. Although VFT consists of
      simple repetitive movements that maintain the ability to use stability limits, its main
      component is to increase the individual's awareness of his / her movements. Thanks to the
      neuroplasticity of the brain; multiple slow repetitive movements allow the participant to
      experience the body and its limits. Movement consciousness that develops by cortical
      processing of information about movement in the brain and facilitation of proprioceptive;
      postural control improves balance and coordination. In many cases that require treatment as a
      principled movement training technique behind mind-body interaction, which emphasizes motion
      teaching based on sensory motor awareness and cognitive perception of movement. BAT aims to
      normalize posture, balance, muscular tension and stiffness. Experiences learned by patients
      help them divide difficult movements into simpler, lighter movements with less energy
      consumption. Movement awareness and mind-body interaction during movement therapy can help
      regulate emotional, mental, social and behavioral factors that affect health. In addition to
      improving coping skills and cognitive behaviors among COPD patients, investigators think that
      integrating them into pulmonary rehabilitation sessions can have positive effects on postural
      stability, balance and fall, as they can help them move better and help postural control and
      thus improve their ability to perform daily living activities.
    
  