
    
      SCD is an inherited blood disorder, and symptoms include anemia, infections, organ damage,
      and intense episodes of pain, which are called "sickle cell crises." ACS, characterized by
      fever, respiratory distress, and lung tissue damage, is the second most common cause of
      hospitalization and the leading cause of death among people with SCD. Most people with SCD
      will experience at least one episode of ACS, and repeated episodes can result in progressive
      lung disease. ACS can appear suddenly and often requires immediate hospitalization and
      treatment, which can include blood transfusions. People with elevated blood levels of sPLA2
      may be at risk for developing ACS, and this enzyme is often detectable before the onset of
      ACS symptoms. The purpose of this study is to examine the use of sPLA2 as a predictor of ACS
      and to determine whether subsequent blood transfusions can be administered early enough to
      prevent the onset of ACS in people with SCD who are at risk for ACS. Study researchers will
      also assess the feasibility of conducting a larger study that would further examine the
      effectiveness of using sPLA2 levels and blood transfusions to prevent ACS.

      This study will involve two parts. In the first part of the study, participants with SCD who
      are admitted to the hospital with an acute sickle cell pain event will be randomly assigned
      to receive either a single blood transfusion or standard care for ACS and no blood
      transfusion. All participants will be closely monitored while in the hospital for the
      development of ACS, and study researchers will review participants' medical records. All
      participants will undergo daily blood collections, which will include testing for sPLA2
      levels, and at least two chest x-rays. Twenty-eight days after hospital discharge, all
      participants will attend a follow-up study visit for blood collection, again to determine
      sPLA2 levels.

      In the second part of the study, participants who are not eligible or who do not choose to
      participate in the first part of the study will be enrolled into an observational group.
      These participants will receive standard care for ACS, but will not receive a blood
      transfusion. They will undergo daily blood collection during their hospital stay and at least
      one chest x-ray. While participants are in the hospital and 28 days after discharge, study
      researchers will review participants' medical records.
    
  