
    
      Baseline Behavioral Assessment: Medical and neurological history will be taken. Western
      Aphasia Battery-Revised, Communication Activities of Daily Living-2, and Philadelphia Naming
      Test (short form) will be administered. Narrative will be elicited (Cinderella story). Some
      of these procedures will be videorecorded for later transcription. Subjects will also
      complete a pre-tDCS safety screening questionnaire.

      tDCS: Participants will undergo placement of 2 tDCS electrodes. For all subjects, the anodal
      electrode will be placed at the following locations (EEG 10-20 system):

      (i) over the left inferior frontal gyrus (crossing point between T3-Fz and F7-Cz)

      The cathodal electrode will be placed at the second site:

      (ii) over right frontal pole (Fp2)

      Two types of stimulation will be given, an active condition and a sham condition. In the sham
      condition, stimulation is ramped up over the first 30 seconds (as in the active condition),
      but then discontinued. This gives the physical perception of stimulation without the
      modulatory effects.

      Stimulation will be delivered by a tDCS device with the following parameters for intensity
      and duration:

        -  Intensity: 2 mA

        -  Duration: 20 minutes

      tDCS will be provided for the first 20 minutes of each aphasia therapy session provided at
      the LSU Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic. The therapy sessions last for one hour and are
      provided twice weekly for 12 weeks over the course of an academic semester (fall and spring).

      Post-Therapy/Stimulation Assessment: Western Aphasia Battery-Revised, Communication
      Activities of Daily Living-2, and Philadelphia Naming Test (short form) will be administered
      as before therapy. Cinderella narrative will again be elicited. Some of these procedures will
      again be videorecorded for later transcription. A tDCS sensations survey will also be
      completed at the final assessment to determine the effectiveness of blinding.
    
  