
    
      Specifically, the study aims to:

        -  Evaluate the global epidemiology of nosocomial pneumonia in ICU patients, analysing
           responsible pathogens and resistance pattern by type of pneumonia and geographical
           region.

        -  Describe on a global scale current clinical practice regarding diagnosis and determine
           the degree of concordance between the diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia in routine
           clinical practice and the official definitions including: a) ATS/IDSA 2005 guidelines;
           b) CDC/NHSN Surveillance Definitions (version January 2015, modified April 2015).

        -  Identify on a global scale variable treatment decisions with emphasis on therapeutic
           schemas, appropriateness, de-escalation decisions and their relation to outcomes.

      Secondary objectives include:

        -  Evaluate nosocomial pneumonia in specific subgroups of critically ill patients (such as,
           chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD], the elderly, postoperative, trauma
           patients).

        -  Describe the differences between nosocomial pneumonia in non-intubated ICU patients and
           VAP.

        -  Compare the characteristics and outcomes between patients with nosocomial pneumonia in
           ward patients later transferred to the ICU and non-intubated ICU patients with
           nosocomial pneumonia.

      This international study will explore clinical details for nosocomial pneumonia in the ICU
      setting: practice variations among countries and continents, diagnostic and treatment
      modalities, implicated pathogens and their resistance patterns, resolution patterns and risk
      factors for unfavourable outcomes. In view of these, this global multicentre study shall
      provide useful information for the elaboration of future recommendations on diagnostic and
      treatment approaches for nosocomial pneumonia in the ICU.

      Inclusion criteria:

      ICU patients with a diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia, including:

        -  Admission to the ICU with diagnosis of HAP that developed in the ward in non-intubated
           patients (Ward HAP)

        -  The first episode of ICU-acquired pneumonia that developed in non-intubated patients
           (ICU-HAP)

        -  The first episode of ICU-acquired pneumonia that developed in patients receiving
           invasive ventilation(i.e. Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia (VAP)).

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Age < 18 years

        -  Patients with nosocomial pneumonia receiving palliative treatment at the time of
           assessment for eligibility (i.e. the time of clinical diagnosis)

        -  Previous inclusion in the study

      Research sites:

      More than 150 ICUs from 25 or more countries worldwide that will agree to participate in the
      study.

      Sample size:

      A minimum of 10 consecutive ICU patients with nosocomial pneumonia as described above will be
      recruited per site. A sample size of at least 1000 ICU patients with nosocomial pneumonia is
      anticipated to comprise the dataset. This sample size has been chosen to provide
      generalisable data for each geographic region and to satisfy power considerations.

      Statistical analysis:

      Descriptive analytic, techniques and parametric and non-parametric tests will be used to
      explore diagnostic, microbiological or subgroup differences as well as clinical outcomes of
      nosocomial pneumonia. Cox regression will be used to predict dichotomous outcomes of
      interest, including mortality and pneumonia resolution. Independent predictors and associated
      hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals will be reported. A two-sided p-value less than
      0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Proposed Start and End Date:

      The first site is anticipated to commence recruitment in March 2016 with staggered site
      recruitment; however, sites are anticipated to start recruitment during the first half of
      2016; each site will commence recruitment as soon as relevant Institutional Review Board
      approvals have been obtained. Recruitment will continue until the minimum target of 10
      patients has been reached. Sites will have the opportunity for further recruitment while the
      study is active. Completion of recruitment is anticipated to occur by end December 2018.

      Dissemination of Findings:

      Summary data will be presented in a timely manner at national and international conferences
      and in peer-reviewed journals.
    
  