
    
      People with diabetes sometimes consider that they are subjected to unfair discrimination in
      the occupational or work environment. These include safety-critical activities such as
      operating machinery and driving. Some occupations preclude the use of medications that lower
      blood glucose, particularly insulin. Safety regulators, occupational health physicians and
      national organisations frequently have to balance the competing priorities of individual
      rights against public safety.

      Modern treatment, with advances in insulin therapy and glucose monitoring, combined with
      rigorous clinical assessment and review, has allowed stereotypical attitudes to be
      challenged, and advocated individual assessment with respect to safety criteria. Several
      national authorities (Australia, Canada, UK, and USA) have, over recent years, allowed
      private pilots to fly for recreation while receiving treatment with insulin Canada (in 2002)
      was the first country to allow commercial pilots, treated with insulin, to fly commercially
      and have granted licences to a small number of insulin-treated pilots on a case-by-case basis
      and subject to close supervision.

      In 2010 the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) convened an expert committee to review current
      scientific knowledge and international policies concerning flying. The committee advised that
      a protocol for safe flying could be developed and produced the first iteration with
      subsequent refinement. It was decide that continuous glucose monitoring systems (CGMS) did
      not provide an accurate measurement of glucose, thus, finger prick-blood glucose monitoring
      was thought to provide accurate blood glucose measurement and was stipulated in the protocol
      (4). In 2012 the UK CAA started issuing EU Class 1 medical certificates for commercial flying
      to pilots with insulin-treated diabetes, having published a rigorous protocol and started
      collecting data systematically. Ireland and Austria have subsequently joined the protocol.
      The protocol has been shown to be feasible, practical and to date no safety concerns have
      arisen. The results from the first 26 pilots have been presented at the annual EASD
      conference and published in The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology (5). A copy of the policy is
      attached in appendix 1 "UK CAA policy for the Medical Certification of Pilots and Air Traffic
      Controllers (ATCOs) with Diabetes". In summary, the policy describes that pilots have to be
      in good health in terms of diabetes and associated diseases of cardiovascular system.

      There should be a log book of the glucose monitoring results with each pilot at all times.
      The protocol suggests that the logged data will be checked against the stored memory of the
      glucose meters from time to time to ensure accurate data collection. The Aircrew Regulation
      (European Commission Regulation (EU) 1178/2011) was amended in 2015 with the inclusion of
      ARA.MED.330 'Special Medical Circumstances' in Annex VI (Part ARA). This allowed research to
      be carried out to gather evidence on the safe exercise of privileges when new medical
      developments (eg treatment, procedures or new medical technology) are identified that may
      justify a fit assessment of applicants who would not otherwise comply with certificatory
      requirements. This amendment was not included in the Air Traffic Control Officer (ATCO)
      regulations. The detailed text is available in and easy access form issued by the European
      Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) in May 2019.

      RATIONALE We believe that reliable CGMS will have significant benefits such as access
      immediate access to the glucose results to the pilots, which will help them reliably to
      decide and adjust the insulin requirements both at flying and in free living giving rise to a
      controlled glucose monitoring. The pilots from UK and Austria and Ireland who have been
      approached are universally keen to help with any initiative that may promote safety and
      acceptance of the ARA.MED 330 diabetes protocol.

      We wish to explore the use of the Dexcom G6® in pilots with insulin-treated diabetes, who are
      flying commercial aircraft with Class 1 and flying instructors or private pilots with class 2
      certificates.

      RESEARCH QUESTION/AIM(S) We propose that the use of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM)
      employing a current sophisticated device will give pilots valuable additional information
      about the control of their diabetes that will enhance their safety while flying. Pilots state
      that having immediate access to information of trends in falls or elevations in blood glucose
      would complement the current protocol for measurement of capillary blood glucose obtained by
      finger prick. We surmise that pilots will be much better equipped to manage their diabetes
      during flight.

      STUDY DESIGN and METHODS of DATA COLLECTION AND DATA ANALYSIS This will be an observational
      study comparing the use of the factory calibrated real-time glucose monitoring Dexcom G6®
      with other glucose monitoring systems, in pilots with insulin-treated diabetes, who are
      flying commercial aircraft with Class 1 and flying instructors or private pilots with class 2
      certificates. Dexcom G6® is CE marked, CE591560. Participants (pilots) will be blinded to the
      continuous monitoring glucose data from Dexcom-G6® for the first month followed by further 5
      months where the participants will be encouraged to use the data from CGMS Dexcom-G6® for
      self-glucose monitoring alongside the usual approved protocol by the CAA. The involvement of
      the pilots in the study will be 6 months.

      The purpose of blinding is to be in line with the requirements of the ARA.MED.330 amendment
      to the regulation. This will allow us to investigate whether or not the pilots can maintain a
      stable blood glucose concentration in accordance to the CAA protocol while blinded to the
      glucose monitoring of Dexcom G6® but wearing the sensor as in the study design condition and
      if their recorded data would agree with the results recorded from Dexcom G6®.

      Screening visit (visit ; Day-1) All pilots due in for their usual CAA required medical
      assessment will receive a copy of the PIS with the usual clinic invitation by post two weeks
      prior to the visit. The administration staff at the CAA, Aviation House, will be provided
      with copies of the PIS for this study and will be asked to include a copy of the PIS in the
      clinic invites.

      Pilots will be asked to the CAA clinic. Before screening takes place participants will be
      provided with verbal and written information about the trial and the procedures involved. The
      pilots will be fully informed of their responsibilities and rights while participating in
      this exploratory trial. They will be given the opportunity to ask questions and ample time to
      consider participation. Participants who wish to participate in the trial will be required to
      sign and date an Informed Consent Form prior to any trial-related activities taking place.
      The PI on the site will seek informed consent from the participants. All participants will be
      provided with a copy of the Participant Information Sheet and of their own signed and dated
      Informed Consent Form.

      At the screening visit the following will be performed and recorded: medical history, current
      medication, physical examination, diastolic and systolic blood pressure, heart rate, weight,
      height, age, tobacco smoking status, alcohol intake, both clinical chemistry (lipid profile,
      creatinine, ACR), HbA1c results required for the clinic visit, previous 6 month
      self-monitoring glucose data. If the participant fulfils all inclusion criteria and none of
      the exclusion criteria they will be accepted into the study.

      Visit 1: Pilots who are eligible for the study, whether or not using a continuous glucose
      monitoring or Flash glucose monitoring (CGMS/FGM) (potentially will be running two devices
      for 6 months, current and DEXCOM-G6®), following screening will have a 1:1 training session
      with a research fellow skilled in diabetes, on fitting the sensor under the skin and
      monitoring blood glucose by Dexcom-G6® device. The participants will be informed that they
      will be required to wear the sensor under the skin at all times during the next 180 days of
      the study.

      All participants will be instructed to use the CGMS Dexcom-G6® alongside their usual glucose
      monitoring and CGMS/FGM for 1 month during which the participants will be blinded from the
      Dexcom-G6® results. This blinded period acts as a baseline to understand glucose levels that
      are being experienced by the participants prior to introduction of the monitor.

      Participants will be asked to fill in the baseline Quality of Life / Patient Related Outcomes
      (QOL/ PRO) questionnaires: Bolus Insulin Questionnaire, Care Management Time Form, CGM
      Attitudes, CGM Expectations Questionnaire, CGM Satisfaction Scale, Clarke Hypoglycaemia
      Awareness Survey, Diabetes Distress Scale (DDS), Diabetes Numeracy Test (DNT5), Health
      Questionnaire (EuroQol Group), Health Service Utilization Form, Hypoglycaemic Fear Survey,
      Worry subscale (HFS-W), Hypoglycaemia Confidence Scale, WHO-5 Well-Being Index, WHO-5
      Well-Being Index. The questionnaires are validated and proven to be useful to evaluate CGM in
      other studies in subjects with diabetes.

      Visit 2: This telephone call visit will take place after one month (Day- 30±7). Participants
      will be contacted by telephone with prior appointment, made on visit 1. At this Tele- visit,
      the participants will be asked on how they managed the fitting and wearing the rtCGMS Dexcom
      6 ® and if they were happy to carry on with the study. They will then be unblinded to the
      rtCGMS. The participants will be allowed to use the Dexcom G6® glucose monitoring data and
      may choose to discontinue using other forms of CGMS/FGM if they wish. They will be encouraged
      to use the CGMS Dexcom G6® as much as possible to achieve good glucose control and limit
      episodes of hyper and hypoglycaemia, both while free living and while flying. Finger-prick
      glucose monitoring will carry on during the study alongside the use of the Dexcom G6® and
      will be logged in the pilots' log book as per CAA protocol. The data from the Dexcom-G6® will
      be reviewed in the next usual clinic visit.

      Visit 3: This will take place at the end of 6 months (Day- 180±7).

      Pilots will be asked to attend their usual clinic appointment The following will be reviewed
      and measured: medical history, current medication, physical examination, diastolic and
      systolic blood pressure, heart rate, weight, alcohol intake, clinical chemistry (lipid
      profile, creatinine, ACR), HbA1c required for the clinic visit. The data from the CGMS
      Dexcom-G6® will be reviewed and collected. The capillary glucose monitoring data recorded in
      the participants' log books will also be collected. We will also collect the data generated
      from the other CGMS devices that the participants wished to carry on using alongside Dexcom
      G6®.

      Participants will be asked to fill in the Quality of Life / Patient related outcomes (QOL/
      PRO) questionnaires at the end of the study.

      Measurements:

      Visits 1&3 Participant's height will be taken on Visit 1 and weight will be measured on each
      occasion. Vital signs, blood pressure, heart rate will also be measured on Visit 1 and Visit
      3.

      Recordings:

      Visits 1 and 3 Laboratory investigation are carried out by local hospital laboratories
      according to the CAA protocol.

      The results of the glucose, lipid profiles, creatinine concentrations, albumin to creatinine
      ratio (ACR) and HbA1c, required for the usual CAA clinic visit will be recorded.
    
  