
    
      The investigators propose to conduct a biomarker and molecular profiling study in
      longitudinally paired tumor biopsies and serum from patients with Hormone Receptor positive
      (HR+) metastatic Breast Cancer (BC) treated with Palbociclib(Palbo) in combination with
      endocrine therapies.

      The investigators plan to obtain tumor biopsy and blood samples, taken at both pre-treatment
      and post-progression, from 40 patients who develop acquired resistance to Palbo + endocrine
      combination treatment. All assays will be conducted in parallel on both pre and
      post-treatment samples to identify differences that may account for acquired resistance.
      Cyclin E1 and E2 levels will be assessed by IHC on tumor biopsies. Neuregulin-1 levels will
      be assessed by ELISA assay on serum. Tumor biopsies will be further profiled using
      whole-exome sequencing (WES) and whole-transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq). Matched blood
      samples will be subject to WES to facilitate somatic mutation detection. Paired tumor
      biopsies will undergo immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis of TIL markers to assess
      Palbo-induced changes. Finally, we will apply the in-house circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA)
      assay, which employs a custom-designed panel for studying Palbo acquired resistance, towards
      the analysis of 40 pairs of plasma samples. The custom ctDNA panel will be extended to
      include additional mutations identified from this study that confer acquired resistance.

      To further evaluate the effects of Palbo treatment on intratumoral TILs, the investigators
      plan to acquire paired tumor biopsy and matched blood samples, at baseline and two time
      points (6 weeks, 12 weeks) during the course of Palbo treatment, from 20 patients. And they
      will select metastatic BC patients who exhibit stable diseases (SD) in response to Palbo for
      tumor biopsies, prior to knowledge of whether post-progression biopsy would be available.
      Tumor biopsies will be subject to WES, RNA-Seq and IHC analyses. Further, the investigators
      plan to quantify the abundance of immune cell sub-populations in the matched blood samples
      using flow cytometry (FACS) to assess Palbo treatment effects on systematic immunity.

      While on-treatment samples can be collected after 6 weeks and 12 weeks of initiating Palbo
      treatment, it takes about 18 months on average for initially treated patients with late stage
      HR+ breast cancers to develop acquired resistance. Only an estimated 40% of relapsed cases
      will have successful biopsies due to a lack of consent or difficult-to-operate biopsies such
      as bone-only metastases. Hence, the investigators plan to bank pre-treatment biopsies and
      blood samples from about 100 patients by Q2 2018 in order to collect 40 post-progression
      biopsies as matched pairs within the 2-year time frame. FFPE slides will be made from all
      tumor biopsies, including the 100 cases at baseline, and subject to H&E staining. The
      investigators will detect and quantify TILs through machine learning and digital imaging
      analysis of the H&E data.
    
  