
    
      In highly endemic areas, hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection plays a primary role in the
      etiology of HCC and is frequently observed in HCC patients. Patients with HBV-related HCC
      usually have a history of chronic HBV infection. Chemotherapy for other malignancies has been
      associated with HBV reactivation. Furthermore, in end stage liver disease due to HBV, levels
      of HBV replication have been correlated with liver function. For TACE, reports on HBV
      reactivation have been inconsistent. Some studies have demonstrated HBV reactivation, some
      have not , and others have shown decreased HBV DNA levels . The exact mechanism by which this
      occurs is still unknown. Although anti-HBV therapy has been reported to suppress HBV
      reactivation in various clinical settings with immunosuppressive conditions, few reports were
      concerned with the TACE treatment of HBV-related HCC. Also, the long-term effects of
      antiviral therapy in relatively advanced HCC patients after HCC remains unclear.

      Although it is commonly accepted that antiviral therapy should be commenced before or during
      HCC treatment if the patients have high viral loads and elevated ALT or total bilirubin
      values with signs of cirrhosis, the dilemma exists when HBV DNA and liver function (such as
      ALT, AST, TBIL) remains low level. Therefore, we would call for the establishment of clinical
      practice guidelines on the antiviral therapy in HBV-related HCC patients, especially a
      consensus on the indications to administer nucleosides analogs (NAs).

      Thus , the purpose of the investigators' study is to prospectively study the efficacy of
      nucleosides analogs (NAs) in transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for nonresectable
      hepatocellular carcinoma with relatively low HBV DNA replication and Child-Pugh grade A based
      on multivariate analysis of prognostic factors. The HBV DNA and liver function parameters
      will be monitored closely. Once the reactivation occurs in the control group, antiviral
      therapy would be administered immediately. The study had a interim analysis to allow the
      trial to be stopped if significant differences were detected. The accumulated data were
      examined when half patient was enrolled in the clinical trial.
    
  