
    
      The epicardial fat layer originates from mesothelial cells and hence obtains its vascular
      supply from the coronary arteries. Much of the importance within the epicardial fat is its
      anatomical closeness to the myocardium and the fact that the two tissues share the same
      microcirculation. Epicardial fat is a metabolically active organ that secrets numerous
      bioactive substances, which may alter cardiac function. This small, visceral fat depot had
      been accepted as a rich source of free fatty acids and a number of bioactive molecules, such
      as adiponectin, resistin and inflammatory cytokines, which could lead to the coronary
      endothelial dysfunction. Furthermore, epicardial adipose mass might reflect intra-abdominal
      visceral fat. Epicardial adipose tissue is also clinically related to left ventricular mass
      and other features of the metabolic syndrome, such as concentrations of LDL cholesterol,
      fasting insulin and adiponectin, and arterial blood pressure. Epicardial fat thickness can be
      visualized and measured with two-dimensional (2D) echocardiography. Standard parasternal
      long-axis and short-axis views from 2D images permit the most accurate measurement of
      epicardial fat thickness on the right ventricle, with optimal cursor beam orientation in each
      view. Echocardiographically, epicardial fat is generally identified as the relatively
      echo-free space between the outer wall of the myocardium and the visceral layer of
      pericardium; its thickness is measured perpendicularly on the free wall of the right
      ventricle at end-systole in 3 cardiac cycles. Because it is compressed during diastole,
      epicardial fat thickness is best measured at end-systole at the point on the free wall of the
      right ventricle at which the ultrasound beam is oriented in a perpendicular manner, using the
      aortic annulus as an anatomic landmark. Epicardial fat thickness can be also appear as
      hyperechoic space, if in large amount (>15 mm). Maximum epicardial fat thickness is measured
      from 2D parasternal long axis images at the point on the free wall of the right ventricle
      along the midline of the ultrasound beam, perpendicular to the aortic annulus, used as an
      anatomic landmark for this view. For midventricular parasternal short-axis assessment,
      maximum epicardial fat thickness is measured from 2D images on the right ventricular free
      wall along the midline of the ultrasound beam perpendicular to the interventricular septum at
      midchordal and tip of the papillary muscle level, as anatomic landmarks. The average value of
      3 cardiac cycles from each echocardiographic view is determined. The majority of population
      based clinical studies have reported excellent interobserver and intraobserver agreement for
      epicardial fat thickness measurement. Echocardiographic epicardial fat measurement may have
      some advantages as an index of high cardiometabolic risk. It is a direct measure of visceral
      fat rather than an anthropometric measure, such as waist circumference, that includes muscle
      and skin layers. The echocardiographic measurement of epicardial fat provides a more
      sensitive and specific measure of true visceral fat content, avoiding the possible
      confounding effect of increased subcutaneous abdominal fat. It is an objective, noninvasive,
      readily available, and certainly less expensive measure of visceral fat than MRI or CT.
      Visceral cardiac fat can be quantified fairly precisely compared with ectopic fat deposition
      in organs such as the liver, which can be described only qualitatively unless expensive
      measurements are made, such as CT or MRI. Echocardiographic epicardial fat is a direct
      measure of ectopic fat deposition, whereas anthropometric measures can be associated only
      with ectopic fat deposition. It can be measured even from echocardiograms that were not
      specifically performed to optimize the measurement of epicardial fat. It can be quantified
      with other echocardiographic parameters, such left ventricular mass and ejection fraction,
      traditionally associated with cardiovascular risk. Echocardiographic epicardial fat could be
      a more reliable quantitative therapeutic marker during interventions modulating and reducing
      visceral adiposity. Diabetic nephropathy or diabetic kidney disease is a syndrome
      characterized by the presence of pathological quantities of urine albumin excretion, diabetic
      glomerular lesions, and loss of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in diabetics. Incipient
      nephropathy is the initial presence of low but abnormal amounts of urine albumin, referred to
      as microalbuminuria (persistent albuminuria at level 30-299 mg/24 hours), while overt
      nephropathy or macroalbuminuria (persistent albuminuria at level 300 mg/24 hours).
    
  