
    
      Individuals with injuries or conditions resulting in both upper and lower body disabilities
      who are power wheelchair-bound are of key interest.

      The purpose of this study is to experimentally evaluate up to six wheelchair mounted robotic
      arms (WMRAs). The goal is to quantitatively compare each device. In order to compare each
      device, patients will be asked to operate one of up to six wheelchair mounted robotic arms at
      a time. With each WMRA, patients will be asked to perform a series of up to four activities
      of daily living. patients will be presented with a survey at the conclusion of each task
      test. The survey is designed to quantitatively rank each WMRA's performance. The time to
      complete each task with each arm will also be recorded.

      Patients will be asked some questions such as age, occupation, disability and/or physical
      limitations, and wheelchair use.

      Patients will be asked to disclose pertinent medical information to determine their level of
      mobility. Then the patients and the research team will know whether or not they should be in
      the study.

      If they take part in this study, patients will be asked to use a series of devices to control
      each of the six WMRAs to complete the following tasks:

        -  Open cabinets of varying heights

        -  Open drawers of varying heights

        -  Operate mock sink fixtures

        -  Operate mock light switches

        -  Plug into and out of mock electrical outlets

        -  Open personnel door

        -  Move objects on a table top

        -  Move objects on a book shelf

        -  Move a cup from a table top to the participant's mouth

        -  Perform any of the previous tasks under additional cognitive load * Additional cognitive
           load may include but is not limited to carrying on a conversation while attempting to
           perform a given task

      Patients will be asked to spend about four hours in this study, which will be completed in
      one session at the Rehabilitation Robotics and Prosthetics Testbed at the University of South
      Florida. Break and refreshment time will be available during setup and installation time for
      each of up to six WMRAs. It is anticipated that twenty people will take part in this study at
      USF.

      Participants who take part in this study may find quality of life benefits as a result of
      becoming familiar with WMRA assistive devices. Participants may find using a WMRA helpful in
      performing activities of daily living, though participants will not be given any of the WMRAs
      for personal use. The research study is directed at comparing and contrasting commercially
      available and developmental WMRAs. The study will also help to increase awareness of WMRAs
      and possibly help develop an assistive manipulator industry in the United States.
    
  