
    
      Due to a lack of noninvasive tools to study uterine physiology, the root causes of menstrual
      cramping pain within primary dysmenorrhea and secondary dysmenorrhea (leiomyoma,
      endometriosis, adenomyosis) remain unknown. This pain does not respond to typical
      over-the-counter anti-inflammatories in 15% of women and is a leading risk factor for
      developing challenging chronic pelvic pain disorders. In order to guide drug discoveries and
      create personalized treatment approaches, it is essential to unveil the underlying mechanisms
      of dysmenorrhea. Our research program has focused on key gaps in our knowledge of uterine
      physiology, such as the contributions of uterine contractions, perfusion, and oxygenation to
      menstrual pain. Although these factors are strongly implicated in this debilitating pain
      disorder, confirmatory human data is still needed. Such research would be quite timely, as
      numerous drug candidates targeting these potential mechanisms already exist. Our
      collaborative team has developed MRI-based tools to noninvasively and dynamically measure
      uterine contractions, perfusion, relative tissue oxygenation, and metabolites indicative of
      anaerobic respiration. The investigators have also pioneered methods that link spontaneous
      pain report to simultaneous uterine events. Together, these methods will allow us to evaluate
      the contribution of contractility, perfusion, or hypoxemia to menstrual pain. Notably, our
      preliminary data supports our central hypothesis that menstrual pain is associated with
      different phenotypes involving myometrial hypercontractility, impaired uterine perfusion,
      uterine hypoxemia, or a non-uterine source. Since understanding how current anti-inflammatory
      medications relieve or prevent pain (and why they fail) is valuable for the development of
      improved treatment strategies, the investigators will also investigate the effects of
      naproxen on uterine physiology in women with menstrual pain. To test our hypothesized
      contributions of altered uterine muscle activity, perfusion, and oxygenation on pain, The
      investigators propose: Aim 1: Characterize menstrual pain phenotypes associated with
      impairments in myometrial activity, perfusion, and/or oxygenation. Continuous MRI sequences
      of the uterus will be performed with simultaneous measurement of self-reported pain in
      healthy women and those experiencing menstrual pain. A cohort of women with leiomyoma and
      endometriosis will also be analyzed to evaluate the contribution of myometrial activity,
      perfusion, and oxygenation in women with structurally identifiable conditions. Aim 2:
      Evaluate the effects of naproxen on myometrial activity, perfusion, and/or oxygenation with
      respect to pain relief. Preliminary data suggests unresolved myometrial activity and
      inadequate naproxen absorption are associated with insufficient pain relief. Evaluating the
      naproxen-dependent effects of uterine physiology will provide a foundation for diagnostic
      tests to indicate relevant personalized treatment for patients that have failed conventional
      treatments. Further translation of these studies could advance mechanisms for discovery in
      other chronic pelvic pain conditions and uterine disorders such as idiopathic preterm labor
      and unexplained infertility.
    
  