
    
      The effectiveness of HIV antiretroviral therapy (ART) has consistently improved over the
      years. This is largely due to newer drugs having improved antiviral effectiveness and more
      tolerable side effect profiles; resulting in better viral suppression and improved treatment
      adherence. On the other hand, most recent clinical trials look at the effectiveness of ART in
      patients with less advanced disease. These patients usually suffer from less related
      diseases, drug-drug interactions, and other risks for treatment failure. Outside of these
      trials, the number of patients who present to clinic with a more developed advanced HIV
      infection, known as 'late presenters', remains high across Europe. Trials for these patients
      have tended to focus on the time of starting treatment and the management of infections.

      Much less is known about which ART treatments perform best for these late presenting
      patients; particularly in terms of virus suppression, immune system recovery, side effects
      and improvement of AIDs related diseases. No specific drug combinations have been compared in
      appropriate clinical trials before, and the international guidelines for first line treatment
      judge all therapies as equal standard of care for these patients.

      The investigators anticipate that Integrase inhibitor containing regimes may be better suited
      to patients with advanced disease, due to their beneficial side-effect profile and ability to
      rapidly decrease viral load levels. Therefore the investigators are conducting this clinical
      trial to compare an integrase inhibitor regime, against a protease inhibitor regime in
      patients with advanced HIV infection. The aim of the study is to demonstrate the
      non-inferiority of Biktarvy速 against Symtuza速.

      Patients will be recruited from sites across Europe, and randomized onto either arm of the
      study. After randomisation onto either treatment regime, patients will attend approximately 9
      follow-up visits over the course of a year. During these visits, patients will be asked to
      complete two questionnaires, to assess their quality of life and HIV symptoms. They will also
      be asked to provide a number of blood samples. These samples are to ensure that the patient
      is not resistant to the study drug and that their disease is not worsening. Samples to test
      for study drug resistance will be shipped to a laboratory for analysis in the even that the
      patient experiences virological failure.

      Biktarvy速 will be supplied from Gilead and Symtuza速 will be provided by Janssen
      Pharmaceuticals.
    
  