
    
      The prevalence of aortic valve stenosis (AS) has increased over the last few decades due to
      improvement in life expectancy and a growing elderly population. A wealth of data is
      available on patients with severe AS, whereas the risk stratification and management of
      patients with symptomatic moderate AS remains contentious.

      Stress echocardiography (SE) is a recognised tool for the risk stratification of patients
      with asymptomatic severe AS. Exercise is the preferred mode of stress in this group, as it
      provides important prognostic information- such as presence of symptoms, overall exercise
      capacity and precipitation of hypotension. Significant increase in mean gradient (MG) (MG
      >20mmHg) is an independent predictor of valve intervention or cardiovascular death, similar
      to older age, diabetes and high resting gradient and this is recognised in international
      guidelines as a parameter to risk stratify asymptomatic severe AS. The increase in MG in the
      context of increasing transvalvular flow during exercise is usually accompanied by little or
      no change in aortic valve area (AVA). Thus, mechanistically, the increase in MG is associated
      with worse outcome because it reflects the intrinsic non-compliance of the aortic valve and
      hence resistance. A compliant valve will open to accommodate the increased flow during
      stress, whereas a fixed valve orifice will not, resulting in increased gradients. It is
      therefore advised that these patients with asymptomatic severe AS and significant increase in
      MG during exercise may be reasonably considered for aortic valve intervention.

      In moderate AS current guidelines recommend Aortic Valve replacement (AVR) only when other
      cardiac surgery (coronary artery bypass grafting) is planned (class IIa). This is because
      patients with moderate AS are a heterogeneous group with regard to the risk of adverse
      events: some have indeed rapid progression to severe AS, and/or Left Ventricular (LV)
      dysfunction and cardiovascular death, whereas others remain stable for many years. Overall
      moderate AS carries a substantial risk of death or valve intervention, with the estimated
      likelihood of event free survival at 4 years being 55-60%. Furthermore the presence of
      symptoms increases the overall likelihood of risk in moderate AS, as there is a significant
      difference in outcome between minimally symptomatic and symptomatic moderate AS. It maybe
      hypothesised that patients with moderate AS and symptoms in the absence of myocardial
      ischaemia due to flow-limiting coronary artery disease likely has the same valve hemodynamics
      as one with severe AS, particularly decreased valve compliance/increased resistance. These
      characteristics are likely to manifest during exercise when transvalvular flow is increased
      resulting in significant increase in gradient with little change in AVA. Accordingly, resting
      AVA and MG may not be the best parameters for determining suitability for valve intervention,
      particularly as the overall mortality of symptomatic moderate aortic stenosis approaches that
      of symptomatic severe AS. However, clear criteria that risk-stratify patients with
      symptomatic moderate AS and guide timing for intervention do not currently exist.

      Accordingly the role of SE could be expanded beyond assessment of risk in asymptomatic severe
      AS to improve risk stratification in patients with symptomatic moderate AS. This is on the
      assumption that moderate AS associated with symptoms of breathlessness, chest pain or syncope
      is likely to have the same characteristics as severe AS. This means that during SE in
      moderate symptomatic AS one would expect the AVA to remain unchanged, the valve resistance to
      be elevated and the MG to increase.

      Furthermore during SE apart from valve related indices that determine severity (AVA, MG),
      myocardial blood flow reserve (MBFR) has been shown to correlate with severity of AS; reduced
      MBFR is seen in severe AS whereas MBFR<1.8 has an accuracy of 85% for distinguishing severe
      from non-severe AS. It could therefore be that MBFR can also contribute in the risk
      stratification of symptomatic moderate AS.

      It has been suggested that several other tests could contribute to the risk stratification of
      AS i.e. CT calcium score, speckle tracking echocardiography, carotid ultrasonography, and
      N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP). Specifically it has been shown that
      aortic valve calcium score correlates with AS severity and that there is moderate agreement
      between AVA as defined by American College of Cardiology (ACC) guidelines and the degree of
      AS determined from AV calcium score. Basal and global longitudinal strain (GLS) have been
      found to be independently associated both with the severity of AS and the presence of
      symptoms. Furthermore GLS can predict all-cause mortality in patients with AS and could
      therefore improve the identification of the optimal timing for AV replacement. The severity
      of AS in general has also been shown to correspond to an increase of carotid plaque and
      intima media thickness (IMT). Finally NT-proBNP values correlate with the severity of AS and
      in moderate AS, NT-proBNP can differentiate between symptomatic and asymptomatic status.
    
  