
    
      Collaborative management health care involves strengthening and supporting self-care among
      people with long-term illnesses while assuring that effective medical, preventive, and health
      maintenance treatments occur. In collaborative management, it is important for patients,
      family members, and health care providers to understand each other's roles and
      responsibilities as they work toward a shared goal of improving the patient's health.
      Examples of self-care behaviors include reading books or other materials about relevant
      health care topics, exercising, following a low-fat diet, seeing a doctor on a regular basis,
      and making lifestyle changes. It is crucial that doctors, case managers, nurses, pharmacists,
      and other medical professionals understand the challenges that patients face when attempting
      to incorporate these self-care behaviors into their lives. Currently, there are few
      collaborative management programs that specifically address pediatric long-term illness and
      even fewer programs that identify doctors as the primary medical professional responsible for
      encouraging behavior change.

      The CMP program will incorporate a collaborative management technique with a motivational
      interviewing approach. Motivational interviewing is a counseling style that attempts to
      increase awareness of the potential problems, causes, consequences experienced, and risks
      faced as a result of the behavior in question. The goal of the CMP program is to help
      pediatric resident doctors accomplish the following: assess patients' asthma and obesity
      status and related health behaviors; assess the child/family aspect of self-care; motivate
      parents and children to change asthma or obesity health behaviors; collaboratively set goals
      for asthma management by the family; and provide tailored follow-up to patients and their
      families. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of the various components
      of the CMP program. Results from this study will be used to develop a larger clinical trial
      that will evaluate the effectiveness of the CMP program.

      This pilot study will enroll 18 first-year pediatric resident doctors; each doctor will
      select five of their pediatric patients with asthma or obesity to participate in the study.
      Each resident doctor will be randomly assigned to take part in either the CMP program or a
      control group. All resident doctors will complete an Objective Structured Clinical
      Examination (OSCE), which will be used to assess their skills and ability in the areas of
      communication, clinical examination, medical procedures, prescribing medication, and
      interpretation of test results. Resident doctors participating in the CMP program will then
      receive CMP training. Three weeks following the initial OSCE, all resident doctors will
      perform a repeat OSCE, which will evaluate the effectiveness of the CMP training. One health
      care visit will then be conducted with each participating patient. During this visit, the
      resident doctor will conduct a collaborative management session emphasizing the family's
      central role in managing the child's health. Study researchers will conduct a 30-minute
      telephone interview with the child's parents at baseline, Week 6, following the heath care
      visit, and Month 3. Parent/child behaviors, attitudes related to asthma or obesity,
      management of their child's health, and satisfaction with care will be assessed during the
      telephone interviews. All residents will complete a repeat OSCE at Month 6 to assess any
      increase or decrease in skills.
    
  