
    
      This prospective randomized controlled trial will compare the efficacy of a multicomponent
      facilitated cascade testing intervention. One hundred and fifty probands with a diagnoses of
      a BRCA1/2 mutation will be enrolled and randomized to the intervention vs. control arms.
      Probands will be asked to share the names and contact information for all FDR (First Degree
      Relative) with whom they have shared their genetic testing results. One hundred and fifty
      probands will be recruited and randomized and, therefore, based on our institutional
      experience, the investigators anticipate on average 3 FDRs per proband, therefore up to 450
      FDRs. Probands randomized to the standard of care group will be instructed to share a family
      letter (providing information on the familial mutation) with their FDRs and encourage FDRs to
      complete genetic testing. In the intervention group, a patient navigator will provide
      facilitated support, including an initial genetic counseling call, an email with a link to an
      educational video, and, for individuals who are interested in completing testing - a link to
      create an account for a free genetic testing saliva kit and a follow-up call to discuss the
      results and ensure participants are connected with their primary care provider or other
      clinician, as appropriate. Participating FDRs will complete quality of life assessments. FDRs
      found to have BRCA1/2 mutations will be followed to determine if they completed cancer
      risk-reducing surveillance or surgery as a result of the genetic testing results. Analyses
      will assess the proportion of first degree relatives who complete genetic testing by 6 months
      (primary outcome), as well as the proportion who engage subsequently in recommended
      risk-reducing behaviors by 18 months and quality of life; distributions of time between
      proband diagnosis and first degree relative testing; and potential covariate correlations.
    
  