
    
      Volunteer Selection and Size: The International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) guideline
      E11 on clinical investigation of medicinal products in the pediatric population suggests that
      for relative bioavailability comparison of pediatric formulations, adult subjects may be
      used. Therefore, the study will be performed in a minimum of 24 healthy adult subjects.
      However, 29 healthy adults will be enrolled to allow for two possible drop-outs and for three
      subjects that may develop hypersensitivity to nevirapine which is known for its
      hypersensitivity side effect, in form of rashes.

      In anticipation of such reactions,10% more of the 26 subjects will be added to the group.
      This will make a total of 29 volunteers during the study. Advertisements announcing the study
      will be posted at the Bowen University Teaching Hospital two months before the commencement
      of the study to invite volunteers.

      Informed Consent Procedure: The volunteers will be screened using a questionnaire (see
      attached). The language of communication will be English or a local language used by the
      community. Researchers will explain to the volunteers on an individual basis, the nature of
      the study, what would be expected of them and their rights. Volunteers may choose to drop out
      of the study at any time without any restrictions. Volunteers will be informed that the
      screening procedure also includes physical examination and laboratory test. Following
      informed consent, using Consent to Participate Form (see attached) and counseling, volunteers
      may be enrolled for the study.

      A baseline laboratory tests for: packed cell volume, white blood cell count with
      differentiation, platelet estimation, liver function (aspartate aminotransferase [SGOT],
      alanine aminotransferase [SGPT]), renal function (serum creatinine), blood urea nitrogen
      (BUN), pregnancy test (females only), HIV/AIDS, and hepatitis B and C tests will be done two
      weeks prior to dosing. Volunteers may not consume alcohol, tobacco, caffeine containing
      products, herbal or other drugs during the study.

      Eligibility: The inclusion criteria are as follows: Adult males and females found normal on
      the basis of a pre-trial physical examination, medical history and the results of blood
      biochemistry and hematology tests; subject is competent and willing to sign informed consent
      form voluntarily after being given all the detailed information about the study; willingness
      to be hospitalized for a 24-hour intensive sampling period.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Hypersensitivity to study drugs, alcoholism, anemia, evidence of pregnancy

        -  Abnormal laboratory test; smokers;

        -  Any clinically significant diseases or findings during the screening medical history or
           physical examination that, in the opinion of the investigator, may interfere with the
           study;

        -  Treatment with experimental or prescribed drugs within 30 days prior to the beginning of
           the study

      Confidentiality: Volunteer's name as it appears on the questionnaire will be linked to an
      identification number. All other documents will have only the identification number instead
      of your name. The name will not be used in any public document. All written materials and
      consent forms will be stored in a locked file in the researcher's office. All materials will
      be destroyed by shredding five years after the completion of the research.
    
  