
    
      The Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE) is a self-report questionnaire on
      exercise, home, and work-related physical activities performed during the last week. PASE has
      shown to be reliable and valid in different populations of people between 65 and 100 years of
      age and after stroke. However, its validation on stroke was based on another self report
      questionnaire that assess physical activity (PA) called ''Senior Fitness Test''. There are
      four methods to measure physical activity: 1. Self-Report Questionnaires 2.Self-Report
      Activity Diaries/Logs 3.Direct Observation 4. Devices (Accelerometers, pedometers, arm band,
      Heart-Rate Monitors). Accelerometers can measure PA accurately and have ability capture large
      amounts of data. Accelerometers measure acceleration (activity counts:AC) in real time and
      detect movement in up to three orthogonal planes (anteroposterior, mediolateral, and
      vertical) These counts are then translated into a metric of interest, which can be biological
      (e.g. energy expenditure) or PA patterns (e.g. stationary). There are pros and cons of
      measurement methods of physical activity. Strengths of accelerometers include
      minute-by-minute on-line monitoring, capturing intensity level. Accumulated AC provide an
      accurate estimate of the duration and intensity of body movement at the waist and were summed
      across the whole day to assess total PA volume. However, accelerometers are expensive and
      require technical expertise, specialized hardware, software, and individual programming.
      Self-report PA measurement methods are able to measure large numbers of participants at low
      cost. Since accelerometers are more objective methods to assess PA, to the best of our
      knowledge, self-report physical activity questionnaires should be validated based on
      accelerometer derived physical activity data. The aim of this study is to validate PASE in
      patients with stroke based on accelerometer data.
    
  