
    
      Efavirenz (EFV) is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) with a long
      half-life, allowing for once-daily dosing. Although it is generally well-tolerated and widely
      used, a major disadvantage of EFV is its relatively low barrier to resistance. The single
      K103N mutation confers high-level resistance to EFV, as well as to all other NNRTI's.
      Acquisition of HIV-1 resistance is likely to result from repeated exposure of the virus to
      subtherapeutic drug concentrations.

      When terminating EFV therapy it is recommended that EFV be stopped 1-2 weeks earlier than
      concomitant antiretrovirals (ARVs) to account for its long washout period. Alternatively,
      substituting EFV with a protease inhibitor for 1 to 4 weeks has also been recommended. Both
      strategies attempt to avoid prolonged EFV exposure following discontinuation of concomitant
      ARVs, thereby lowering the risk of acquiring new resistance mutations. Though widely
      utilized, neither method has been validated by pharmacokinetic or clinical studies. Genetic
      differences in CYP2B6 contribute greatly to observed variability in EFV clearance; hence,
      genetic differences may contribute to significantly different responses to methods of therapy
      discontinuation. Multiple polymorphisms in CYP2B6 have been identified. Substitutions at
      positions 516, 785, and 1459 are the most common variants, and appear to be associated with
      alterations in CYP2B6 activity.

      We propose a 2-part study. Part I is to be conducted in HIV-negative volunteers, and consists
      of: (1) determination of EFV pharmacokinetic (PK) values (following 13-15 days of EFV 600
      mg/day) for comparison between CYP2B6 genotypes (including wild-type and allelic variants at
      positions 516, 785 and 1459), (2) measurement of single EFV plasma concentrations 7, 14, 21,
      and 28 days after the drug is stopped to assess for differences in EFV exposure between
      CYP2B6 genotypes, and (3) comparison of bupropion PK values following administration of a
      single bupropion dose (a) prior to EFV administration and (b) after 13-15 days of EFV, to
      evaluate whether EFV modulates CYP2B6 metabolism using bupropion as a probe for CYP2B6
      function.

      Part II is to be conduced in HIV-positive patients who are planning to discontinue (d/c)
      their EFV therapy, and includes: (1) determination of EFV PK values prior to d/c of therapy
      for comparison between different CYP2B6 genotypes, (2) measurement of single EFV plasma
      concentrations 7, 14, 21 and 28 days post-EFV to assess for differences in exposure across
      CYP2B6 genotypes, and (3) genotypic evaluation of HIV-1 drug resistance performed in any
      patient with an HIV RNA = 1,000 copies/mL, prior to and after EFV discontinuation (up to 12
      months after stopping EFV), as a preliminary study to evaluate the incidence of EFV
      resistance mutations based on CYP2B6 genotype.

      Data from this study will help to describe the relationship between CYP2B6 genetic
      polymorphisms and the PK variability of EFV, specifically addressing the effect on prolonged
      EFV exposure following discontinuation of therapy. In addition, this study will determine
      whether EFV modulates CYP2B6 activity as assessed by bupropion phenotyping. Lastly, it will
      attempt to provide preliminary information about whether genetic variability in CYP2B6 is
      related to the incidence of NNRTI-resistance after stopping or changing EFV therapy.
    
  