
    
      This prospective, observational study will include both pediatric and adult patients with
      stricturing CD on stable therapy who are planned to undergo EBD for management of a Crohn's
      stricture.

      Included patients are those in whom the treating physician is planning a colonoscopic EBD for
      a CD stricture. Patients will be followed with imaging, clinical assessment, serologic
      testing, stool microbiome and endoscopic assessment at time of EBD, and post-EBD. EBD will be
      performed to a target dilatation size of 18-20mm. If the stricture is deemed too narrow to
      allow dilatation to target size in a single session, graduated dilatations at a number of
      sessions can be undertaken at the treating clinician discretion. Time-point of week 0 will be
      defined as achievement of dilatation target size.

      Clinical assessment, blood and stool for calprotectin and microbiome, and focused bowel US to
      be performed within a 4 week period prior to EBD. Previous imaging (US/MRE/CTE) from 2-4
      months prior to EBD, where performed, will also be assessed.

      In the absence of any contra-indication, repeat colonoscopy will be performed at week 12 (±2
      weeks) to assess stricture size and assess extent of mucosal inflammation at the stricture
      site and the pre-stenotic region. Follow-up clinical review with repeat blood tests, stool
      for calprotectin and microbiome and focused bowel US will also be performed at week 12 (±2
      weeks).

      Endoscopic images from pre-stenotic bowel loop and bowel US from week 0 and week 12 will be
      centrally read by two central readers blinded to the patient and stage. An average of
      pre-stenotic region SES-CD score and US-derived outcome measures from both readers will be
      recorded. Where available, imaging from 2-4 months pre-EBD, either US, MRE or CTE, will be
      assessed by the same central readers.

      Patients in whom successful balloon dilatation was achieved (see definitions below) will be
      included in the primary analysis. Patients in whom dilatation was attempted but was not
      successful (see below) will also be followed and will be analyzed as control group.

      Patient's medications are to remain unchanged throughout the follow-up period, including
      biologic type or dose, or addition of corticosteroids/nutritional therapy, unless the
      treating physician decides otherwise on clinical grounds, in which case the patient will be
      defaulted from analysis. Patients on corticosteroid or nutritional therapy at recruitment can
      continue to wean therapy as per clinician directive.
    
  