
    
      This is a randomized, controlled, blinded, phase II, surgical trial. Phase II clinical trials
      test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether it works in
      treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. It also
      means that the FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not yet approved this
      intervention for recurrent or progressive glioblastoma.

      In this research study, ofranergene obadenovec (VB-111) is the investigational drug being
      studied. VB-111 has been studied in lab experiments and in other types of cancer, and
      information from these studies suggest that it may be beneficial for recurrent or progressive
      glioblastoma.

      VB-111 works by targeting and damaging the blood vessels that grow and nourish cancerous
      tumors leading to tumor starvation.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits. After enrollment, participants will be randomized into one
      of three study groups. Randomization means that participants are put into a group by chance.
      Neither the participant nor the research doctor will choose what group a participant will be
      in.

        -  In group A participants receive VB-111 before and after surgery.

        -  In group B participants receive VB-111 after surgery.

        -  In group C participants won't receive VB-111 but would receive standard of care.

      Treatment will be provided blindly, meaning participants do not know (are blinded as to) what
      treatment they are receiving to ensure that the results are not affected by a placebo effect
      (the power of suggestion). Participants will be given a study medication and it will contain
      either VB-111 or placebo (IV solution with no medicine).

      VBL Therapeutics is supporting this research study by providing funding for the research
      study and the study drug.

      Participants will be in this research study for as long as they do not have serious side
      effects and their disease does not get worse. It is expected that about 45 people will take
      part in this research study.
    
  