
    
      All subjects underwent a complete medical history and physi¬cal examination. Physical
      examination included measurements of height and weight. Subjects with a body mass index (BMI)
      ≥ 30 kg/m2 were considered obese. Laboratory tests included white blood cell (WBC) count,
      serum albumin, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine
      aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin, amylase, lipase, total cholesterol, triglycerides
      (TG), high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), low density lipoprotein cholesterol
      (LDL-C), and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP).

      In order to analyze the presence and severity of hepatic steatosis, hepatic steatosis index
      (HSI), US and liver biopsy was used. The hepatic steatosis index (HSI) was calculated as 8 ×
      ALT/AST + BMI +2 (if diabetes) +2 (if female gender). All patients underwent US at the time
      of operation and 3 months postoperatively. All US procedures were performed by one
      board-certified radiologist who did not have information about the patients. Procedures were
      done using an iU22 apparatus (Philips Ultrasound, Bothell, WA, USA) or an EUB-7500 apparatus
      (Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan) equipped with a 5 MHz convex transducer. For evaluation of fatty
      liver, the severity of liver echogenicity was categorized. Normal echogenicity was a mild and
      slightly diffuse increase in hepatic echogenicity with normal visualization of diaphragm and
      intrahepatic vessels. Moderate echogenicity was a moderately diffuse increase in hepatic
      echogenicity with slightly impaired visualization of diaphragm and intrahepatic vessels.
      Severe echogenicity was a marked increase in hepatic echogenicity with poor or
      nonvisualization of the intrahepatic vessel borders, diaphragm, and posterior segment of the
      right hepatic lobe.

      Each US image was reread by the same radiologist who was blinded to the initial reading 1
      month after the initial assessment to assess intraobserver variability. Liver biopsy was
      performed during cholecystectomy using liver wedge resection in 10 patients who had provided
      informed consent preoperatively. All specimens were reviewed by two pathologists with single
      blinded method. Sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and examined at X40
      magnification. Steatosis was divided into four stages using the Brunt criteria.
    
  