
    
      Angiostrongylosis is a parasitosis caused by the nematode Angiostrongylus sp. The adult
      parasite lives in the rat's arteries (Rattus norvegicus and Rattus rattus), its definitive
      host, where it breeds. Stage 1 immature larvae are released into the environment in rat
      droppings. Stage 3 larval maturation, which is essential for the re-contamination of final
      hosts, is mainly carried out in the Buyina fulica mollusc (common name: Achatine).

      The mode of contamination in humans is by ingestion of stage 3 parasitic larvae according to
      various modes: accidental ingestion of molluscs or salads soiled by "molluscan slime"
      (example: by consumption of salad, vegetables, non-washed fruits), voluntary ingestion of
      molluscs, manipulation of molluscs (children or fishermen), use of drinking water drawn from
      natural and non-disinfected water bodies. Hand-carried transmission after handling of
      Achatines is most often reported in young children.

      In humans, these larvae have a different preferential tropism depending on the species of
      Angiostrongylus. The two main pathogenic species for humans are Angiostrongylus cantonensis
      and Angiostrongylus costaricensis.

      Angiostrongylus cantonensis:

      After ingestion by man, the larvae of Angiostrongylus cantonensis migrate to the central
      nervous system. They cause eosinophilic angiostrongyl meningitis and meningoencephalitis,
      which can lead to severe neurological sequelae (paralysis) or even death.

      These clinical features are associated with eosinophilic pleocytosis in CSF (eosinophilic
      meningitis) and blood eosinophilia.

      Angiostrongylus cantonensis was first described in Canton, China in 1935. To date, it is
      present in the Pacific Islands, Australia, Africa and recently on the American continent.

      Angiostrongylus costaricensis:

      After ingestion, the larvae of Angiostrongylus costaricensis migrate intestines and into the
      abdominal cavity. They cause severe abdominal pain mimicking those of appendicitis,
      haemorrhage and perforation digestive that can lead to death (2 to 8% of cases).

      A major eosinophilia usually accompanies these unspecific clinical pictures. Angiostrongylus
      costaricensis does not have the same geographical distribution as Angiostrongylus
      cantonensis. It was first described in Costa Rica in 1967 and is endemic on the American
      continent, where it is at the origin of many human cases.
    
  