
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of MLN9708 and vorinostat based on when you join this study. Up to 4 dose levels of the
      MLN9708 and vorinostat combination will be tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at
      each dose level combination. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose
      level combination. Each new group will receive a higher dose of either MLN9708 or vorinostat
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable dose combination of MLN9708 and vorinostat is found or all 4 dose
      levels are filled. Up to an additional 14 participants will be enrolled in the highest dose
      level of the study drug combination.

      The dose of the study drug combination that you receive may be lowered if you have
      intolerable side effects.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 28 days.

      You will take MLN9708 capsules by mouth every 7 days (on Days 1, 8, and 15 of every cycle).
      You should swallow MLN9708 capsules whole with 8 ounces (1 cup) of water. Each capsule should
      be swallowed separately with a sip of water. Do not break, chew, or open the capsules. Each
      dose should be taken on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal. If
      you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember, as long as the next scheduled dose is at
      least 72 hours (3 days) away. You should not take a double dose to make up for a missed dose.
      If you vomit after taking a dose, wait until the next scheduled dose. Do not take an
      additional dose.

      You will take vorinostat capsules by mouth on Days 1-21 of each cycle, followed by a break of
      7 days. You should swallow vorinostat capsules whole with water. Do not break, chew, or open
      the capsules. Vorinostat should be taken with food. If you miss a dose, take it as soon as
      you remember, as long as the next scheduled dose is at least 12 hours away. You should not
      take a double dose to make up for a missed dose. If you vomit after taking a dose, wait until
      the next scheduled dose. Do not take an additional dose.

      It is important that you tell your doctor if you have any side effects while on this study.
      If you have side effects or abnormal test results, you may be asked to return to the clinic
      for more tests until the side effects or abnormal test results improve. Your dose of study
      drug may be changed and/or you may be given drugs to help control the side effects.

      Study Visits:

      One (1) time each week during Cycle 1:

      ° Blood (about 6 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your liver and
      kidney function.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 2 and beyond:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 6 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, urine will be collected for routine tests.

      At the end of Cycles 2 and beyond:

        -  You will have a CT, PET, and/or MRI scan to check the status of the disease. If your
           doctor thinks it is needed, you may have measurement sooner.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers. Tumor markers can be used to check the status of the disease.

      Any time the doctor thinks it is needed:

        -  Blood (about 6 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you can become pregnant, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for a pregnancy
           test.

        -  You will have an EKG to check your heart function.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, if you develop new health problems, or if you are no longer
      able to follow study directions.

      You may choose to stop taking the study drugs at any time. You should tell the study doctor
      right away if you are thinking about no longer taking part in this study. The study doctor
      will talk to you about how to safely stop taking the study drugs.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the end-of-study visit.

      End of Study Visit:

      Within 30 days after your last dose of the study drugs, the following tests and procedures
      will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 7 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, tests of your kidney and
           liver function, and tumor marker testing.

        -  You will have a CT, PET, and/or MRI scan to check the status of the disease. If your
           doctor thinks it is needed, you may have a scan performed sooner.

      This is an investigational study. MLN9708 is not FDA approved or commercially available.
      MLN9708 is currently being used for research purposes only. Vorinostat is FDA approved and
      commercially available to treat advanced cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.

      The study doctor can explain how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 56 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  