
    
      This is a post marketing surveillance (PMS), prospective study to collect safety information
      from more than 600 subjects with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-expressing,
      V-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) wild-type metastatic colorectal
      cancer (mCRC) treated with Erbitux as final evaluable cases. This PMS is requested by the
      Korean Regulatory Authorities because after removal of an orphan drug in Korea, there is a
      requirement to investigate more than 600 patients during six years, to continue monitoring
      and provide further information about safety and toxicity in clinical practice.

      This PMS study is planned to be conducted within 6 years from the removal date of orphan drug
      in approximately 50 institutions in Korea.

      OBJECTIVES

      The objective of the study is to analyse the safety and efficacy information on the use of
      Erbitux in the market and factors affecting its safety and efficacy.

      Primary objective:

        -  To obtain safety information on the use of Erbitux in subjects with mCRC in terms of
           frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs)

      Secondary objective:

        -  To gather clinical efficacy information of the treatment

      During the PMS period, each subject's background, medical history (surgery, radiotherapy),
      Erbitux treatment status, concurrent medication, response evaluation, status and reason of
      discontinuation, all AEs (regardless of the causal relationship to Erbitux), and abnormal
      results of laboratory tests will be collected from the start of treatment with Erbitux until
      progressive disease, Erbitux-related intolerable toxicities, death, or withdrawal of Erbitux
      treatment (whichever occurs first). The primary endpoint, the safety evaluation will be based
      on all cases treated with Erbitux having received at least one dose. However, for efficacy
      evaluation, 12 weeks of treatment have to be applied to each subject.

      Erbitux will be prescribed to mCRC subjects according to the approved national label as in
      routine clinical practice, under the supervision of an investigator experienced in the use of
      antineoplastic medicinal products. Prior to the first infusion, subjects will receive
      pre-medication with an antihistamine and a corticosteroid. The initial dose of Erbitux is 400
      mg/m2 body surface area and the subsequent weekly doses are 250 mg/m2 each administered
      intravenously via in-line filtration with an infusion pump, gravity drip, or a syringe pump.
      The recommended infusion period for the initial dose is 120 minutes and for the subsequent
      weekly doses is 60 minutes with the maximum infusion rate not exceeding 10 mg/min, equivalent
      to 5 ml/min of Erbitux 2 mg/ml.
    
  