
    
      Background: Platelet therapy is quickly becoming an integral aspect of cosmetic treatments.
      Most notably, Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) has been used topically or as an injection to
      stimulate collagen production and enhance the efficacy of cosmetic procedures such as fat
      transfer, hair loss, laser treatments, and microneedling. Harvested PRP has platelets,
      fibrin, and white blood cells, which contribute to wound healing, neocollagenesis, and
      elastogenesis. Platelet Rich Fibrin (PRF) is the next generation of PRP and contains very
      high concentrations white blood cells, fibrin and a small amount of mesenchymal stem cells
      found circulating in our bloodstreams. Due to a lack of anticoagulant in the tube, PRF
      becomes a gel after 15-20 minutes of being isolated. This is useful in reconstructive and
      aesthetic medicine, which allows it to be used for cosmetic volume restoration in addition to
      topical indications.

      Hyaluronic acid fillers have become increasingly popular in aesthetic medicine over the past
      two decades. Hyaluronic acid fillers are synthesized in a variety of different ways and last
      anywhere from 6 to 24 months, depending on the volume and location of the face or body they
      are injected. Fillers under the eyes in the "tear trough" area are popular treatments to
      allow patients to appear more refreshed and rested. Although this is an "off label"
      application of injectable fillers, it is extremely popular and is performed safely in many
      aesthetic clinics worldwide. Given that PRF can be used to restore volume, it will be
      determined if PRF in combination with hyaluronic acid filler will enhance resultant volume
      and skin quality in the treated areas.

      Objective: The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy and longevity of Platelet
      Rich Fibrin (PRF) in combination with hyaluronic acid filler for cosmetic volume restoration
      of the tear troughs. This study will also evaluate visible improvement in skin texture that
      may be attributable to the added PRF.

      Hypothesis: The addition of Platelet Rich Fibrin (PRF) to hyaluronic acid fillers contribute
      to volume restoration of the tear trough and also improve the texture and quality of the skin
      in the treated area. The patient will perceive a more natural and improved result on the
      PRF-treated side.
    
  