
    
      Trauner and Obwegeser in 1957, reported the first correction of jaw deformity by the sagittal
      split technique.

      Dal Pont in 1961, a student of Obwegeser, made a modification to the latter technique, to
      further enhance the precision and the accuracy of movement of both proximal distal segments
      his technique has become widely publicized. He changed the lower horizontal cut to a vertical
      cut on the buccal cortex between the first and second molars, there by obtaining broader bony
      contact.

      Hunsuck in 1968, modified the technique, to decrease the soft tissue dissection; he advocated
      a shorter horizontal medial cut.

      Epker in 1977, modified the technique in several ways to decrease swelling, manipulation to
      the neurovascular bundle and hemorrhage, his modification included minimal stripping of the
      masseter muscle and medial dissection.

      BSSRO is now the most common procedure used to advance the mandible is a bilateral sagittal
      split osteotomy.

      There are many different methods of mandibular fixation such as using intra osseous wiring
      combined with inter maxillary fixation (IMF) which showed significant amount of relapse and
      patient dissatisfaction, this is called nonrigid fixation. Another type of mandibular
      fixation is the three point fixation using positioning screws called rigid fixation. Rigid
      internal fixation was introduced in 1976 by Spiessel to promote healing, restore early
      function, and decrease relapse. The introduction of an internal rigid fixation method,
      instead of 5-6 week intermaxillary fixation, had the added benefit of shorter periods of
      hospital stay and patient convenience.' Minimal or no immobilization of the jaws allows
      patients to function sooner, resume their daily activities, and return to work earlier. In a
      relatively short period of time, the use of rigid fixation of bony segments in orthognathic
      surgery had become a standard of care.

      A major concern in the surgical correction of a anteroposterior mandibular deficient patients
      is potential postsurgical relapse.

      Clinical studies have shown a wide array of successful techniques used to fix segments. Three
      bicortical screws placed in an inverted-L fashion has become the gold standard for
      stabilizing a bilateral sagittal split advancement. Various problems emerged, however,
      showing that the stability necessary for the stabilization of an osteotomy site cannot be
      directly compared with that of a fracture. Other problems encountered were difficulties in
      positioning the fragments in new sites, which resulted in malposition of the condyle. This
      led to the term 'immediate postoperative relapse'. In addition, pain and dysfunction of the
      temporomandibular joint (TMJ) complicated the treatment and made the target of long-term
      stability difficult to achieve.

      In this current study a comparison between 3 positional screws in comparison with the
      adjustable plate in conjunction with 2 positional screws will be used in a group of patients
      suffering from retrognathia and will be treated by BSSRO, thus the investigators are using
      the advantage of the inherent adjustability of the plate intraoperatively with the good
      fixation and the stability inherent in the bicortical screws short term stability. This will
      be evaluated both clinically and cephalometrically.
    
  