
    
      Pain levels: 0 to 10 Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), medication and alcohol intake will be
      checked daily for one week prior to randomization in 20 participants with post herpetic
      neuralgia, lasting more than three months. Following this 10 will be randomized to apply 30%
      mannitol in vehicle cream and 10 to apply vehicle cream alone for one week during which daily
      pain levels and use of medication and alcohol will be measured together with the mode of
      application (rubbing in or applying it to cling wrap then applying the cream coated cling
      wrap to the skin in cases of severe allodynia). After a three day washout period, they will
      be given the cream they did not receive previously for one week. The same variables will be
      recorded daily. The data collected in the first 24 days will be used to generate a power
      analysis. Following this, all subjects will receive the 30% mannitol cream to apply for three
      months. Their pain levels, medication intake and method of application will be measured once
      a month for three months. T-tests will compare the pain levels for mannitol and placebo users
      before and after one week of the use of each cream to see if the mannitol cream provides
      better short term pain relief than placebo. Repeated measures ANOVA (Analysis Of VAriance)
      will compare pain levels before using the mannitol cream and monthly for three months to
      assess the long-term effects of mannitol cream. Variables collected at each visit, which will
      not be used for statistical purposes in the current very small pilot project but may be used
      in a later study, include: application method, effect and side effects of the cream,
      medication and alcohol use, PHQ - 9 (Personal Health Questionnaire, 9 questions), and
      questions from the brief pain inventory score. At three months, a satisfaction score will be
      added to the database. If pain persists beyond 3 months, participants will be offered
      mannitol and menthol cream for one month, following which their pain levels, PHQ - 9 and
      brief pain inventory scores will be checked.
    
  