
    
      *Design. We have chosen a randomly selected cohort of individuals who have been tested in the
      Moscow office of the "INVITRO" Laboratory on the basis of advertising campaign held in
      September, 2013, for the purpose of TC level measurement and determination of cardiovascular
      risk with the use of SCORE chart. The operator from the "INVITRO" Laboratory identified
      potential FH patients based on TC (≥7.5 mmol/L) or LDL-C (≥4.9 mmol/L) values.

      Following identification, the potentially eligible participants suspected for FH are sent a
      notification letter describing the patient's high cholesterol level, at-atherosclerosis risk
      status and need for additional screening on the basis of the Russian Cardiology Research and
      Production Center. Those who give preliminary agreement for participation in the Program are
      invited to the Institution, where, after signing the ICF, they will undergo clinical
      (biochemical, echo, duplex scan) and genetic testing. Those individuals refusing to
      participate in the Program will be taken into account with fixing the reason of unwillingness
      to participate.

      Patients under the age of 18 will be enrolled only with the explicit consent of a parent or
      legal guardian. All participants will be provided with the information about the Russian FH
      Community and Russian FH Registry.

      All included subjects will be provided with a screening questionnaire querying the patient
      demographics, past medical history, patient FH history and diagnosis with FH type
      heterozygous or homozygous, family history of hypercholesterolemia, physical examination
      findings, current lipid-lowering therapies, and patients' contact information for further
      follow-up. After initialization of online data capture form (Electronic Medical System), the
      information will be also entered in the system. Blood and gene banks will be formed; analysis
      of echocardiography data for aortic valve stenosis, carotid duplex ultrasound for
      atherosclerosis burden, and exercise SPECT imaging in selected cases of suspected coronary
      heart disease (CHD) will be performed during the baseline visit. Patients diagnosed with FH
      on the basis of Dutch Lipid Clinic Network, Simon Broome Criteria and genetic testing will be
      provided information about screening of first-degree relatives, and additional educational
      materials about FH (under development).

      To determine the true number of heterozygous forms among individuals with a probable
      diagnosis of FH molecular genetic testing is planned. When a causative mutation is found in
      the index case, a genetic test will be offered to all first-degree relatives.

      Enrolled patients will be asked to update information at annually intervals. Since the last
      date of data entry, occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events (acute coronary
      syndromes, stroke, myocardial revascularization, peripheral revascularization, cardiovascular
      death), changes in medications, hospitalizations to any reasons, genetic testing, laboratory
      values, and all-cause mortality will be reviewed.

      Follow-up data will be collected yearly following initial enrollment. Updated information on
      quality of life will be collected. Annual reminder emails will be sent to all patients to
      call the following physician.

      We estimate that at one site during one year (2014-2015) we will screen 500 patients eligible
      for the participation from the potentially eligible 1505 selected from 18000 individuals.

        -  Five leading Federal Medical Centers in different regions of Russia will be involved at
           the first two steps of the Program:

             1. Federal State Institution "Russian Cardiology Research and Production Center" of
                the Health Ministry of the Russian Federation (Moscow); First line Federal Medical
                Centers

             2. Samara State Medical University (Samara);

             3. Research Institute of Internal Medicine (Novosibirsk);

             4. Saint-Petersburg State University (Sokolov Center for atherosclerosis and lipid
                disorders in Clinical Hospital №122 (Saint Petersburg));

             5. Chelyabinsk State Medical Academy (Chelyabinsk)

        -  A total of three scheduled visits are planned during the course of this study. Visit 1
           will occur during the Screening Period (Part A). Patients who enter the Screening Period
           (Part A) will be signing the ICF, instructed to follow regional dietary guidelines for
           the duration of the study. They will undergo clinical (biochemical, ultra-sound, duplex
           scan) and exercise SPECT imaging if applicable. Those individuals refusing to
           participate in the study will be taken into account with fixing the reason of
           unwillingness to participate.

      All included subjects will be provided with a screening questionnaire querying the patient
      demographics, past medical history, patient FH history and diagnosis with FH type
      heterozygous or homozygous, family history of hypercholesterolemia, physical examination
      findings, current lipid-lowering therapies, and patients' contact information for further
      follow-up. After initialization of online data capture form (Electronic Medical System), the
      information will be also entered in the system.

      For the patients with FH diagnosed on the basis of Dutch Lipid Clinic Network and/or Simon
      Broome Criteria or genetic testing Visit 2 will occur in a one month period. Visit 3 will
      occur in RussianCRPC in a one year±10 days period. At the scheduled visits update of the
      medical information, including monitoring of adverse cardiovascular events occurrence,
      changes in medications, and blood sampling, will be performed.

        -  Examination procedures at the scheduled visits:

             1. Signing the informed consent form (ICF)

             2. Filling the questionnaires to determine the classical cardiovascular risk factors,
                past medical history and treatment

             3. Applying Dutch Lipid Clinic Network (DLCN) and Simon Broome Register (SBR) criteria

             4. Maintaining Electronic Medical System by physicians participating in the Program

             5. Blood sampling for TC, triglycerides (TG), LDL-C, HDL-C, Lp(a), high-sensitivity
                C-reactive protein (hsCRP), PCSK9 measurement

             6. Genetic testing (mutations in the LDLR, apolipoprotein B (apoB), PCSK9 genes)

             7. Echocardiography for the assessment of ascending aorta and aortic valve

             8. Duplex scanning of the carotid arteries for the assessment of intima-media
                thickness and plaques' characteristics

             9. Exercise SPECT imaging in patients suspicious for coronary disease

            10. Annual evaluation of cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction, stroke,
                cardiovascular death, non-cardiovascular death, hospitalization due to acute
                coronary syndrome, heart failure, arterial revascularization procedures
                (percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass grafting, endovascular
                or surgical revascularization in carotid arteries or lower extremities), aortic
                valve replacement.

        -  FH patients at these 1-st line Sites who meet inclusion criteria as described in the
           Methods section will be eligible to enroll. The same algorithm as described above will
           be initiated. Specialized staff from the Russian Cardiology Research and Production
           Complex (as a Core Center) will monitor the effectiveness and credibility of the
           undertaken work. Filling in the Electronic Medical System (eCRF) will be checked by the
           staff from the Core Center, and each year teleconferences will be held between the
           Sites-Participants of the Program.

        -  Perspectives: since 2018 ¬ the next phases of the Program will include recruitment of
           new set of Clinics, Policlinics and Institutions across Russia with specialized lipid
           clinics that could demonstrate acceptable feasibility for patient enrollment and
           engagement.
    
  