
    
      Study design This will be a community-based intervention study. Survey, screening, enrollment
      of subjects will be done in Mirpur in Dhaka city.

      Subjects Participants will be recruited from two age groups: a child cohort (age 12 to 18
      months) and an adult cohort (age 18 to 45 years). The child cohort will consist of two groups
      of children- stunted children (LAZ score < -2) and children who are at risk of stunting (LAZ
      <-1 to -2). A group of malnourished adults (BMI <18.5) will also be enrolled from the parents
      of children and by a cross sectional survey from Mirpur area of Dhaka city.

      Sample size:

      Participants will be collected and recruited in a cross sectional manner. Based on a sample
      size calculation with 10% precision and 95% confidence interval, a minimum of 35 stunted
      children, 35 at risk of stunting children and 35 adults will be recruited. So, the final
      sample size for endoscopy is 105 subjects (35+35+35). As endoscopy is an invasive procedure,
      it was assumed that only one-third of those who would fail to respond after nutrition
      intervention would give consent for endoscopy. So, basic sample size was increased three
      times for a minimum of 105 (35 x 3) stunted children (LAZ <-2), 105 (35 x 3) children at risk
      of stunting (LAZ <-1 to 2) and 105 (35 X 3) malnourished adults (BMI < 18.5) who would fail
      to thrive. To achieve that 525 stunted children, 525 children at risk of stunting and 525
      malnourished adults for nutrition interventions will be recruited as it was assumed that ~20%
      of each group will fail to respond despite the nutritional intervention. For that order of
      recruitment surveying at least 3977 (1312+2665) children 12-18 months old and 2100 adults
      based on the current prevalence of malnutrition in the two age groups is required. For adult
      control group, same number (35) of adult controls will be recruited from Dhaka Medical
      College and international centre for diarrhoeal disease research,Bangladesh staff clinic by
      convenient sampling method

      Description of field site:

      The study will be conducted among residents of Mirpur, one of the 21 administrative units of
      the nation's capital, Dhaka.

      Recruitment, Screening and Consenting If the participants are interested to volunteer in the
      study, the designated staff will proceed to screening and consenting. Screening will consist
      of a review of the inclusion and exclusion criteria listed above. If the subject is eligible
      to participate, the process will proceed to consenting consisting of a thorough review of the
      written consent form in a manner appropriate for the child's parents' / participants literacy
      level. Prior to signing the consent form, they will have an opportunity to ask any questions
      about the study. If the Field Research Assistant (FRA) determines that participants have
      demonstrated adequate comprehension of the study, the consent form will be signed by the FRA
      and the child's parent(s) /adult participants. If the parent(s) / adult participants are not
      sufficiently literate to read and/or sign the consent form, consenting and a thumb impression
      will be obtained in the presence of a witness who is not associated with the study. The
      child's parent(s) / adult participants will be provided with a copy of the signed consent
      form.

      Detailed procedure of Directly Observed Nutritional Therapy:

      After enrollment, participants will receive daily directly observed nutritional therapy.
      Nutritional therapy consists egg and milk and will be provided by the study free of cost.
      Duration of nutrition interventions will be 3, 2 and 2 months for stunted children, children
      at risk of stunting, and malnourished adults, respectively and nutritional therapy will be
      delivered between the morning and mid day meal, anytime between 10:00 am to 11:30 am.
      Participants will be asked to come to the designated nutrition center (to be established at
      Mirpur) daily for nutritional therapy to avoid the issue of food sharing. A staff will visit
      the family's household if a participant defaults in coming to the nutrition center. In
      addition to the food based nutritional therapy, participants will receive the following
      nutritional and health support:

        -  Anti-helminthic treatment (Albendazole/Pyrantel Pamoate) as per national guidelines

        -  Parents/caregivers will be given nutritional counselling

        -  For the child cohort, parents will be given one sachet of multiple micro-nutrient
           sprinkles per day for two months.

        -  Any inter-current illnesses detected by the study team will also be taken care of.

      Food based nutritional therapy: Supplementation of the usual home diet with one egg, and 150
      ml of whole milk which will provide an additional 178 kilo-calories, 11.1 g protein, and 11.5
      g of fat to the daily diet of enrolled subjects. Sachets of multiple micro-nutrient powder
      will be provided for use at home at dinner.

      In order to clarify the role of food-based nutritional therapy, there will be comparison
      subgroups of 40 stunted children and 40 children at risk of stunting who will be followed for
      3 and 2 months respectively, without any nutritional therapy. At the end of the observation
      period of 3 and 2 months, nutritional therapy will be provided to these children same as that
      provided to the enrolled participants.

      Discontinuation from the study: A child will be discontinued from the study and referred for
      medical evaluation if he/she shows reluctant to feed for consecutive 7 days which includes
      daily intake of 50% or less amount of food that will be offered. A new eligible child will be
      recruited in his position for nutritional intervention.

      Collection of biological samples:

      All biological samples (blood, urine, stool, duodenal aspirates, and endoscopic biopsies)
      will be collected as per the standard operative procedures (SOPs) which will be prepared for
      this protocol. A total amount of 5ml blood will be collected from each participant before and
      after nutritional intervention. Urine will be collected for Lactulose-Rhamnose assay, and for
      metabolomic studies; breath samples will be collected for testing for small intestinal
      bacterial overgrowth (SIBO). Second SIBO will be done 1-2 weeks prior to endoscopy so that
      the findings from the endoscopy can be compared to the breath tests. Fecal samples will be
      collected for biomarkers, Taqman array card (TAC) assays and Microbiome/Microbiota for age
      Z-score (MAZ)/Bug fluorescence-activated cell sorting.

      Detailed procedure of Bio-marker testing

      The bio-markers going to be tested for are-

      Stool bio-markers

        -  Regeneration gene 1Beta

        -  Neopterin

        -  Myeloperoxidase

        -  Alpha-1-antitrypsin

        -  Calprotectin

        -  The TaqMan Array Card for enteropathogen

        -  Gut Microbiome analysis

        -  Bug Fluorescence-Activated Cell Sorting.

      Urine bio-markers

      • Lactulose-Rhamnose test

      Blood bio-markers

        -  C- Reactive Protein

        -  Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein

        -  Soluble cluster of differentiation 14

        -  Kynurenine-Tryptophan Ratio

        -  Glucagon-like peptide-2

        -  Insulin-like growth factor-2

        -  Tissue Transglutaminase

        -  Ferritin

        -  Zinc

        -  Pepsinogen I/II Ratio

        -  Low density lipoprotein related receptor 1 (LRP1)

        -  Blood plasma metabolomics

      Other proposed biomarkers

      • Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth

      After completion of nutritional therapy, all enrolled participants will have an assessment
      for response which will include:

        -  Anthropometric measurements

        -  Collection of one 5 ml blood sample for serum bio-markers of gut function and screening
           tests for the endoscopy with biopsy procedure, if the procedure is indicated for failure
           to thrive

        -  Collection of stool specimen for bio-markers of gut function

        -  Administration of lactulose-rhamnose solution and collection of urine for up to 2 hours
           for urine bio markers of gut function

      At this time, the final inclusion criterion for endoscopy with biopsy will be evaluated to
      determine whether the participants failed nutritional therapy or had an adequate response, or
      have an underlying disease that caused the malnutrition. Failure of nutritional therapy in
      this study, or failure to respond, is defined in the absence of any other underlying diseases
      such as tuberculosis:

        -  LAZ score remains < -2 for stunted children cohort

        -  LAZ score remains < -1 for "at risk of stunting" children cohort

        -  BMI < 18.5 and < 10% increase in BMI for adults.

      Participants who meet the study definition of "failure to respond" will be checked for
      presence of any secondary cause of malnutrition like tuberculosis, carcinoma, any parasitic
      infection etc. Stool microscopy for parasite identification will be done at icddr,b
      parasitology lab as soon as possible after collection of stool samples. If nothing conclusive
      can be found, the participants may be requested to undergo preparations for upper GI
      endoscopy with biopsy, as they may benefit from further evaluation to identify the potential
      cause(s) of intervention failure and to determine an appropriate therapeutic course. It will
      also benefit others by validating the non-invasive bio-marker signature of Environmental
      Enteric Dysfunction. Participants who will undergo endoscopy will receive necessary
      treatments according to diagnosis.

      Participants having celiac disease and clotting disorder (tested by prothrombin time /
      International Normalized Ratio coagulopathy) will be excluded from the study. Endoscopy of
      upper gastrointestinal tract will be done as per standards recommended by North American
      Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition (NASPGHAN0, American College
      of Gastroenterology (ACG) and American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE).
    
  