
    
      Cisplatin and Liposomal Doxorubicin are chemotherapy drugs designed to fight cancer growth.

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will enter a treatment period that is
      divided into cycles. Each cycle is 28 days. You will be hospitalized to receive your
      chemotherapy. The night of the hospital admission you will receive fluids (normal saline) in
      your veins to help avoid kidney side effects from the chemotherapy. The morning after your
      admission to the hospital you will be taken to the interventional radiology suite and a
      catheter will be placed in your right groin. You must be on bedrest the entire time that the
      catheter is in place. After the procedure, you will go to Nuclear Medicine and a test called
      "flow study" will be carried out to confirm the right position of the catheter. After your
      return to the room, the nurses will start the chemotherapy. You will first receive cisplatin
      through the groin catheter followed by the liposomal doxorubicin given in one of your veins.
      The treatment lasts less than three hours and is repeated once every month.

      The catheter will be carefully taped so it can not move and to prevent it from coming out.
      Following completion of chemotherapy infusion, the intra-arterial catheter will be pulled and
      pressure applied to the groin for 15 minutes. In some cases, the catheter will be removed
      immediately after your chemotherapy infusions is complete. In some cases, the catheter will
      remain in longer. You will be on bedrest until the catheter is removed. The catheter will be
      removed by the physician on call. The catheter will be placed and removed at each treatment.

      Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for blood counts and liver function tests before each
      dose to be sure researchers are safely giving you the liposomal doxorubicin.

      Since most of the blood flow to your liver comes through the portal vein, your doctors will
      try to cause an infarct (like a stroke) to the liver artery followed by the injection of
      cisplatin to kill the tumor cells.

      You will be seen by a doctor or advanced practice practitioner every day while you are in the
      hospital. You will be hospitalized for about 5-7 days until recovery from all immediate
      treatment related side effects.

      You will continue to receive therapy as mentioned above until the disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur.

      At the end of your participation in this study, you will have scans to see if your tumors are
      growing or shrinking, and blood work (about 3 teaspoons) to make sure your blood counts and
      the electrolytes (salts in your blood), kidney and liver function are at a safe level.
    
  