
    
      Modern intrauterine devices are highly effective long acting reversible forms of
      contraception. The Mirena IUD is 99.8% effective and the Paragard copper IUD is 99.2%
      effective in preventing pregnancy (Zieman 2010). Fear of intrauterine device placement can be
      a barrier to obtaining this highly effective form of birth control. The current standard of
      care for pain management during and after IUD placement is no medication, as randomized
      control trials published to date have limited data regarding use of medications to decrease
      pain. There has been one trial to suggest that the use of naproxen with 1% lidocaine
      paracervical block compared to paracervical block alone may decrease pain after IUD placement
      in primarily nulliparous patients. However, this study was with the much wider and no longer
      available Dalkon Shield IUD. In addition, this study did not show any significant decrease in
      pain scores during IUD placement (Massey 1974). Studies to evaluate effectiveness of motrin
      and misoprostol have shown no significant decrease in pain scores during and after IUD
      insertion, although the majority of participants in these studies were multiparous (Jensen
      1998, Hubacher 2006, Saav 1997). There is some suggestion that 2% lidocaine gel one minute
      prior to IUD insertion may have some decrease in pain, although this study was poorly
      designed (Oloto 1996).

      There have been no studies published to date regarding the use of ketorolac for decreasing
      pain during and after IUD placement. Ketorolac is an acetic acid NSAID that reversibly
      inhibits COX 1 and 2, leading to decreased formation of prostaglandin precursors, and is
      indicated for the use of moderate acute pain in the short term setting. Its administration in
      the office setting may be good option for providers since intramuscular administration leads
      to analgesia beginning at 30 minutes, maximal effect 1 to 2 hours after administration, and
      duration of analgesia approximately 4 to 6 hours for the 30mg intramuscular injection.

      Although there is no standard of care in regards to pain medication administration prior to
      IUD placement, providers at UCSD often suggest certain options. These include ibuprofen at
      least one hour prior to the procedure, or ibuprofen taken within a few hours after the
      procedure, or ketorolac injection at least 15-30 minutes prior to the procedure. It would be
      beneficial for providers to have an evidence based option for patients.
    
  