
    
      The investigators propose a randomized controlled open label intervention study. Patients
      hospitalized for COVID-19 and affected by type 2 diabetes mellitus will be included in the
      study and divided into two groups by randomization: sitagliptin add-on standard of care
      therapy with nutritional therapy with or without insulin treatment (study group) vs
      nutritional therapy with or without insulin treatment (group of control, standard therapy).
      The design of the study provides an open randomization to allow its feasibility in times
      compatible with the achievement of adequate cases during the epidemic. The presence of
      placebo and a double-blind study, would lead to longer planning and enrollment times.

      Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus hospitalized for COVID-19 and randomized to the study
      group will be treated with sitagliptin at an adjusted dosage for estimated glomerular
      filtrate: 100 mg once daily (estimated glomerular filtration rate less than or equal to 45 mL
      / min / 1.73 m2) or 50 mg (estimated glomerular filtration rate 30-45 mL / min / 1.73 m2) in
      combination or not with insulin treatment. Patients with stage IV and V renal impairment
      (estimated glomerular filtration rate less than or equal to 30 mL / min / 1.73 m2) will be
      excluded. Enrolled patients will be followed according to the following scheme:

      Time points:

        -  T0: The doctor explains the protocol to the patient and he gives to him the informed
           consent and the letter to the general practitioner.

        -  T1: The patient gives the signed and dated consent and officially enters the study.
           Basic assessments will be made. At the baseline, the clinical response, the main
           laboratory and instrumental tests will be taken into consideration. Biological samples
           will be taken for immunological study. Diabetic patients will begin treatment with
           Sitagliptin 100 or 50 mg add-on to nutritional therapy and, eventually, insulin
           treatment. Any other hypoglycemic agents taken before admission will be suspended.

        -  T2: 7 days after T1, for both groups of patients, evaluation of the clinical response,
           of the average daily blood glucose levels, of the main laboratory and instrumental
           tests.

        -  T3: 10 days after T2, for both groups of patients, evaluation of clinical response,
           average daily blood glucose levels, of the main laboratory and instrumental tests.
           Collection of biological samples for immunological study. End of the study.
    
  