
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a leading cause of death and disability in Canada costing
      $22.2 billion annually in health care costs and lost productivity. Cardiovascular diseases
      are complex conditions that afflict older adults more so than any other population. As CVD is
      a chronic condition, many patients live with their disease and are affected by it on a daily
      basis in their homes and communities. Unfortunately, many patients 'suffer' in isolation. It
      is well-accepted that patient self-management plays a key role in improving patient health
      and reducing hospital admissions. Social and peer support, as well as timely access to
      credible information on managing CVD are essential for patient self-management.

      While there is a growing understanding that patients with CVD benefit from being actively
      engaged in their own care, questions remain as to where and how self management support
      should be delivered. Integration of self-management programs within the health care system
      has been a challenge due to the system emphasis on the management of acute and episodic
      conditions rather than the less intense and more drawn-out patient interactions
      characteristic of chronic conditions. Clearly alternatives are needed to support patient
      self-management and reduce needless hospital admissions.

      The rise in technology and telecommunications has opened up an array of possibilities for
      patients to be connected to their health while remaining in their homes and community.
      Outside of the health care sector, peer support and social networking have seen tremendous
      growth through the use of telecommunications. The value of these networks to improving health
      and self-management, however, has not been robustly studied.

      Through an existing partnership between university-based researchers, industry (Curatio),
      decision-makers (Vancouver Coastal Health), clinicians and patients the investigators have
      developed a peer support and self-management platform called Healing Circles. The
      investigator's 10-week pilot study of Healing Circles in patients with ischemic heart disease
      demonstrated the feasibility and acceptability, and resulted in key improvements to social
      support and self-management, as well as demonstrated ease of use of the application itself.
      The current proposal represents the next phase in our program to scale-up and spread the use
      of Healing Circles.

      The primary hypothesis is that patients with CVD using the Healing Circles platform will have
      improved self-management skills compared to patients receiving usual care. Secondary
      hypotheses are that participation in Healing Circles application will improve quality of life
      and health service use (and associated costs). Outcomes of end-user perceptions, attitudes
      and satisfaction with the platform will also be assessed.

      Participants (n=250) will be recruited through cardiology and cardiac outpatient clinics in
      Greater Vancouver, as well as through community presentations and mailouts. Patients with
      documented CVD, who have regular access to a device that supports Healing Circles (computer,
      tablet or smartphone) will be randomized to either the Healing Circles application or usual
      care and followed for up to a 2.5 year period.

      Healing Circles participants will form 'Circles' with 8 to 10 other participants to connect
      with and support one another as they learn to live day-to-day with their CVD. Patients also
      have the ability to connect and engage all members of the wider Healing Circles community.
      The investigators anticipate that participation in Healing Circles will support patient
      self-management for patients in their homes resulting in reduced need for health care and
      hospital use.
    
  