
    
      Background Type 1 diabetes (T1D) patients with optimal glycemic control suffer markedly less
      from long term diabetic complications than those with poor control. Increased glycohemoglobin
      (HbA1C) levels predict the complication risk. The development of diabetic complications seems
      to accelerate during puberty, and poor metabolic control during adolescence or young
      adulthood markedly increases the incidence of micro- or macrovascular complications during
      subsequent years. On the other hand, intensive treatment during adolescence has been reported
      to reduce the risk of microvascular complications, even if the control later on becomes
      poorer. This implicates that interventions targeting at improved glycemic control during
      adolescence probably have sustained beneficial effects on the overall morbidity in patients
      T1D.

      The glycemic control of Finnish adolescents with T1D is poor. Insulin resistance and impaired
      metabolic control are common problems. Treatment of the disease during puberty can be
      complicated and particularly treatment adherence often declines in youth. Inexpensive and
      easily adoptable methods for clinicians are needed to overcome treatment problems faced with
      adolescent patients.

      At present, there are no generally recommended approaches for clinicians to apply in order to
      motivate adolescents with poor glycemic control towards better treatment adherence. To this
      end, motivational interviewing (MI) has been used to an increasing degree in health care
      professionals in the treatment of variety of disorders and behavioral problems, such as
      alcohol and drug problems, gambling, and cardiovascular diseases. Motivational interviewing
      is a counseling approach designed to facilitate intrinsic motivation in the patient to change
      behavior. Significant body of evidence supports the view that MI improves commitment to care
      when added to other treatment. However, only a few studies have evaluated MI in the treatment
      of adolescent diabetes patients, with outcomes ranging from substantial benefit to neutral.
      MI is a promising approach for the treatment adolescent type 1 diabetics but there is a clear
      demand for methodologically solid studies.

      Aims The aim of the present study is to investigate the effect of motivational interviewing
      and intensive education on HbA1c values and glucose variability in poorly controlled
      adolescent T1D patients. Secondarily, it will be investigated whether improved glycemic
      control is associated with improvements in vascular parameters, metabolic markers, markers of
      bone health and health related quality of life.

      Hypothesis In the present study motivational interviewing (MI) will be integrated to
      clinicians' daily practice, as a part of normal clinical visit. In this randomized,
      controlled trial hypothesis is, that applying motivational interviewing during regular
      clinical visits results in better acceptance and subsequently enhanced metabolic control in
      adolescents with poorly controlled type 1 diabetes.

      Study protocol All physicians participating in the study are trained to use standardized
      educational (SE) material. In addition half of the physicians are randomized to motivational
      interview (MI) group. They are trained by professor Martti Tuomisto's group to use MI in a
      one day workshop with refresher practical rehearsal course prior to study start. To secure
      that MI is sufficiently applied, the physician/patient discussions will be monitored by the
      Tuomisto group. All researchers randomized to the MI group will receive continuous feedback
      from the Tuomisto group on their performance (i.e. level of applying MI) and if needed
      re-trained for MI.

      Patients with Hba1c > 75 mmol/mol are identified from hospital records, and are considered
      eligible for the current study. The patients willing to participate are randomized either to
      MI plus SE or SE group.

      Study Protocol Every visit includes a physical examination (including evaluation of the stage
      of puberty and testis volume at the start and at 12 months), measurement of height, weight,
      growth velocity, body mass index (BMI), blood pressure and waist circumference, usage of SE
      material, and in the MI group usage of MI during the patient visit. The intervention in the
      MI group consists of a MI type of introduction at the beginning of each patient visit, and
      applying MI principles and procedures on each educational item discussed during the patient
      visit. Adherence to MI intervention protocols will be checked using recorded samples of
      therapy interactions. HbA1c levels are also measured in every visit.

      Six days blinded continuous glucose monitoring will be performed at baseline and during the
      follow-up (0, 6 and 12 months).

      Fasting venous blood samples are obtained at baseline and at 12 months. Investigators will
      evaluate health related quality of life (QoL) in study participants at baseline, and at
      completion of the study.

      Dual- energy x-absorptiometry (DXA) is performed at baseline and at 12 months. Vascular
      assessments will be performed at baseline and at study completion.
    
  