
    
      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of acupuncture treatment on cardiac
      sympathetic/vagal activity in chronic heart failure patients. The investigators would like to
      investigate the effect of acupuncture treatment on cardiac function and the general health
      score of the quality-of-life. The investigators would like to further explore the mechanism
      of acupuncture treatment on autonomic imbalance and chronic inflammatory reaction in heart
      failure patients by comparing the treatment and sham groups, the baseline before the
      treatment and the changes after treatment.

      Chronic heart failure affects millions people and is a leading cause of death in US. Despite
      of advance in diagnoses and treatments, the long-term prognosis and quality of life of
      chronic heart failure patients remain poor. The mortality of chronic heart failure is
      estimated 50% within 4 years, and is more than 50% in patients with severe chronic heart
      failure.

      Chronic heart failure results from the left ventricular (LV) systolic and/or diastolic
      dysfunction. Autonomic imbalance with sustained sympathetic overdrive and vagal withdrawal
      plays an important role in the development of chronic heart failure. This autonomic
      dysregulation is related to increased heart rate, excess inflammatory response, progressive
      LV dysfunction, increased mortality and morbidity in chronic heart failure patients.
      Sympathetic active inhibition with beta-adrenergic receptor blockers has shown significant
      reduction in mortality and morbidity in chronic heart failure patients. Also modulation of
      parasympathetic activation with electrical vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) has demonstrated as
      a potential therapy for chronic heart failure.

      Acupuncture has been widely used in China for thousands of years to treat a variety of
      diseases and their symptoms. Except pain disorders, increasing evidences have shown that
      acupuncture may be useful for cardiovascular diseases, such as coronary artery disease,
      hypertension and chronic heart failure. It has been demonstrated that certain acupuncture
      points have shown to inhibit cardiac sympathetic activation or increase cardiac vagal
      component in both experimental animals and clinical studies. Recently a small clinical trial
      by Dr. Kristen, et al has found that acupuncture could improve exercise tolerance in chronic
      heart failure patients.

      The investigators hypothesize that acupuncture treatment may improve the cardiac function and
      the quality of life in heart failure patients. These effects may be related to the inhibition
      of sympathetic activity and/or increased vagal function. The suppression of inflammatory
      reaction with acupuncture treatment may also be associated with these outcomes. In addition
      to optimized standard heart failure medications, acupuncture may be a safe therapeutic
      strategy in chronic heart failure treatment. Studies of acupuncture on cardiac autonomic
      activity in heart failure may show more evidence of acupuncture treatment in chronic heart
      failure patients.
    
  