
    
      This study is a prospective controlled, blinded clinical trial, designed to establish the
      protective efficacy induced by the vaccine PvCSP between human volunteers with and without
      history of malaria. Volunteers will be recruited in Cali, Colombia and Quibdó, Colombia.

      Study subjects: This study will require the involvement of two types of volunteers, parasite
      donors and volunteers for immunization

      Parasite donors: 5-15 P. vivax-infected patients who will serve as parasites donors for
      experimental infection of mosquitoes, who will be enrolled in the endemic area.

      Volunteers for immunization: Two other groups of volunteers will be immunized with the PvCSP
      vaccine. A group of 60 people without previous exposure to malaria (naïve) and another 60
      people with a history of previous malaria infection (pre-immune).

      Methodology Recruitment of infected patients: Parasite donors will be recruited among P.
      vivax infected patients attending a diagnostic center in the endemic area.

      Infection of mosquito's blood from donors will be used to feed three-day-old mosquitoes by
      artificial membrane feeding technique. At day 7, a sample of mosquitoes will be examined to
      determine the level of infection by dissection of the mosquito's gut. On day 14, a small
      number of mosquitoes with a good degree of infectivity will be used to infect challenged
      volunteers.

      Recruitment of pre-immune and naive volunteers: Volunteers for the immunization stage will be
      recruited both in the city of Cali (Colombia), non-endemic region, and in Quibdó (Colombia),
      a malaria endemic region, through various activities such as conferences, meetings and other
      strategies previously approved by the IRB, like posters, radio advertising flyers and social
      media.

      Immunization: Volunteers will be immunized with the vaccine (n=60) or placebo (n=60).

      Follow-up of volunteers will be performed under medical vigilance during the first hour
      following the immunization to detect any adverse reaction. After the first hour period a
      medical exam will be made. Eight hours after immunization, each volunteer will be contacted
      via telephone to assess physical condition. Any adverse event (AE) will be registered.

      Subsequent follow up will be made on the day next to immunization and 1 or 2 weeks before the
      next immunization by a new clinical evaluation and AE report. Volunteers will be instructed
      to contact the research staff at any moment.

      Infection of volunteers immunized volunteers will be challenged on day ~150 of the study, 1
      month after the third immunization by the bite of 2-4 infected mosquito. A "feeding cage"
      will be placed on the forearm of a volunteer for 10 minutes, allowing that the feeding
      window, which will be covered by a mesh surface be placed against the volunteer's skin.

      Volunteers will be instructed about the signs and symptoms of malaria and they will have a
      daily telephone contact during the first 6 days.

      Between days 7 and 23 the volunteers will be asked to go to the Clinical Trials Unit daily to
      establish the presence or absence of disease through thick blood smear and samples will be
      collected for retrospective real time PCR P. vivax.

      From day 23 until day 31, volunteers will receive physical and laboratory evaluation every
      other day and will have daily telephone contact.

      Once the patients present signs and symptoms of the disease curative treatment will be
      immediately provided, and 15 ml of blood will be drawn, which will be used for immune
      response assessment.

      If the volunteers do not develop the disease during the follow-up period, on day 31 they will
      be given antimalarial treatment.

      Treatment Volunteers will be treated with antimalarial drugs approved by the Colombian
      Ministry of Social Health: chloroquine (three (3) doses: 600 mg initially, followed by 450 mg
      at 24, and 48 hours), associated with primaquine (30mg/day) for 14 days. All the volunteers
      will be asked to return two weeks after starting treatment for a thick blood smear test to
      ensure cure of malaria.
    
  