
    
      Although 13% of the U.S. female population is Black, 60% of new HIV diagnoses in U.S. women
      occur among Black women. The South is the epicenter of the U.S. HIV epidemic, including in
      women, and Black Southern women are disproportionately affected: Black women account for 69%
      of new HIV diagnoses in women in the South. As the first highly effective, discrete,
      woman-controlled HIV prevention method, oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) with tenofovir
      disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine radically expands HIV prevention options for women.
      However, uptake of PrEP in U.S. women has lagged, particularly among groups most affected by
      HIV.

      PrEP cascades outline the necessary steps for accessing PrEP, including screening and
      identifying eligible individuals, linkage to care, prescription, and initiation of PrEP. Data
      suggest there are multilevel barriers related to the process of screening for HIV risk in
      women and identifying potential PrEP candidates that may drive a significant drop off early
      in the PrEP cascade for women. Women report feeling judged by risk assessment questions and
      experience stigma around disclosing sexual practices. As a result, if screening is required
      to educate patients about PrEP - as is true in most clinical settings - many women for whom
      PrEP is appropriate may never learn about PrEP. Further, women have low levels of knowledge
      about HIV risk and HIV prevention options, and therefore will not seek out PrEP services
      themselves. By offering education to all women about vulnerabilities to HIV as well as
      information about HIV prevention methods including PrEP, at-risk women can circumvent these
      multifactorial barriers and request PrEP. Electronic decision support tools (DST), which have
      been used with success in a range of healthcare contexts including contraception, provide an
      efficient and private mechanism for this information-sharing step.

      The study team developed a tablet-based tool that is designed to provide universal PrEP
      education and facilitate women's agency to identify their own risks and interest in PrEP. It
      was refined with iterative feedback from patient and community stakeholders and finalized
      based on cognitive testing.

      The DST provides information about vulnerabilities to HIV and core characteristics of
      different HIV prevention methods, and then the opportunity to explore these characteristics
      in depth, including efficacy, safety and side effects. The user chooses the level of
      information that they wish to receive through the interactive interface, allowing for an
      individualized experience. Upon reaching the end of the tool, information on the tablet
      suggests that women ask their provider about HIV prevention methods they are interested in
      using, based on their preferences for method characteristics, and their questions in order to
      facilitate deliberation with the provider. The DST takes approximately 10 minutes to
      complete.

      Approximately 384 women presenting to two reproductive health clinics in Duval County,
      Florida, will be randomized to standard counseling plus use of an HIV prevention DST,
      providing education about PrEP and encouraging self-assessment of HIV risk, or standard
      counseling alone. In addition to the experimental intervention, a subset of 40 participants
      (20 per arm, 10 per clinic) will be asked to allow audio-recording of their counseling
      sessions with a provider. A subset of up to 40 additional participants (20 per arm, 10 per
      clinic), all of whom self-identify as women of color, will be invited to complete one-hour,
      semi-structured interviews after their clinic visit about their experiences of using the DST,
      HIV prevention counseling, and decision making about PrEP.
    
  