
    
      Oxygen is necessary to sustain human life and is used for energy production by oxidation in
      the mitochondria. Application of oxygen not only increases saturation in the patient's blood,
      but also has various secondary effects. It is therefore used to treat diseases that impairs
      body's ability to take up and use oxygen. But even healthy people can suffer from hypoxia
      when they ascend to high altitude. Here, altitude sickness can lead to potentially fatal
      complications such as high altitude cerebral edema or high altitude pulmonary edema. Since
      hypoxia can have disastrous consequences, hyperoxia is often tolerated in many pre- and
      in-hospital situations.

      Whereas the effects of hypoxia are well studied, especially publications in the last decade
      have led to a new perspective on oxygen application. Besides pathophysiological changes as
      the peripheral vasoconstriction or reduction of contractility, especially changes on cellular
      level seem to be of great importance. Here, oxidative stress and change of protein synthesis
      in various organ are focus of current studies.

      The differential analysis of protein expression in tissues (proteomics) is an important
      approach for better understanding of the negative effects of hyperoxia. Especially for
      patients with long-term high oxygen demand the knowledge of cellular changes during hyperoxia
      can result in new therapeutic approaches and a reduction in the rate of complications.

      In the present molecular biology study urine and blood samples of healthy volunteers will be
      collected at specified times after short-term exposure to oxygen. These samples will be
      analyzed after the study using the differential analysis of protein expression. The aim of
      this study is to investigate the effects of oxygen on the cell functions by analyzing and
      subsequent bioinformatic processing of differentially regulated proteins in the blood and
      urine.

      After checking the inclusion and exclusion criteria biometric data of the test persons are
      collected.

      Before short-term hyperoxia a sample collection of blood and urine will be performed. Here
      the participants are taken 5 ml of venous blood from the cephalic vein under sterile
      conditions. To obtain the urine sample spontaneous urine of participants is used. The samples
      are immediately centrifuged and flash frozen at -80°C. In order to exclude impairment of the
      lung prior to the short-term hyperoxia a pulmonary function test is carried out by using a
      hand spirometer.

      To induce hyperoxia subjects inhale 100% oxygen for 3 hours through a face mask.

      After carrying out the short term hyperoxia the follow up phase takes place. In this phase
      blood and urine samples from the subjects will be obtained directly after the hyperoxia (T0),
      on day 1 (T1), day 3 (T3), day 7 (T7), day 14 (T14), day 21 (T21) and day 28 (T28) after
      oxygen exposure. All samples will be centrifuged immediately after collection and flash
      frozen at -80 ° C. To exclude hyperoxia-induced lung impairments, a spirometry is performed
      during the follow up.

      After the samples of all subjects were collected the analysis of the samples will be carried
      out using Proteomics.
    
  