
    
      Gaucher disease is an inherited functional deficiency of glucocerebrosidase
      (beta-glucosidase) which leads to glycolipid accumulation in various tissues. OGT 918 is a
      reversible inhibitor of glucosylceramide synthase, a key enzyme in the synthesis of
      glycolipids, and has shown beneficial effects in a clinical study in type 1 Gaucher disease.

      The primary objective of this clinical trial is to evaluate OGT 918 as a treatment for
      neuronopathic Gaucher disease by assessing changes in saccadic eye movement velocity. Other
      markers of the disease will also be assessed, including neurological and pulmonary
      involvement. Secondary objectives are to assess the clinical safety and tolerability of OGT
      918 therapy.

      Up to 30 patients, recruited from the National Institutes Health, Bethesda, USA and the
      Institute of Child Health, London, U.K. will be randomized to OGT 918 or no treatment in a
      2:1 ratio for the 12 month study period. Patients will be clinically diagnosed with
      neuronopathic Gaucher disease, 12 years of age or older, on a stable dose of enzyme
      replacement therapy (ERT) for at least 6 months and be able to swallow capsules.
      Randomization will be stratified based on whether or not the patient has undergone a
      splenectomy.

      All patients will follow an identical visit schedule. Patients aged 12 years or over
      randomized to receive OGT 918 will commence treatment at a dose of 200 mg (2 x 100 mg
      capsules) OGT 918 three times daily. As some patients may experience initial gastrointestinal
      intolerance this dose may be modified, however the aim will be to maintain patients at the
      highest tolerable dose in order to achieve the most clinical benefit. Data analysis is
      planned, comparing OGT 918 to the no treatment group, when all patients have completed 12
      months of the study. The study will be extended, up to a total of 12 additional months, to
      collect safety and efficacy data. The length of the extension study will be dependent on the
      results of the final analysis. All patients completing the main study, including those
      initially randomized to the no treatment group, will be able to participate in the extension
      study unless there are safety issues to prohibit this. All patients in the extension study
      will receive OGT 918.

      Disease activity assessments will be conducted as indicated in the study flow charts. For a
      complete description of all study assessments, please refer to Section 7 of the main
      protocol. Where possible, study assessments will be blinded.

      The effect of OGT 918 on the electro-oculographic characteristics of saccadic activity,
      specifically the amplitude/velocity characteristics (main sequence), will be the primary
      outcome variable. Saccadic velocity-amplitude relationship is decreased in neuronopathic
      Gaucher patients. This study will assess whether OGT 918 therapy is capable of improving or
      stopping any further deterioration of this ocular function.
    
  