
    
      Objectives: The primary objectives are: (1) to quantify the absolute risk of major
      hemorrhagic complications associated with anticoagulation for AF among octogenarians; (2) to
      determine if risk and severity of major hemorrhagic complications is increased in
      octogenarians compared with younger patients maintained on warfarin for AF after adjustment
      for potential confounders; (3) to explore predictors of major hemorrhagic complications among
      octogenarians maintained on warfarin for AF; and (4) to determine the effectiveness of
      utilizing the VA Intranet to collect and manage patient data in the conduct of longitudinal
      studies.

      Research Plan: This is a prospective observational cohort study that is in the process of
      enrolling and following patients on warfarin therapy by utilizing anticoagulation clinics in
      VA hospitals across the US. There are currently 14 sites actively enrolling patients in the
      study. For each octogenarian enrolled a randomly selected patient with AF younger than 80
      years of age from the same clinic and receiving warfarin for approximately the same duration
      is enrolled.

      Methods: Baseline data is collected and prospective follow-up data is captured every 3
      months. Based on their duration of previous warfarin therapy, octogenarians with AF are
      assembled into either a survivor or an inception cohort. For analysis, patients with two
      weeks or less of prior warfarin exposure constitute the inception cohort. The primary
      endpoint is major hemorrhage as defined by the Consensus Recommendations published by the
      American College of Chest Physicians. Data is being collected to allow for verification of
      fatal bleeds and verification of the resultant morbidity from non-fatal major bleeds.
      Endpoints will be adjudicated by hemostasis experts blinded to the age of the patient. Since
      this is an observational study, all reported events and deaths are not related to or the
      result of any study intervention. Data on development of new comorbidities, medications,
      average daily warfarin dose or discontinuation and degree of anticoagulation as measured by
      the International Normalized Ratio (INR) is also being collected.

      All aspects of the study are being conducted through the VA Intranet. Participating sites
      utilize the Intranet to transmit baseline and follow-up data forms on study patients,
      removing the need for detailed paper correspondences. Sites also have the opportunity to view
      and edit previously submitted forms, view the study manual, download paper copies of data
      collection forms, and utilize the bulletin board to post questions or comments about the
      study. Site Investigators and Coordinators access the Intranet from terminals in their own
      facility and are then presented with a unique study menu and bulletin board. To prevent
      unauthorized access to the data, Site Investigators and Coordinators have each been assigned
      an Electronic Signature (login name and password) in order to access the data forms on the
      Intranet. All data entered is submitted directly into the study database, obviating the need
      for subsequent transcription of data and reducing the opportunity for errors. Additionally,
      electronic data collection is designed to reject forms when predefined critical fields have
      not been completed or when values fall outside of field parameters. Data verification is done
      in real-time such that a site coordinator entering an invalid value is required to either
      skip the field or re-enter the corrected data to proceed. This should greatly reduce the time
      consumed searching through patient records to retrieve data that was entered incorrectly
      originally.

      Findings: Our goal is to enroll and follow a total of 700 patients over 5 years of
      recruitment. To date, 16 sites have enrolled a total of 502 patients into the study, 251 in
      the "survivor" cohort, 24 in the "inception" cohort, and 227 in the "control" cohort. There
      have been 66 reported deaths and 54 hemorrhagic events, 23 of which have been confirmed as
      major bleeds by the adjudication committee. The cohort to date has accumulated a total of 824
      person-years of observation.
    
  