
    
      Members of the clinical trial team will base themselves within the government run antenatal
      clinics at the clinical trial sites in order to identify potentially eligible pregnant women.
      Working closely alongside government midwifery and nursing staff they will aim to identify
      pregnant women who are yet to reach 34 weeks gestation and who are thus potentially eligible
      for enrolment. Assessment of gestation at this first contact point will be based on the date
      of the LMP or the assessment of fundal height as is local practice (gestational age will be
      confirmed by ultrasound scanning once informed consent has been obtained and ultrasound based
      assessment will be used to determine final eligibility).

      A member of the clinical trial team will discuss the study with potentially eligible
      expectant mothers who are provisionally interested and agree to receive this additional
      information. The discussion will be based on the contents of the informed consent document
      (ICD) and a copy of the ICD will be provided to the expectant mother at the end of the
      discussion.

      Potentially eligible women who are interested will be encouraged to discuss the study with
      their spouse and other family members as appropriate. Following individual sensitization of
      the mother, a member of the field team may provide information to other family members
      (particularly the spouse) either by telephone or through a visit to the subject's residence
      according to the preference of the mother.

      Expectant mothers who express an interest in participation will then be contacted to arrange
      a visit to the clinical trial site where informed consent will be undertaken.
      Written/thumb-printed informed consent will only be required from the expectant mother but in
      all cases it will be confirmed directly with the spouse (the father of the unborn baby) that
      they are aware of the study and have given their agreement. In the case of expectant mothers
      who are literate in English, they will be provided with a copy of the ICD but a member of the
      clinical trial team will nonetheless review the contents of the ICD line by line in English
      to ensure all details are covered and that the subject has the opportunity to ask questions
      regarding any aspect of the trial.

      In the case of potential participants who are not literate in English but only in one of the
      local languages, a member of the clinical trial team fluent in the local language (as well as
      being English literate) will review the ICD line by line translating directly from the
      English ICD to the appropriate local language. In this case an impartial witness must be
      present throughout all elements of the consent process and must attest that the information
      on the ICD has been given accurately and in full. The impartial witness will also be required
      to sign the ICD to confirm that this has been the case.

      Informed consent for study participation will be documented on the signature page of the ICD.
      The option to consent for the future use of any residual samples on study completion will
      also be given on the same page but the provision of such additional consent is not required
      for participation in the main trial.

      A certified copy of the ICD is provided to the participant unless it is refused for some
      reason in which case it will be filed at the trial site. Such refusal must be documented in
      the subject's file so it is clear that the subject has been offered a copy The study will
      randomize 600 pregnant women at between 28 and 34 weeks gestation. Mothers will not be
      replaced following randomization. Screening of potentially eligible women will continue until
      this number is reached unless the trial is stopped for some other reason.

      No further selection or assessment of eligibility will be undertaken on the newborn infants.
      All data will be included in the safety reporting irrespective of pregnancy outcome and
      safety follow-up should occur as planned for all infants. An infant may be excluded from the
      trial for the purposes of vaccination and/or clinical sampling if ongoing participation is
      considered to be against their best interests or if a contraindication to vaccination and/or
      to the obtaining of clinical samples is identified. An infant excluded in this way would not
      be replaced and hence this would not alter the target sample size of 600 pregnant women.
    
  