
    
      JE virus is an arbovirus that causes a devastating neurological disease resulting in high
      rates of mortality or neurologic sequelae. The severity of sequelae, together with the volume
      of cases, makes JE an important cause of encephalitis. The disease is endemic across
      temperate and tropical zones of Asia,and because of its zoonotic cycle, eradicating JE from
      the environment is unrealistic. Universal childhood vaccination is essential for disease
      control.

      Concern in Japan over a rare but potentially dangerous adverse event associated with a mouse
      brain-derived vaccine led the manufacturer in Japan to discontinue production in 2005, thus
      limiting global supply of inactivated JE vaccines and raising costs for remaining inactivated
      vaccines. In August of 2006, the World Health Organization stated in its position paper on
      Japanese encephalitis vaccines that the mouse brain-derived vaccine should be replaced by a
      new generation of JE vaccines.

      In Sri Lanka, immunization against JE began in 1988. By 2006, two types of JE vaccines were
      available for use in Sri Lanka-inactivated mouse brain-derived vaccine and live attenuated
      SA-14-14-2 JE vaccine (LJEV). Only the inactivated vaccine was being used in the country's
      public-sector immunization program. It is given to children in 3 doses, at 12 months of age,
      13 months of age, and 2 years of age. A booster dose must also be given to children at 5
      years of age. If Sri Lanka decides to replace the inactivated JE vaccine with the live
      attenuated JE vaccine, there will be many children who still need a 3rd or booster dose of
      the inactivated JE vaccine. This research study was done to see if the live attenuated
      vaccine would work well to replace the inactivated JE vaccine and if it is safe in Sri Lankan
      children. The study was conducted in three peri-urban health divisions of low JE endemicity
      in the District of Colombo.
    
  