
    
      The inflammatory bowel diseases represent a heterogeneous group of chronic ,
      relapsing-remitting inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract, and Crohn's disease
      and ulcerative colitis are among the two major clinical forms The global incidence and
      prevalence of The inflammatory bowel diseases has increased over the last 2-4 decades, likely
      because of the adoption of a more "western" lifestyle as well as improved detection and
      awareness . Despite the great progress in understanding the pathogenesis of these diseases,
      their etiology remains unclear. Genetic, immune, and environmental factors are thought to
      play a key role .

      In the case of Crohn's disease , chronic inﬂammation can be localized in every
      gastrointestinal tract segment and involves the full thickness of the intestinal wall. In
      contrast ,in ulcerative colitis , mucosa and submucosa membranes of the large intestine are
      usually involved The illness starts in the rectum and generally extends proximally through
      the whole colon. . Both diseases differ in the localization and size of the segment involved.
      There are also differences in clinical image, laboratory test results, and different
      characteristics of complications. The course and grade of disease activity depend on many
      factors, such as environmental influences , genetic features, changes in the intestinal
      microbiota ecosystem, and immune factors .

      The correct diagnosis of non-specific inflammatory bowel diseases as well as the
      determination of disease activity, risk stratification , and prediction of response to
      therapy still relies on a multidisciplinary approach based on clinical, laboratory,
      endoscopic, and histologic examination . However, considerable effort has been devoted to the
      development of an accurate panel of noninvasive bio markers that have increased diagnostic
      sensitivity and specificity .

      Osteoprotegerin , also known as is a member of the Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor superfamily
      of proteins. Osteoprotegerin is involved in many biological processes: its role is of
      particular importance in bone metabolism, inflammation , tumorigenesis, and other processes
      where cell differentiation, survival, and death are controlled. Osteoprotegerin was detected
      in serum, mucosal biopsies, and in the stool .

      The Osteoprotegerin gene is located on chromosome 8q23- 24.17. The mature OPG protein
      contains 380 amino acids and consists of seven domains. The ﬁrst four domains (D1-D4) contain
      cysteine-rich structures at the N terminus which are required for the inhibition of
      osteoclast differentiation. The ﬁfth and the sixth domain (D5 and D6) are death-domains and
      may be important in cytotoxic signals. The seventh domain, a C terminus heparin-binding site,
      is involved in dimer osteoprotegerin formation .

      Osteoprotegerin can be produced by a wide range of cell types, including osteoblasts, B
      lymphocytes, dendritic cells, bone marrow stromal cells, epithelial cells, and
      monocytes/macrophages. Osteoprotegerin activates and/or perpetuates inflammation in the gut
      by stimulating immune cells, cytokines, and the Necrosis factor-kappa B pathway .

      On the other hand, soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand , also known
      as tumor necrosis factor ligand. soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand
      is known as a type II membrane protein and as a member of tumor necrosis factor superfamily.

      Soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand has been identified to affect the
      immune system and control bone regeneration and remodeling, a binding partner of , and
      controls cell proliferation. it is expressed in several tissues and organs including:
      skeletal muscle, thymus, liver, colon, small intestine, adrenal gland, osteoblast, mammary
      gland epithelial cells, prostate and pancreas. Variation in concentration levels of soluble
      Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand throughout several organs reconfirms the
      importance of in tissue soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand growth
      (particularly bone growth) and immune functions within the body .

      The interactions between ,Osteoprotegerin,soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor
      kappa-Β ligand and soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β also have relevance
      to inflammatory pathways. - soluble binding Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β
      binding activates several pathways that contribute to the survival of T-lymphocytes and
      dendritic cells .

      In addition, Osteoprotegerin is synthesized by dendritic and B-lymphocytes whereas soluble
      Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand is mainly produced by T-lymphocytes.
      Moreover, soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand and various cytokines
      e.g. Tumor Necrosis Factor α induce the synthesis of osteoprotegerin from immune cells. In
      turn, the interruption of soluble Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β - soluble
      Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β ligand ligation by osteoprotegerin down
      regulates T-lymphocyte and dendritic activity, thereby modulating inﬂammatory responses .

      Calprotectin is a group of protein heterocomplexes.These proteins are expressed mainly in
      neutrophil and monocyte cytosols. Calprotectin stands for 60% of the circulating neutrophil
      cytosolic proteins, and is also present in monocytes and macrophages as well as in the tissue
      eosinophils of the ileum. Peripheral blood monocytes expose calprotectin both intra- and
      extracellularly, but neutrophils only intracellularly. Calprotectin shows antibacterial,
      antifungal, immunomodulatory, and antiproliferative action. Moreover, it potentially is a
      chemotactic factor for neutrophils. Calprotectin concentration in serum increases in
      disorders with an increase in neutrophil action. Neutrophils possess the ability to
      transmigrate the intestinal wall; that way calprotectin may be present in the stool. It has
      been shown that calprotectin concentration markedly increases in bowel disorders, such as
      (Crohn's disease ulcerative Colitis, and colonic neoplasia).
    
  