
    
      A loop electrosurgical excisional procedure(LEEP) is a medical technology which is very
      commonly used in order to treat cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and cervical cancer stage
      FIGO IA1, as well as diagnose the disease. Though a loop electrosurgical excisional procedure
      of cervix is an effective and safe procedure, it may cause discomfort due to bleeding after
      surgery, and there are many cases in which additional treatment shall be implemented in order
      to control hemorrhage.

      Up to now, a number of investigators have made efforts to reduce frequency of bleeding and
      additional hemostasis treatment after loop electrosurgical excisional procedure of cervix.
      Among the methods that have been studied so far, there are methods in which albothyl
      solution, Monsel's solution, Tranexamic acid, Amino-Cerve, or Fibrin glue are applied to the
      surgical margin of cervix, of which the bleeding has been stopped by using the electrocautery
      method. However, none of them has been recognized to be effective in reducing the frequency
      of bleeding and additional hemostasis treatment after loop electrosurgical excisional
      procedure of cervix. Accordingly, it is required to carry out researches to find new methods.

      Tachosil, as an absorbable hemostatic surgical patch, is composed of collagen matrix on which
      coagulation factor, human fibirinogen and human thrombin are coated. It has been proved that
      Tachosil is an effective and safe styptic in a digestive, hapatobiliary, pulmonary, renal
      surgery. Unlike the existing styptic, the surgical patch Tachosil has strong adhesion to
      bleeding points, plugging up bleeding holes, so that it is expected to have a great effect on
      prevention of bleeding on surgical margin of cervix after loop electrosurgical excisional
      procedure of cervix.

      This study is aimed at evaluating if the application of Tachosil is effective for prevention
      of bleeding after a loop electrosurgical excisional procedure of cervix.
    
  