
    
      In pregnancy the mother carries the growing fetus throughout gestation as her body prepares
      for delivery. This maternal preparation includes anatomical, physiological, and biochemical
      changes of the uterus, cervix, and ligaments that surround and support the uterus and cervix.
      For a successful term delivery, the uterus, cervix and supporting ligaments must remodel in a
      coordinated fashion to allow for adequate dilation and effacement of the cervix and delivery
      of the fetus.

      Preterm birth (PTB) is the leading cause of neonatal death. Premature babies that survive
      face a significantly increased risk of long-term disabilities, such as mental retardation,
      learning and behavioral problems, cerebral palsy, seizures, respiratory problems,
      gastrointestinal problems and vision/hearing loss. PTB is also significant cost factor in
      healthcare. In 2003, a study in the US approximated neonatal costs to be $224,400 for a
      newborn that weighed 500-700g (extreme-severe preterm range) verse $1,000 at over 3,000g.
      These costs increase exponentially with decreasing gestational age and weight. In 2007, an
      Institute of Medicine report entitled "Preterm Birth" found that the 550,000 preemies born
      each year in the U.S. cost $26 billion annually, mostly related to prolonged care in neonatal
      intensive care units. The pathophysiology of PTB is multi-factorial and the degree of
      severity spans a wide range, with pregnancy outcomes depending on a combination of
      congenital, anatomical, obstetric, epidemiological, and biochemical factors. Because of these
      confounding factors PTB rates in the US and around the world are on the rise and diagnostic
      methods to identify high-risk women for PTB remain elusive.

      Premature cervical remodeling which leads to softening/shortening of the cervix (i.e., a
      mechanical failure of the cervix) is one of the leading contributors to the birth of a
      severely preterm neonate. The true frequency and impact is unknown because diagnosing this
      condition remains elusive and the biomechanical environment of pregnancy is unknown. The
      pathophysiology is hypothesized to be multi-factorial leading to a common feature of a
      structurally weak and excessively soft cervix that is unable to remain closed and to support
      the fetus. Recently, it has been demonstrated that these preterm cervical changes may in some
      cause premature cervical shortening as measured by transvaginal ultrasound imaging. When this
      occurs, treatment with progesterone suppositories has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of
      preterm delivery. However, this treatment is not effective in many cases; probably because a
      short cervix is a late manifestation of the underlying biostructural alterations in the
      uterus, cervix and supporting ligaments.

      Many clinically-relevant advances in the field of orthopedics and gynecology (i.e., assessing
      the causes of uterine prolapse have been attributed to the accurate biomechanical modeling of
      the anatomy and tissue properties using finite element analysis (FEA). FEA is a computer
      simulation that computes tissue stretch (i.e., tissue strain), tissue stress, and reaction
      forces when external mechanical forces are applied to the system given the tissue's geometric
      shape and mechanical properties. Lastly, directly measuring the mechanical stiffness of the
      uterine cervix through use of a simple aspiration device has shown that in normal pregnancy
      cervical tissue softens starting in the 1st trimester and continues until dilation. These
      studies have also shown that using a simple mechanical aspirator applied to the end of the
      cervix protruding into the vaginal canal has zero adverse effects on the patient, where the
      measurement can be performed during a standard speculum exam.

      The cervical pessary has been proposed as an additional option for treatment in pregnancies
      with a short cervix. It offers additional theoretical benefits over the cerclage, in that it
      does not require surgical intervention. Its proposed mechanisms of action include a) angling
      the cervix toward the posterior, bringing the external os toward the sacrum, b) mechanically
      closing the cervix with the constraining geometry of the device, and c) preserving the mucous
      plug. These mechanisms of action involve lowering the mechanical stresses on the area of the
      internal os, potentially modifying the release of the enzymes and inflammatory markers
      involved in the preterm birth pathway. However, it is still unknown if the pessary relieves
      the mechanical load on the cervix because a biomechanical investigation of its function has
      not been performed. Therefore, the investigator plans to study a group of women with a short
      cervix randomized in an existing trial: AAAR1353 - A Randomized Trial of Pessary in Singleton
      Pregnancies with a Short Cervix (TOPS) in order to better understand the function and effect
      of the cervical pessary on the biomechanical support of the cervix in addition to its effect
      on its tissue properties and structural integrity. If a specific maternal utero-cervical
      phenotype can be located, where the placement of the cervical pessary reduces the mechanical
      load on the cervical internal os and therefore leads to a decreased incidence of preterm
      birth, then a more personalized treatment may be possible for patients who fall within this
      specific phenotype in the future.

      For the substudy, a total of 36 women will be recruited and randomized through the existing
      TOPS trial (18 randomized to Pessary and Progesterone and 18 randomized to progesterone
      only). Obstetric and gynecologic history, age, race, body mass index, smoking history, and
      outcome of the current pregnancy will be recorded for all patients.
    
  