
    
      This is a single site, double-blind, randomized, crossover study designed to compare the
      effects of dietary omega-3 fatty acids from flax oil versus fish oil supplementation on
      oxylipin profiles over time (0 to 4 weeks) and between healthy males and females.

      Recruitment will consist of a total of six (6) male and six (6) female participants.
      Participants will be recruited through advertisement from the local community. The study will
      be conducted at the Asper Centre for Clinical Research, St. Boniface Hospital. Participants
      will be asked to provide written informed consent prior to participation in the study.
      Participants who have provided written consent will be asked to attend an in-patient visit to
      provide a fasting blood sample. Should the participant be eligible to participate, they will
      be scheduled for a minimum 6 week Run-in Period, a 4 week Supplementation Phase, a minimum 6
      week Wash-out Period and then a second 4 week Supplementation Phase; each Supplementation
      Phase will have 6 in-person visits (0, 1, 3, 7, 14 and 28 days) to obtain fasting blood and
      urine samples and for completion of the Study Checklist. During each 4 week Supplementation
      Phase, participants will consume capsules containing flax oil and at a dose of 4 grams of
      ALA/day, or capsules containing fish oil and at a dose of 4 grams DHA + 0.8 grams EPA/day. A
      3-Day Food Record and Activity Questionnaire will be completed before the Day 0 visit and
      during week 3 of each Supplementation Phase.

      Provision of flax oil or fish oil in capsules will allow this study to be double-blinded.
      Blinding will reduce potential bias during data collection and evaluation of study endpoints.
      Both the research team and the participant are blinded from the time of randomization and for
      the duration of the study. Randomization will be used to avoid bias in the assignment; to
      increase the likelihood that known and unknown participant characteristics are evenly
      balanced across the various test groups; and to enhance the validity of statistical
      comparisons across test groups.
    
  