
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease(COPD) is currently the fourth leading cause of death in
      the United States. COPD is characterized by reduced airflow that is largely irreversible and
      progressive. Smoking is recognized as the most important cause of COPD contributing up to 80%
      of the cases. The disease does demonstrate a significant variability in airflow obstruction
      during the progression of the disease among those who are diagnosed and treated. This is
      probably due not only to the role of exposure of cigarette smoke and other noxious inhaled
      particles and gases but also to the individual's varied responses to those exposures.

      COPD is characterized by an inflammatory response that does have a number of components that
      may be present in variable amounts. Recent data suggests that the cigarette exposure may
      cause several distinct pathophysiological processes that in turn may account for the
      variability demonstrated in altered lung structure that leads to functional impairment.
      Current therapies can help with alleviation of symptoms in individuals but not the unaltered
      course of loss in lung function that frequently leads to respiratory failure and death.

      New strategies have been discussed as a means to new therapeutic approaches to altering the
      course of the disease. The use of genomic and proteomic methodologies offer promise to
      identify the pathways critical and relevant to the progression of COPD. To date approved
      medications target only the inflammatory response to the disease.

      The study will explore metabolic pathways that could affect the remodeling process associated
      with the disease. Because of the heterogeneity of COPD, characteristics of the individual as
      well as between individuals must be identified in more detail. Mechanisms that enable this
      not only include physiological characterization by the current prescribed interventions but
      also imaging data which provides such ability to quantify airway wall thickness as well as
      via DNA that will be collected and save in order to gain a better understanding between the
      methodologies as they relate to the characterization of COPD. Currently, there may be a
      common understanding of how a particular drug affects a detailed molecular mechanism, however
      frequently it is not known why. The purpose of this study is to assist in discovery of the
      why.
    
  