
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory joint disease. Patients typically
      experience pain, functional impairment and reduced quality of life, and are at risk of
      developing progressive joint damage. The disease primarily affects the small joints of the
      hands and feet. The current treatment strategy involves early and intensive treatment with
      close clinical follow up, which attempts to control the disease and avoid inflammation and
      thereby prevent pain, improve functional level and avoid joint damage. It is therefore
      important for optimal treatment of RA patients that methods used for diagnosis, disease
      monitoring and prognostication are highly sensitive. Erosive joint damage occurs early in the
      disease. Joint deformity is irreversible and causes serious functional impairment. Early and
      intensive treatment with close monitoring of the inflammation can slow the destructive
      disease and prevent function loss. However, it has been demonstrated that patients who are
      shown by conventional clinical and biochemical examination to have low disease activity or to
      be in remission can still have progressive joint damage. This demonstrates that current
      clinical/biochemical methods used in daily clinical practice are not sufficiently sensitive
      and other methods are required for the monitoring of disease activity and prognostication.

      The presence of erosions (shown by X-ray examination) as well as anti-cyclic citrullinated
      peptide (anti-CCP) antibodies and bone marrow oedema (osteitis) on magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI), are all independent predictors of subsequent radiographic progression. Bone marrow
      oedema has been shown to be the strongest independent predictor in early RA and MRI therefore
      has significant prognostic value.

      It is therefore possible that supplementing conventional clinical and biochemical
      examinations of RA patients with MRI, and intensifying treatment where bone marrow oedema is
      present, will help reduce disease activity, avoid progressive joint damage and prevent
      function loss.

      The current study is therefore based on the following hypothesis:

      By supplementing conventional clinical and biochemical examination of RA patients with low
      disease activity/in remission with MRI and intensifying treatment in the case of sub-clinical
      inflammation as measured by the presence of bone marrow oedema, it is possible to prevent
      radiographic erosive progression, improve functional level and enable more patients to
      achieve clinical remission.
    
  