
    
      Women who are planning to have breast conserving therapy (BCT) (surgery and radiotherapy,
      BCT) will be identified via two pathways: 1) via the Multi-Disciplinary Team Meeting (MDM) or
      2) the consulting clinician. At their surgical outpatient appointment, the patients will be
      given written information to take away and read at their convenience. After at least 24 hours
      a member of the study team will telephone the patient to answer any further questions and to
      see whether they would like to be considered for the trial. Women who wish to participate
      will have a face-to-face meeting arranged with one of the co-investigators.

      At the face-to-face meeting the investigators will go through the study in detail and ask the
      participant to sign a consent form to allow themselves to be included in the trial. The
      investigators will make it clear that participants can withdraw at any point during the
      study. The investigators will answer any further questions, take a baseline 3-D surface image
      (this is done by a member of the study team in a closed room with a lockable door with the
      offer of a chaperone), and issue a BCT BREAST-Q.

      BCT BREAST-Q is a questionnaire which has been designed for women with breast cancer who are
      undergoing BCT to look at their quality of life and satisfaction with different aspects of
      their treatment and outcome. It is split into two sections, one to be filled in before, and
      one after treatment.

      At the face-to-face meeting, the participants will be randomly allocated into 3 groups by a
      computer so the study team are not involved in the decision. This makes sure the allocation
      is fair. All women will receive the standard care for BCT which involves a conversation with
      surgeon and specialist breast care nurse.

      Group 1 will receive standard care only. Group 2 will be shown photographs of women who have
      had BCT by a member of the study team .

      Group 3 will be shown a real time simulation of how their own breast is likely to look after
      BCT.

      The preparation for group 2 and 3 will take place in a quiet closed room with the patient and
      co-investigator and a friend or relative if the patient wishes.

      Next, the participants will be asked to complete a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) which is a ten
      point scale ranging from worst-to-best (0-10) where the participant is asked to place a cross
      along the scale to rate their response to a specific question. The question "How confident
      are you that you know how your breasts are likely to look after treatment?" will be used at
      this point. This will conclude the face-to-face meeting. The investigators estimate the visit
      will take 30-40 minutes in total.

      In summary thus far, after the face-to-face meeting all study participants will have given
      written consent, had a baseline 3D-SI, been randomised, received their appropriate
      preparation depending on the group allocation, have filled in a VAS for "How confident are
      you that you know how your breasts are likely to look after treatment?", and will have been
      issued with a BREAST-Q BCT questionnaire to fill out while they are waiting for randomisation
      or their simulation or to fill in at home and bring with them on the day of surgery.

      The follow up plans will include 3D-SI, a further VAS for the question "How well do you think
      the information you were given about how your breasts are likely to look after surgery
      (discussion, 2D photographs, or 3D simulation) reflects how they actually look today?", and
      BCT BREAST-Q.

      The 3D-SI will be taken at two weeks after their surgery (to coincide with the routine
      outpatient surgical appointment), before radiotherapy (to coincide with the first session of
      radiotherapy), 3 months after radiotherapy (to coincide with the routine radiotherapy
      out-patient check-up), 6 months after radiotherapy (this will need to be an additional
      appointment - parking charges will be refunded), at 12 months following treatment (to
      coincide with their normal follow-up mammogram appointment), and then annually for 5 years
      (to coincide with their routine mammogram appointments).

      The BCT BREAST-Q will be administered at 3 and 12 months post radiotherapy (at the same time
      as the 3D-SI appointments above), and then annually for 5 years (at the routine mammography
      appointments).

      The VAS for "How well do you think the information you were given before surgery about how
      your breasts are likely to look after surgery (discussion, 2D photographs, or 3D simulation)
      reflects how they actually look today?" will be administered at 3 and 12 months post
      treatment. The results from the VAS before treatment will be analysed to show whether there
      was a difference between treatment groups in participants' preparedness for surgery.

      The results from the BCT BREAST-Q will show whether there was a difference between groups for
      how satisfied participants were with the information given to them about BCT, satisfaction
      with their breast, and overall quality of life during and after BCT.

      The 3D-SIs taken after at 3 and 12 months post BCT will be used for comparison with the
      simulation model in order to improve and make it as realistic as possible. The investigators
      will use the 3D-SI at all time points to look at how the breasts change over time up until
      five years following BCT.

      The post operative VAS will be used to see if the participants thought their preparation for
      treatment matched reality following BCT. The investigators used three groups in this study as
      simulation for BCT has never been done before so the investigators do not know what the best
      method of preparation will be. However, most hospitals do not have access to a 3D camera and
      it may be that much of the benefit in terms of patient preparation and confidence can be
      achieved by reviewing photographs which would be more generalisable within the NHS. Hence the
      investigators also need to compare standard care with being shown 2D photographs, and 2D with
      3D.

      The investigators will be working from one hospital (one of the biggest breast cancer centres
      in the UK) where 8 BCT operations per week are performed. When looking at how long it would
      take to recruit enough women for the study to make the results meaningful the investigators
      presumed that only half of the women approached would want to participate (less then our
      previous experience with similar trials which was more than three quarters). With this in
      mind the investigators calculated it would take 30 weeks to gather enough participants into
      the trial.

      The trial will finish 5 years after the last participant has finished BCT.
    
  