
    
      Previous studies found that PwD treated by primary care physicians on average have 8.8 (±
      5.04; range = 0-31) unmet care needs, mainly related to nursing care (38%) and drug therapy
      (15%). PwD had additional needs for daily activities, social participation and showed a high
      level of psychological stress. The number of unmet care needs is more dependent on the
      physical limitations than on the cognitive impairments. The progression of dementia is
      therefore associated with an increase in open and unmet care needs and a reduced opportunity
      to recognize these needs in the primary care setting and to address them appropriately. At
      this time, no curative treatment for dementia exists. Thus, innovative models of high-value
      care have to be found in order to enable PwD to live an independent, self-determined life
      with a high quality of life for as long as possible. The increasing burden of disease
      associated with an increase in prevalence of dementia is associated with high health
      expenditures, which puts additional pressure on health care systems. From a health economical
      perspective the minimization of supply deficits and open needs of care are crucial aspects to
      avoid or delay a cost-intensive transfer to an inpatient facility. The overall goal of the
      InDePendent project is to improve the living and care situation of PwD and their relatives at
      home. Following this aim, an innovative redistribution of tasks between general practitioners
      and specialized nurses for dementia patients will be implemented and evaluated. In addition,
      the specialized nurses will be trained for cross-sector as well as cross-professional
      dementia care management (DCM), by acquisition of specific competencies to carry out medical
      tasks in delegation and substitution. Collaborating Dementia Networks and GP clinics will
      serve as the units of randomization and determine the patients' group status (control or
      intervention group). The GPs will systematically screen the patients for eligibility to
      participate in the study during routine care (eligibility criteria for screening: age ≥70
      years, living at home). Patients will be screened using the validated DemTect questionnaire
      (eligibility for study participation: <9 points). In case of a positive screening or an
      existing dementia diagnosis, potential participants will receive detailed information about
      the study including a study-information sheet from their GP, be invited to participate and
      asked to provide written informed consent.
    
  