
    
      Two-arm randomised, single-centre, controlled open-label trial. Summarily, women undergoing
      exogenous gonadotropin ovarian stimulation for ART in a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
      antagonist down-regulated cycle and at high risk for ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS)
      will be included in either the control ("fresh embryo transfer") or intervention ("subsequent
      vitrified-warmed embryo transfer") groups. Women in the control group will undergo GnRH
      agonist triggering followed by intensified luteal phase support while the intervention group
      will electively vitrify all viable embryos after GnRH triggering and perform the embryo
      transfer (ET) in a subsequent unstimulated cycle.

      Ovarian stimulation, ultrasound and hormonal monitoring, ovulation induction, oocyte
      retrieval, embryology procedure, IVF and luteal support will be according to how they are
      normally performed in our centre.

      All women included will undergo artificial ovarian stimulation with GnRH antagonist
      down-regulation with daily injections of either ganirelix (Orgalutran®) or cetrorelix
      (Cetrotide®). Treating physicians will opt on which exogenous gonadotropins should be used
      according to the patient's profile and preference and can include either recombinant follicle
      stimulating hormone (FSH) or highly purified urinary human menopausal gonadotropin (HP-HMG).
      Ovarian stimulation will commence after it is confirmed that the patient is not pregnant and
      has basal levels of oestradiol, progesterone, FSH and luteinising hormone (LH). The
      stimulation will be monitored simultaneously by pelvic ultrasound and hormonal analyses
      (oestradiol, progesterone), starting on day 7 of stimulation and then every 1 to 3 days,
      according to the individual endocrine profile and follicular development.

      Final oocyte maturation will be triggered with 0.2 mg triptorelin (Decapeptyl®, Gonapeptyl®)
      as soon as 3 follicles of ≥17 mm are observed. A GnRH agonist will be the preferred
      triggering agent for both groups to reduce the risk of severe OHSS associated with human
      chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) triggering in high-responders. Oocyte retrieval will be
      performed 36 hours after hCG administration under either local anaesthesia with analgesic
      premedication or general anaesthesia, according to patient preference.

      IVF/ICSI will be performed, using the specimen of sperm made available by the male progenitor
      on the day of oocyte retrieval.

      The choice to transfer one or two embryos will be decided by the clinician at consultation
      mainly depending on the patient's age and the number of embryos replaced in the previous
      treatment cycles, according to Belgian law.
    
  