
    
      Study procedures

      Visit 1 (Screening) Procedures (up to 2 hours):

      Participants will be asked to report to the research site for a daytime visit. A detailed
      interview will be performed verifying eligibility criteria, as well as a review of work and
      non-work schedules. After a full explanation of the protocol and after all the participants'
      questions have been answered, they will be asked to sign the consent form.

      Participants will complete the following baseline information:

      Demographics Questionnaires Medical History Questionnaire Review of Current Medications
      Height, Weight, Head Measurements Cognitive Assessment training

      Once eligibility confirmed, participants will be trained in the use of the SmartSleep device,
      including pairing and syncing of the SleepMapper app

      Home Use (weeks 1-4) All participants will be asked to wear the device consecutively every
      night. The anticipated study participation is expected to be one month of use (+ 2 weeks
      based on participant schedule). All participants will wear the device for 1 week of baseline
      use. Post one week of use (+/- 2 days), participants will the active mode. Participants will
      continue nightly home use of the SmartSleep with boost enabled for the next 3 weeks.

      Participants will be asked to complete the cognitive testing daily after wake up. Cognitive
      tests should be performed at the same time each morning following the same routine.

      Participants will be asked to complete the a question twice daily.

      During the study if a participant's medical history or medication changes, they will be asked
      to inform the study team. Participants will be asked during the course of the study if they
      experience any discomfort, red marks, etc.

      Study completion (final visit) Participants will be asked to return to the lab for a final
      study visit. They will be asked to bring their study materials.
    
  