
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the rate of freedom from radical cystectomy at 3 years.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the rate of freedom from radical cystectomy at 5 years.

        -  To evaluate the rate of freedom from the development of distant disease progression at 3
           and 5 years.

        -  To evaluate the rate of freedom from progression of bladder tumor to stage T2 or greater
           at 3 and 5 years.

        -  To evaluate disease-specific survival and overall survival.

        -  To evaluate the incidence of acute and late pelvic toxicity.

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of this treatment approach in preventing the recurrence of any
           local bladder tumor.

        -  To evaluate the potential value of tumor histopathology plus molecular genetic, DNA
           content, and urine proteomics parameters as possible significant prognostic factors for
           tumor control with this treatment approach.

        -  To collect American Urological Association symptom scores at baseline and at 3 years.

      OUTLINE: Beginning within 10 weeks of transurethral resection of the bladder tumor, patients
      undergo 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy once daily 5 days per week during weeks 1-7 (34
      fractions). Patients also receive 1 of 2 radiosensitizing chemotherapy regimens concurrently
      with radiotherapy.

        -  Regimen I: Patients receive cisplatin IV on days 1-3 of weeks 1, 3, and 5.

        -  Regimen II: Patients receive mitomycin C IV on day 1 of radiotherapy and fluorouracil IV
           continuously over days 1-5 of weeks 1 and 4.

      Patients with a persistent tumor on re-evaluation may undergo radical cystectomy.

      Tissue, blood, and urine samples may be collected periodically for biomarker and other
      analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and annually thereafter.
    
  