
    
      A previous study found that HIV-infected villagers in Anhui Province, China describe their
      quality of life as poor. While poverty, poor health, stigma, and discrimination contribute to
      this poor quality of life, all these issues are interrelated and deserve further
      investigation. The quality of life for HIV-infected people may be made better through
      education, either for HIV-infected people to learn more about HIV, the treatments they are
      receiving, and how to deal with their disease, or for HIV uninfected people to understand HIV
      infection and to reduce stigma and discrimination associated with HIV infection. This study
      will provide skills training to HIV-infected adults and anti-stigma and anti-discrimination
      training to influential community members. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      changes in quality of life in HIV-infected villagers living in Anhui Province, China that
      result after these two training programs are administered.

      There will be 3 groups in this study. Group 1 participants will be HIV-infected villagers.
      Group 1 participants will take part in 2-hour skills training sessions every week from study
      entry to Week 8. Participants will also be asked to bring a family member to each training
      session. After completing training, participants will be asked to complete a post-training
      evaluation of the training sessions. Group 1 participants will be asked to complete
      questionnaires at study entry and 6 and 12 months after completion of training.

      Group 2 participants will be villagers considered influential members of their community. In
      the first 2 months of the study, Group 2 participants will take part in four, 2-hour training
      sessions focusing on anti-stigma and anti-discrimination messages. Group 2 participants will
      also attend additional support meetings monthly, from Months 2 to 15. Group 2 participants
      will be evaluated before and after their training sessions to determine the improvements in
      knowledge and attitudes about HIV among group participants.

      Group 3 participants will be randomly selected community members and will complete a
      cross-sectional survey at study entry and 6 and 12 months after Group 2's completion of
      training, to determine changing community attitudes about HIV as a result of Group 2's
      training. There will be no additional study visits or training for Group 3 participants.
    
  