
    
      One of the objectives of this project is to obtain comprehensive information on the health
      status (including subclinical disorders), genomics, risk factors, health behavior and
      sociodemographic data from large, representative sample of population of Białystok city
      inhabitants.

      The study will assess many systems, the major emphasis will be given to the most common
      diseases associated with modern lifestyle (civilization diseases): cardiovascular, metabolic
      and endocrine, neurodegenerative, neoplastic and pulmonary. There are many interactions
      between them that might be missed when not analyzed together. Apart from those most common
      diseases we will also asses others, including allergies, airway dysfunction - both upper and
      lower, urinary incontinency, gastrointestinal disorders, eye diseases. There may be many
      common underlying mechanisms of the diseases that now seem to be distant and independent,
      because of insufficient knowledge.

      Health status assessment will refer to many areas of medicine and will include clinical data,
      medical images, as well as biological samples and voice recording samples. We plan to combine
      imaging (fundoscopy, ultrasound examinations of heart, vessels, thyroid, liver) with state of
      the art functional studies (AGE measurement, pulse wave velocity, central pressure,
      plethysmography with the analysis of diffusing capacity of lung for carbon monoxide and NO
      concentration, spiroergometry, oral glucose tolerance test.

      Voice samples will be analyzed in the speech analysis software, it will help in the diagnosis
      of civilization diseases such as diabetes, depression, and atherosclerosis.

      Participants will fill in detailed questionnaires that will provide information about their
      family history, dietary habits, socioeconomic status, stress coping strategies, lifestyle,
      exposure to harmful environment, various symptoms, history of diagnosed diseases and
      treatment.

      The study is designed as prospective, so in the future, additional information on occurrence
      of diseases or deaths will allow to estimate disease incidence, morbidity or mortality in
      studied population.
    
  