
    
      Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP) is a rare, genetic disorder caused by impaired stimulatory G
      protein (Gsα) signaling through downregulation of the gene, GNAS. The resultant hormone
      abnormalities can be treated with hormone replacement therapy, but other aspects of the
      disorder such as early-onset obesity and short stature are without effective treatment
      options. Gsα signaling is essential for the normal hormonal function of the pituitary,
      thyroid, gonads, renal proximal tubules and hypothalamus. While many of the resulting hormone
      deficiencies can be treated with hormone replacement therapy (HRT), HRT is not an effective
      therapy for the severe early-onset obesity and short stature which are major features of the
      PHP phenotype. Therefore, the goal of this clinical trial is to test the efficacy of upstream
      therapy aimed at correcting the function of Gsα-dependent receptors in children with PHP.
      Gsα-coupled receptor signaling cascade begins with an increase in cyclic adenosine
      monophosphate (cAMP) which is rapidly degraded by the enzyme phosphodiesterase (PDE). PDE
      inhibitors act by prolonging cAMP signaling by decreasing the rate of degradation. Given that
      patients with PHP have reduced, but not completely absent, cAMP production, the investigators
      seek to test the hypothesis that the PDE inhibitor theophylline will reduce body mass index
      (BMI), slow the rate of epiphyseal closure, and decrease hormone resistance in children with
      PHP through improved Gsα-coupled receptor signaling. The investigators will conduct a 52-week
      randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of theophylline in children with PHP.
      Theophylline is a non-selective PDE inhibitor that is generically available and has a long
      history of use in pediatric patients, making it an ideal drug for repurposing in youth with
      PHP. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetics of theophylline are well understood, and serum drug
      levels are easily measured. Our primary outcome is change in BMI. Secondary outcome measures
      include change in epiphyseal closure and HRT medication doses.
    
  