
    
      In France, there is one ankle sprain per 10,000 person/day mainly as a result of athletic
      practice. The military population is one of the most physically active populations due to
      taking part in sports exercise, scheduled sports periods and leisure sports , or required
      military exercise which increase the soldiers' risk for injury to the lower extremity,
      especially the ankle. The incidence rate for ankle sprain injuries among all -active-duty US
      service members was 34.95 per 1000 person/year , thus more than 5 times greater than
      previously reported in civilian studies reported in the literature. These are among the two
      first leading causes of sports and physical training related hospitalizations among the U.S.
      Army population.

      Sprains can lead to numerous consequences in the long-term in physical restrictions such as,
      ankle instability, risk of recurrence, but also absenteeism from work and/or participation in
      sports and chronic pain. A more efficient treatment seems to be necessary in preventing such
      troubles.

      The usual care protocol for ankle sprains (RICE protocol) involve the cryotherapy (usually a
      cold-pack (R) applied directly to the injury several times a day with no existing undesirable
      effects).

      An innovative treatment method, the neurocryostimulation, developed by Cluzeau and a French
      Company in 1993, gained rapid and wide-spread use among physiotherapists, rheumatologists,
      and athletes.It would provide a powerfull anti-inflammatory, myorelaxant and analgesic effect
      but contradictory results are shown in literature. Demoulin et al. aimed to assess the
      efficacy of neurocryostimulation following total knee arthroplasty compared to routinely used
      strategies for applying cold therapy, but didn't show significant differences regarding pain
      severity, mobility and perimetric measures. However, a pilot study led in Switzerland,
      comparing the pain reported by patients after an acute post-operative knee arthroscopy, has
      shown a pain differential higher in the neurocryostimulation than in the referenced
      cryotherapy (2.2 versus 0.5). And, Chatap et al. showed in a prospective study that pain
      scores decreased significantly after four sessions in elderly patients with acute or chronic
      pain.

      At this day, No study has proved the efficacy of neurocryostimulation versus cold packs in
      pain resulting from an ankle sprain . A better treatment of the ankle sprain could reduce
      pain and , in the same time, also reduce the consumption of analgesics, the time of temporary
      inaptitudes and of work exemptions.
    
  