
    
      Urinary urgency incontinence (UUI) is a highly prevalent, morbid and costly (up to $83
      billion/year) disorder among older women, with up to 36% of those over 65 afflicted. One
      commonly experienced phenomenon among those with UUI is conditioned bladder responses to
      external triggers, often labeled "situational incontinence." Situational incontinence is
      described by sufferers as urinary urgency and leakage when confronted with specific
      contextual triggers or cues, such as approaching the front/garage door 'latch-key
      incontinence', and exposure to running water such as doing dishes. Generally ascribed to
      'bladder spasms' (detrusor overactivity), studies have revealed that anywhere between 42% and
      80% of women with UUI experience situationally provoked urgency, with approximately 26% of
      those experiencing situationally triggered leakage. The researchers recent work has focused
      on developing methods to recreate exposure to individuals' situational urgency cues, testing
      the impact of "urgency" and "safe" cues on self-report urgency and actual leakage, and
      finally assessing the role of bladder control mechanisms in the brain in response to these
      personal situational cues. The researchers found that women with situational UUI experienced
      increased urgency and leakage when exposed to personal "urgency" versus "safe" photographic
      cues from their daily lives. Further, brain areas related to attentional and visuospatial
      processing were activated during exposure to urge, but not safe, cues. Past studies of
      urgency simulated by bladder filling, show that prefrontal cortex, a seat of executive
      control, is activated to aid in controlling bladder activation. However, the study found that
      the PFC was not recruited during exposure to visual cues among women with situational
      urgency. Thus, the researchers propose that interventions capable of enhancing PFC activation
      during exposure to urgency situations should enable women to gain executive control over cues
      and result in less cue-provoked urgency and leakage, as well as overall UUI symptomatology.
      Using these now well-tested methods to personalize stimuli with photographs of
      urgency-provoking situational cues, the goal is to test the feasibility, acceptability, and
      compliance of these promising methods to attenuate urgency-related reactivity and reduce UUI
      symptoms. These novel methods include: (1) Brief mindfulness (MI) focused on body scan and
      acceptance language, (2) Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) applied to the
      dorsolateral PFC, and (3) a combination of MI + tDCS. Sixty women with situational UUI will
      be randomized into a 7-session study, with a mail-in follow up 1-week post-training. All
      participants will undergo 4 urgency-cue exposure training sessions during which they will
      engage in one of the three interventions, based on group. Changes in urgency will be assessed
      via pre-post training differences in: Cue-reactivity to personal urge and safe cues, reaction
      time to a urinary Stroop task, self-report severity of bladder problems, and UUI episodes and
      urgency ratings on a daily bladder diary. Attenuating reactivity to situational urgency cues
      will increase our ability to complement and enhance the efficacy of UUI therapy and reduce
      symptom burden for its many sufferers.
    
  