
    
      This is a randomised, multi-centre, single blinded, intent-to-treat pragmatic trial.

      - Recruitment:

      Participants will be recruited by medical doctors in the different study centres. After a
      clear presentation of the study objective, a written informed consent will be asked from
      eligible patients before proceeding with randomisation.

      The recruitment period in each centre will last for up to one year, while each participant
      will be followed for 6 months.

      - Intervention standardisation: training of medical doctors:

      All participating medical doctors (investigators) will receive an individual training
      session, during which the study protocol, the randomisation procedure and the data entry
      software will be presented to them.

      The study protocol as well as a brief reminder of recommendations regarding the use of
      Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) and e-cigarettes will be presented to all participating
      medical doctors.

      A printed study booklet summarising the study protocol will be given out to investigators as
      well as a digital version on the provided tablet, as well as a video format of the training
      session.

      - Randomisation and blinding:

      Each medical doctor (investigator) will be provided with a tablet with access to a web-based
      randomisation module and an Electronic Case Report Form interface (eCRF). The Randomisation
      will be investigator-stratified. This software is supplied by a company specialised in
      clinical research and will be in accordance with the latest European and French regulations
      regarding the protection of personal data.

      After a verification of inclusion criteria, and informed consent, the module will randomise
      the participant either to the intervention or to the control group (1:1), and will
      simultaneously notify the coordinator of the study by e-mail. In order to minimise selection
      bias, no substitution or change of group will be permitted.

      - The control group (standard care):

      Participants randomised to the control group will be given standard care in assisting their
      smoking cessation attempt, but without free access to NRT or e-cigarettes. Standard care
      depends on each health professional habitual practice, it includes motivational interviewing,
      advice to quit and prescription of NRTs. Health professionals will also be in position to
      prescribe other treatments (for example: Varenicline which is covered at 65% by the French
      health universal insurance and might be completely covered by an additional complementary
      health insurance - or Bupropion which has to be paid completely). An investigator could also
      give advice on e-cigarette use if he or she finds it suitable.

      At the end of the follow-up, participants randomised to the control group will be offered an
      e-cigarette + e-liquid and/or NRT in sufficient quantity for one month, if needed and
      desired.

      - The intervention:

      Participants randomised to the intervention group will receive the same routine care smoking
      cessation advice, drug prescription and support as participants in the control group.
      Further, participants will also have a choice of being given free NRT (transdermal patch,
      gum, spray, inhaler, and sublingual tablets/lozenges) and/or e-cigarettes on the spot to aid
      with their quit attempt. E-cigarettes would be provided with e-liquids with different
      nicotine levels (6, 12 and 18 mg/ml), and different flavours (tobacco, mint, and fruit).

      Therefore, a brief and clear description of each smoking cessation aid will be given to each
      participant, and depending on his/her choice, they will be provided a sufficient quantity to
      last until the following appointment.

      Short didactic videos explaining how to use different NRTs and an e-cigarette will be made
      available for participants in the intervention group (a link to the video will be given), as
      well as for medical doctors accompanying participants.

      During follow-up, participants in the intervention group can also be given other tools than
      the one(s) previously delivered, according to their preference and after seeing their medical
      doctor (they can be given NRTs at the second appointment if they initially chose e-cigarette
      only and vice versa, or the type of given NRTs can be changed or they can receive NRT in
      addition to e-cigarette).

      Each participant in both groups will be given a diary or a "calendar postcard", on which
      he/she will document daily the use of any smoking cessation aid, and the number of cigarettes
      smoked every day.

      These postcards will be pre-paid and pre-addressed to return to the study investigators who
      would automatically fill in the data in the centralised data system.

      Follow-up appointments will take place around 10 (7 to 14) days, 1 month, 3 months and 6
      months after inclusion. The first follow-up can take place between 7 to 14 days after
      inclusion. Additional follow-up appointments can take place upon the request of the medical
      doctor and/or the participant in both groups. If needed, follow-up interviews can be
      conducted via telephone by the health professional or a research assistant.
    
  