
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of a brief, one-session
      therapeutic interview for patients who are seeking biomedical care for their chronic
      musculoskeletal pain and who also have self-reported trauma histories. Participants will be
      randomized to either a therapeutic interview condition or a waitlist control condition and
      and will follow patients for 5 weeks to identify health and attitude changes in response to
      the interview.

      This study will recruit adults with chronic musculoskeletal pain and reported histories of
      childhood adversity. Participants will be adults with primary musculoskeletal pain such as
      low back pain, neck pain, and fibromyalgia. In addition, only those patients who also report
      a significant history of childhood adversity will be eligible for this study, as determined
      by a score of 4 or higher on the Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE) Scale. Patients will be
      excluded if they: a) have a current psychotic disorder or b) are unable to communicate in
      English, or c) are scheduled for an upcoming surgery within the next 2 months. Participants
      will be allowed to engage in this study regardless of current medication use or engagement in
      other treatment.

      Patients who are interested in participating will complete a brief online screening to
      determine eligibility and will be provided with basic information about the study. Once
      consented, baseline measures will be completed online, and participants will be randomized,
      1:1, to the therapeutic interview condition or waitlist control condition. Those who are
      randomized to the therapeutic interview condition will complete their interview as soon as
      possible after completing baseline measures. The interview will be conducted either in-person
      at the Stress & Health Laboratory at Wayne State University, or remotely via a secure
      telehealth platform (depending on COVID-19 restrictions). Follow-up measures will be
      administered at five weeks after the interview (or at the equivalent time for the waitlist
      group). Participants in the waitlist control condition will be given the opportunity to
      receive the therapeutic interview after completion of the follow-up measures.

      The therapeutic interview will be a one-session interview lasting approximately 90 minutes.
      The interview will be conducted by trained interviewers (i.e., clinical psychology graduate
      students). The goals of the therapeutic interview are to promote awareness of the role of
      trauma and interpersonal stress in pain, to encourage experience of emotions associated with
      interpersonal stressors and conflicts, and to encourage more adaptive interpersonal
      communication in current relationships. The interview has five primary components. The first
      component involves eliciting a brief pain history from the participants. The next component
      explores participants' stressful life experiences, including those that occurred during their
      childhood and those that might be affecting their current life. The next component will
      introduce participants to a model of emotions that illustrates how suppressing important,
      healthy feelings in relationships can lead to symptoms (e.g. anxiety, pain, stress).
      Participants will be encouraged to identify the feelings that are most difficult for them to
      express in relationships and the ways in which avoiding these feelings leads to prolonged
      stress or worse pain. The next component involves encouraging participants to identify key,
      conflictual relationships and to express their previously avoided, healthy feelings (e.g.
      assertion, tenderness, grief). The final and 5th component will explore how the interview
      affected their beliefs about the role of stress and emotions in pain. The interviewer will
      provide a summary of their strengths and areas for improvement related to their emotions and
      interpersonal functioning.

      There will be clinical outcomes that reflect changes in pain severity and pain interference,
      pain-related anxiety, and emotional distress. There will be behavioral outcomes that capture
      changes in patients' interpersonal assertiveness, substance use, and adaptive affective
      functioning (defined as one's cognitive, behavioral, and emotional responses to one's healthy
      feelings or needs). Finally, there will be attitudinal outcomes that reflect changes in
      patients' attributions about the role of psychological and brain-based factors in pain.
    
  