
    
      Women will be randomized into two groups using COMPUTER-GENERATED RANDOM NUMBER LIST.

      264 dark colored envelops will be serially numbered containing the corresponding letter of
      the corresponding drug that will be used.

      Group C: 132 women in the carbetocin group will receive a bolus of 100 μg intravenous
      injection at delivery of the anterior shoulder.

      Group O: 132 women in the oxytocin group will receive 5 IU of oxytocin by slow intravenous
      injection at delivery of the anterior shoulder.

        -  All patients will receive general anaesthesia.

        -  Operation will be carried out by a three year registrar (at least).

        -  Uterus will be repaired in situ. Primary endpoint: is the amount of blood loss.

        -  Blood loss will be estimated using the change in Hb% and hematocrit, the actual blood
           loss will be calculated using the following equation:

        -  The actual blood loss equals the estimated blood volume X difference between the initial
           hematocrit and the final hematocrit / the initial hematocrit

      Secondary endpoints include:

        1. The need for additional uterotonic medication after carbetocin or oxytocin
           administration.

           - Uterine tone and Uterine fundus level (with respect to the umbilical point, UP) will
           be monitored during CS, at the end of CS, 2 hours, 12 hours and 24 hours after delivery

           - Additional uterotonic drugs, needed if sufficient uterine tone is not achieved within
           5 minutes of oxytocin or carbetocin administration, will include: i. Ergometrine 0.5 mg
           by slow intravenous injection. ii. Misopristol 1000 micrograms rectally.

        2. The need for blood transfusion or operative interventions related to PPH

           - The need for blood transfusion or operative intervention (B-Lynch sutures, uterine
           artery ligation, internal iliac artery ligation, Hysterectomy) will be considered.

        3. The change in hemoglobin and hematocrit post versus pre CS

           - The drop in hemoglobin level and hematocrit will be evaluated by comparing the
           hemoglobin concentration on admission and 24 hours after delivery.

        4. The hemodynamic adverse effects and the cost-benefit of both drugs.
    
  