
    
      Hypothesis or Research Question • Is convalescent plasma from patients previously infected
      with COVID-19 an effective treatment option for high risk patients through the utilization of
      passive immunity?

      o Is the mortality rate reduced through the use of this treatment?

      Background Passive antibody therapy involves the administration of antibodies to a given
      agent to a susceptible individual for the purpose of preventing or treating an infectious
      disease due to that agent. In contrast, active vaccination requires the induction of an
      immune response that takes time to develop and varies depending on the vaccine recipient.
      Some immunocompromised patients fail to achieve an adequate immune response. Thus, passive
      antibody administration is the only means of providing immediate immunity to susceptible
      persons and immunity of any measurable kind for highly immunocompromised patients.

      Passive antibody therapy has a storied history going back to the 1890s and was the only means
      of treating certain infectious diseases prior to the development of antimicrobial therapy in
      the 1940s (1,2). Experience from prior outbreaks with other coronaviruses, such as SARS-CoV-1
      shows that such convalescent plasma contains neutralizing antibodies to the relevant virus
      (3). In the case of SARS-CoV-2, the anticipated mechanism of action by which passive antibody
      therapy would mediate protection is viral neutralization. However, other mechanisms may be
      possible, such as antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity and/or phagocytosis. Convalescent
      serum was also used in the 2013 African Ebola epidemic. A small non-randomized study in
      Sierra Leone revealed a significant increase in survival for those treated with convalescent
      whole blood relative to those who received standard treatment (4).

      The only antibody type that is currently available for immediate use is that found in human
      convalescent plasma. As more individuals contract COVID-19 and recover, the number of
      potential donors will continue to increase.

      A general principle of passive antibody therapy is that it is more effective when used for
      prophylaxis than for treatment of disease. When used for therapy, antibody is most effective
      when administered shortly after the onset of symptoms. The reason for temporal variation in
      efficacy is not well understood but could reflect that passive antibody works by neutralizing
      the initial inoculum, which is likely to be much smaller than that of established disease.
      Another explanation is that antibody works by modifying the inflammatory response, which is
      also easier during the initial immune response, which may be asymptomatic (5). As an example,
      passive antibody therapy for pneumococcal pneumonia was most effective when administered
      shortly after the onset of symptoms and there was no benefit if antibody administration was
      delayed past the third day of disease (6). In this context, we seek to treat patients who are
      sick enough to warrant hospitalization but prior to the onset of overwhelming disease
      including advanced systemic inflammatory response, sepsis, and/or ARDS. We hypothesize that
      convalescent plasma will be more effective given earlier in the hospital course and we aim to
      maximize the overall potential population benefit by directing the plasma to patients who at
      presentation are predicted to be at high risk but before they are in advanced overwhelming
      disease. We aim to start plasma therapy within 24 hours of admission or when high risk
      features are first evident.

      For passive antibody therapy to be effective, a sufficient amount of antibody must be
      administered. When given to a susceptible person, this antibody will circulate in the blood,
      reach tissues and provide protection against infection. Depending on the antibody amount and
      composition, the protection conferred by the transferred immunoglobulin can last from weeks
      to months.

      In the 21st century, there were two other epidemics with coronaviruses that were associated
      with high mortality, SARS1 in 2003 and MERS in 2012. In both outbreaks, the high mortality
      and absence of effective therapies led to the use of convalescent plasma. The largest study
      involved the treatment of 80 patients in Hong Kong with SARS (7). Patients treated before day
      14 had improved prognosis defined by discharge from hospital before day 22, consistent with
      the notion that earlier administration is more likely to be effective. In addition, those who
      were RT-PCR positive and seronegative for coronavirus at the time of therapy had improved
      prognosis. There is also some anecdotal information on the use of convalescent plasma in
      seriously ill individuals. Three patients with SARS in Taiwan were treated with 500 ml of
      convalescent plasma, resulting in a reduction in plasma virus titer and each survived (8).
      Three patients with MERS in South Korea were treated with convalescent plasma, but only two
      of the recipients had neutralizing antibody in their plasma (9). The latter study highlights
      a challenge in using convalescent plasma, namely, that some who recover from viral disease
      may not have high titers of neutralizing antibody (10). Consistent with this point, an
      analysis of 99 samples of convalescent sera from patients with MERS showed that 87 had
      neutralizing antibody with a geometric mean titer of 1:61. This suggests that antibody
      declines with time and/or that few patients make high titer responses.

      It is also possible that other types of non-neutralizing antibodies are made that contribute
      to protection and recovery as described for other viral diseases (11). There are reports that
      convalescent plasma was used for therapy of patients with COVID-19 in China during the
      current outbreak (http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-02/28/c_138828177.htm). Although few
      details are available from the Chinese experience and published studies involved small
      numbers of patients, the available information suggests that convalescent plasma
      administration reduces viral load and was safe.
    
  