
    
      HBV infection is an important public health problem in the Turkish population, i.e. one of
      the largest migrant populations in Europe. With the introduction of cost-effective antiviral
      treatments in the past decade, there is a need to identify HBV infected patients who may
      benefit from treatment. This study will assess the HBV prevalence in the Turkish population
      living in Belgium. Additionally, the investigators will determine the risk factors of HBV
      infection and the uptake of screening, vaccination and antiviral treatment in this
      hard-to-reach Turkish population.

      A cross-sectional, epidemiological trial will be conducted in the region Middle Limburg
      Belgium, where the Turkish adult population (subjects born in Turkey or subjects of which one
      of the parents is born in Turkey), 18 years of age and older, will be screened for HBsAg,
      anti-HBs and anti-HBc. Educational meetings concerning viral hepatitis B will be organized
      and there will be three ways to be screened for HBV: (1) immediately after the educational
      meetings, (2) at the Outpatient Hepatology Department of Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg (ZOL) and
      (3) at home visits. Subsequently, participants will be asked to fill in a questionnaire
      regarding sociodemographic factors, migration history, risk factors for HBV infection (e.g.
      sharing toothbrushes, HBV infected family member) and HBV vaccination status. One year after
      data collection, HBsAg positive patients will be assessed whether they are under follow-up at
      the general practitioner or hepatologist. The investigators will also gather information
      regarding the uptake of vaccination in non-immunized subjects.

      This study will provide information about the HBV prevalence and distribution of the stages
      of liver disease in the Turkish population in Belgium. By determining the risk factors for
      HBV infection, subgroups with an increased prevalence of HBV infection can be identified.
      This study will also give information on how to organize the healthcare system for screening
      in hard-to-reach migrant groups and to develop care paths.
    
  