
    
      Over the past decade there have been increasing calls for the scale-up of evidence-based
      interventions in order to reduce the risk of violence against children in low- and
      middle-income countries (LMICs) [1]. In particular, parenting programmes for families with
      young children have been shown to be effective in reducing the risk of child maltreatment and
      improving child wellbeing with promising evidence emerging from low- and middle-income
      countries [2-4]. These group-based programmes typically aim to strengthen caregiver-child
      relationships through positive parenting and to help parents to manage child behaviour
      problems through effective, age-appropriate, nonviolent discipline strategies.

      Despite the emerging evidence of the effectiveness of parenting interventions in reducing
      violence against children, many local governments and service providers in LMICs face
      multiple challenges implementing evidence-based parenting programs in resource poor contexts
      [5]. Parenting programmes are often too expensive to deliver effectively at scale in
      low-resource settings due to their complexity, intensity, and length [3]. Parenting
      programmes developed and evaluated in other contexts also may not fit the local service
      delivery context and may require adaptation to be relevant to the local culture of families.
      Additional programme content may also be necessary to address stress related to economic
      deprivation, high community violence, and parental distress. The process of delivery may also
      need to be simplified to improve participant engagement and the quality of delivery.

      As a result, it is essential that programmes implemented in LMICs are 1) effective at
      reducing violence against children, 2) integrated within the existing service delivery
      system, 3) feasible and culturally acceptable to service providers and families, and 4)
      scalable in terms of their affordability, replicability, and sustainability while reaching a
      maximum number of beneficiaries. However, there are currently very few parenting programmes
      that meet these criteria in LMICs, such as the Philippines, where the need is the greatest
      [3].

      The PLH Philippines Evaluation Study aims to fill this gap by examining the efficacy of a
      locally-adapted, evidence-based parenting programme, the Masayang Pamilya Para Sa Batang
      Pilipino Parenting Programme (MaPa), for families with children ages two to six years living
      in Metro Manila who are enrolled in the Philippine Department of Social Welfare and
      Development (DSWD) conditional cash transfer system.

      Our overall objective is to use a randomised controlled trial design to test the efficacy of
      the MaPa programme in reducing the risk of child maltreatment while improving child
      socio-emotional development, child behaviour, and parental mental health in comparison to
      treatment as usual controls in Metro Manila.

      Our primary objective is to examine the impact of the MaPa programme on the primary outcome
      of child maltreatment in comparison to treatment-as-usual controls at immediate
      post-intervention and at 1-year follow-up.

      Our secondary objective is to examine the impact of the MaPa programme on proximal outcomes
      associated with increased risks of child maltreatment, namely, positive parenting, intrusive
      parenting, and harsh parenting in comparison to treatment-as-usual controls at immediate
      post-intervention and at 1-year follow-up.

      Another secondary objective is to examine the impact of the MaPa programme at immediate
      post-intervention and at 1-year follow-up on child behaviour problems, child development
      outcomes (i.e., communication skills and socio-emotional development), parenting efficacy,
      parental wellbeing, parenting stress, parental depression, marital satisfaction, and intimate
      partner violence, in comparison to treatment as usual controls.

      Our tertiary objective is to examine the implementation of the MaPa programme when delivered
      within the DSWD conditional cash transfer system in terms of programme adherence by parents
      (i.e., recruitment, enrolment, attendance, engagement, dropout, and completion) and delivery
      by service providers (i.e., competency and fidelity).

      Our final objective is to examine predictors of programme adherence and associations between
      programme adherence and primary and secondary outcomes at immediate post-test and at 1-year
      follow-up.
    
  