
    
      Cochlear Implants (CIs) can provide deaf individuals the ability to hear. CIs are electronics
      packages inserted into the cochlea (hearing organ). An external processor digitises sound and
      transmits it to the implant. An electric stimulus from the implant mimics the change in
      electrical potential normally caused by the movement of stereocilia in the cochlea when a
      sound occurs. This change generates an impulse along the auditory nerve to the brain
      resulting in perception of sound.

      CIs are available in the UK to people who have profound hearing loss. The improvement of CI
      technology means individuals with less significant losses, or profound losses at only some
      pitches may now benefit from a CI over a hearing aid. Patients having useful residual hearing
      has led to interest in better preserving that hearing during surgery. Thus allowing benefit
      from traditional acoustic amplification in addition to electrical stimulation from the
      implant.

      The investigators propose recording a measurement via the implant during surgery and at
      audiology appointments called a cochlear microphonic using a technique called
      electrocochleography (ECochG). This is essentially recording the electrical signal generated
      by the movement of hair cells in the cochlea in response to a sound. It is hypothesised that
      reduction of this signal during implantation may correspond to cochlea damage occurring and
      that with development this signal might be useful feedback for surgeons. The signal is known
      to be correlated to actual hearing ability so a better understanding of this may allow us to
      fit the acoustic amplification portion of implants in individuals who are unable to respond
      reliably to a normal hearing test.

      The purpose of this study is a pilot to assess the correlation between observed changes in
      this signal during surgery and residual hearing loss post-operatively and the degree
      correlation between recordings of this signal post-operatively and actual hearing test
      results.
    
  