
    
      BACKGROUND

      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a respiratory disorder typically caused by
      smoking and is characterized by airway obstruction. Exertional dyspnea (perceived
      breathlessness) is a hallmark of COPD regardless of severity and is the primary reason for
      exercise intolerance even in patients with mild COPD. Dyspnea in COPD has been shown to
      profoundly reduce patient quality of life, physical activity, and impair patients' ability to
      complete day-to-day tasks. Previous work in mild COPD has demonstrated that exertional
      dyspnea is the result of increased work of breathing during exercise, and that this increased
      work of breathing comes from: 1) an exaggerated ventilatory response to exercise (i.e.
      increased minute ventilation relative to carbon dioxide production, V̇E/V̇CO2), and 2)
      airflow limitation (i.e. expiratory flow limitation and resulting dynamic hyperinflation). A
      great deal of work has focused on improving airflow limitation in COPD; however, very little
      has been done to understand and treat the exaggerated ventilatory response to exercise in
      COPD.

      Several previous studies in mild COPD have consistently shown an elevated ventilatory
      response (i.e. greater V̇E/V̇CO2) during exercise. The elevated V̇E/V̇CO2 response to
      exercise appears to be clinically important, as it independently predicts mortality in COPD.
      This increased V̇E/V̇CO2 in mild COPD appears to be secondary to increased deadspace
      ventilation (i.e. sections of the lung with ventilation, but no perfusion), and this
      increased deadspace ventilation results in a compensatory increase in total minute
      ventilation (i.e. increased V̇E/V̇CO2) to maintain effective alveolar ventilation and
      arterial blood gas homeostasis.

      The underlying mechanism(s) for the increased deadspace ventilation and V̇E/V̇CO2 during
      exercise in mild COPD is currently unclear; however, pulmonary microvascular abnormalities
      and hypoperfusion of pulmonary capillaries are potential pathophysiologic mechanisms.
      Downregulation of NO bioavailability, secondary to persistently reduced endothelial NO
      synthase (eNOS), contributes to pulmonary vascular endothelial dysfunction and the
      development of both emphysema and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in COPD. Inhaled
      nitric oxide (iNO) is used to treat disorders of the pulmonary vasculature such as forms of
      PAH. By increasing NO bioavailability, pulmonary vascular function is improved. Previous work
      in PAH patients has shown that typical clinical doses (20-40 parts per million (ppm)) of iNO
      can reduce pulmonary vascular resistance and increase exercise capacity (V̇O2peak). Despite
      emerging evidence that COPD is associated with pulmonary vascular dysfunction, there is
      limited research investigating iNO as a therapeutic intervention in COPD. The investigators
      recently completed a randomized double-blinded controlled trial examining the effectiveness
      of 40 ppm iNO on V̇O2peak in mild COPD. As compared to placebo (inhaled room air), iNO
      improved V̇O2peak and dyspnea in COPD secondary to a reduction in ventilatory inefficiency
      (V̇E/V̇CO2), suggesting that vascular dysfunction is an important contributor to ventilation,
      dyspnea and exercise intolerance in mild COPD.

      The reduction in V̇E/V̇CO2 during exercise with iNO would suggest that iNO increases
      pulmonary microvascular perfusion, leading to improved V̇A/Q̇ matching, reduced deadspace
      ventilation and therefore reduced ventilation for a given metabolic demand. However, this
      needs to be demonstrated experimentally. The gold standard for evaluation of V̇A/Q̇ matching
      is the multiple inert gas elimination technique (MIGET), as this technique is able to
      quantify V̇A/Q̇ matching by the relative distribution of ventilation (log SDV) and perfusion
      (log SDQ)27. Further, MIGET allows for quantification of pure deadspace (sections of
      ventilation with no perfusion) as compared to high V̇A/Q̇ regions of the lung (i.e.
      ventilation with low relative perfusion). Should iNO reduce deadspace and improve V̇A/Q̇,
      this would clearly establish that vascular dysfunction (and not vascular destruction)
      contributes to V̇A/Q̇ mismatch in mild COPD, and that the reduction in V̇E/V̇CO2 and
      improvement in exercise capacity with iNO is explained by improved V̇A/Q̇ matching. Further,
      this finding would help identify a vascular target to improve dyspnea, exercise tolerance,
      and by extension quality of life in COPD.

      STUDY PURPOSE AND DESIGN

      Purpose: To determine the effect of iNO on ventilatory demand and V̇A/Q̇ matching during
      exercise in individuals with COPD.

      Hypothesis: Inhaled NO will reduce ventilatory demand during exercise, secondary to improved
      V̇A/Q̇ matching during exercise in individuals with COPD.

      Study Design: Randomized double-blind cross-over design.

      Study Protocol: Four sessions will be completed over a 4-week period in the following order:

      Day 1): Participant enrollment, medical history, standard pulmonary function and
      cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET). Day 2): Resting cardiac ultrasound. Day 3):
      Participants will complete two separate experimental conditions breathing either room air
      (placebo, 21% O2, 79% N2) or iNO (room air with 40 ppm NO). The order of condition will be
      randomized using a concealed randomized methodology, and the participant will breathe through
      the identical apparatus throughout both conditions. Within each condition, data will be
      gathered at 3 stages: 1) in the resting upright position, 2) during exercise at 30% of
      V̇O2peak, and 2) at the exercise intensity corresponding to their nadir V̇E/V̇CO2 (workload
      determined during CPET, and typically ~60% V̇O2peak). All physiological measurements will be
      completed at each stage. A 15 minute break between each condition will be given to allow for
      recovery and washout of NO. Day 4): Participants will repeat the exercise protocol as
      described in Day 3, however, only MIGET data will obtained while operating lung volume data
      will not be gathered so as to ensure high-quality MIGET data. Each visit will take
      approximately 3 hours. The total time duration for each participant will be approximately 12
      hours.

      On Day 1, participants will complete the informed consent procedure and be screened for
      exercise using a medical history questionnaire. They will undergo lung function, resting
      echocardiography and cardiopulmonary exercise testing on the same day. The participants will
      be spending approximately three hours in the laboratory on this testing day.

      On Day2, the participant will lie in a semi-supine and be rested for 5 minutes. There cardiac
      function and pulmonary arterial systolic pressure will then be measured using
      echocardiography. Measurements will be made while the participants breathing breathe medical
      grade air (room air) or room air titrated with 40 parts per million of nitric oxide

      On days 3 & 4 (one day per week in 2 consecutive weeks), the participants will breathe
      medical grade air (room air) or room air titrated with 40 parts per million of nitric oxide
      and have their blood flow/cardiac output, arterial blood gas and expired gas evaluated during
      sub-maximal exercise. The participants will complete both conditions (room air & nitric
      oxide) on each day, in random order.

      On day 3, the participant will lie supine and be rested for 5 minutes. Their resting blood
      pressure will be determined using manual auscultation. Resting cardiac output will be
      evaluated using noninvasive impedance cardiography and oxygen saturation estimated with pulse
      oximetry. Ventilation will be measured from expired gas analysis. Following these
      measurements, the participant will begin to breathe medical grade room air. Following a 20
      minute wash-in period, ventilation, cardiac output and oxygen saturation recordings will be
      repeated. Participants will then exercise on a cycle ergometer while continuing to breathe
      the medical grade room air and all physiological measurements will be repeated. After a short
      break (minimum 15 minutes), the 20-minute wash in and exercise bout will be repeated in the
      nitric oxide condition. The participants will be spending approximately three hours in the
      laboratory on this testing day.

      Day 4 will be identical to day 3 except, however, arterial blood gas will also be sampled at
      rest and during exercise. Further, a venous catheter will be inserted into the ante-cubital
      vein and a solution containing 6 inert gases will be infused to allow assessment of
      ventilation-perfusion matching using the multiple inert gas elimination technique (MIGET).
      The arterial and venous catheter will be inserted by either a certified cardiologist or
      respirologist. Further details regarding catheterization and MIGET are detailed below in the
      outcomes section.

      Intervention

      Inhaled Nitric Oxide Intervention: Inhaled NO is a selective pulmonary vasodilator and has
      been shown to improve blood flow to well-ventilated lung areas (i.e. improve V̇A/Q̇ matching)
      in conditions with elevated vascular tone. Inhaled NO has been previously shown to lower
      pulmonary artery pressure during exercise in severe COPD patients, while not affecting
      systemic blood pressure. It is important to note that a selective pulmonary vasodilator will
      be used instead of an intravenously infused vasodilator (e.g. prostacyclin) to avoid systemic
      vasodilation, severe arterial hypotension and syncope. Consistent with previous work, a
      standard 40 ppm dose of inhaled NO will be administered using a non-rebreathing circuit.

      Statistical analysis and Interpretation: Unpaired t-analysis will be used to compare
      demographics between the COPD group and the controls. A mixed effects linear regression model
      will be used to evaluate changes in V̇A/Q̇ inequality, specifically the variability in
      perfusion (log SDQ, primary outcome), with the intervention. Fixed effects will be
      intervention (placebo vs. iNO), workload (rest, 30% V̇O2peak, power output at nadir
      V̇E/V̇CO2), period (i.e. randomization order) and random effects will represent participants
      and intervention order. Sex will also be included in the model as well as interactions.
      Similar models will be developed for each secondary outcome (log SDV, deadspace ventilation,
      V̇E/V̇CO2). Hypotheses and other aspects (e.g. carry-over effect) will be assessed by testing
      various contrasts.
    
  