
    
      Participants in the study will be asked to do the following things:

        -  Grant permission for the researchers to view medical/psychological and/or educational
           and/or speech records associated with the diagnosis of low-functioning autism.

        -  Complete a questionnaire and provide a health history.

        -  Complete evaluations by our study team to assess the diagnosis and gain a clearer
           understanding of the participant's current functioning.

        -  Give permission to audio and video-tape test sessions for later scoring and observation.

        -  Give permission to audio or video-tape in the classroom or home environment using
           non-intrusive audio-visual recording devices.

        -  Complete several tasks and training interventions that involve such things as learning
           new words or pictures, saying words out loud, or naming objects.

        -  Participate in an eye tracking study while completing a task on the computer which
           involves wearing a headband, attached by a velcro fastener, which contains a magnetic
           sensor. This equipment allows us to track the position of the head in order to record
           more accurate measurements. It is used with eye tracking equipment which measures the
           gaze on a set point on a computer screen. The equipment poses no risk and is
           non-invasive.

        -  Participate in computerized tasks while monitoring brain responses that are a direct
           result of a thought or perception. In order to monitor these responses, electrodes would
           be placed over various points on your scalp. The electrodes will record the on-going
           activity of the brain; it does not produce or introduce any electrical activity. The
           equipment poses no risk and is non-invasive.

        -  Wear electrodes that will be placed on the scalp with a large rubberized band. These
           electrodes will administer very weak electrical current (tDCS) from a battery powered
           device for 20 to 60 minutes.

      The experimental sessions will last about 1 hour and participants may be asked to have more
      than one testing session in a day or to return for additional sessions.
    
  