
    
      Cardiac diseases affect 1-4% of pregnancies of industrialized countries,and the number of
      patients who develop cardiac problems during pregnancy is increasing.

      Congenital heart diseases, ischemic heart and cardiac arrhythmias are the most dominant
      causes. In developing countries, rheumatic heart disease remains prevalent. Pregnancy induces
      haemodynamic changes with increased intravascular volume which may not only poses a risk of
      maternal death but also of serious morbidity such as heart failure, stroke and cardiac
      arrhythmia.

      The fetus is not spared.Previous reports revealed a significant reduction in fetal growth
      rates associated with maternal heart disease.There is also association with preterm delivery
      and reduced birth weight. The presence of maternal cyanosis and a reduced cardiac output are
      the most significant predictors.

      Accurate and reliable measurement of fetal cardiac function could be valuable for making the
      diagnosis and for fetal surveillanceThe most suitable parameters for assessing fetal cardiac
      function will mainly be determined by the cause of the dysfunction. Abnormal values of
      ejection fraction or cardiac output are usually found in the late stages of deterioration,
      and therefore more sensitive parameters have been proposed for earlier diagnosis and
      monitoring of fetal cardiac dysfunction. In most cases of cardiac dysfunction, diastolic
      parameters (such as DV or IRT) are the first to be altered, reflecting impaired relaxation
      and compliance due to a stiffer or less effective heart. Similarly, parameters reflecting
      longitudinal function (such as annular displacement or velocities) are typically affected in
      the early stages as compared to radial function (such as ejection fraction).

      The goal of this study is to evaluate fetal myocardial performance in patients with heart
      diseases in comparison to normal pregnant patients.
    
  