
    
      Attention is required for most, if not all, perceptual processes. There is a converging body
      of evidence from single-cell recording studies in monkeys and neuroimaging, behavioral, and
      clinical studies in humans showing that the processing of attended information is enhanced
      relative to the processing of unattended information.

      What is the source of this attentional modulation? Because neuroimaging studies have
      demonstrated that multiple cortical regions are recruited during tasks involving selective
      attention, it has proven difficult thus far to determine the differential contributions of
      each region. A central goal of the proposed research is to characterize the contributions of
      prefrontal cortex and parietal cortex and test the hypothesis that these regions exert
      top-down modulatory influences over visual processing areas. Specifically, we wish to
      investigate the interaction between areas involved in attentional control and visual areas
      modulated by attention.

      We propose to study patients with focal lesions and normal volunteers while they perform
      tasks requiring attention. Subjects will participate, first, in a series of behavioral
      studies involving selective attention; the relative performance of different patient groups
      and neurologically normal volunteers will be compared. Subjects will also be studied while
      performing similar tasks during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We hypothesize
      that selective attention will be heavily impaired by lesions of key prefrontal (e.g.,
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and key parietal (e.g., superior parietal lobule) sites. We
      also expect that brain imaging data will show decreased activation in visual regions
      ipsilateral to the focal lesions in prefrontal and parietal cortex, thus providing evidence
      that prefrontal and parietal cortex are sources of top-down modulation. Although other
      research groups have compared the behavior of patients with various focal lesions or have
      performed fMRI studies of visual attention in neurologically normal patients, we are unaware
      of any concerted effort to perform fMRI in patients with focal lesions in order to
      functionally isolate the contributions of individual cortical regions that serve as critical
      nodes in the attentional network.
    
  