
    
      The study will involve a small case series of up to six participants (three people with
      dementia and up to three caregivers depending on the person with dementia's preference),
      meaning the PI will be able to track on an individual level. Individuals who express interest
      will be contacted by the student via telephone or email. The PI will provide information
      pertaining to all aspects of study participation prior to recruitment.

      Procedure & Intervention Content,

      Part 1:

      As part of the practitioner-researcher model, the PI will be delivering the ACT intervention
      following the completion of ACT training and pre-adaptational work for use with people with
      dementia. Verbal information may be supported by visual aids and written information to
      support retention and reminders of any between-session tasks. Although there is no specific
      protocol for ACT with dementia, a published ACT protocol, 'Better Living with Illness'
      (Brassington et al., 2016), will be used flexibly to guide the intervention.

      The HSCED will include baseline and intervention phases. As participants will be recruited to
      the study at different times, baseline lengths will vary. This may strengthen the design by
      reducing the possibility of any observed changes being attributed to time-based effects
      (after a duration of monitoring).

      The intervention will be delivered on an individual basis for up to 90-minute, weekly
      sessions. There will be a standard number of up to 12, but this will be reviewed at session
      six. At the beginning of each therapy session, the PI will offer introductions, provide
      reminders about the purpose of the study, confidentiality and its limits and gain verbal
      consent to proceed. Reported changes will also be captured at the beginning of each session,
      for example, 'checking-in' with participants and inviting them to share any reflections on
      therapy or changes they have noticed between sessions.

      ACT fidelity will be assessed by the PI using the ACT Fidelity Measure (O'Neill, Latchford,
      McCracken & Graham, 2019). The ACT-FM is a 25-item coding system that captures depth and
      frequency of coverage of major ACT components and non-adherent components through four main
      areas within ACT; Therapist Stance, Open Response Style, Aware Response Style and Engaged
      Response Style.

      At baseline (first session), last session and at 1 and 3-month follow-ups, participants
      (people with dementia) will complete self-report measures of anxiety (with the GAD-7) and
      depression (with the PHQ-9). At each session and at 1 and 3 month follow-ups, they will also
      complete measures of wellbeing (Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale; SWEMWS),
      personal problems (Personal Questionnaire; PQ), psychological flexibility (Comprehensive
      Assessment of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy Processes; CompACT-SF) and a measure of
      relational process (Session Rating Scale; SRS) to support their rich case record and provide
      data on the quality of the therapeutic alliance as a rival hypothesis for interventional
      change. It will be considered whether any of these measures could be completed by the PI from
      session recordings to try to reduce participant burden.

      Part 2:

      One week post-therapy, a semi-structured Change Interview will be conducted with participants
      and their caregivers together by an independent researcher to obtain their views about their
      experience of therapy, including change processes, consideration of what they attribute
      change to and what may have enabled or hindered change, if change occurred. These will likely
      take place at a room at one of the universities, location convenient for the participant or
      remotely via telephone or videocall. The interviews will be audio-recorded with a digital
      dictation device for later transcription by the student to contribute to the rich case record
      of each participant.

      Practical Aspects:

      Due to COVID-19, there will be two options for intervention delivery: (A) face-to-face as
      planned; or (B) remotely via telephone or videocall.

      In Option A, the PI will offer flexibility regarding the location and time of the ACT
      intervention. It is understood that people with dementia are often marginalised, therefore
      the PI will make efforts to travel to them and make any reasonable adjustments. Participants
      may be telephoned to prompt or remind them of the therapy start time if necessary. Location
      options will include participants' homes, NHS site or University premises, depending on the
      preferences of the participant. All therapy sessions will be conducted in accordance with the
      University of Nottingham's (UoN) and respective NHS Trust's Lone Working Policies. The
      attendance of caregivers at therapy sessions will be negotiated with the participant. There
      is an acknowledgement of caregivers' likely role in transporting and accompanying
      participants to their appointments. All attendees (PI, participant and caregiver) will be
      required to wear Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and adhere to social distancing measures
      in accordance with COVID-19 restrictions.

      In Option B, the PI will negotiate an appropriate appointment time (between 9am-5pm on
      weekdays) to conduct the intervention. Again, the attendance of caregivers at therapy
      sessions will be negotiated with the participant. There is an acknowledgement that caregivers
      may prompt or support clients with between session tasks. Caregivers will also be invited to
      Change Interviews following the completion of therapy. The Change Interviews will involve
      asking participants about their experience of the therapy, what they found helpful and less
      helpful, any improvements that could be made and asking both participants and carers whether
      they have noted any changes in wellbeing or functional ability over the intervention period.

      All therapy sessions will be audio-recorded with an encrypted, digital dictation device for
      storage and later transcription for quality and ACT fidelity checks. This will be clarified
      on the Participant Information Sheet and at the beginning of each therapy session. The PI
      will also take written notes.
    
  