
    
      Chronic kidney disease affects 11% of the US population; over half of those affected have
      skeletal manifestations of their renal disease. Renal osteodystrophy is a complex disease, in
      which multiple mineral systems and related hormones play a role, including phosphate
      homeostasis. Phosphate regulation primarily depends on renal handling of phosphate, which is
      partly controlled by parathyroid hormone and vitamin D. However, other mediators in this
      system clearly exist. Recently, evidence has been accruing that one such factor may be FGF23,
      a protein produced by osteogenic cells. States of excess FGF23 are associated with marked
      phosphate wasting, hypophosphatemia, osteomalacia, and inappropriately low calcitriol. FGF23
      levels are measurable in healthy humans and markedly elevated in patients who require
      hemodialysis, although its physiologic role in either state is unknown. Some retrospective
      evidence suggests that FGF23 is affected by phosphate intake. We are performing a pilot study
      to gather preliminary data describing the response of FGF23 to changes in dietary phosphorus
      intake in healthy men and in men with moderate renal insufficiency. The specific aims of this
      pilot study are: 1) To examine the physiologic effects of alterations in dietary phosphorus
      on FGF23 in healthy subjects; 2) To examine the physiologic response of FGF23 to dietary
      phosphorus alterations in patients with moderate renal failure; 3) To assess whether serum
      levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D vary inversely with those of FGF23 when dietary phosphate
      is changed; 4) To determine the temporal pattern of calcitropic hormones and FGF23 in
      response to dietary phosphate changes; and 5) To determine the variability of the changes in
      serum FG 23 in response to dietary phosphate manipulations. The proposed research plan is a
      dietary intervention trial in which we will study the response of serum FGF23 levels to diets
      with varying phosphorus contents in healthy adults and adults with moderate renal
      insufficiency.
    
  