
    
      -  Busulfan is an alkylating antineoplastic agent used commonly during the conditioning
           regimen in patients undergoing Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT). Due to
           the fact that this drug has a variable metabolism in different individuals, the
           investigators performed the plasmatic dosage of chemotherapy before starting the
           conditioning regimen (test dose) as a way to predict the best dose to them during the
           conditioning. Busulfan toxicities depends on the "Area Under Curve" and Concentration
           Steady State (CSS).

        -  The investigators randomized in groups according to the route of drug administration:
           per oral and intravenously. Dose test will be performed before conditioning and othe
           pharmacokinetics (Pk) study will be made in the first day of conditioning. The test dose
           of P.O busulfan will be 1 mg/Kg/dose and 32 mg/m2 for I.V busulfan. The target dose of
           busulfan during the conditioning will depends on the Pk obtained during the test dose.
           In the first day of regimen, other samples will be analysed and the new AUC will be
           adjusted. We will have a control group who have never performed monitoring before
           (retrospective group)

        -  Test Dose for oral busulfan will be performed with peripheral blood samples at the time:
           0h (before taking busulfan), 30', 1h, 1,5h, 2h, 3h, 4h, 5h and 6h. In the first day of
           conditioning other samples will be collected again in the same moments.

        -  Test dose for I.V busulfan will be performed on time 0h, 30', 45', 1h, 2h, 3h, 4h, 5h,
           6h and 8h after receiving I.V busulfan. If the patients will receive I.V busulfan during
           conditioning, the blood samples should be collected on time 0h, 30', 1h, 2h, 3h, 4h, 5h,
           6h, 7h and 8h after taking busulfan. The blood samples will be centrifuged (4ยบ C/ 3200
           rpm/10 minutes) and analysed.

        -  Patients will be monitored with pharmacokinetic's drug and clinical outcomes. The
           investigators will evaluate acute and chronic toxicities after Stem Cell
           Transplantation.
    
  