
    
      *Severe hypoxaemia is the most common serious adverse event during endotracheal intubation
      (ETI) in patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), consistently reported around
      25%. Preoxygenation is universally recommended as a risk-minimisation measure. While
      effective in the operating room, preoxygenation is more complex in critically ill patients,
      most notably those with acute hypoxic respiratory failure, as the low functional residual
      capacity (FRC) carries a risk of denitrogenation being confined to the healthy lung
      parenchyma, so that the FeO2 (Fraction of expired oxygen) no longer reflects the partial
      pressure of oxygen in arterial blood (PaO2). In these patients, 8 minutes of preoxygenation
      using a bag-valve-mask (BVM) device failed to change PaO2 levels noticeably. Increasing the
      BVM time was unhelpful, as the increase in PaO2 achieved in some patients was offset by
      decreases in others.

      Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) has theoretical advantages for preoxygenation and has been
      shown to provide higher PaO2 values in hypoxic patients compared to a non-rebreathing (NRB)
      mask. However, use of NIV has several contraindications including consciousness alterations
      and agitation, and drawbacks such as gastric distension.

      Apnoeic oxygenation which has been updated is a method consisting in continued oxygenation
      during laryngoscopy to extend the safe apnoea time. High-flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) therapy
      ensuring high and stable FiO2 (fraction of inspired oxygen) values by delivering oxygen flows
      above 60 L/min is another innovation shown to improve oxygenation in hypoxaemic patients. The
      effect of HFNO for preoxygenation, however, is less clear, as one study suggested benefits
      vs. NRB mask in patients with moderate hypoxaemia but another found no significant difference
      vs. BVM in patients with PaO2/FiO2 ratios below 200. No large randomised trial has compared
      preoxygenation methods. The latest recommendations of the Difficult Airway Society suggest
      than "In hypoxaemic patients, CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) and non-invasive
      ventilation (NIV) may be beneficial."

      As preoxygenation is a cornerstone of safety for intubation in the ICU, several recent trials
      have investigated different devices (non-rebreather mask, non-invasive ventilation, high flow
      nasal cannula, bag valve mask) with conflicting results. A main reason for those results is
      that efficiency of the preoxygenation period cannot be evaluated in the ICU in opposite to
      the operating room : gas monitoring are not available in ICU and even if it was the case,
      high flow demand from the patient, and agitation will make it inefficient. Additionally,
      desaturation is frequent (from 10% up to 50%) during intubation in ICU and lead to morbidity
      and mortality; so anticipation of desaturation is a major concern for ICU's physician because
      it's impacting care (face mask ventilation, early insertion of subglottic device).

      The oxygen reserve index (ORI) (Masimo Corp., Irvine, CA, USA) is a new parameter that
      indicates real-time oxygenation reserve status in mild hyperoxemia range [partial pressure of
      oxygen (PaO2) of about 100-200 mmHg). ORI can be measured non-invasively by applying an
      exclusive sensor on a finger; the ORI is a nondimensional index that changes according to the
      oxygenation reserve status of the patient. It uses a value range of 0.00-1.00.

      In this context, the investigators purpose to analyze efficiency of preoxygenation and time
      allowed by ORI for medical interventions before hypoxemia during intubation in the ICU in a
      pilot observational study in our medical ICU in a university hospital.

      *Study population : Patients admitted in ICU and planned to be intubated. Recruitment will be
      done in the Medical ICU of Nantes University Hospital. The study plans to include 50 patients
      admitted to intensive care and requiring a tracheal intubation procedure, after the provision
      of the informational letter and collection of non-opposition from the patient or responsible
      party, or through the emergency inclusion process. In the latter two cases, the
      non-opposition of the patient will be collected retrospectively after reading the
      informational letter.

      *Design and conduct of the study : In each case, after intubation decision was made and
      patient consent, a non-invasive sensor capable of measuring ORI (Rainbow® Sensor, R2-25,
      Revision L, Masimo Corp.) will be applied to the third or fourth finger on the contralateral
      side of the inflatable cuff for non-invasive blood pressure monitoring. The sensor will be
      shield to be protected from exposure to light. SpO2 and ORI values, displayed on Root with
      Radical7 will be recorded each 2 seconds and then will be transferred to a laptop.

      Participation in the study will end in case of secondary opposition of the patient.

      Patient leaving the protocol will continue the usual follow-up.

      *Data management and patient identification : Data collection for each person participating
      in the research is realized with paper case report form (CRF). Each person responsible for
      the filling of the CRF (investigator, clinical research assistant ...) will have to be
      identified in the table of delegations of responsibilities of the center (see investigator's
      file).

      Entering, viewing or modifying data will only be possible via the CRF. The structure of the
      database will be approved by the person responsible for the research, and will be implemented
      in conformity with the protocol and the relevant regulations.

      Medical data for each patient can only be forwarded to the affiliated organization of the
      person responsible for research or any person duly authorized by him in conditions ensuring
      their confidentiality.

      The principal investigator and all co-investigators undertake to keep the identities of the
      persons who participate in the study confidential by assigning them a code.

      This code will be used for all the CRF and all the attached documents (reports of imaging
      exams, biology, etc.). It will be the only information which will make it possible to make
      the connection with the patient retrospectively. To this end, a correspondence table will be
      implemented and kept in the service under the responsibility of the investigator who will be
      the only one to have access to this document.

      Sending a person's data for research will hence be possible only provided this code system
      has been applied; the presentation of the research results must exclude any direct or
      indirect identification.

      No nominative data will be collected during this research. The coding rule is the following:
      1st letter of first name + first letter of surname + month and year of birth, Inclusion
      number.

      The documents will be archived under the name of the study in the facilities of the
      multipurpose ICU of CHU Nantes until the end of the period of practical utility.

      These documents are as follows: Protocols and annexes, possible amendments ; Information
      notices ; Individual data (authenticated copies of raw data) ; Follow-up documents ;
      Statistical analyses ; Final report of the study.

      At the end of the period of practical use, all documents to be archived, as defined in the
      classification process and document archiving related to CHU Nantes biomedical research, will
      be transferred to the archive site (CHU Nantes) and will be placed under the responsibility
      of the institution responsible for research for 15 years following the end of the study in
      accordance with the institutional practices.

      No displacement or destruction can occur without the consent of the institution responsible
      for the research. After 15 years, the institution responsible for the research will be
      consulted for destruction. All data, documents and reports may be subject to audit or
      inspection.

      *Statistics : The protocol falls within the scope of the MR003 (reference methodology 003),
      which conforms to Nantes University Hospital.

      Qualitative data will be described in frequency and percentage. Quantitative data will be
      described using mean, standard deviation, median, and extreme values. All tests will be
      bilateral, and the level of significance is 0.05.

      Stata statistical software (Release 13; StataCorp LP, College Station, TX) will be used.

      Statistical justification of the number of inclusions : Duration before drop of SpO2 was
      approximately 60 seconds +/- 30 seconds (data from Lascarrou JAMA (Journal of the American
      Medical Association) 2017 and Miguel-Montanes Critical Care Medicine 2015). Assuming that the
      ORI drop occurs 30 seconds before SpO2 drop, the investigators would like to estimate the
      average delay between these two drops with 95% confidence interval, with a precision to 10
      seconds. Assuming a standard deviation equal to 30 seconds, 35 patients will be necessary.
      According to Szmuk, only 72% patients will be analyzed so the investigators decide to include
      50 patients.

      All statistical tests will be performed with a significance level of 5%. No imputation will
      be realized for this observational study.

      *Safety : No adverse event or reaction can be associated with this study insofar as it
      consists on a non-interventional study with no impact on care.
    
  