
    
      In France, incidence of spondylodiscitis is between 1000 and 1500 new cases a year.
      Micro-organisms mainly in cause are: Staphylococcus aureus, negative coagulase
      Staphylococcus, Gram negative bacilli and Streptococci; more rarely mycobacteria or Brucella.
      Actually, optimal duration of antimicrobial therapy is unclear. The rate of cure varies,
      according to studies, from 90 to 100 % whatever the responsible germ involved. If a 6 weeks
      antimicrobial therapy duration is not inferior to 12, this would allow to shortening usual
      antimicrobial therapy duration, and improve tolerance of the treatment, with ecological and
      economic benefits, following a politics of good use of antibiotics, defined in the French
      circular n°2002-272 of 02/05/02.

      The main objective is to compare two durations of antimicrobial therapy, 6 weeks versus 12
      weeks, on the rate of cure of the bacterial spondylodiscitis. Secondary objectives are to
      compare, according to the duration of treatment antibiotic, 1) Rachidial pain by clinical
      examination and an analogical visual scale (EVA), 2) Quality of life by the score EQ-5D, 3)
      Treatment tolerance. 4) Risk factors for failure.

      Type of the study is Prospective multi-centric, open label trial, randomised in two parallel
      groups with direct individual profit.

      Antimicrobial therapy is chosen by the physician on charge of the patient according to the
      germ and to the consensual recommendations.

      The study concerns 400 patients.

      Inclusion criteria are : men or women more than 18 years, having a proved bacterial
      spondylodiscitis (not mycobacteria, not fungal nor Brucella), for which an antimicrobial
      therapy is needed; for the women in age to procreate use of an effective contraception with
      protected sexual relations and negative pregnancy test (b HCG) is necessary.

      Non Inclusion criteria are: infection with no bacteriological identification or mycobacteria,
      fungal or brucellosis infection, presence of material or recurrence of spondylodiscitis.

      Main criterion of evaluation: percentage of success in 1 year defined by the absence of
      infection : absence of clinical, biological and radiological signs of infection (pain, fever)
      ; or relapse with the same germ.

      This criterion will be estimated beyond the first 6 weeks of treatment antibiotic after the
      introduction of the treatment and until 1 year after the stop of the treatment. The criteria
      of the bacteriological diagnosis will be the same.

      Design of the study: patients after information consent signed are include and randomised in
      one arm. They are regularly follow (at 1, 2, 3, 6 and 12 weeks after the beginning of
      antimicrobial therapy, then at 6 and 12 month after the end of antimicrobial therapy) , with
      physical examination, biological tests and radiological acts.

      The randomisation is centralized, balanced by block, stratifies by centres. (70 centres) The
      previous duration of the study is of 4 years.
    
  