
    
      Scientific Background and Gaps Rotator cuff repair and reverse total shoulder arthroplasty
      are common procedures that aim to provide patients with less pain, better shoulder function,
      and overall improved quality of life. The number of these procedures performed annually has
      increased dramatically, and improved outcomes have been demonstrated for each intervention.
      Part of the success of these operations is dependent on postoperative rehabilitation and
      patient compliance. Shoulder immobilization versus early range of motion following each
      procedure has conflicting data, and recent studies have shown that the method of shoulder
      immobilization may not influence clinical outcomes. Previous studies, both clinical and
      biomechanical, have demonstrated that arm position following RCR impacts tension and stress
      placed on the repair, but few have shown whether this translates to improved patient
      outcomes. Some surgeons prefer simple arm slings for the above-named procedures, while others
      opt for the abduction brace. Multiple studies have shown the optimal shoulder position that
      places the least amount of tension on the RCR, or soft tissue envelope following RTSA,
      however there is no consensus as to the optimal postoperative immobilization technique that
      significantly affects patient outcomes. An antirotation sling is significantly cheaper than
      an abduction shoulder brace, and our anecdotal experience is that patients experience more
      difficulties with an abduction shoulder brace than an antirotation sling. Our study aims to
      determine whether patient outcomes are significantly affected by immobilization with an
      abduction brace or simple arm sling. Our hypothesis is that antirotation slings are no better
      or worse than shoulder abduction braces in regards to shoulder range of motion, satisfaction
      and compliance with the immobilization method, and pain.

      Study Rationale There is a lack of evidence regarding abduction braces versus simple arm
      slings for postoperative immobilization following rotator cuff repair and reverse total
      shoulder arthroplasty. A better understanding of outcomes between each device will allow for
      more options available to the patient and surgeon, as well as a potential for decreased cost
      to the patient as there is a substantial difference in cost between the two devices.
    
  