
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the United
      States, with an estimated 1.5 million American sustaining a TBI and 50,000 people dying from
      a TBI each year. While the immediate, or primary, injury causes significant damage, secondary
      injury is caused by cerebral edema, increased intracranial pressure, and resultant
      hypoperfusion and ischemia. Elevated intracranial pressure is strongly associated with poor
      recovery and death; failure to control intracranial pressure is likewise associated with poor
      outcomes and mortality.

      Early detection of elevated ICP allows for the initiation of early therapy. However, patients
      with significant head injuries are often intubated for airway protection. The sedation
      required for intubation obscures the ED neurologic exam. Precise measurement of elevated ICP
      has required invasive monitoring via ventriculostomy. Yet this method is only provided at set
      institutions with neurosurgical services. Further there are distinct time delays between the
      trauma occurrence, transportation to a facility with neurosurgical services and placement of
      ventriculostomies. There is at the forefront, then, to establish non-invasive measures of ICP
      that are both time efficient and reliable.

      Previous studies, including a pilot study conducted at this institution, showed a correlation
      between intraocular and intracranial pressure. However, this relationship has not been tested
      in an acute care trauma setting. We propose an observational cohort study of critically
      injured trauma patients with suspected closed head injury. Patients requiring intubation and
      mechanical ventilation pose a significant challenge to assess neurologically, as they are
      almost always sedated and often chemically paralyzed to facilitate airway management.
      Therefore, it is in this population of intubated trauma patients with suspected head injury
      that we will evaluate the use of tonometry to predict intracranial pressure from intraocular
      pressure.
    
  