
    
      Phase 2 study aiming to assess the protective effect of mangafodipir against the oxaliplatine
      neuropathy.Population: Cancer patient who have a mild (grade 2) oxaliplatin neuropathy and in
      whom the continuation of oxaliplatin for at least 4 infusions is desirable will be include,
      whatever the location of the primitive tumor and the use of others anticancer
      agents.Treatment: Mangafodipir (0.5 ml/kg) is administered as a 30 minutes infusion just
      after each administration of oxaliplatin. The oxaliplatin dose (85 to 100 mg/m²) and the
      length of the infusion (2 hours) are the same that before the inclusion and modifications are
      not authorized during all the study participation. Primary objective: Neuropathy are
      clinically evaluated according to NCI-CTC criteria before each mangafodipir and oxaliplatin
      and thereafter one month after the last infusion. The primary criteria is the worst grade of
      oxaliplatin neuropathy experienced by each patient. The improvement of neuropathy is defined
      as a decrease by at least one grade of the severity of the neuropathy for at least 2 months.

      Hypothesis: at least 50% of patients will experience an improvement or a stabilization of the
      oxaliplatin neuropathy while receiving the mangafodipir - oxaliplatin association.Treatment
      discontinuation: the treatment will be stopped if the neuropathy worsened by at least one
      grade, in case of tumor progression, intolerable toxicity, and patient wish.

      Number of patients: it will be determined according to a simplified Gehan procedure: The
      inclusions will be stopped if no objective response (neuropathy improvement) is observed
      among the first 9 evaluable patients. If at least one response is observed, 16 more evaluable
      patients will be include. The total number of patients will be between 9 and 30 patients,
      including non evaluable patients.

      Pharmacokinetic: Serum and intra- erythrocytes manganese concentration will be evaluated
      before each mangafodipir infusion in order to detect accumulation Pharmacodynamic: plasmatic
      total antioxidant activity, superoxide dismutase activity and lipid peroxidation will be
      assessed at the first cycle: before and after the administration of oxaliplatin and just
      after the perfusion of mangafodipir.
    
  