
    
      This is a phase II single arm clinical trial that is designed to test the efficacy of
      ibrutinib in combination with BR in relapsed aB-NHL either as third line post ASCT or as
      second or third line in non-transplant eligible patients. Patients will be referred for this
      study from all medical centers in Israel through the Israeli Lymphoma Working Group, but will
      be treated only in Chaim Sheba Medical center.

      The study will include a Screening Phase, Treatment Phase, and Post- treatment Follow-up
      Phase.

      Subject eligibility will be determined up to 30 days prior to therapy initiation. The
      treatment Phase will extend from cycle 1 day 1 until study drug discontinuation, either due
      to progression, toxicity, or due to referral to allo- SCT.

      Approximately 72 eligible subjects will be stratified by background chemotherapy treatment
      refractory versus relapsed disease aB-NHL histology, and number of prior lines of therapy.
      All subject will receive BR protocol and ibrutinib 560mg per day. Ibrutinib will be
      administered orally once

      daily starting on cycle 1, day 1, on a continuous schedule until disease progression,
      referral for allo-SCT, unacceptable toxicity whichever comes first. The post-treatment
      Follow-up Phase will begin at the end of 6 cycles of BR. Subjects who discontinue for reasons
      other than disease progression must continue disease evaluations.

      The Post-treatment Follow-up Phase will continue until death, loss to follow up, consent
      withdrawal, or study end, whichever occurs first.

      Assessment of tumor response and progression will be conducted in accordance with the Lugano
      criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. The investigator will evaluate sites of disease by
      radiological imaging, physical examination, or other procedures as necessary. The primary
      efficacy analysis of ORR will be based on investigator assessment.

      At each site visit, subjects will be evaluated for toxicity. Safety evaluations will include
      adverse event monitoring, physical examinations, concomitant medication usage, and clinical
      laboratory parameters.
    
  