
    
      Adolescence is a time of dramatic biological, behavioral and social changes. It is one of the
      healthiest periods of the life-span, yet morbidity and mortality rates increase 200%, often
      attributed to natural tendencies to explore and take risks that increase vulnerability to
      risky and dangerous behaviors. Rapid advances in developmental neuroscience are revealing new
      insights into how biology and social context interact to increase adolescents' risk-taking
      behavior which is attributed to a temporal disassociation between maturational changes in two
      distinct neural systems: "socio-emotional" (reward) and "cognitive-control"
      (self-regulation). The socio-emotional system is stimulated by a rapid increase in
      dopaminergic activity at puberty, which influences reward-seeking behavior. This increase in
      reward-seeking precedes the maturation of the cognitive-control system and its connections to
      the reward system. This proposal aims to apply these new insights on neurobiology of
      adolescents' responses to alcohol/drug use and sex-related risk opportunities by examining
      brain changes in response to a theoretically-based and empirically-tested prevention program
      that targets risky behavior in African-American youth during pubertal transition. This racial
      group is disproportionately affected by the high morbidity and mortality associated with
      HIV-related risky behaviors and exemplifies a significant health disparity in our society.
      The intervention was designed on the basis of developmental issues and socio-cultural
      contextual processes germane to African-American families, and has been shown in randomized
      controlled trials to delay/deter HIV-related risky behaviors in this vulnerable population.
      This proposal extends the efficacy studies of the intervention by using functional magnetic
      resonance imaging to quantify the biological changes in response to the intervention.
      Identifying neural substrates of the intervention can facilitate refinement of the program by
      focusing on the components that are most effective in changing behavioral and neural
      circuitry and also aid in the development of new interventions for subgroups of youth that
      don't have a positive outcome. Using a randomized controlled design, the investigators will
      assess the neural substrates of risk-taking and risk-avoidant behavior before and after the
      6-week computer-interactive, family-based intervention in 11-13 year-old African-American
      youth. Psychological processes shown to mediate the intervention effects on behaviors that
      dissuade alcohol and drug use and sexual onset (i.e. reward-drive and cognitive-emotional
      self-regulation) will be assessed at baseline and 3 months post-intervention. Based on prior
      studies that reported observable brain changes in response to psychosocial interventions, the
      investigators' hypothesis is that a positive response to the intervention will be associated
      with greater functional connectivity changes between the socio-emotional (reward-drive) and
      cognitive-control (self-regulation) components of the neural circuitry compared to the
      control condition, both at rest and during task-performance. They also postulate that these
      neural changes will mediate the intervention's positive effects on psychological processes
      involved in youth's decision to avoid HIV-risk vulnerability behaviors in the service of
      long-term personal goals and positive health outcomes.
    
  