
    
      The study design is a Pilot Study to confirm the safety of the uterine inhibitor/pacemaker
      and measure its effect on women experiencing preterm labor.

      A total of 10 (ten) patients will be enrolled in this pilot study to confirm the methodology
      and safety of the device. Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion
      criteria will be recruited for the study.

      The study device (EI/uterine inhibitor/pacemaker) has been classified by FDA as an
      Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) number G080036, Class A device. The EI/uterine
      inhibitor/pacemaker device is FDA cleared for research of the prevention of the prevention of
      the human contractions of preterm birth.

      This proposal is for an initial prospective FDA approved pilot study. After FDA evaluation of
      the pilot study findings and approval, the pilot study may lead eventually to a prospective
      randomized controlled clinical study.

      Only adult women who are experiencing uterine contractions due to the birthing process are
      eligible.

      Study patients will be informed about the purpose of the EI/uterine inhibitor/pacemaker
      device and give informed consent prior to its use. The device will be used for only 20
      minutes, preceded and followed by a 20 minute control period.

      During the birthing process recordings of the uterine contractions will be recorded.
      Comparison will be made of these uterine contraction records pre and post use use of the
      EI/uterine inhibitor/pacemaker device. The uterine contraction tracings will be compared and
      analyzed for differences in the frequency of contractions.

      The patients will also be told how to express the strength of any of their subjective pain in
      a manner that can be documented in a questionnaire. Study patients will also have their
      record of the type and amount of pain medication they have received noted on their patient
      log forms.

      RISK:

      Previous human and animal studies indicate minimal risk to either baby or mother. Human
      studies showed no effect on the fetal or maternal heart rate. Real-time monitoring of the
      fetal and maternal heart rate during the study will protect against there potential risks.

      BENEFIT:

      Reducing the frequency of preterm uterine contractions is a first step to preventing preterm
      birth,but the proposed investigation is not, itself, expected to prevent any preterm births.
      However, the investigation could have great benefit to future mothers and their babies.
    
  