
    
      Background Argon laser peripheral iridoplasty (ALPI) (Figure 1) is an iris-remodeling
      procedure that intends to widen the iridocorneal angle through redistribution of peripheral
      iris tension forces close to the trabeculum.

      ALPI is effective in patients with plateau iris syndrome and acute angle closure glaucoma but
      there is less published about its effectiveness in secondary angle closure. Therefore, we are
      going to evaluate this procedure in those patients that did not achieve a satisfactory
      clinical angle opening despite patent laser peripheral iridotomy, as long as there was no
      contraindication for a new laser procedure and provided that cataract surgery is not viable,
      as in clear lens or patients not willing to undergo surgery.

      To evaluate its effectiveness, we will use a non-invasive non-contact method through anterior
      segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT), which transmits and receives light in an
      ultrasound-like manner to obtain anterior segment imaging that helps to evaluate the angle
      more objectively.

      Purpose To evaluate short-term angle opening after argon peripheral iridoplasty using AS-OCT
      and to report its complications at 1-week and 1-month follow up in patients with persistent
      angle closure despite patent iridotomies.

      Study Design Prospective, interventional case series Patients with an occludable angle in
      more than two quadrants in dark room dynamic gonioscopy and patent iridotomies of at least 2
      weeks were included. A supplemental diagnosis regarding the etiology of persistent angle
      closure by ultrabiomicroscopy and A-scan ultrasound will be obtained. Patients who presented
      with these criteria to the angle closure clinic at the glaucoma service of our institute
      (Instituto de Oftalmologia Fundacion Conde de Valenciana IAP, Mexico City) between July and
      November 2012 were included.

      Patients with synechiae of more than one quadrant, advanced glaucomatous damage, prompt
      cataract surgery plans and those who did not wish to participate were excluded.

      After obtaining informed consent, patients underwent biomicroscopy, gonioscopy, visual
      acuity, intraocular pressure and AS-OCT before ALPI, one week and one month after it. The
      AS-OCT Visante (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin) took an image of the vertical and horizontal
      meridians at the same room illumination of 14 lux measured with a luxometer mobile
      application (Apple Inc., Application Manufactory available at the AppStore by June 2012).

      Images were analyzed in a masked manner marking scleral spurs and angle recess at 0° and 180°
      of the horizontal image.

      ALPI was applied with a VISULAS diode laser of 532 nm (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) by the
      same ophthalmologist (JML). Twenty to 40 spots of 400 mW power with 500 microns of size and
      duration of 500 ms were applied. Power was modified arbitrarily until an effective iris
      contraction was obtained. It was considered an effective contraction as that which causes a
      concentric movement around the laser spot, with minimal iris pigmentation and immediate angle
      opening observed through the lens mirrors using a Goldmann lens. Power was lowered if there
      was any bursting sound perceived, pigment dispersion, air bubbles or considerable pain.
      Pilocarpine was not applied before the procedure in all cases because some eyes had angle
      closure secondary to ciliary block and we considered it could worsen the closure in many
      cases.

      Topical prednisolone acetate was applied every 4 hours for 1 week and brimonidine tartrate
      every 12 hours for 1 week .
    
  