
    
      Enrolled subjects will be randomly assigned to one of three groups (n=12 per group):

      Group A (Test) - Tooth extraction and intake of an NSAID (i.e. Ketoprofen ER 50 mg) at 8 AM
      and a non-NSAID (i.e. Acetaminophen / Paracetamol 500 mg) at 2 PM and 8 PM for a 3-day
      period, starting at 2 PM on the day of the extraction.

      Group B (Control 1) - Tooth extraction and intake of an NSAID (i.e. Ketoprofen ER 50 mg) at 8
      PM and a non-NSAID (i.e. Acetaminophen / Paracetamol 500 mg) at 8 AM and 2 PM for a 3-day
      period, starting at 2 PM on the day of the extraction.

      Group C (Control 2) - Tooth extraction and intake of a non-NSAID (i.e. Acetaminophen /
      Paracetamol 500 mg) at 8AM, 2 PM and 8 PM for a 3-day period, starting at 2 PM on the day of
      the extraction.

      VISIT 1 - Screening Referred or self-referred subjects that appear to meet all the
      eligibility criteria upon phone pre-screening will be invited to an in-person screening visit
      at the UICOD. The study purpose, duration, potential risks and expected benefits will be
      explained in detail to the subjects, as part of the consenting process. All screened subjects
      will be provided with hard copies of the study timeline and the signed consent form. Upon
      medical and dental history review, as well as site-specific clinical and radiographic
      evaluation, eligible subjects interested in participating in the study will be scheduled for
      Visit 2. Intraoral photographs of the site of interest will be taken. Additionally, a
      cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) scan will be obtained and interpreted to evaluate the
      study site, prior to the baseline intervention.

      VISIT 2 - Tooth Extraction (Baseline Intervention) Medical and dental history will be
      reviewed and updated, if necessary. Subsequently, subjects will be asked to sign the surgical
      procedure consent form. Prior to tooth extraction, an intraoral scan of the area of interest
      will be obtained using a digital scanner (e.g. Planmeca Emerald S). Likewise, a blood sample
      (~ 4.5 cc) will be collected for serum C-reactive protein (CRP) analysis. Following
      administration of local infiltrative anesthesia, the study tooth will be extracted in a
      minimally traumatic fashion, avoiding flap reflection. Following tooth extraction, the socket
      walls will be carefully inspected for the existence of dehiscences or fenestrations. Sites
      presenting a bony defect affecting >20% of the total wall height will be excluded. Site will
      be sealed using a collagen matrix (Mucograft Seal, Geistlich Pharma) stabilized with simple
      interrupted sutures. The intervention will be documented using intraoral photography.

      Upon completion of the intervention, subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the study
      groups and provided with detailed written and verbal post-operative instructions, including a
      drug diary specific to the group that they are allocated in and a visual analog scale (VAS)
      to record their perceived discomfort at day 0, 1, 2, 3 and 7 after the intervention.

      VISIT 3 - Postoperative Evaluation Any medical or dental history changes, or adverse events
      will be recorded. Sutures will be removed. An intraoral scan and photographs of the site will
      be obtained. Visual assessment of the healing status will be made using a wound healing index
      (WHI). Biofilm on the adjacent teeth will be removed and home care instructions will be
      revisited.

      VISIT 4 - Implant Placement At the beginning of this visit, a second segmental CBCT scan will
      be obtained, using the same settings employed at baseline. CBCT images will be employed to
      evaluate ridge dimensional changes compared to baseline, as well as bone availability for
      dental implant placement. Any medical or dental history changes, or adverse events will be
      recorded. A blood sample (~ 4.5 cc) and an intraoral scan will be obtained. Assessment of the
      healing status will be made using the aforementioned WHI. After administering local
      infiltrative anesthesia, patients will undergo implant insertion, according to the early
      implant placement protocol.10 Following full-thickness flap elevation, a bone core biopsy of
      the study site will be obtained using a trephine drill of 2.5 mm in diameter or wider. The
      bone core will be immediately submerged in a solution of 10% neutral buffered formalin (NBF)
      for microCT (µCT) and histological analyses.

      Implant site preparation and placement will be conducted according to the manufacturer's
      recommendations (SLActive Bone Level - Straumann AG). Implant insertion torque will be
      recorded. Intraoral periapical radiographs will be obtained, as necessary, in order to assess
      implant placement location. Following final implant placement and cover screw delivery,
      simultaneous buccal contour augmentation will be performed via guided bone regeneration (GBR)
      using a dual bone graft. This graft composite will consist of an initial layer of locally
      harvested autogenous bone to cover the exposed implant surface, combined with a superficial
      layer of deproteinized bovine bone particles (DBBM; BioOss granules 0.25 - 1.0 mm, Geistlich
      Pharma), which will be subsequently covered with a native porcine collagen membrane
      (Bio-Gide; Geistlich Pharma). All procedures will be executed according to a two-stage
      (submerged) approach. Therefore, tension-free primary soft tissue closure will be attained.
      The procedure will be documented with intraoral photographs. All subjects will be provided
      with detailed written and verbal post-operative instructions. They will be instructed to
      avoid any disturbance in the surgical area for two weeks. Patients will be asked to use a
      mouthwash containing 0.12% of chlorhexidine gluconate twice a day, thirty seconds at a time,
      avoiding any eating or drinking for 30 minutes after rinsing, starting 48 hours after the
      baseline intervention. Post-operative medications (e.g. antibiotics, anti-inflammatory drugs
      and analgesics) will be prescribed on an individual basis.

      VISIT 5 - Postoperative Evaluation (Final Study Visit) This visit will be scheduled at
      approximately two weeks after implant placement. Any medical or dental history changes, or
      adverse events will be recorded. Intraoral photographs of the site of interest, will be
      obtained. Assessment of the healing status will be made using the aforementioned WHI. All
      remaining sutures will be removed. Biofilm on the adjacent teeth will be removed and home
      care instructions will be revisited. Upon completion of this final study visit, the patient
      will be entered in a regular patient care routine, including scheduling of a future visit for
      implant uncovering in no less than 4 months and later referral to the restorative dentist, in
      order to complete tooth replacement therapy.
    
  