
    
      In Vitoria, only two out of ten children and adolescents (aged 6 to 17) consume the
      recommended three servings of fruit and only one out of ten the recommended two servings of
      vegetables per day. Average intake of fruit was 1.8 servings/day and 0.8 servings/day for
      vegetables. For that reason, promotion of the adequate intake of FV must be a priority
      objective in the promotion of healthy eating habits. One of the most used theories in this
      type of interventions is TPB (Theory of Planned Behavior). According to this theory, eating
      behavior and intention of consumption determinants are both personal and environmental.
      Specifically, the TPB states that attitude, subjective norms and perceived control are
      determinants that influence both the intention to consume food and the action of consuming
      it.

      The hypothesis of the study is that an intervention program based on theories of behavior and
      aimed to increase FV intake in schoolchildren aged 8 to 10, will produce changes in attitude,
      subjective norms, perceived behavioral control and intention of eating fruit and vegetable
      among children, which in turn will modify the behavior, increasing FV intake.

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of an intervention program
      based on behavioral theory and aimed to increase FV intake in schoolchildren aged 8 to 10
      (short and long effect).

      Secondary objectives of the study are (i) to evaluate the change on FV intake on the study
      population after intervention, (ii) to examine the impact of the intervention program on
      behavioral determinants, (iii) to analyze the association of the determinants of behavior on
      FV intake, and (iv) to study the influence between social demographic variables and the
      effectiveness of the program.

      The recruitment of participants begun in may 2015 and they were randomly assigned to
      intervention or control groups. The intervention group received 14 sessions (one every 15
      days) of one hour to work TPB constructs: attitude; subjective norms; perceived behavioural
      control and intention.
    
  