
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the number of successful treatment outcomes among patients treated with
           caspofungin acetate vs amphotericin B liposomal for persistent fever and neutropenia
           following cancer therapy, in terms of survival for 7 days after study drug, resolution
           of fever, treatment of any baseline fungal infection, absence of breakthrough fungal
           infection during and for 7 days after study drug, and absence of study drug
           discontinuation due to toxicity or lack of efficacy.

        -  Compare the incidence of nephrotoxicity in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of infusion-related adverse events within 1 hour of the infusion
           in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of treatment discontinuation due to drug-related adverse events,
           frequency of drug-related events, number of breakthrough fungal infections, and number
           of successfully treated baseline fungal infections in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare incidence of required dose increase due to inadequate clinical response in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the time to resolution of fever in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to high-risk (prior allogeneic bone marrow transplantation or prior
      chemotherapy for relapse of acute leukemia) vs low-risk and prior prophylactic antifungal
      therapy during chemotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive caspofungin acetate IV over 1 hour followed by placebo IV over 2
           hours.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo IV over 1 hour followed by amphotericin B liposomal IV
           over 2 hours.

      Treatment repeats daily for up to 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 7 and 14 days after study drug discontinuation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1060 patients (530 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    
  