
    
      According to previous studies, the quality of subjective sleep in women is generally worse
      than that of men. The prevalence rate can be dramatically increased from 30% before menopause
      to 50% during menopausal transition. Although studies have shown that menopausal women who
      use hormone therapy can improve sleep disorders caused by hot flashes, night sweats, sleep
      disorders, such as sleep apnea, the limited benefits of hormone therapy are reported, the
      duration of treatment and efficacy required is uncertain. The doubts about the safety of
      hormone therapy have deterred many menopausal women.

      Systematic review and meta-analysis show that acupuncture and related therapies (including
      electroacupuncture, ear needle, body acupoint massage and ear acupoint massage, etc.) used in
      the study of insomnia treatment have a significant therapeutic effect. However, for the
      reason that most of them are invasive treatments, patients receiving such treatment are often
      afraid and hesitated. This study will apply the low-energy laser acupuncture treatment trials
      to menopausal women with insomnia. Sixty perimenopausal female volunteer subjects with 45-60
      years of age who have been assessed and screened for sleep disorders will be recruited and
      participate in this experiment. After completing the basic data and various related scales,
      the subjects will undergo a double-blind, randomly allocated and controlled clinical trials.
      The experimental procedure is that the subjects will be placed in a soundproof, undisturbed
      clinic room, lying on a comfortable bed and a pillow and covered by a thin blanket. After the
      instruments setting ready, subject lie by first for 10 minutes, then a 5-minute heart rate
      variability (HRV) measurement recording is underwent, followed by low-dose near-infrared
      laser acupuncture (10mWx10) treatment for 5 minutes, then subject lie by again for 5 minutes,
      and another 5 minutes of heart rate variability instrument recording followed, a total of 30
      minutes experimental process. Acupoints of treatment will include both sides of the Sleep 1
      (EXTRA-1), both sides of the Neiguan (PC-6), both sides of Shemen (HT-7), both sides of the
      Sanyinjiao (SP-3), both sides of the Taichung (LI-3),total of 10 acupoints. The results of
      the analysis will be based on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality index (PSQI) questionnaire, the
      Insomnia Severe Index scale (ISI) data as the main assessment results for analysis. The
      Menopause Rating Scale, (MRS), the Beck Drepression Inventory Index scale (BDI-II) and the
      signal measurements of heart rate variability will be analyzed as secondary assessment
      grounds. Data of the questionnaires will be analyzed by the statistical method of Pair-t test
      for the comparison of the data before and after trial. The signal data of heart rate
      variability are analyzed by the two way ANOVA method. We expect that by way of combination of
      low-energy laser light irradiation method and theory of effective acupoint for insomnia can
      effectively improve the quality of sleep in perimenopausal women. The experiment will start
      on June, 2019.
    
  