
    
      The aim of the study is to collect a database for the development of algorithms for the
      classification of everyday movement patterns of PD patients with the underlying sensor
      concepts. From the recorded movement data of PD patients and healthy volunteers (reference
      basis), characteristic features will be derived which could allow a distinction between
      pathological and unobtrusive non-disturbed movement patterns (e.g. on/off-state
      classification) and an assessment of the fall potential.

      Study Timeline

      The present study will be carried out in three, partly successive stages. The first two
      stages are measurements with the presented system during a medical examination (or
      afterwards) under annotation of certain motor exercises to determine the state of health of
      the patient or test person. In order to generate a sufficient reference database of
      comparable movement patterns, a series of measurements with subjects of a similar average age
      is carried out in parallel with the same sensor configuration and the same motor exercises.
      The third part of the study includes measurements in the home environment of Parkinson's
      patients. These measurements are used to identify the previously annotated movement patterns
      in the everyday life of the patient of the same previously included patient group. The
      individual stages of the study comprise in detail:

        1. Acquisition of patients/test persons The voluntary participants of this study will be
           recruited during the doctor's visit. The group of study participants with PD may consist
           of both outpatients and inpatients with Parkinson's disease (see also sub-section 4).
           The group of healthy volunteers is recruited from relatives or acquaintances of the
           patients or by request of uninvolved persons (in each case without motor impairments,
           see inclusion/exclusion criteria). If a patient or subject is suitable to participate in
           the study based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria, he or she will be informed and
           sign the consent form so that he or she can be included in the study. Each study
           participant receives an individual identification number, which is used to identify all
           other patient-specific documents.

        2. Annotation Measurements Parkinson Patients As soon as the patients have agreed to
           voluntarily participate in the study, the current disease status is first determined
           during a medical examination on the basis of a UPDRS and documented for the study
           evaluation. Following this, typical exercises for recording motor deficits are carried
           out. For this purpose, the patient is equipped with the intended sensor system and
           instructed in its use. The sensor system comprises three different sensor nodes, which
           are placed around the wrist, as a collar and in the trouser pocket. The wrist sensor is
           fixed to the patient's wrist by a flexible strap with a Velcro fastener. The neck sensor
           is positioned under the upper layer of clothing and hung around the neck by means of a
           special textile collar (approx. 35g). The third sensor knot has no special fastening
           device and is carried loosely in the trouser pocket. The attachment of the sensors is
           illustrated in Fig. 1. The movement data are recorded parallel to the exercises and
           extensively annotated according to the exercise characteristics. The exercises contain
           typical everyday movement patterns, which are to be identified in the further course of
           the study in the measurements in the domestic environment (subitem 3) and used for the
           evaluation of the state of health. These include among others: sit-to-stand test (STS),
           five-times-sit-to-stand test (5STS), sit-to-walk test (STW) or timed-up-and-go test
           (TUG), normal walking, climbing stairs, and handwriting.

        3. Annotation measurements reference group The volunteers participating in the study will
           be equipped with the same measuring equipment as the group of Parkinson's patients. The
           measurements on subjects of comparable average age serve as a reference to physiological
           movement sequences during the same motor exercises. On the one hand, the aim is to cover
           as broad a spectrum as possible for the classification of the various movement patterns.
           On the other hand, the data are to be used to identify pathological features that
           distinguish them from healthy movement patterns.

        4. Movement monitoring in the domestic/clinical environment of patients The group of
           outpatient/inpatient Parkinson's patients also take part in a long-term measurement in
           the domestic/clinical environment. Following the first motor examination, 5 consecutive
           measurements over a longer period of one day each are carried out in this section of the
           study. The equipment with the required measuring electronics takes place at the
           patient's place of residence/ in the clinic. In addition to the three previously used
           sensor nodes, the patient is equipped with a further node for recording on an SD card,
           which is also carried in the trouser pocket (approx. 35g). The SD card is written using
           low-level access and an internally developed protocol. This prevents third parties from
           accessing the transaction data. The measuring equipment is handed over on the morning of
           the scheduled day by a co-investigator. The patient is equipped with the system and the
           necessary handling of the sensor nodes is explained over the course of the day. As a
           daily form dependent annotated reference, the motor exercises mentioned under 2. are
           repeated - as far as possible in the patient's home environment / in the clinic. The
           patient is asked to keep an event log of the day at his own discretion and ability. On
           the evening of the same day, the measuring system is received again on site by a
           co-investigator. Any complications or questions regarding the further study protocol
           will be received, documented and, if necessary, reported to the study director.

        5. Final motor examination After completion of the third part of the study, each
           participant undergoes a final medical examination. This will take place following the
           nearest routine visit. In this examination, the motor exercises are carried out again in
           order to establish a basis for comparison with the initial situation (UPDRS Trend).
    
  