
    
      Cholestasis is a rare condition that involves a reduction or obstruction of bile flow from
      the liver to the small intestine. When bile flow is hindered, a waste product pigment called
      bilirubin can escape into the bloodstream and build up to harmful levels. This may lead to
      the easily recognizable cholestatic symptoms of jaundice, itching, and impaired growth and
      eventually to more serious health problems. Four rare genetic liver disorders- ALGS, a-1AT,
      bile acid synthesis and metabolism defects, and PFIC-account for about 20% to 30% of all
      infant cases of cholestasis. These four disorders compose a group of related diseases that
      can cause significant growth problems during childhood, serious liver problems, the need for
      liver transplantation, and potentially death. More research on these rare liver diseases is
      necessary to develop a scientific basis for improvement in diagnostic techniques and
      treatments. Current diagnostic procedures are complex, and the development of simpler
      diagnostic tests would facilitate early diagnosis and treatment. This study will investigate
      the natural history and progression of the four previously mentioned cholestatic liver
      diseases to provide a better understanding of the causes and effects of the diseases.

      Participation in this study will last 20 years and will consist of a baseline visit and 20
      annual follow-up visits. The study will enroll infants through adults 25 years of age who
      have, or are suspected of having, one of the four genetic cholestatic liver diseases.
      Individuals who are siblings of a-A1T participants and have underlying disease with no
      evidence of liver involvement may also be enrolled. Study visits will involve review of
      clinical information, family history, and any clinically indicated treatments and their
      outcomes; a physical exam; laboratory tests; and radiologic and imaging evaluations. In
      addition to these standard of care evaluations, participants will undergo several special
      research evaluations, including quality of life questionnaires, neurodevelopmental
      evaluations, hearing exams, liver histology studies, and collection of serum, plasma, urine,
      and blood for DNA. Serum, plasma, and blood for DNA will also be collected from both
      biological parents and from affected siblings of participants with a-A1T or ALGS. Genetic
      testing will be performed using the collected specimens.
    
  