
    
      Background:

      Increasing evidence indicates that activation of stem cell gene expression is a common
      mechanism by which environmental carcinogens mediate initiation and progression of thoracic
      malignancies. Similar mechanisms appear to contribute to extra-thoracic malignancies that
      metastasize to the chest. Utilization of pharmacologic agents, which target gene regulatory
      networks mediating stemness may be novel strategies for treatment of these neoplasms. Recent
      studies performed in the Thoracic Epigenetics Laboratory, Thoracic and Oncology Surgery
      Branch (TOSB)/National Cancer Institute (NCI), demonstrate that under exposure conditions
      potentially achievable in clinical settings, mithramycin diminishes stem cell gene expression
      and markedly inhibits growth of lung and esophageal cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma
      (MPM) cells in vitro and in vivo. These finding add to other recent preclinical studies
      demonstrating impressive anti-tumor activity of mithramycin in epithelial malignancies and
      sarcomas that frequently metastasize to the thorax.

      Primary Objective:

      -To assess clinical response rates of mithramycin administered as 6 hour intravenous
      infusions in patients with malignancies involving lungs, esophagus, pleura, or mediastinum.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with measurable inoperable, histologically confirmed primary lung and
           esophageal carcinomas, thymic neoplasms, germ cell tumors, malignant pleural
           mesotheliomas or chest wall sarcomas, as well as patients with gastric, colorectal or
           renal cancers and sarcomas metastatic to the thorax are eligible.

        -  Patients with germline single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in adenosine
           5-triphosphate binding cassette subfamily B member 4 (ABCB4), adenosine 5-triphosphate
           binding cassette subfamily B member 11 (ABCB11), retinal-binding protein (RALBP) or
           cytochrome P851 (CYP851) that are associated with resistance to mithramycin-induced
           hepatotoxicity.

        -  Patients must have had or refused first-line standard therapy for their malignancies.

        -  Patients must be 18 years or older with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)
           performance status of 0-2, without evidence of unstable or decompensated myocardial
           disease. Patients must have adequate pulmonary reserve evidenced by forced expiratory
           volume 1 (FEV1) and diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) equal to or greater
           than 30% predicted; oxygen saturation greater than or equal to 92% on room air. Arterial
           Blood Gas (ABG) will be drawn if clinically indicated.

        -  Patients must have a platelet count greater than 100,000, an absolute neutrophil count
           (ANC) equal to or greater than 1500 without transfusion or cytokine support, a normal
           prothrombin time (PT)/partial thromboplastin time (PTT), and adequate hepatic function
           as evidenced by a total bilirubin of <1.5 times upper limits of normal (ULN) and
           aspartate aminotransferase (AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) less than or equal to 3
           x ULN. Serum creatinine less than 3 or equal to 1.6 mg/ml, or creatinine clearance
           greater than 70 ml/min/1.73m^2.

      Design:

        -  Simon Optimal Two Stage Design for Phase II Clinical Trials targeting an objective
           response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)) of 30%.

        -  Patients will be stratified based on location of primary disease (thoracic vs.
           extra-thoracic).

        -  Patients will receive 6 hour infusions of mithramycin at 30 -50 mcg/kg every day for 7
           days, every 21 days (1 cycle). Three cycles will constitute one course of therapy. Those
           patients tolerating 30 mcg/kg infusions during the first cycle will receive subsequent
           cycles of mithramycin at a dose of 50 mcg/kg using the same infusion schedule.

        -  Following each course of therapy, patients will undergo restaging studies. Patients
           exhibiting objective response to therapy or stable disease by RECIST criteria will be
           offered an additional course of therapy.

        -  Patients exhibiting disease progression will be removed from study.

        -  Biopsies of index lesions will be obtained at baseline and on day 8 of the second cycle
           of therapy for analysis of molecular end-points.

        -  Pharmacokinetics will be assessed during cycle 1 and cycle 2 of the first course of
           therapy.
    
  