
    
      Hypothesis:

      The researchers hypothesized that asphyxiated neonates undergoing therapeutic hypothermia
      develop relative adrenal insufficiency that contributes to "late onset" (>24 hours after
      birth) hypotension resistant to optimized pharmacological support.

      Thus, the investigators are planning to measure initial serum cortisol levels and investigate
      the cardiovascular effects of low dose hydrocortisone supplementation.

      Specific aims:

        1. To study initial serum cortisol levels in asphyxiated newborns undergoing therapeutic
           hypothermia with late onset hypotension.

        2. To demonstrate that in asphyxiated newborns undergoing therapeutic hypothermia and
           presenting with systemic hypotension resistant to optimized pharmacological support, low
           dose hydrocortisone supplementation restores normal blood pressure when compared to
           placebo.

      Methodology:

        -  Prospective, randomized, double-blind, single center, cohort study

        -  1st Department of Paediatrics, NICU, Semmelweis University, Hungary

        -  Starting date: 02/14/2016

        -  Patient number: 16 vs 16 (hydrocortisone vs placebo - based on previous observational
           study results)

        -  Intervention (hydrocortisone vs placebo) applied only during therapeutic hypothermia
           (max. 72 hours)

        -  Neurodevelopmental follow-up visit: Bayley II/III scale to evaluate the effect of
           hydrocortisone treatment on the neurological development at the age between 18 and 22
           months.

      Drugs for hypotension, the hydrocortisone protocol:

        1. Fluid replacement (volume bolus: 10-20 ml/kg isotonic saline, over 15 minutes, according
           to the clinician's decision)

        2. In case of persisting hypotension: serum sample is collected for cortisol measurement.

        3. Randomization, irrespective of actual cortisol level. As the study is blinded,
           enrollment in the clinical trial will/shall not influence the clinical decision making
           about further interventions. A dedicated study assistant will be available to prepare
           the drug / placebo for the newborns.

             -  Inotropic therapy (dopamine, following the standard titration protocol)

             -  AND (at start of dopamine) hydrocortisone: 4 * 0,5 mg/kg /24 hours (in every 6
                hours) or placebo administration (the corresponding amount of isotonic saline)

        4. After randomization, intervention is continued until the end of hypothermia treatment
           (max. 72 hours), with the same dose. Inotropic therapy will be titrated as needed.
    
  