
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the concentration of IL13-PE38QQR that produces histologic evidence of toxicity
      to tumor, and the corresponding drug toxicity, following a 2-day continuous infusion into
      recurrent malignant glioma prior to surgical resection.

      II. Determine the toxicity of IL13-PE38QQR administered as a 4-day continuous infusion via
      catheters into brain adjacent to tumor resection site, after surgical resection, at
      concentrations up to the selected concentration.

      III. Determine the toxicity of increasing duration of continuous infusion of IL13- PE38QQR
      via catheters into brain adjacent to tumor resection site, after surgical resection, at the
      selected concentration.

      IV. Determine the feasibility and safety of IL13-PE38QQR administration following
      post-operative placement of stereotaxic catheters 2 days after tumor resection, utilizing a
      post-operative imaging study for planning of catheter placement. A 4-day continuous infusion
      at the MTD is planned.

      V. Describe the time to progression and survival of patients treated with IL13-PE38QQR.

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This study is designed to determine two dose levels. The first is defined
      as the histologically effective concentration (HEC) when the agent is administered prior to
      tumor resection. The second is defined using safety and tolerability of study drug
      administered after tumor resection at doses up to the HEC. Safety and tolerability of
      increasing duration of infusion after tumor resection will then be assessed.

      Patient cohorts will be treated at escalating pre-resection dose-levels until a stopping
      criterion for the pre-surgery dose is met, holding the post-resection dose constant at the
      starting level. Stopping criteria for dose escalation of the pre-surgery infusion are
      determination of the HEC or the maximum tolerated dose (MTD).

      Subsequent cohorts will be treated only post-operatively at escalating dose levels until a
      stopping criterion for the post-surgery dose is met. Stopping criteria for dose escalation of
      the post-surgery infusion are reaching the HEC determined for the pre-operative infusion or
      determination of the MTD. After the HEC is reached, subsequent cohorts will be treated with
      post-operative infusions of increasing duration at the HEC until the maximum duration defined
      in the study is reached or an MTD is defined. (If an MTD has already detected, duration will
      not be escalated.)

      After the stage of the study evaluating escalation of infusion duration has completed, the
      study will expand to evaluate post-operative placement of catheters after tumor resection.
      This stage of the study will assess the feasibility and safety of stereotaxic placement of
      catheters 2 days after tumor resection using a post-operative imaging study for planning.
      Patients will receive a 96 hour post-resection infusion at the MTD.

      Cohorts of at least three patients will be entered at each dose level. Each cohort will be
      observed for at least thirty days after completion of administration of study drug to allow
      for observation of toxicity before the next cohort is enrolled.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Depends on number of dose-levels, estimated at 25-50 patients.
    
  