
    
      BACKGROUND Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) generally shows an excellent prognosis with a
      5-year survival of over 95%. Even when PTC metastasizes to the regional lymph nodes, a
      frequent occurrence, it generally has an excellent prognosis. However, there are some
      patients who present with an aggressive background or with specific clinicopathological
      features who exhibit aggressive developmental behavior. Several clinicopathological features,
      namely pathology subtype, age, distant and lymph node metastasis, extrathyroid extension, and
      completeness of resection can be used to predict prognosis and have been adopted in staging
      systems such as the AMES, MACIS, and AJCC TNM classifications.

      The genetic background is a powerful prognostic determinant only when applied to some gene
      mutations such as TERT promoter and p53 mutations. The prognostic value of BRAFV600E, the
      most frequent oncogene in PTC, is weak. It correlates with greater extension, lymph node
      metastasis, and advanced stage (III/IV). Its correlation with outcome in PTC has been the
      object of many not always concordant studies. A large multicenter study was necessary to
      unequivocally demonstrate the association between BRAFV600E and cancer recurrence and
      mortality. The risk of PTC harboring BRAFV600E remains weak (recurrence hazard ratio 2.66)
      and the search of this mutation is not recommended in clinical management of low-risk
      patients with thyroid cancer.

      Different research groups provided evidence on the heterogeneity of PTC that consist of a
      mixture of tumor cells with wild-type and BRAFV600E (5, 6). The importance of the percentage
      of BRAFV600E positive cells within the tumor was demonstrated in 168 PTC. The analysis of
      BRAFV600E/BRAFwild-type ratio was performed by pyrosequencing and higher ratio positively
      correlated with patient age, tumor volume, lymph node metastasis and with worst disease
      outcome. Patients with tumors with BRAFV600E/BRAFwild-type ratio ≥ 30% displayed an odds risk
      of tumor recurrence of 5.1, whereas it was only 1.75 in BRAFV600E positive tumors if the
      allele ratio was not considered. The qualitative analysis BRAFV600E positive versus negative
      PTC can explain the discordant correlations with clinicopathological features and outcome in
      different cohorts of patients with different ratio of BRAFV600E alleles, and ultimately the
      qualitative analysis BRAF mutational status can reduce the strength of its clinical
      significance and utility.

      While the existence of intratumor heterogeneity in PTC is supported by many evidences, its
      extension, biological signiﬁcance and clinical utility is questioned and must be further
      investigated.

      Digital-droplet PCR (ddPCR) is an analytical method recently developed, suitable for absolute
      quantification of target DNA in a DNA mixture. It is the most accurate method to determine
      the BRAFV600E/BRAFwild-type allele ratio.

      AIM OF THE RESEARCH

        1. Determine how frequent are subclonal-BRAFV600E PTC and to determine the mean and median
           BRAFV600E/BRAFwild-type allele ratio in heterogeneous tumors;

        2. Determine the relationship between the percentage of BRAFV600E alleles and
           clinicopathological features;

        3. Determine the relationship between the percentage of BRAFV600E alleles and outcome in
           PTC patients (primary endpoint)

      STUDY DESIGN

        -  A large series of PTC formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues with a clinical
           follow up > 3 years will be analyzed by ddPCR to determine the percentage of BRAFV600E
           alleles.

        -  The purity of PTC samples and the ratio neoplastic cell/contaminating cells will be
           assessed by the a) analysis by rt-PCR of expression of a panel of RNA specific for
           lymphoreticular cells and stromal cells; b) microscopic review of adjoining tissue
           sections.

        -  Statistical analysis will be performed to search correlations between percentage of
           BRAFV600E alleles and a) pathology features, TNM, staging; b) recurrence and survival
    
  