
    
      The SHIP cohort study was launched in 2006 for the purpose of improving healthy life
      expectancy in patients with any cardiovascular diseases (CVD) who were admitted to the
      Sakakibara Heart Institute. The study used a continuous surveillance system to track all
      subsequent incidents of CVD and/or non-CVD including cancers, via direct contact in the
      outpatient department, hospital records, and a mailed questionnaire at least once a year.
      Organ sites of cancers were also identified whenever possible. The study sorted any diagnoses
      of CVD into nine categories, namely coronary artery diseases, aortic diseases, peripheral
      artery diseases, myocardial diseases, unclassified or any-cause heart failure, valvular heart
      diseases, arrhythmias, congenital CVD, and others. For example, if a patient had a couple of
      diseases, he or she had a plural category. Cerebrovascular diseases were included in the
      category of 'others' because of the mixed cause for the diseases such as embolic strokes,
      lacunar infarction, cardio-embolic strokes, and hemorrhagic strokes, etc. Atherosclerotic CVD
      were defined by the presence of one or more of the following three diseases: coronary artery
      diseases, aortic diseases and peripheral artery diseases. With regard to the detail of
      coronary artery diseases, there were acute coronary syndromes, previous myocardial infarction
      and stable ischemic heart diseases. Aortic diseases consisted of acute aortic syndromes and
      aortic aneurysms. Non-atherosclerotic CVD were defined as any CVD except atherosclerotic and
      congenital CVD. The SHIP cohort study also handled to define lifestyle related diseases when
      confirmed a diagnosis of one or more of the presence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes
      mellitus and chronic kidney disease in accordance with the universal criteria. A history of
      tobacco smoking was also identified. Among a total of 36,151 patients with any CVD enrolled
      in the SHIP cohort study between June 2006 and July 2014, we excluded 245 patients who had
      already been diagnosed with any cancers at the time of enrollment in the SHIP cohort study,
      and 3,811 patients with congenital CVD including Marfan syndrome. Thus, we analyzed a total
      of 32,095 consecutive patients with acquired CVD in the present study.Our study was conducted
      in two steps to assess an incidence of cancers in patients with acquired CVD. The first step
      consisted of a comparison between those with atherosclerotic CVD and non-atherosclerotic CVD
      with regard to an incidence of cancers. The second step determined the association between a
      singular presence versus a plural presence of atherosclerotic CVD and an incidence of
      cancers.
    
  