
    
      Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, and cervical adenitis (PFAPA) was first
      described in 1987 in a study of 12 pediatric patients. PFAPA is predominately considered a
      pediatric illness with onset typically occurring under the age of 5. This syndrome is
      characterized by periodic febrile episodes (39°C - 42°C) lasting an average of 4 days with
      recurrence approximately every 21-30 days. Patients classically exhibit at least one of three
      major associated symptoms; aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, or cervical adenitis. Between
      periods of fever, patients are asymptomatic and do not experience long-term deleterious
      effects on growth or development. Currently, the etiology of this syndrome is unknown but
      does not appear to be heritable or target specific populations.

      Due to a lack of applicable diagnostic tests, the identification of PFAPA is predominantly
      dependent on patient history and physical examination. This methodology relies heavily upon
      clinical presentation of the patient's illness to rule out other causes of periodic fever. As
      a result of the unknown cause of PFAPA, there are several proposed treatment approaches
      available. Corticosteroids are the current standard of care; typically a single dose of
      prednisolone (1 mg/kg), given upon first signs of fever with a subsequent dose during the
      febrile period if necessary. Several studies have shown that administration of prednisolone
      was sufficient to abort the febrile episode. However, this treatment method typically results
      in a decrease in the healthy interval between fever reoccurrence. The reduction in fever
      allows for children to attend school and participate in other activates, but the increased
      frequency provides additional complications for children and parents.

      Oral cimetidine, a histamine H-2 receptor agonist that results in reduced production of
      stomach acid, has also been used as possible treatment. This treatment has shown to inhibit
      febrile episodes, it was only effective in <30% of patients.

      If medication therapy fails to resolve recurrent febrile episodes, the option of
      tonsillectomy presents a possible alternative. PFAPA syndrome was shown to resolve in the
      majority of patients, however this not preferred as a first line treatment due to the risks
      associated with surgery and general anesthesia.

      Recently published literature suggests a potential new treatment for PFAPA targeting
      chemokines and proinflammatory cytokines. A possible method for the inhibition of cyclic
      inflammatory responses in PFAPA would be the exposure of patients to a safe level of
      continuous low-grade inflammation, resulting from an immune response. In previous studies
      investigating allergy and eczema relief in pediatric populations, it was shown that
      administration of probiotics induced elevated levels of inflammatory markers. These low level
      inflammatory responses resulted in no adverse effects and provided an immunologic activation
      benefit. Use of probiotics provides a previously unstudied approach to the treatment of
      PFAPA. Dr. Nicholas Bennett has also observed anecdotal evidence that patients who
      self-administered probiotics experienced relief of their PFAPA symptoms.

      This is a randomized, prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with the
      randomization being done by the research pharmacist using an equal randomization process, no
      stratification of patients. Dr. Bennett and other patient recruiters will remain blinded to
      the participant group assignment. The standard of care consists of corticosteroid dosing of 1
      mg/kg of body weight given once at the onset of the febrile period, repeated once within 24
      hours if necessary, but no more than two doses per cycle. The second dose of corticosteroid
      is only to be given within one day following the initial dosage if the fever persists. The
      investigational product will be administered daily for the duration of the study. For the
      investigational product patients will be instructed to take daily one sachet of the study
      product mixed into a 60 ml of water that is not hot. On days 90±7, 180±7 and 270±7 patients
      will come to the study site for re-supply of the probiotic and for evaluation of compliance.
      Throughout the 1-year followup period, parents will be asked to keep a journal to track
      corticosteroid usage, probiotic usage, additional medication usage, fever intensity, and
      associated symptoms. Standardized thermometers will be provided to ensure consistency. These
      journals will be collected and patient progress will be monitored at the standard care visits
      every three months. In addition, follow-up phone calls will be made monthly to assess
      progress and to address any concerns.
    
  