
    
      This is a prospective, randomized，controlled trail. It compared Single Incisional
      Laparoscopic Total Extraperitonea(SIL-TEP) with traditional Laparoscopic Total
      Extraperitoneal(TEP) Inguinal Hernia Repair in condition of day surgery.

      Laparoscopic hernia repair technique including two tyes, TEP and TAPP, which were recognized
      as mordern minimally invasive technique. Laparoscopic hernia repair were recommended by the
      Association of Surgeons of Great Britain and Ireland (ASGBI) and European Hernia Society
      Guideline (EHS) as the first choice for primary inguinal hernia. Compared with TAPP, TEP was
      performed much more frequently for its advantages of avoiding abdominal visceral injury.

      Traditional TEP hernia repair involves 3-port insertions: one incision of 2cm in
      para-umbilical region for the camera and two smaller incisions of 5mm each in the midline for
      the surgical instruments. Some surgeons think the second and third ports could led to bowel
      and bladder injury. Early literatures showed that bowel injuries and bladder injuries were
      observed in TAPP or TEP hernia repair.

      Since 2009, Cugura JF and Filipovic-Cugura J led their teams for a preliminary exploration of
      SIL-TEP. Later, several cases were reported about this surgical technique globally. Since
      then, a number of retrospective studies about the comparation of SIL-TEP and traditional TEP
      were carried. Yang GP et al found that SIL-TEP had a longer operation time than traditional
      TEP, but in terms of postoperative complications and incision aesthetics. Tu Wenbin et al
      thought that SIL-TEP was effective and also had advantages in postoperative pain,
      postoperative complications and time in hospital. Several other reports also had similiar
      opnions.

      However, randomized controlled trial related to this suject is quite limited. Our study aim
      to compare the efficacy and safety of SIL-TEP and traditional TEP surgery with a RCT design
      and also aim to improve the surgical-related technical details and the device design. Our
      study also evaluate the operability of SIL-TEP in term of a day surgery item and try to
      provide the basis for SIL-TEP day surgery guildline, so as to promote the SIL-TEP technology
      in our country.
    
  