
    
      Osteonecrosis (ON) of the hip is an important cause of musculoskeletal disability and finding
      therapeutic solutions has proven challenging. Patients who are affected with ON are often
      relatively young, usually in the third to sixth decade of life. ON of the hip is an
      increasingly common cause of musculoskeletal disability. It can cause pain with or without
      loss of function of the joint and often ends in substantial use of health care resources and
      disability. ON of the hip usually progresses to severe destruction of the femoral head with
      resultant degeneration of the hip joint, in most cases requiring joint replacement.

      Early diagnosis has been made easier using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), however no
      common satisfactory therapy has been developed for the early stage of the disease. Early
      surgery aimed at preserving the femoral head has been proposed, such as vascularised fibula
      grafting. However, the results of this invasive technique do not seem to be widely
      reproducible, and more minor interventions such as core drilling have high failure rates.
      Evidence is increasing that the nitrogen containing bisphosphonates may be beneficial in the
      treatment of ON. Data from clinical trials with patients with ON of the hip suggested that
      the bisphosphonate alendronate would reduce pain and disability and may reduce progression to
      femoral head collapse that usually would require surgical intervention.

      With this study we aim to determine the efficacy of bisphosphonate therapy (zoledronic acid)
      versus placebo for reducing pain and disability in ON of the femoral head necrosis
      (palliative endpoint) and to investigate the effect of bisphosphonate therapy versus placebo
      in reducing progression to femoral head collapse and the need for surgical intervention
      (therapeutic endpoint).

      Methods This will be a 2-armed double-blind randomised trial of a) zoledronic acid 5mg
      annually for 3 doses b) placebo drug infusions. Participants will be recruited primarily from
      rheumatologists and orthopaedic surgeons from multiple centres in Australia. We plan to
      include 4 major centres in capital cities in Australia and each centre would recruit
      approximately 30 participants. Potential participants who meet the eligibility criteria will
      be identified by their treating Rheumatologists or Orthopaedic surgeons, followed by a
      screening assessment conducted by the study research staff. Eligible participants will be
      randomised prior to the start of treatment. Prior to treatment, the study research staff will
      perform a baseline assessment over the phone, including demographic details, age, sex,
      duration of symptoms, medical history including prior surgery, trauma and medication use and
      known risk factors for ON. Furthermore at baseline, the Rheumatologists or Orthopaedic
      surgeon will perform a clinical evaluation using a slightly modified Harris Hip Score (HHS).
      The study research staff will contact the participants every 6 months to monitor the
      participant's condition and evaluate pain and disability. Additionally the participants will
      have a clinical evaluation and MRI scan at 12 months.

      This novel clinical research protocol will aim to provide further evidence of the protective
      value of alendronate or zoledronic acid in patients with ON of the hip. It will determine
      whether bisphosphonates slow the progression of symptoms as well as the progression to total
      collapse of the hip. Additionally it will seek to answer questions regarding the comparative
      effectiveness and also cost-effectiveness of the use of bisphosphonates in early disease. The
      results of this study can lead to change in treatment of early disease ON and delay and
      possibly prevent surgical intervention.
    
  