
    
      What is smartphones addiction? The concept of smartphones addiction is not proposed yet for
      inclusion in the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
      (DSM-5) as non-substance-related disorder but it can be considered one type of technological
      addictions which were operationally defined by Griffiths as non-chemical (behavioral)
      addictions which involve human-machine interaction and usually contain inducing and
      reinforcing features which may contribute to the promotion of addictive tendencies.

      Furthermore, Recent work by Lin, et al identified the criteria for diagnosis smartphones
      addiction as following:

      A. Behavioral criteria (3 or more should be present):

        1. Preoccupation with smartphone use, and hence keeping smartphone available all day

        2. Recurrent failure to resist the impulse to use the smartphone

        3. Tolerance: a markedly increase in the duration of smartphone use is needed to achieve
           satisfaction

        4. Withdrawal: as manifested by a dysphoric mood, anxiety and/or irritability after a
           period without smartphone use

        5. Smartphone use for a period longer than intended

        6. Persistent desire and/or unsuccessful attempts to cut down or reduce smartphone use

        7. Excessive smartphone use and/or time spent on leaving the use

        8. Continued excessive smartphone use despite knowledge of having a persistent or recurrent
           physical or psychological problems caused by smartphone use

      B. Functional impairment criteria (2 or more criteria should be present):

        1. Excessive use resulting in persistent or recurrent physical or psychological problems

        2. Use in a physically hazardous situations (such as while driving or crossing the street)
           or situations that have other negative impacts on daily life

        3. Use that impairs social relationships or performance at school or work

        4. Use that is very time-consuming or causes significant distress C. Exclusion criteria
           Addictive behavior is not associated with obsessive-compulsive disorder or bipolar
           disorder

      Factors associated with smartphones addiction:

        -  There are many psychological factors related to smartphones addiction such as anxiety,
           stress, poor social and family relationship, depression, loneliness, shyness, degree of
           self-esteem and satisfaction with life.

        -  Studies have also shown the adverse effects of smartphones addiction on quality of
           sleep, physical activity and academic performance.

        -  Smartphones addiction also have harmful physical consequences like headache, blurred
           vision, neck and shoulder pain and impairment of hand function.

      Size of problem:

      Prevalence of smartphones addiction in young people varies among countries as shown by
      studies: 29.6% in Saudi Arabia, 44.6% in Lebanon,16.9% in Switzerland, 21.3% in China and
      31.33% in India.

      -there is no available data about the size of this of this problem in Egypt so investigators
      need to conduct this study to determine the prevalence of smartphones addiction among young
      people and it adverse effect on different aspects.
    
  