
    
      Study Design: This is a randomized controlled study with a parallel design. Healthy,
      sedentary females aged between 18-45 years old will be recruited by means of an advertisement
      leaflet and word of mouth. Eligible participants will be enrolled in the study and will be
      randomly allocated to either exercise intervention (EX) or control (C) groups. The EX group
      will participate in a 4-week exercise intervention and the C group will be asked to continue
      with habitual life style for 4 weeks. Before and after 4 weeks of the intervention,
      participants from both groups will be asked to conduct a submaximal exercise test and a
      7-hour experimental trial during which blood samples will be collected and metabolic rate
      will measured before and after consumption of standardized breakfast and lunch. Prior to the
      first 7-hour trial, participants will be asked to record diet for 3 days and replicate this
      diet prior to the second 7-hour trial. During these 3 days participants will provide fresh
      stool samples. Participants allocated to control group will have the option to participate in
      exercise intervention. A subset of the participants will repeat a 7-hour experimental trial
      and provide fresh stool and urine sample after 7 days of detraining.

      Methods:

      Preliminary Health Check: Participants will undertake a health screening questionnaire on the
      day of recruitment. Participants will also need to fill in Physical Activity Readiness
      Questionnaire (PARQ). Only participants who answered "no" to all questions in PARQ will
      conduct the submaximal exercise test.

      Anthropometry: All participants will have height, weight and waist circumference measured at
      baseline and 4 weeks after the intervention.

      7-hour Experimental Trial: Participants will attend the metabolic suite (New Lister Building,
      Glasgow Royal infirmary) in a fasted state at approximately 9.00 am. Participants will be
      instructed to lie supine on the couch, with the head resting on the pillow provided. Resting
      metabolic rate will be measured for 20 minutes and fasting blood sample will be obtained. A
      breakfast meal will be consumed immediately after the fasting sample and a lunch meal after 4
      hours. Blood samples will be taken throughout a cannula hourly after breakfast and lunch
      consumption. Following each blood sample, metabolic rate will be measured for the duration of
      20 minutes. Prior each blood sample, participants will fill in appetite questionnaires. Blood
      samples will be analysed for plasma lipids, glucose, insulin, inflammatory markers and gut
      appetite hormones using standard existing procedures.

      Feacal sample collection & analysis: A disposable stool sample collection kit will be
      provided prior to the 7-hour trial day. Once collected, the container is sealed and placed in
      a larger sealable bag with a reducing sachet to remove oxygen and maintain anaerobic
      bacteria. Stool samples will be measured for changes in gut microbiota based on 16S rRNA
      amplicon sequencing, bacterial functional capacity and targeted bacterial metabolites (short
      chain fatty acids, sulphide, ammonia).

      Exercise Training Programme: Exercise training will consist of 4 weekly sessions of endurance
      type exercise (cycling and running) lasting for 30, 40, 50, 60 minutes in the week 1, 2, 3
      and 4 respectively. The time and day of each training trial will be agreed between the
      investigator and the participant and will be based around the participant's availability. All
      exercise sessions will be supervised by a researcher.

      Submaximal Exercise Test: Participants will exercise on treadmill at gradually increasing
      intensities until 85% of maximal heart rate. During the last minute of each of the
      intensities heart rate will be measured and expired air will be collected by Douglas bag
      technique and analysed for oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production. Relation between
      heart rate and rate of oxygen consumption will be used to predict maximal oxygen consumption,
      a marker of cardio-respiratory fitness.
    
  