
    
      Introduction Epiphyseal and Epiphyseal plate are all immature skeletal growth mechanism, the
      epiphyseal plate injury also known as epiphyseal injuries, fracture line through the
      epiphyseal plate can also spread to the epiphysis or metaphysis. Epiphyseal plate's
      connection is weaker than normal tendon, ligament, or joint capsule, so the children of
      epiphyseal injuries are common. Distal tibial epiphyseal injuries accounted for about 25%-
      38% of the epiphyseal injuries. Because after the injury of the distal epiphysis of the tibia
      injury often leads to growth retardation and joint deformity, the patient's physical and
      mental damage larger. Because of the complexity of the pathogenesis of this disease, and
      there are many related factors. The research of related factors of the disease is benefit to
      evaluate the prognosis, and conducive to early intervention, benefit to avoid the occurrence
      or development of severe sequelae, has positive significance in clinical practice.

      Because the disease is related to many factors, and the serious cases of this disease are
      less, the multi center cooperation is conducive to the collection of sufficient cases to
      analyze and achieve the objective and effective results, so establish the multi center topic.

      Design and overview In epiphyseal growth stage, the epiphyseal plate connects weaker than
      normal tendons, ligaments, or joint capsule, so epiphyseal plate is more vulnerable to be
      injured. Every epiphyseal complex is composed of each epiphysis and epiphyseal plate, its
      growth and blood supply are interdependent, which any damage may reinforce each other. The
      Ranvier district around the epiphysis has the ability to ossify. It is easy to form a bone
      bridge and growth arrest and angular deformity after injury. Epiphyseal fracture is belongs
      to intra-articular fractures, such as not timely reset, prone to complications. About 15% of
      children with fractures involving the epiphyseal injuries, the number of boys are more than
      girls, as the chance of injury is more, this is because men's epiphyseal plate closure time
      later than women's. X-ray manifestation of epiphyseal injuries, while more complex, but the
      epiphyseal and backbone of the corresponding position of the dislocation and epiphyseal line
      broadening is the most important, a slight shift and (or) epiphyseal line broadening is the
      most easy to be ignored, should X-ray the healthy side at the same time.

      In theory, fracture involving the epiphyseal growth plate and articular surface is easily
      occurred in two kinds of complications: first distal tibia epiphyseal premature closure
      causes valgus or varus malleolus and limb shortening; the second is the distal tibial
      articular surface damage causes the ankle joint degenerative changes and bone arthritis.
      According to Salter Harris bone epiphysis injury types were divided into five types, and in
      the distal tibial epiphysis injury I, II type are common in clinic. Therefore, the biggest
      problem is the formation of the bone bridge, early epiphyseal closure, resulting in growth
      arrest, angular deformity. From the current literature, the most important related factors
      are in injured mechanism and degree of displacement Leary JT's research shows: the initial
      fracture displacement and damage mechanism for determining development of PPC after the
      fracture of epiphysis of distal end of tibia may have a significant predictive value. Ankle
      fracture Lauge - Hansen parting is ankle fracture classification system put forward by Lauge
      - Hansen doctors in 1950 according to the damage position and violence that cause deformity,
      able to quickly assess the damage mechanism of 90% - 95% cases, and has been widely used. Its
      clinical significance lies in: 1 find fracture and classify injury and be able to make the
      diagnosis of ligament injury. 2 guide manipulative reduction. The general principle is:
      closed manipulative reduction and fracture have the opposite force mechanism.3 for the distal
      tibial epiphysis fracture, can also understand the severity of the injury and the existence
      of the risk of soft tissue embedded. Therefore, we think, it is necessary to research on the
      lauge Hansen classification and correlation of prognosis. The relationship between the
      fracture displacement and correlation of prognosis is in the extent of the shift, the vast
      majority of doctors think less than 2mm shift can be accepted, and to shift more than 2mm,
      there are different opinions. Gonc U et al think ankle joint fracture usually involving the
      tibia and fibular epiphyses in children and adolescents. Although they do not occur with
      growth arrest, but may still lead to traumatic arthritis. Therefore, for more than 2 mm of
      residual displacement there is a need for surgical treatment. And David podeszwa Da thinks is
      greater than 3mm residual displacement often means embedded with soft tissue, may increase
      early closure of epiphysis of probability. Russo F the most pessimistic, he thinks a shift of
      the S - H type Ⅱ tibial distal epiphyseal fracture is a challenging problem. Rate of
      epiphyseal early closure is very high (> 43%). Even if incision and anatomical repositioning,
      removal of embedded organization, also cannot reduce the incidence of PPC, and may increase
      the risk of subsequent surgery.

      Considered in the design, what JOHN A.O GDEN points out "epiphyseal separation should be
      reset as soon as possible, each delay 1 d will increase the difficulty as it repair soon. For
      type II epiphyseal injuries after more than 10 d, if you don't use excessive force can not
      make manual reduction success, however it could damage the cartilage epiphyseal plate and
      damage the early osteotylus, therefore, for type II epiphyseal injuries that see a doctor
      later (after (7-10 d) ,had better let it be malunion, and cannot use powerful technique or
      surgical repositioning, lest cause obvious epiphyseal growth stopped, heals the residual
      deformities can then use the appropriate correction osteotomy". This view is widely agreed.
      In the inclusion criteria we chose cases that injury within 7 days. In addition, the Risser
      ilium epiphyseal ossification sign is a commonly used method for determination of the bone
      age, JiShiJun's pediatric bone science thinks " ossification of the crista iliaca is usually
      in conformity with the stop of limbs' longitudinal growth", this is the important index for
      determining growth potential in include and exclude criteria in this topic, so there is
      reason to believe that when a Risser sign V degrees distal tibial epiphyseal growth stopped,
      fixed limb length and Angle.

      Grouping Divide the patients into groups according to the residual displacement of the
      fracture after the first manual reduction.

      Group A: the residual displacement is less than or equal to 2mm, select closed reduction and
      external fixation (such as splint, plaster or traction, frame of external fixation, etc.)
      Group B: the residual shift is between 2-4mm, manual reset once again, as still between
      2-4mm, the cooperation of each unit to choose closed reduction.

      Group C: the residual shift is between 2-4mm, manual reset once again, as still between
      2-4mm, the cooperation of each unit to choose closed reduction.

      Group D: residual displacement is greater than 4mm, open reduction and internal fixation.

      Evaluation criteria According to OVADIA et al' evaluation criteria: excellent, Joint function
      restore basic consistent with that of the healthy side, without any symptoms, or joint
      flexion range is more than 75% of the healthy side, mild sore and swollen after walking,
      restore normal work; Good, joint flexion range is 50% - 70% of the healthy side, joint is
      mild soreness, markedly swollen after walking, unable to attend the heavy physical work; Can,
      joint flexion range is 25% - 50% of the healthy side, joint is obvious swelling and pain,
      difficulty walking, and accept joint arthrodesis at the end; Poor, joint range is less than
      25% of the healthy side, joint is markedly swollen, pain, stiffness, unable to walk, and
      accept joint arthrodesis at the end.

      Data collection To hospital after conventional laboratory tests, X-ray the anteroposterior
      and lateral film of the affected side, the contralateral tibiofibula (including ankle) and
      posteroanterior radiograph of pelvis, scan the affected ankle with CT (fracture displacement
      measurement, tibial epiphyseal radius vector and the transverse diameter and cross section).
      Select cases according to the inclusion criteria, exclusion criteria Divide the patients into
      groups according to the X-ray films of the affected side, the degree of displacement after
      measuring residual displacement after the first manual reduction.

      Treated according to the grouping, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 1-5 years after surgery
      follow-up.Between 3 to 12 months, each time X-ray films were taken on both ankles, observe
      whether there are the early closure of epiphysis; 1 to 5 years, each time we measure whether
      the tibia shortening or angle, OVADIA efficacy assessment and ankle function evaluation
      (using the table of "AOFAS Ankle-Hindfoot Scale "), until 5 years long and the distal tibial
      epiphyseal closure of the other side.

      Organization and implementation The projects will be written by Foshan Hospital of TCM
      pediatric orthopaedic and submitted to the south pediatric orthopaedic multicenter study
      group. The project design will be discussed, modified by the hospital experts. The projects
      will be submitted for approval by the hospital medical ethics committee. Then the various
      units sign a cooperation agreement after the experts determine and clear scientific, the
      feasibility of this topic, and the study will be registered on the United States NIH
      ClinicalTrials.gov website and updated according to the situation.

      In the process of implementation, the southern pediatric orthopaedic multicenter study group
      will communicate and consult with each other to timely solve the problems and difficulties
      appeared in the research through the email, WeChat and phone, even on a business trip and
      other means of collaboration, besides the plenary meeting each quarter, to ensure the
      implementation of this project.

      Data collection and management Statistic analysis Foshan Hospital of TCM pediatric
      orthopaedic formulated the tibial distal epiphyseal fracture tracking table and send it every
      cooperative unit to record whether there is patients epiphyseal closed early, and if there
      is, record the shortening length of the affected limb and angle of angulation deformity, and
      record the ankle limb function (valgus, varus and back stretch, plantar flexion), assess the
      pain index and rank according to the evaluation criteria of OVADIA etc. During the
      implementation of the project, the data should be filled in the table timely, accurately and
      objectively by cooperative unit, to keep a record of each item shall be seriously not
      omissions, and regular follow-up. At the same time, set up the monitor, regularly or randomly
      go to the test center to check and ensure that the original data is real and effective.
      Accounting personnel chose by Foshan Hospital of TCM to do the double entry, ensure the data
      entry is correct. If in doubt, the monitor will investigate then return the data. Use the
      SPSS16.0 to input the data, and describe normal measurement data with mean + / - standard
      deviation, average between the group by t test, counting data, with chi-square, finally with
      Logistic regression model to analysis multi-factor.
    
  