
    
      The goal of this study is to understand the epidemiology of antibiotic-resistant S. aureus,
      including methicillin resistant S. aureus (MRSA), outside of the hospital environment. Our
      objective is to characterize the epidemiology of S. aureus in the rural community, focusing
      on persons who have contact with livestock. We will achieve this by carrying out two parallel
      prospective cohort studies in Iowa, examining 1) individuals enrolled in the Agricultural
      Health Study, including those who raise swine; and 2) a matched population-based group with
      no livestock exposure. We will partner with the state s microbiological diagnostic
      laboratories in order to collect isolates from the symptomatic S. aureus infections. Our
      central hypothesis is that individuals working in close proximity to livestock and poultry
      are at risk of occupational exposure to MRSA. We further hypothesize that farmers in contact
      with livestock (swine in particular) will be more likely to be colonized with
      swine-associated S. aureus strains than are individuals without contact. Finally, we expect
      to see both typical human strains of S. aureus (including USA300) as well as
      animal-associated strains (such as ST398) causing infections in Iowans. Our rationale is that
      successful completion will provide opportunities to institute an early warning system to
      evaluate emerging S. aureus strains, allowing for potential interventions prior to widespread
      dissemination in the human population. We will test our central hypothesis and accomplish the
      objective of this application by pursuing the following specific aims:

        1. Establish the prevalence, molecular subtypes, and antibiotic resistance profiles of S.
           aureus in populations of rural Iowans, and determine risk factors for colonization. We
           hypothesize that individuals in contact with swine will be more likely to carry MRSA
           than individuals lacking such exposure; that swine workers will more frequently be
           colonized with swine-associated strains such as ST398; and that S. aureus isolates
           collected from livestock farmers will more frequently demonstrate resistance to
           antibiotics including methicillin and tetracyclines than isolates collected from
           individuals lacking livestock exposure.

        2. Determine the incidence and molecular epidemiology of symptomatic S. aureus infections
           in rural Iowans. We hypothesize that symptomatic infections will be uncommon in our
           cohort relative to colonization, and that the majority of such infections will be skin
           and soft tissue infections. We further hypothesize that the majority of infections in
           our cohorts and elsewhere in the state will be caused by common strains (including
           USA300), but that some infections will also be caused by animal-associated strains,
           including ST398.
    
  