
    
      The number of patients receiving Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) is rapidly
      increasing in China. In 2013, about 450,000 Chinese patients received PCI, most of whom
      suffered from coronary heart disease (CHD), especially acute coronary syndrome (ACS). ACS is
      associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality and recurrent cardiac events,
      underscoring the importance of identifying treatments that minimize this risk.The Myocardial
      Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering (MIRACL) trial suggested a benefit of
      lipid lowering with high-dose atorvastatin in patients with ACS. A meta-analysis of statin
      use in patients with ACS confirmed the benefits of early high-dose statin administration in
      decreasing recurrent myocardial ischemia, which suggested the clinical benefit and safety of
      statins were dose and statin dependent. The updated National Cholesterol Education Program
      Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines recommend that intensive therapy should be considered
      for all patients admitted to hospital for an ACS. Two meta-analyses have shown that early
      intensive statin therapy in patients with ACS is associated with a reduced rate of death and
      cardiovascular events. In the PROVE IT study, comparing atorvastatin 80 mg with pravastatin
      40 mg, a significant reduction in major adverse clinical events was observed in favour of
      more intensive statin treatment. In that study, the median concentration of low-density LDL-C
      was lowered from 106 mg/dL to 62 mg/dL in the atorvastatin 80 mg group. More recently, the
      2011 European Society of Cardiology (ESC)/ European Arterial Sclerosis Association (EAS)
      guideline for the management of dyslipidemia recommended patients with ACS are very high CV
      risk patients and should achieve LDL-C level <70 mg/dl or 50% reduction. In 2011 American
      College of Cardiology Foundation (ACCF) / American Heart Association (AHA) / (cardiovascular
      angiography and intervention Association)/ Association of Cardiovascular angiography and
      intervention (SCAI) Guideline for PCI, statin therapy which lowers LDL to <70mg/dL in very
      high-risk patients is recommended (IIa, B). The latest China ACS consensus also recommends
      using the highest dose statin treatment for the acute phase and to attain an LDL-C level of
      1.8 mmol/L or 50% reduction compared with baseline in long-term treatment. However, there are
      very limited Chinese data demonstrating the current situation of lipid management (LDL-C
      on-goal rate) by different statins in real-world clinical practice.

      Most PCI patients are at very high CV risk, and as such here is an increased need for
      intensive lipid management in PCI patients and the population is well suited to demonstrating
      rosuvastatin's LDL-C lowering efficacy.Most PCI patients are at very high CV risk, and as
      such here is an increased need for intensive lipid management in PCI patients and the
      population is well suited to demonstrating rosuvastatin's LDL-C lowering efficacy.The purpose
      of this study is to observe the effectiveness of statins on lipid level reduction (LDL-C,
      HDL-C, TG, and non-HDL-C) and lipid goal attainment according to recent guidelines.
    
  