
    
      Background and Purpose: Incidence rates of esophageal cancer vary internationally with the
      higher rate found in Eastern Asia. Preoperative concurrent chemoradiation therapy (CCRT) for
      resectable esophageal cancer has been shown to improve overall survival in meta-analyses.
      Preoperative pulmonary function and functional capacity are known predictive factors for the
      development of postoperative pulmonary complications in patient undergoing major cancer
      surgery. Little is known concerning the impacts of preoperative CCRT on pulmonary function
      and functional capacity in patients with esophageal cancer. The aim of this study is to
      examine changes of respiratory performance and functional exercise capacity during RT or
      CCRT, the relations between these changes, and the impacts of these changes on the
      postoperative outcomes in patients with esophageal cancer.

      Method: Patients with newly diagnosed esophageal cancer without metastasis will be recruited
      from the Far Eastern Memorial Hospital. Demographic data will be obtained from the chart.
      Respiratory muscle strength will be measured by maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressure.
      Spirometric variables will be tested by force expiratory volume in one second and forced
      vital capacity. Dyspnea will be measured using modified Borg scale. Functional exercise
      capacity will be measured by six minute walk distance. Quality of life will be measured using
      EORTC QOL-C30 and QOL-OES18 instruments. All the measurements will be repeated weekly during
      the concurrent therapy period. Repeated measure ANOVA will be used for analyzing difference
      among various time points. Spearman correlation coefficient will be used to test relationship
      between multiple variables. For patients who are receiving esophagectomy after CCRT or RT,
      pulmonary complications and total length of hospital stay will be documented.

      Clinical relevance: The results of this study will help to better understand the indications
      for chest physiotherapy (e.g., respiratory muscle weakness, reduced functional capacity, and
      their related sequels)
    
  