
    
      The objective of this study is to determine whether CM intervention improves outcomes in the
      unstably housed population using alcohol biomarker phosphatidylethanol (PEth) and ethyl
      glucuronide (EtG) to test alcohol abstinence. In CM, participants receive tangible rewards
      for demonstrating drug abstinence while non-contingent intervention receive the rewards
      regardless of PEth and EtG results for alcohol.

      The investigators propose to examine whether CM intervention, to reduce alcohol use to
      abstinence, is a feasible and acceptable treatment in supported housing. Additionally, this
      study will assess group differences (between PEth-based CM and non-contingent control) in
      alcohol abstinence, as assessed by PEth, EtG, and self-report. Characterization of group
      differences in housing status and other alcohol associated harms (e.g., physical and mental
      health, medical care, and incarceration) will also be analyzed.

      A total of 50 participants receiving treatment as usual through Catholic Charities Spokane
      will take part in a 4-week initiation phase. Participants who attend every visit in this
      initiation period and PEth biomarker indicates a decrease in alcohol usage will be randomized
      to a) 4 months of PEth-based CM for submitting alcohol-abstinent PEth results of 16:0/18:1
      which is associated with abstinence in the past week, which is <20 ng/ml PEth biomarker in
      the blood when abstinent for 14-28 days. Urine EtG results will be analyzed to verify PEth
      result findings, b) 4 months of non-contingent control for submitting samples each week for
      the first 4 weeks then every 2 weeks for 8 weeks and then every 4 weeks until week 26.
      Control participants receive reinforcers regardless of the results of their PEth results. The
      primary outcomes will assess acceptability measured by attrition, Client Satisfaction
      Questionnaire-8 and qualitative interviews at weeks 4, 12, and 26. Other primary outcomes
      include assessment of effectiveness of PEth-based CM on reducing alcohol use to abstinence
      and housing status.

      The investigators will also be examining group differences in secondary outcomes including
      self-reported abstinence and heavy drinking assessed by the alcohol timeline follow back and
      urine EtG analyses. Other secondary outcomes include a) Addiction Severity Index Lite which
      assesses impact of alcohol us on psychiatric, legal, medical and family functioning, b)
      self-reported drug use and its severity.
    
  