
    
      The analysis of the various results will be carried out on all HUGs and on the various
      hospitals / clinics in the canton.

      A survival analysis for the outcome of death or rehospitalization will be performed, with a
      comparison according to each period.

      The outcomes will be compared between two periods: the 5-month period in 2020 (2-month
      per-COVID period + 3-month post-COVID period) and the same period in 2019.

      A description will be made in number (%) for numerical data and in median (IQR) for
      quantitative data. Univariate comparisons between the different periods will be carried out
      by statistical tests, parametric or not, adapted according to the data (Chi2 or Fisher's test
      for qualitative data, Student's test or Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon for quantitative data).
      Statistical significance will be retained in the event of p <0.05.

      Multivariate analysis will be performed by logistic regression for the main outcome and by
      cox model for survival analysis. Different variables will be included in the models,
      including data on gender, age and comorbidity, as well as any variable having a difference
      with p <0.2 in univariate analysis.

      Secondary analyzes will be carried out by pathology (as the main diagnosis) according to the
      specific results defined for each situation. In retrospective analysis, these specific data
      will be relatively limited on the HUG area of full analysis brings together around 20,000
      hospital stays. Data from more than 40,000 hospital stays will therefore be analyzed (in 2019
      and 2020).The main outcome data will be complete with no missing data. On the other hand,
      since this is retrospective data, it is possible that some important variables are missing.
      In this case, other patient data with missing data will not be included in the multivariate
      analyzes. In the event of missing data greater than 10%, a second sensitivity analysis may be
      performed after replacing the missing data with a multiple imputation method.
    
  