
    
      Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) is a widespread orthopaedic procedure for restoring
      functionality and minimizing pain due to end stage osteoarthritis. Conventional TKA,
      well-accepted as the standard of care, is performed with manual instrumentation guided by
      intramedullary or extramedullary alignment rods, as well as rotational guides that are not
      patient-specific. Despite continued improvement in manual instrumentation, postoperative
      malalignment is still reported in a significant number of patients when these manual
      instruments are used. Robotic-assisted TKA was developed specifically to improve surgical
      accuracy, and has been shown to significantly improve accuracy of alignment and joint-line
      restoration. However, these improvements came at the cost of higher complication rates and
      were not shown to translate into meaningful clinical outcomes with these first-generation
      systems. Newer-generation robotic technology offers several advantages over earlier versions
      including the potential to dynamically assess soft tissues over a range of motion and the
      ability to use haptic control in bone preparation. Modern robotic-assisted knee surgery has
      also demonstrated superior outcomes over conventional instrumentation in unicompartmental
      knee arthroplasty (UKA). This newer-generation of robotic technology, which has quickly
      become the standard-of-care for many knee surgeons who perform UKA, has recently been
      approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in TKA. Prior to
      consideration of widespread adoption of this newer technology in patients undergoing TKA,
      well-designed clinical trials are necessary to study its efficacy in this population. The
      proposed study evaluates the efficacy of robotic-assistance in patients between 40 and 85
      years old with end-stage knee osteoarthritis or degenerative joint disease undergoing TKA. It
      is designed as a prospective, randomized trial where patients are blinded to their treatment
      arm. Patients will be randomized to conventional vs. robotically-assisted techniques in the
      operating room and, other than the surgical technique, will receive the same perioperative
      care and identical implants. The investigators aim to measure utility of robotic-assisted TKA
      through a range of early and short-term clinical, functional, and radiographic outcome
      measures.
    
  