
    
      The CARD protocol offers an innovative yet simple solution to the barriers in crisis
      management that the literature has already identified. The study is part of a research
      program investigating strategies to improve crisis management. After completing several
      simulation studies on cognitive aids, crisis management debriefing, and a pilot CARD study,
      the investigators aim to explore and investigate the impact of an intervention on patient
      care.

      The concept of a self-organizing team with explicitly defined roles may enhance patient
      safety. The CARD approach to crisis management is relevant to a broad number of situations,
      disciplines, and professions. The CARD protocol is easily exportable to any critical
      situation including intra-hospital arrest, trauma, or critical care patients. The concept of
      a self-organizing team with defined roles may ultimately enhance patient safety.

      The investigators anticipate that their proposal will challenge the traditional way of
      thinking about cognitive aid, and may advance the theory in the two fields of cognitive aid
      and team work for crisis management.

      The CARD cards with their associated roles and list of tasks will be specifically designed
      for code 333. In the 'baseline' phase, a research assistant will review Birthing Unit records
      daily to determine if a code 333 had been called in the preceding 24 hours. Outcome measures
      will be collected to establish baseline team performance. In order to account for the 'team
      training effect' and identify the 'CARD effect', both groups will receive didactic and
      simulation crisis management teaching, but training at the "case site" will include CARD
      teaching while the contemporaneous "control site" will receive team training without CARD.
      After the training period at both sites, CARD will be implemented at the "case sight" for
      code 333s while the "control site" will continue without CARD. Maternal and neonatal outcomes
      as well as team performance (times to delivery) will continue to be prospectively collected
      throughout.
    
  