
    
      The overall aim of this prospective study is to assess and compare clinical outcome and
      health related quality of life after partial nephrectomy and cryoablation of renal tumors at
      stadium T1 in adult patients. The specific objectives is:

        -  To describe treatment characteristics (treatment type, knife time, type of anaesthesia)
           with i) cryoablation and ii) partial nephrectomy on patients with T1 renal tumors in the
           Regions of Southern Denmark and Zealand.

        -  To describe self-reported health related quality of life in adult patients with T1 renal
           tumors undergoing i) cryoablation and ii) partial nephrectomy in the Regions of Southern
           Denmark and Zealand.

        -  To compare patient and tumor characteristics (age, sex, BMI, performance status,
           American Society of Anaesthesiologists' (ASA) classification group, comorbidity, other
           cancer diagnosis, smoking and alcohol use, tumor location and size, and tumor histology)
           in patients with T1 renal tumors treated with i) Cryoablation or ii) partial nephrectomy
           in the Regions of Southern Denmark and Zealand.

        -  To compare complications, length of hospital stay, treatment success within follow-up,
           readmission rate and in-hospital mortality after after i) cryoablation and ii) partial
           nephrectomy of renal tumors at stadium T1 in adult patients in the Regions of Southern
           Denmark and Zealand.

        -  To compare self reported quality of life after i) cryoablation and ii) partial
           nephrectomy of renal tumors at stadium T1 in adult patients in the Regions of Southern
           Denmark and Zealand.

        -  To identify potential patient or tumor characteristics reducing quality of life after i)
           cryoablation and ii) partial nephrectomy of renal tumors at stadium T1 in adult patients
           in the Regions of Southern Denmark and Zealand.

      All eligible patients will be offered inclusion. Patients will be allocated to treatment
      group based on shared decision making between the patient and the treating urologist and
      recommendation from a multidisciplinary team conference. This reflecting the clinical
      practice.
    
  