
    
      Objectives: To evaluate the effectiveness of antihypertensive treatment maintenance with 1.5
      g / day of methyldopa for controlling maternal blood pressure in pregnant women with severe
      pre-eclampsia and stable blood pressure. Methods: A clinical, randomized, triple-masked,
      placebo-controlled study will be conducted at the Instituto de Medicina Integral Prof.
      Fernando Figueira from March 2011 to March 2012. The study will include 200 patients with
      severe preeclampsia between 20 to 34 weeks of gestation, which will be randomized into two
      groups: placebo and methyldopa. Patients with more severe hypertensive disorders, congenital
      anomalies and maternal medical complications or conditions that may compromise the
      mother-child well-being will be excluded from the study. The primary outcomes will be:
      systolic, diastolic and mean maternal heart rate, need for association with another
      antihypertensive agent, need and reason for discontinuation of treatment, frequency of
      hypertensive peaks and uncontrolled hypertension. The variables relating to maternal
      characteristics of pregnancy, clinical and obstetric complications during pregnancy and after
      delivery, and adverse perinatal outcomes will be considered secondary outcomes. After
      inclusion of patients in the study, numbered boxes containing methyldopa or placebo will be
      offered to patients with appropriate explanations about oral administration. The initial dose
      of methyldopa is 1.5 g / day divided into three daily doses and can be reduced to 1.0 g / day
      or increased to 2.0 g / day depending on the clinical need of patients. On the other group,
      three tablets / day of placebo will be administered and this dose may be reduced or increased
      to two tablets to four tablets per day. Statistical analysis will be performed using the
      statistical program Epi-Info 3.5.1. and Minitab, version 14.2. for Windows. The analysis will
      be performed with the groups identified as A or B, and the secrecy will be broken only after
      obtaining the results and preparing the tables or by resolution of the Committee for External
      Monitoring. Categorical variables will be compared in contingency tables, using chi-square
      and Fisher exact test, when appropriate. Risk ratio (RR) and its 95% confidence interval will
      be calculated as a measure of relative risk. Regarding the quantitative variables, if they
      have normal distribution, comparison between groups will be performed using the Student t
      test for unpaired samples. If it is found that the distribution is not normal, the
      nonparametric Mann-Whitney test will be used.
    
  