
    
      Medical personnel (e.g,. nurses or physicians) responding to a cardiac arrest will assess
      each patient for study inclusion. During resuscitation patients will receive standard ALS
      (advanced life support) according to European Resuscitation Council (ERC) guidelines with
      cooling with the RhinoChill upon determining that the patient is in cardiac arrest. The
      RhinoChill catheters should be placed and cooling initiated immediately after airway
      management (i.e. laryngeal mask or intubation). The aim is that cooling should be started
      within 15 minutes from the call to the dispatch centre. Specifically, cooling with chilled
      saline or cold packs in the field or ambulance will not be permitted. Resuscitation attempts
      should be continued for at least 45 minutes after the collapse in all patients having
      venticular fibrillation (VF) or non-perfusive venticular tachycardia (VT) as initial cardiac
      rhythm before deciding that further interventions are futile.

      Automated external defibrillator (AEDs) with the capability to record data will be used in
      each resuscitation attempt, and the quality of cardio pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is
      followed.

      RhinoChill cooling will be continued in those subjects that achieve ROSC and remain comatose.
      Bolus doses of sedation and analgesia will be administered for their transport to the
      hospital according to local protocol. RhinoChill cooling will be continued at the hospital
      until the subject can be successfully transitioned to the standard institutional cooling
      protocol.

      Clinical assessments and clinically relevant adverse events will be documented from the time
      the patient is enrolled to the study until the first of the following two events occur: death
      or MRI scan.

      Patients that regain consciousness following ROSC and prior to hospital transport will be
      excluded. Patient's still unconscious in the emergency room are admitted to ICU and
      therapeutic cooling is continued for 24 to 36 hours. The MRI scan will take place within 16
      hours after rewarming. After that the sedation is stopped and patient extubated if possible.
      The study is finished at that point and normal patient care continues.

      The study continues until 10 patients with MRI scan are enrolled in Tampere University
      Hospital (TAUH).
    
  