
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of
      lenalidomide in combination with fixed doses of dinutuximab (ch14.18) and isotretinoin given
      to children with refractory or recurrent neuroblastoma.

      II. To define the toxicities of lenalidomide administered in combination with ch14.18 and
      isotretinoin.

      III. To describe the differences in immune function modulation between "low" versus "high"
      dose lenalidomide given with ch14.18 and isotretinoin.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacokinetics of lenalidomide given in this combination regimen.

      II. To determine the steady state pharmacokinetics of isotretinoin (day 28, course one) given
      in combination with lenalidomide.

      III. To measure peak and trough levels of ch14.18 in patients receiving lenalidomide and to
      compare to historical controls of patients receiving ch14.18 in combination with interleukin
      2 (IL-2) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF).

      IV. To describe the immunological effects of lenalidomide (T cells, natural killer [NK]
      cells, monocytes, cytokines, chemokines) within this three drug regimen.

      V. To define the incidence and titers of human anti-chimeric antibody (HACA) on this regimen.

      VI. To describe, within the context of a phase I study, the response rate to lenalidomide
      combined with ch14.18 and isotretinoin in patients with recurrent/refractory neuroblastoma.

      VII. To summarize, within the context of a phase I study, the event-free survival of patients
      with recurrent/refractory neuroblastoma or in complete response (CR) after progressing, and
      who are treated with lenalidomide combined with ch14.18 and isotretinoin.

      VIII. To determine, within the context of a phase I study, if killer-cell immunoglobulin-like
      receptor (KIR) receptor-ligand mismatch or specific Fc gamma receptor (Fc gamma R) alleles
      are associated with anti-tumor response.

      IX. To quantify neuroblastoma tumor cell "load" using a 5-gene TaqMan Low Density Array
      (TLDA) assay in peripheral blood at study entry, following, with each disease evaluation and
      at end of therapy and bone marrow at study entry, with each response evaluation when bone
      marrow is sampled, and at end of therapy.

      X. To compare the toxicities of this regimen with the historical toxicity data from the
      Children's Oncology Group (COG) ANBL0032 and ANBL0931 studies of ch14.18 with IL-2, GM-CSF
      and isotretinoin.

      XI. To describe the tolerability and ability to give full doses of ch14.18 and lenalidomide
      over extended periods of time, i.e. in courses 6-12.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

      Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, dinutuximab
      intravenously (IV) over 10 hours on days 8-11, and isotretinoin PO twice daily (BID) on days
      15-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  