
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of the materials used in pulpotomies, and to
      evaluate the success of hyaluronic gel over the formocresol and/or ferric sulfate considered
      as the gold standard for this type of treatment.

      Pulpotomy is an endodontic treatment method aiming to maintain primary molar affected from
      deep caries and acute pulpitis by removing the effected pulpal tissue, leaving the remaining
      root canal pulp and maintaining its vitality and function until the tooth exfoliates
      physiologically. In order to remain canals intact and uninflamed various dental materials are
      used according to treatment purposes; categorized into three groups as devitalizing,
      preventive and regenerative treatment.

        1. Devitalization: Formocresol, glutaraldehyde, electro-surgery

        2. Protective : Ferric Sulfate, calcium hydroxide, mineral trioxide aggregate, lasers

        3. Regenerative : Bone morphogenetic protein, Enriched collagen

      The ideal agent or method for pulpotomy treatment of the primary teeth has not been
      determined yet but the earliest method of diluted formocresol is considered by many the gold
      standard. Formocresol is a strong strain that fixes living tissues. It contains formaldehyde
      gas, organic structures, dentin channels and narrow side channels until the bacteria are also
      fixed. 10% formalin solution (14% formaldehyde) is used as a tissue fixative.

      Ferric Sulfate an other material for pulpotomy is used in dentistry mainly as a hemostatic
      agent. It has several advantages over formocresol such as non-mutagenic property and keeping
      root canal pulp vital.

      Hyaluronic acid gel, which is a new product as a pulpotomy material, has been used in
      dentistry as well as medicine for many years. It is distributed widely in epithelial and
      connective tissues Medical uses include joint treatments, skin lotions for atopic dermatitis,
      cosmetic surgery etc. In dentistry, gingivitis, teething, dental surgery including implants
      and sinus lifting procedures and oral ulcers are main target for hyaluronic acid treatment.
      This study extends the use of hyaluronic acid to primary tooth endodontics.

      In this study, 120 primary molar teeth from healthy children aged between 5 and 9 and who
      apply to Marmara University Faculty of Dentistry Department of Pediatric Dentistry will be
      subjected to pulpotomy treatments. After proper diagnosis of coronal pulpitis, local
      anesthesia is administrated, the teeth will be assigned randomly to one of the 3 groups: 40
      primary molars for formocresol pulpotomy treatments, 40 primary molars for ferric sulfate
      treatments and 40 primary molars for 0.5% hyaluronic acid gel pulpotomy treatments. The tooth
      decay is removed, the roof of the pulp chamber is removed by joining the pulp horns with a
      bur cut. the coronal pulp is amputated from the chamber of the pulp with a sharp excavator
      and one or more cotton pellets is placed over the site and pressure is applied. When the
      hemostasis is insured, one of the medicament is applied to the orifice of the root canals.
      The cavity will be sealed tight with zinc oxide eugenol cement and a stainless steel crown
      (SSC) is placed over the tooth for better tightness. A single investigator will perform the
      procedure. The teeth will be followed clinically and radiographically at 1, 3, 6, 12 months.
    
  