
    
      Baseline visual acuity of the study subjects will be assessed with a 2.7X external telescope
      simulator (ETS) using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Trial (ETDRS) charts. To be
      included in the study and to proceed with the surgery, subjects must achieve, using the ETS,
      at least a one line (5 or more letters) improvement in distance on the ETDRS chart in the eye
      scheduled for surgery. Visual acuity must be at least one line (5 or more letters) better
      with the ETS than Best Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) in the fellow eye without the ETS.
      Subjects not meeting these criteria will be excluded from the study. Following this
      assessment, eligible subjects will undergo three pre-op visits with the low vision
      rehabilitation/training specialist prior to continuation of testing for inclusion in the
      study.

      Once it will be determined that the subject experiences improvement in visual acuity with the
      use of the ETS, he/she will be further evaluated for eligibility, with near and distance
      BCVA, manifest refraction, intraocular pressure (IOP), slit lamp examination, non-contact
      specular microscopy (before or after home use of ETS), Anterior Chamber Depth (ACD) profile
      by Ultrasound Biomicroscopy (UBM), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), or another applicable
      test method, and axial eye length.

      The participants will be implanted with the Tsert System model NG SI IMT 3X. Postoperatively,
      the surgeon will complete a usability and satisfaction questionnaire after each implantation
      procedure. The patients will undergo ophthalmic evaluations in both eyes at regular intervals
      for up to 12 months to determine the change in visual acuity and Endothelial Cell Density
      (ECD) in the both eyes. The subjects will also be required to undergo 6 to 10 additional
      visits for vision training with a low vision specialist.

      Surgical complications, as well as all Adverse Event (AEs) and use of medications will be
      monitored from baseline to the end of the study.
    
  