
    
      1.0 INTRODUCTION

      It is commonly known that the thyroid hormones affect the function of the cardiovascular
      system. Several studies mention that these hormones influence the cardiac function and
      geometry directly and indirectly. Three potential mechanisms have been described, which are
      the direct cellular effect, the interaction with the sympathetic nervous system and changes
      in peripheral circulation.

      A few studies have been already published , dealing with the correlation between thyroid
      hormones and heart function. Only one of them have proved a suppressed ventricular
      contractility after subtotal thyroidectomy for hyperthyroidism.

      This clinical trial aims to compare the pre- and post-operative heart function after total
      thyroidectomy, using echocardiography. Outcomes will be assessed during patient
      hospitalization and at three, six and twelve months' follow-up appointments.

      2.0 OBJECTIVES

      To evaluate the effects of total thyroidectomy on the function of the cardiac muscle.

      3.0 DESIGN AND STUDY POPULATION

      The study is designed as a prospective, single-center, cohort study. Any patient that is
      scheduled for a total thyroidectomy will be offered participation in this study if they
      fulfill specific inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      3.3 Duration of the study

      The study will be conducted until at least 50 patients are treated. It is estimated that it
      will take up to 12 months to enroll the patients and an additional 12 months to complete
      follow-up assessments.

      4.0 STUDY PROCEDURE

      4.1 Pre-operative requirements

      Procedures preformed such as routine hospital examinations, antibiotic prophylactic
      treatment, anticoagulant treatment and diet will be according to the standard management
      protocol and will be recorded for the study. The following pre-operative information will be
      recorded:

        1. Demographic information including: name, age, gender, ethnicity

        2. Height, weight, Body Mass Index (B.M.I.) and American Society of Anesthesiologists'
           (A.S.A.) physical status

        3. Behavioral history (Smoking, alcohol or drug use)

        4. Preoperative laboratory findings (Complete blood count, Ca2+, fT3, fT4, TSH, PTH, VitD)

        5. Preoperative echocardiography

        6. Diagnosis including clinical observation and previous imaging results

        7. Medications

        8. Current and past history of surgical and medical comorbidities

      4.3 Pathology data

      The following pathology data will be recorded for all patients:

        1. Post-operative diagnosis including pathology report

        2. Weight of the gland

        3. Dimensions of the gland

      4.4 Postoperative follow-up

      Follow-up evaluation will be performed during hospitalization as well as on the 3rd, 6th and
      12th month after discharge. The following information will be recorded:

        1. Wound condition

        2. Average Pain score for patient resting and moving/day

        3. Postoperative laboratory findings (Complete blood count, Ca2+, fT3, fT4, TSH, PTH, VitD)

        4. Postoperative echocardiography at three (3), six (6) and twelve (12) months.

        5. Clinical signs of hypocalcemia (Chvostek and Trousseau)

        6. Comments

      5.0 COMPLICATIONS AND ADVERSE EVENTS

      The investigators are required to notify the coordinators of any serious adverse events. The
      coordinators are also required to notify the Ethics Committee according to local regulations
      and requirements.

      Serious Adverse Events include:

        1. Death regardless of cause

        2. Any-life-threatening event

        3. Any hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization

        4. Any event that results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity to the
           patient.

      6.0 STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of total thyroidectomy on the
      myocardial function.

      Statistical analysis includes description of the pre- and post-operative outcomes, and
      indication of patient characteristics associated with these outcomes.

      Since the study does not have pre-specified hypotheses all statistical analyses are
      exploratory and interpretation of results should be within this context.

      7.0 DATA MONITORING PLAN

      The coordinators will monitor all data. Furthermore, the coordinators will review the
      progress of the clinical trial including safety data and ensure that it is conducted,
      recorded and reported in accordance with the protocol, good clinical practice and the
      applicable regulatory requirements.

      8.0 DATA CONFIDENTIALITY

      Each patient will be identified by his/her initials and a unique patient identification
      number. Source data will be stored with source documents. Only personnel responsible for
      collecting data and transcribing it into the case report forms will have access to the data.
      Records will be protected.

      9.0 FUNDING

      No funding for the execution of the present protocol is considered necessary. The
      investigators are willing to execute the present study without any additional reimbursement.

      10.0 ETHICS

      Prior to the onset of the study, institution review board (IRB) approval should have been
      obtained. Any changes in the study protocol, informed consent forms, or investigator must be
      re-approved by the IRB. All patients enrolled in the study will provide their consent prior
      to entering the study. Informed consent forms shall be signed and dated by the patient. The
      investigator will retain the forms as part of the study records.

      This study will be executed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, in agreement with
      the guidelines for conducting a clinical investigation and the principles of ICH GCP outlined
      in the E6 document. By signing the present protocol, participants in the study commit
      themselves to carry it out with respect to local legal requirements.

      11.0 INFORMED CONSENT

      All eligible patients should have the capacity to provide an written informed consent.

      The above described inclusion and exclusion criteria were designed to ensure the entry of the
      appropriate population of patients to this study and will be approved by the local IRB.
      Screening for these criteria will be conducted by the coordinator.

      Eligible patients will be educated about the research proposal by a study investigator. To
      determine whether the patient has understood the issues, they will be asked to describe what
      the research entails and whether they have any questions. All questions will be addressed
      prior to enrollment. The patient can decline participation in the study at any time.

      A written informed consent form will be generated. For each patient, a case report form (CRF)
      will be completed, providing general medical information and history.
    
  