
    
      Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease that progresses with
      inflammation of synovial membranes. The aim of this study is to reveal the relationship
      between total dietary phytochemical intake, blood total antioxidant capacity and disease
      activity in individuals with AS. This study will include patients diagnosed with AS who
      applied to Ankara City Hospital Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Hospital, and a control
      group that does not have AS and that meet exclusion criteria. The sociodemographic
      characteristics and nutritional habits, one-day food consumption records and 1-day physical
      activity status of AS diagnosed and healthy individuals included in the study will be
      recorded with a questionnaire. Anthropometric measurements of all individuals (case and
      control) such as height length (cm) and body weight (kg) will be taken. From the height and
      body weight measurements, the students' body mass indexes will be calculated from the formula
      [weight (kg) / height (m²)]. Waist circumference; The perimeter passing through the middle of
      the distance between the lowest costa and crista iliaca superior will be measured by tape
      measure. All parts of the questionnaire for individuals included in the research will be
      filled in by the researcher through face-to-face interview technique. The disease activity
      score (ASDAS) of the individuals in the case group will be evaluated by the physician. Serum
      biochemical parameters (complete blood count, fasting blood sugar, liver function tests,
      urea, creatinine, lipid profile, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, c-reactive protein) will be
      taken from the patient files. In the patient information system of the control group,
      complete blood count, fasting blood sugar, liver function tests, urea, creatinine, lipid
      profile, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and c-reactive protein levels will be recorded from
      the examinations performed in the last 1 month. Serum total antioxidant and oxidant levels
      will be measured in a private laboratory with a tube (5 ml) of blood from all individuals.
      After the blood samples are centrifuged, 0.5 ml will be separated into eppendorfs. Samples
      will be stored in a -80 degree refrigerator in the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
      Hospital. Total antioxidant and oxidant capacity measurement will be done in a private
      laboratory in Ankara in the form of service procurement by Erel method. Samples for total
      antioxidant and oxidant analysis will be sent to the relevant laboratories in dry ice. The
      parameters to be examined in blood samples are specific to the study and their cost will be
      covered by the researchers.
    
  