
    
      CRPS: Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is characterized by severe and disabling pain
      typically in a limb in combination with sensory, autonomic, trophic, and motor abnormalities
      like tremor and dystonia. A distinction is made between CRPS-1, usually following an injury
      (fracture, surgery) without a nerve lesion, and CRPS-2, in which a distinct nerve lesion can
      be identified.

      Brain mapping studies have provided increasing evidence that the central nervous system is
      playing an important role in the pathogenesis of CRPS. Reorganization of the somatosensory
      cortex and motor networks, with altered central processing of tactile and nociceptive stimuli
      as well as movement control has been demonstrated.

      Functional brain imaging studies suggest that the volume of brain activation differs between
      motor execution and motor imagery, but the distribution of cerebral activity tends to be
      similar. Under imaginary movement of affected hands Gieteling et al. (2008) observed that
      there was reduced activation ipsilaterally in the premotor and adjacent prefrontal cortex,
      frontal operculum, anterior part of the insula cortex, and the superior temporal gyrus.

      Stimulus-driven, functional magnetic resonance imaging, however, are time-consuming and prone
      to possible confounds, especially in clinical populations. In that perspective resting-state
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI), measuring the cerebral networks at rest (in
      absence of any task), is probably better suited to clinical examinations and is widely used
      to investigate brain networks that exhibit correlated fluctuations. During recent years, a
      large number of studies have indicated that RS-fMRI is sufficiently constrained by anatomy to
      allow the architecture of distinct brain systems to be characterized.

      The default mode network (DMN) is probably the most studied resting state network. It seems
      to be involved in several processes and is found negatively modulated by chronic pain. Only
      one published study has investigated cerebral networks and cerebral connectivity in CRPS.
      Here the default mode network displayed reduced connectivity with the S1 compared to healthy
      controls. This indicates that decreased connectivity may be a key feature in cerebral
      functioning of CRPS patients. No study, however, has so far investigated if the reduced
      connectivity in the DMN is reversed in CRPS patients who experience pain reduction after GMI
      or desensitization treatment.

      Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is another magnetic resonance technique useful for revealing
      microstructural properties of tissue, particularly in cerebral white matter.

      Chronic pain has also been associated with reduced cognitive functioning. If this is caused
      by pain processing demands, competing with working memory and executive functions, the
      investigators would expect the cognitive capacity to be improved or restored if the pain is
      successfully treated.

      Graded Motor Imagery: Graded Motor Imagery (GMI) is a rehabilitation process and has been
      used to treat chronic pain conditions and movement problems related to alterations in the
      nervous system such as CRPS, postamputation limb pain, and back pain. The patients are
      trained in monitored steps which increase in difficulty as progress is made. The three
      treatment components include left/right discrimination training, motor imagery exercises and
      mirror observations of the unaffected limb, appearing as the affected limb. The components
      are performed sequentially, but require a flexible approach to suit the individual patient.
      The imagined movements have been demonstrated to activate motor cortical areas similar to
      those activated in the actual execution of that movement.

      Desensitization: Tactile desensitization (D) is used to decrease hyperalgesia and allodynia
      by repeatedly touching the affected area with various materials. This has successfully been
      used clinically in the treatment of CRPS.

      Hypotheses: The following hypotheses will be investigated:

        1. Patients, treated with GMI + D, experience a larger pain reduction compared with those
           subjected to D only.

        2. Non-responders to D alone experience pain reduction when D is combined with GMI.

        3. Patients with CRPS display reduced intra-network connectivity in the DMN compared to
           healthy controls.

        4. Reduced intra-network connectivity in CRPS is associated with pain intensity.

        5. Reduced connectivity in the DMN is reversed in patients who experience pain reduction
           after GMI and D treatment. This will be evident in the comparison of fMRI data obtained
           before and after treatment.

        6. Microstructure of the cerebral white matter is changed during the intervention.

      Design:The effects of treatment with Graded Motor Imagery (GMI ) and D versus D alone will be
      compared with an open, randomized, semi-cross-over case-control design.

      The study patients will be allocated to either GMI+D or D alone. After an initial treatment
      period of six weeks responders (R) stay in the same treatment group and continue this
      treatment. Non-responders (NR) in the D treatment group will be offered an immediate combined
      treatment (GMI+D).

      Randomization: The recruited patients will be allocated in a ratio 1:1 by randomization with
      a fixed block size of 6.

      Analytical models: Self reported symptom burden and functional capacity will be compared
      between the two treatment groups and within each treatment group (i.e. comparisons before and
      after treatment and with each patient as his/her own control).

      The investigators will also compare the two intervention groups (CRPS patients receiving a
      GMI+D and D alone) with a non-randomized comparison group of sex- and age-matched healthy
      persons.

      Continuous, symmetrically distributed variables will be expressed by mean values with 95%
      confidence intervals (95% CI) constructed by the Student procedure. Proportions will be
      presented using the Binomial model with the exact 95% calculated confidence interval.

      Assumed continuously distributed variables will be analyzed by Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)
      model with the initial value as covariate while contingency table analysis is used for group
      comparisons of categorical and ranked variables.

      The sample size calculation is based on distribution of the main variable, self-rated limb
      pain measured by Visual Analogue scaling (VAS). Based on the assumption of normality, a
      significance level of 5 % (α = 0.05), a power of (β = 0.80) and a clinical relevant
      difference of one time Standard Deviation (SD), 21 patients should be included in each of the
      two treatment groups. There will also be a sex- and age-matched comparison group of healthy
      persons (n:21).

      Interventions:

      Individually adjusted Graded motor imagery (GMI) and tactile desensitization (D).

      Measurements:

      MRI-scanning (for analyses of Intra-network connectivity in the DMN and DTI for
      microstructural changes in the white matter), Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST) and
      Neuropsychological tests are performed before the randomization and 12 months later.

      Self reporting questionnaires will be performed at baseline, after the treatment period of
      six weeks, and at the 6 and 12 month follow up.

      This includes demographic variables, and a comorbidity check list of diseases related to the
      major organ systems, pain intensity measured by numerical scales for pain intensity and by
      Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), consumption of analgesics and the questionnaires: CRPS Severity
      Score, if upper limb affected; Quick DASH (a short form of Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder
      and Hand Outcome Measure), if lower limb affected; Lower extremity functional scale, Impact
      of Event Scale-6 if subjected to adverse life events, Insomnia Severity Index, The Hopkins
      Symptoms Checklist (HSCL- 25), Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Perceived self efficacy and the
      Bath CRPS Body Perception Disturbance Scale
    
  