
    
      There is convincing evidence that physical activity and exercise have positive effects on
      quality of life and health in people with chronic disease and/or disabilities, but training
      programs do not reach all in need for it. Being able to offer individualized evidence-based
      training with modern technology (e-health) is an option, that may increase participation in
      health enhancing physical activity in people with chronic diseases.

      The main aim of the project in this application is two-fold. First we will explore and
      describe facilitators and barriers for being physically active and perform physical training
      for people with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD (Step 1). Secondly, with user
      involvement, we will develop and evaluate a novel e-health program with a training module and
      an evidence-based educational component, the rEACH-COPD e-health program with the aim to
      increase the understanding and management of the disease and to facilitate every-day living
      with COPD (Step 2-3).

      Participants will be recruited from both Stockholm and Västerbotten county, university
      hospitals and primary care.

      According to the guidelines of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare (SoS),
      physiotherapy led exercise is an important part of rehabilitation for people with COPD. The
      e-health training program will follow evidence-based guidelines, i.e. recommendations from
      SoS and the American College of Sport Medicine (ACSMS).

      The e-health program will be developed and launched during 2019 and the participants will be
      included in the development to make the product feasible for the end users.

      This project will contribute to improve health in people with COPD by using new
      technology.Offering individualized and evidence-based training will increase adherence to
      training. With regular physical activity and exercise there is a potential to improve
      health-related quality of life, physical capacity, activity and participation in every day
      life in people with COPD.

      By an improved health, physical function and quality of life a decreased use of health care
      is expected. Thus, this program may, in the long term, contribute to reduced costs for the
      society.

      Being able to offer training with an e-health program will give more people with COPD the
      opportunity to be physically active and thereby increase the chance for a better life with a
      good quality of life, less dependency in everyday life and add life to years and years to
      life. Physical activity and exercise offers a low-cost alternative with large health related
      effects which benefits both specific symptoms and general health in persons with COPD.
    
  