
    
      Obesity is an increasingly important health problem in the United States, particularly among
      adolescents. Previous studies among adults have shown that people who live in neighborhoods
      with good "walkability" and recreational environments have increased physical activity
      levels, and some studies have suggested that there is a relationship between the neighborhood
      food environment and eating patterns. While these concepts have been studied in adults, more
      research is needed on the effect of the neighborhood environment on adolescents. In this
      study, adolescents who live in select neighborhoods in Seattle-King County, WA and
      Baltimore-Washington, DC will be enrolled. Forty-eight neighborhoods in these areas will be
      studied, with researchers taking into account the neighborhoods' walkability levels (e.g.,
      combination of street connectivity, residential density, land use mix, retail floor area
      ratio) and median income levels. Study researchers will examine and create formulas to
      measure walkability, pedestrian infrastructure, public recreation space, and nutrition
      environment quality. Researchers will also examine crime and weather patterns; psychosocial
      variables; parent support; and perceived neighborhood, school, and home environments.
      Overall, this study will evaluate the ability of a research model to explain the variation in
      physical activity levels, sedentary behavior, dietary patterns, and weight among adolescents,
      with an emphasis on neighborhood environment.

      There will be no study visits for this study: participation will take place entirely through
      the mail, phone, or internet. Participants will include adolescents between the ages of 12
      and 16 years old and their parents, all of whom live in the identified study neighborhoods.
      At the time of study entry, adolescents will complete a questionnaire on neighborhood and
      safety issues, diet, physical activity habits and places where activity occurs, grades,
      school policies and parental rules that affect physical activity and eating, and the support
      they get from people regarding healthy eating and physical activity. One parent of each
      adolescent will also complete a neighborhood information questionnaire. Adolescents will
      measure their height, weight, and waist circumference and send the measurements to study
      staff along with the questionnaire. Next, a 4-week period, study staff will call adolescents
      on three random days and collect information on their diet in the previous 24 hours. During
      this period, adolescents will wear an activity meter and a GPS monitor for 7 consecutive days
      and will mail the devices to study staff for analysis.
    
  