
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Essential hypertension affects at least 25 percent of American adults, and it is a primary
      risk factor for heart failure, stroke, and kidney disease. Many, but not all, studies have
      shown that variants of the angiotensinogen gene (AGT) affect the risk of hypertension, but
      association studies conducted to date have been compromised by genetic heterogeneity and by
      the inherent complexity of hypertension as a phenotype.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A comprehensive study of the angiotensinogen (AGT) gene will be conducted in data collected
      from several large groups of individuals. The investigators will sequence or genotype a 14.4
      kb region including AGT in more than 1,600 individuals sampled from populations throughout
      the world. This will permit them to explore fully the extent of allelic heterogeneity,
      haplotype variation, and potential for population stratification in the AGT gene.
      Approximately 600 of these individuals are clinically uncharacterized and will represent a
      broad range of worldwide human variation. Another 500 subjects are members of 40 Utah
      pedigrees that are part of the Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisme Humain (CEPH) collection.
      These unique families have been heavily characterized genetically, and they are now being
      phenotyped for variables that include anthropometrics, blood chemistries, blood pressure
      measures, and plasma and urinary angiotensinogen. They will address the issue of genetic
      heterogeneity by testing associations between multi-SNP AGT haplotypes, angiotensinogen
      levels, and blood pressure. In addition, linkage disequilibrium patterns will be assessed to
      determine the density and nature of SNPs best suited for localizing a gene underlying a
      complex trait. They will address the issue of phenotypic heterogeneity in hypertension by
      performing extensive SNP typing on a set of 400 hypertensives and 100 normotensives collected
      by Dr. Gordon Williams. These clinically well-characterized subjects have been tested for
      their response to infused angiotensin-II under high and low sodium intake. This direct probe
      provides a hypertension endophenotype that is closer to the function of the AGT gene,
      yielding a more realistic and informative assessment of the relationship between AGT
      haplotype variation and hypertension risk. A phylogenetic analysis of AGT sequence variation
      in the worldwide sample will help to assess population stratification in association studies.
      In addition, this sample will allow testing the hypothesis that the ancestral T235 AGT allele
      provided a selective advantage in the sodium-poor environment of sub-Saharan Africa. The
      results of this analysis may help to explain why African-Americans have elevated rates of
      hypertension. In summary, the extensive analysis of AGT variation in more than 1,600 subjects
      will clarify the role of this gene in essential hypertension and will test specific
      hypotheses about the evolution of AGT.
    
  