
    
      Northern New England has among the highest rates of opioid dependence in the U.S, with
      prevalence highest and growing among those aged 18-35 years. Regional rates of perinatal
      opioid use disorders (OUD) reflect this public health crisis; Northern New England region has
      the highest incidence of opioid-related births in the nation. Perinatal opioid use disorders
      impact 5-8% of pregnancies in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont, three states that have been
      severely impacted by the current opioid epidemic. Consequences of inadequately treated OUD
      include premature delivery and other perinatal complications, prolonged newborn
      hospitalization for neonatal abstinence (NAS), and maternal morbidity and mortality from
      infectious disease and overdose. In 2013, costs associated with NAS treatment in the U.S.
      reached $1.5 billion. The epidemic has grown multifold since 2013.

      Medication assisted treatment (MAT) with either methadone or buprenorphine is the recommended
      standard of care during pregnancy. Professionals, including the American College of
      Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Society for
      Maternal-Fetal Medicine, and the American Society for Addiction Medicine, have called to
      adopt care models that promote early identification and treatment for pregnant women with
      OUD. Referral to specialty programs for MAT has been the accepted standard of care, with
      demonstrated safety for women and their infants. However, in response to the escalating
      opioid crisis, the ACOG began offering buprenorphine training programs to its members.
      Consequently, a number of maternity care practices throughout Northern New England now
      provide integrated MAT services. But even where such integrated programs exist, questions
      persist on the optimal care model for providing MAT to pregnant women with OUD.

      There are patient- and provider- factors associated with variability in effectiveness of what
      MAT model works best for whom. For women, advantages of buprenorphine over methadone include
      a lower risk of overdose, fewer drug interactions, the accessibility of office-based
      treatment delivery in the context of maternity care and demonstrated shorter NAS course. The
      disadvantages of buprenorphine relative to methadone include potential hepatic dysfunction,
      lack of long-term data on consequences of fetal exposure for infants, potential limited
      efficacy in patients with high addiction severity, requirement of moderate withdrawal
      symptoms prior to initiation to avoid iatrogenic withdrawal, and an increased risk of
      diversion (i.e., sharing or sale). Despite buprenorphine's demonstrated neonatal advantages,
      it is not effective for all women. The structure of methadone treatment (daily meeting) may
      also better align with support needs for some women. For providers, the choice of what
      medication-assisted approach to offer to patients is often restricted by availability and
      access to specialty care services.

      There is limited literature comparing the effectiveness of integrated versus referral MAT
      care models for postpartum retention in treatment and women's experiences in these two
      models. In particular, women with high levels of addiction severity or co-occurring mental
      health conditions may have prenatal care needs from women with less complex behavioral health
      concerns. Studies have also not assessed the impact of maternal opioid addiction severity on
      newborn outcomes and maternal long-term recovery. The best neonatal outcomes will be achieved
      by providing the most appropriate and effective treatment for mothers.

      The challenge for patients, providers, and other stakeholders is determining the optimal
      approach for delivering MAT during pregnancy and after delivery to improve outcomes.
      Currently, regional obstetrical practices provide either: (1) Integrated care, in which MAT
      and associated psychosocial services are delivered on site with obstetrical care, and (2)
      Referral-based care, in which women receive MAT and obstetrical care in separate, specialized
      locations. Both models have different potential advantages and disadvantages for mothers with
      OUD and their babies regarding access, availability, acceptability and quality of MAT,
      obstetrics and other needed services, and long term follow up and treatment after delivery.
      While pregnancy motivates women to initiate MAT, relapse to use of opioids and cessation of
      MAT frequently occur during the first postpartum year, placing both mother and infant at
      significant risk. Payers and policymakers are also seeking answers about where to invest
      healthcare resources to increase access to treatment for pregnant women, especially in the
      current opioid crisis. A disproportionate number of women with OUD are insured through the
      Medicaid system; Medicaid policy affects women's access to a wide range of services, from
      reimbursement for same-day services or care coordination, to whether a woman continues to be
      eligible for benefits after delivery.

      Study Aims: This study aims to answer these important patient, provider, and policy questions
      by comparing the real-world effectiveness of two models of MAT delivery currently in clinical
      use in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont with respect to patient experience of care and
      perinatal, neonatal, and longer-term substance use treatment outcomes.

      Two main Comparative Effectiveness Research (CER) Patient-Centered Outcomes Research
      Institute (PCORI) priority questions will be addressed:

        1. Do clinical and patient-reported outcomes for pregnant and parenting women differ
           between integrated and referral-based MAT practice models?

        2. Within models, which psychosocial services are most associated with MAT continuation,
           and for which groups of patients?

      To answer these questions, the following specific aims will be addressed:

      Aim 1 (Clinical Outcomes). To use clinical record data to evaluate the comparative
      effectiveness of Integrated and Referral-Based MAT care models on maternal and neonatal
      outcomes.

      Aim 2 (Patient-reported Outcomes). To use patient reported data to evaluate the comparative
      effectiveness of Integrated and Referral -Based care models on patient-centered outcomes.

      Aim 3 (Heterogeneity of Effects). To examine differences in treatment retention within
      condition by subgroups of patients based on (1) psychiatric comorbidity, (2) type of
      medication used for MAT and (3) addiction severity.

      Aim 4 (Specification of Services). To determine which services (psychosocial services, care
      coordination, parenting education) are associated with better maternal and neonatal outcomes.

      Aim 5 (Provider). To explore how provider attitudes about MAT and care of patients with OUD
      vary by care model and are associated with maternal outcomes.

      Study Description: This study will collaboratively engage 21 practices providing maternity
      care across Northern New England, with examples of both integrated care and referral-based
      models. The study population is pregnant women who receive prenatal care from any of these
      practices and who meet Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5)
      diagnostic criteria for an opioid use disorder. A cluster-based, prospective observational
      mixed-methods design will be used to compare outcomes for pregnant women with opioid use
      disorder receiving prenatal care in obstetric practices that offer MAT through one of two
      delivery models: Integrated or Referral-based. Clinical records data (n=2000) from pregnant
      women with OUD receiving prenatal care at a partner practice will be used to examine Aim 1.
      Aim 2 will be addressed with a patient-report subsample cohort (n=532) recruited in the 3rd
      trimester of care and followed to 6 months postpartum. Aim 3 will use both kinds of data to
      explore heterogeneity of treatment effects. For Aim 4, practice-level data will be collected
      yearly to evaluate services provided across Integrated and Referral-based practices. In Aim
      5, survey and qualitative interviews with providers will lend perspective on facilitators and
      barriers to MAT in both Integrated and Referral-based practice settings. The analytic
      strategy will account for clustering and patient baseline differences to compare outcomes
      across assessment points. Whether the effect of treatment type differs according to
      psychiatric status, type of MAT patients access, or addiction severity will also be tested.
      Analysis of qualitative data will inform our interpretation of quantitative results and
      enhance our understanding of patient experience, as well as barriers and facilitators to
      receiving care within these care models. Patient representatives, practice-partners, state
      and regional stakeholders, and scientific advisors will actively guide all stages of this
      study and dissemination of results to relevant partner networks.
    
  