
    
      Research Design This is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled pilot study to
      evaluate the effects of oral supplementation of curcumin 2000mg, versus placebo, on patients
      with a history of stable persistent asthma and allergic sensitization.

      Ng et al investigated mini-mental status exam (MMSE) scores in 1010 patients without dementia
      who reported ingesting varying quantities of curry. The authors found a statistically
      significant improvement in MMSE among patients who reported consuming curry "occasionally",
      "often, or "very often" (Ng et al). Curcumin is theorized to aid patients with dementia by
      improving innate immunity and by acting as an anti-inflammatory, antioxidant agent. In a
      double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 34 elderly patients with Alzheimer's disease,
      patients were randomized to receive 0, 1, or 4 grams PO curcumin. While the study did not
      show significant slowing in cognitive decline over a 6 month period, the dosages were
      tolerated up to 4 grams without significant adverse effects (Baum et al).

      Wong et al demonstrated an inhibitory effect of curcumin on cytokines produced by human cells
      stimulated by the addition of Dermatophagoides pteronynssinus (Der p1), the major allergen
      derived from this dust mite. The authors investigated the cytokine changes that occur in
      bronchial epithelial cells and eosinophils upon activation by Der p1 (increased IL-10, TNF-,
      IL-6, GM-CSF, and IL-1). Curcumin inhibited such activation. For example, the addition of
      curcumin decreased the production of IL-10 in Der p1-activated human epithelial/eosinophil
      co-culture cell lines. Additionally, the addition of curcumin to Der p1-activated eosinophil
      cell cultures decreased the release of IL-10, TNF-, and IL-1. of NF-B and AP-1 induced by
      addition of Der p1 in the control group. The authors theorized this occurred via inhibition
      of AP-1 (Wong et al).

      Several additional studies highlight the effect of curcumin in vitro. Curcumin decreases the
      expression and release of eotaxin, MCP-1, and MCP-3 from IL-1-stimulated human airway smooth
      muscle cells (Wuyts et al). Additionally, curcumin added to Der f-stimulated lymphocyte cell
      cultures from allergic asthmatics inhibits Der f-induced lymphocyte proliferation and
      production of IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, and GM-CSF (Kobayashi et al). Ram et al sensitized guinea
      pigs with ovalbumin to establish airway hyperresponsiveness. There was a significant decrease
      in airway constriction and hyperreactivity when curcumin (20mg/kg) was added during the
      sensitization phase.

      There are no clinical studies which have evaluated the effect of oral curcumin
      supplementation on asthma severity in allergic asthmatics or any in vivo studies in humans
      with asthma. Therefore, this is a pilot study to evaluate the effects of oral supplementation
      with curcumin on patients with persistent atopic asthma.
    
  