
    
      Patient Controlled Epidural Analgesia is a widely used and effective means of adult pain
      management. However, Parturient Controlled Epidural Analgesia (PCEA) is a relatively new
      approach to pain control for the women in labor. With the recent acquisition of new PCEA
      technology at Baystate Medical Center it is now possible to make this patient controlled
      technology available on the Labor and Delivery unit. Several studies have been conducted to
      evaluate the effects of Parturient Controlled Epidural Analgesia on different outcomes
      ranging from the dose of local anesthetic used, incidence of motor block, quality of
      analgesia, obstetric and safety outcomes, and number of patients who received anesthetic
      interventions.

      We have previously shown that epidural fentanyl (given in a 10 ml volume) is a useful means
      of achieving analgesia in laboring patients receiving epidural analgesia. Furthermore, we
      have shown that adding a bupivacaine and fentanyl infusion increases the analgesic period.
      This increased analgesic duration was achieved without any clinically detectable motor block.
      This study is designed to determine whether there is a difference in analgesia, side effects,
      or analgesic duration in patients who receive a bupivacaine and fentanyl PCEA for management
      of labor pain. The present study hypothesizes that an analgesic protocol that includes a
      basal infusion rate in addition to a bolus dose controlled by the patient will have a longer
      analgesic duration than a pump protocol that does not have a basal infusion added to a bolus
      dose controlled by the patient.

      Methods:

      The study population will consist of 100 adult obstetrical patients greater than 36 weeks
      gestation who request labor analgesia. Patients greater than 5 cm cervical dilation, patients
      who have received intravenous opioid agonists, or patients with a contraindication to
      fentanyl will be excluded. Patients with pre-eclampsia are also excluded.

      The screening process occurs when the patient requests labor analgesia. The study is then
      explained to the patient as well as the option of receiving labor analgesia without
      participating in the study protocol. The epidural catheters will be placed in the usual
      fashion in the L2-3 interspace. The catheter will be injected with 3ml lidocaine 1.5% with
      epinephrine 1:200,000 "test dose" (as is the usual practice at Baystate following insertion
      of all epidural catheters) to rule out placement of an intravenous catheter. All catheters
      will be placed in 5 cm. Following customary test dosing, patients will be given Fentanyl 100
      mcg in 10 ml volume. After the woman is comfortable from the epidural, we will again approach
      the patient. If the patient then agrees to participate in the study and signs the consent
      form, study procedures are initiated.

      One of the following PCEA treatment protocols will be started in a randomized, double blind
      fashion. A random number table for 60 patients is generated in Excel using the Randbetween
      function. This function randomly generates 60 numbers either 1 or 2. When a series is
      generated that contains 30 1's and 30 2's, this series is selected as the random code for the
      study. A patient is assigned to group 1 or 2 based on the next available number. This
      patients name is then entered next to this number on the rand code table.

      PCEA solution: Bupivacaine 0.0625% with fentanyl 2 mcg/ml

      Group 1: Basal Infusion: 0 ml/hr; Bolus 10 ml q 30min prn (10ml demand dose with 30min
      lockout) Group 2: Basal Infusion: 10 ml/h; Bolus 5 ml q 30min prn (5ml demand dose with 30min
      lockout)

      The pump will be programmed by one investigator while evaluations will be done by another
      investigator who is unaware of the PCEA protocol.

      If the patient does not obtain relief within 30 minutes, the epidural catheter will be dosed
      with a local anesthetic and the study will be concluded. The patients without pain relief
      within 30 minutes are considered to have failed epidurals and are dropped from the study and
      the analysis. Following achievement of satisfactory analgesia, the patient will be evaluated
      every 30 minutes until they request additional analgesics. The study will "end" at this
      point, and the patient will be treated at the discretion of the anesthesiologist.

      Method of delivery, need for instrumented delivery, time of delivery, and neonatal APGAR
      scores will be recorded.

      The level of discomfort, presence of side effects (motor block, sedation, pruritis, and
      hypotension) will be evaluated at baseline, 10, 20, 30 minutes and every 30 minutes
      thereafter. Pain will be evaluated using a 100-mm visual analogue scale (VAS) with 0
      representing no pain and 100 representing the worst possible pain. We will track several PCEA
      parameters including volumes infused till study termination, Bolus Demands, Bolus Deliveries,
      time to first bolus etc.

      All other aspects of the patients' care will conform to usual standards.
    
  