
    
      A 12 month, non-randomized, controlled, prospective study evaluating the relationship between
      diabetic macular edema (DME) and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).

      Subjects eligible for the inclusion in the study will be grouped based on their diagnosis:
      DME & OSA positive, DME positive only, OSA positive only, and DME & OSA negative. All DME
      positive patients (irrespective of OSA status) will receive the standard of care treatment
      with anti-VEGF using Eylea in a standardized treat and extend protocol.

      All patients will undergo baseline ophthalmologic examinations as part of a regular clinic
      visit including best-corrected visual acuity, intraocular pressure, slit lamp exam, dilated
      retinal exam, fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Diagnosis of
      diabetic macular edema will be confirmed with standard domain OCT. Diagnosis of OSA will be
      confirmed through gold standard of overnight polysomnography.

      During each visit, the intraocular pressure and perfusion of the optic nerve head will be
      monitored for patient safety.

      DME positive patients will receive a minimum of 6 injections with the first five occurring at
      1-month intervals and the sixth occurring two months after the fifth. Further injections will
      be provided at the discretion of the ophthalmologist in according to the treat and extend
      protocol of Eylea. Data for Visits 1 and 4 in Table 1 will be collected at the first and
      sixth injections whereas the other injection visits will be treated as regular office visits
      and not study visits.

      The investigators aim to identify the presence of OSA using the gold standard testing of an
      overnight sleep study to determine the prevalence of OSA in the DME population. Further, the
      investigators will attempt to determine if there is a correlation of OSA by comparing it to
      non-DME patients who have NPDR.

      The mechanism of OSA action on diabetic microvascular complications may involve increased
      inflammatory responses and oxidative stress pathways such as increased advanced glycation end
      products. By comparing the gold standard metric of severity index of OSA (Apnea-hypopnea
      index) to DME metrics (LogMAR Snellen vision and CRT) at the baseline of both disease
      diagnoses, the investigators can determine severity association.

      The specific metrics of DME treatment (Vision, CRT, number of injections) will be compared to
      pre-CPAP data to determine what the impact of CPAP was (if any) on DME treatment metrics.
      Further, the investigators aim to compare the one-year post-CPAP DME treatment metrics
      against one-year non-CPAP/non-OSA patients to determine the relative impact against a control
      group.
    
  