
    
      Background The incidence of severe postoperative pain after shoulder surgery is 30% to
      70%.The postoperative pain should be relieved for early rehabilitation and recovery.
      Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) with opiate therapy may control some of the postoperative
      pain, but it has several side effects such as nausea, vomiting, and dizziness, which can
      prevent early discharge. Conversely, there are several regional blocks to control
      postoperative pain. Interscalene brachial plexus block (ISB) is known as one of the most
      effective regional blocks for shoulder surgery, but it has relatively short duration of
      effect.

      Dexmedetomidine (DEX), a selective agonist of α2-adrenergic receptors, can be an effective
      adjuvant to local anesthetics for peripheral nerve block. Preclinical and clinical studies
      have described prolonged duration of analgesia when dexmedetomidine was added to bupivacaine,
      levobupivacaine, or ropivacaine for peripheral perineural blocks.

      Pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-6 (IL-6), shows a high association with acute
      pain because they sensitize the nervous system. IL-6 levels in the plasma are detectable 60
      minutes after injury, peaking at 4-6 hours, and are proportional to tissue injury.

      Increased plasma cortisol concentrations can be detected within 15 minutes following exposure
      to a stressor. And several biomarkers related to pain have been studying.

      Method 50 patients with rotator cuff tears who had undergone arthroscopic rotator cuff
      repairs were enrolled in this study. Rotator cuff tears were diagnosed by preoperative
      magnetic resonance imaging, and the size of the rotator cuff was confirmed at the time of
      arthroscopic operation. Indication for surgery was a symptomatic full-thickness rotator cuff
      tear or a partial thickness rotator cuff tear of more than 50% thickness in case of failed
      conservative therapy. Twenty-five patients were randomly allocated to group 1 and received
      both ISB with 8mL of ropivacaine with 100 μg (1ml) of dexmedetomidine . The other 25 patients
      were allocated to group 2 and received ISB with 8mL of ropivacaine with 1ml of normal saline.

      Power analysis indicated that a total sample size of 46 patients (23 patients in each cohort)
      would provide a statistical power of 99% with a 2-sided a level of 0.05 to detect significant
      differences in the visual analog scale (VAS) score at 6 hours postoperatively, assuming an
      effect size of 0.88 (mean difference, 2.46, standard deviation, 2.8). This was based on the
      mean and standard deviation of the VAS at 6 hours postoperatively observed in a pilot study
      of 20 patients.

      Double-blinded randomization was performed as follows. The remaining 50 patients were
      randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups depending on the additional dexmedetomidine. Randomization
      was performed with a computerized random-sequence generator by an independent nurse who
      prepared a syringe for added dexmedetomidine or saline according to the assignment. The
      patients and all the medical staff who participated in the operation were blinded of the
      assignment.

      VAS pain score, IL-6, cortisol, IL-1beta, IL-8, and substance p, height, and weight were
      checked preoperatively. All ISB were performed preemptively under ultrasonographic guidance.
      After sterile preparation and draping of the injection area, the structures of the brachial
      plexus were identified using ultrasound (Sonosite M-Turbo 13 mHz linear probe; Sonosite Corp,
      Bothell, Washington). Injections were performed using an out-of-plane technique using a
      plexus needle (Plexus Nano Line Uniplex, 22 gauge, 50 mm; Pajunk Corp, Geisingen, Germany).
      Nerve stimulation was not conducted.

      PCA was set at a fixed dose (fentanyl, 0.05 mg/kg loading dose and 0.03 mg/min/kg continuous
      dose) to remove the effect of a variable amount of PCA. VAS pain score, IL-6, cortisol,
      IL-1beta, IL-8, and substance p, were checked 1, 6, 12, 24, and 48 hours postoperatively. VAS
      pain score was selected from 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the most severe pain
      that the patient had ever experienced.
    
  