
    
      General Approach: Single center, non-randomized, unblinded study of patients who are followed
      at Essentia Health - St. Mary's Medical Center and who are referred for a clinically
      indicated diagnostic EP study with or without ablation. During the procedure, events of
      atrial fibrillation, sinus rhythm or bundle branch block that may occur during the course of
      the case will be saved electronically and analyzed offline. These events may occur during the
      routine, clinically indicated portion of the procedure and will be saved should they occur.
      The stored data will be evaluated for changes in activation timing of the near- and far field
      ventricular signals of the stored events.

      Methods and Materials: Up to 50 patients will be enrolled by the primary investigator and/or
      associate investigators. As part of a usual EP study, catheters are placed in the coronary
      sinus and right ventricle. For studies involving catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation or
      other complex arrhythmias, a 3-dimensional mapping system is frequently used for catheter
      location in 3-dimensional space and is left to the clinical discretion of the operator at the
      time of the procedure. An EP-Med WorkMate workstation will be used to record and measure
      events as part of the usual clinical procedure.

        1. Data Acquisition: During the course of the case, a catheters placed in the right
           ventricular apex and coronary sinus will be used to record both near- and far-field
           signal during episodes of atrial fibrillation, sinus rhythm and bundle branch conduction
           disturbances should they occur. Near field-signal will be recorded between the distal
           and proximal pair of the catheter located in the right ventricular apex. Far-field
           signal will be measured between the distal electrode of the catheter in the right
           ventricular apex and distal electrode of the coronary sinus catheter. If 3-dimensional
           mapping is available, the spatial location of the right ventricular and coronary sinus
           catheters will be recorded. If 3-dimensional mapping is not available, fluoroscopic maps
           of catheter positions will be obtained. Recorded signal will be saved on the EP-Med
           WorkMate workstation at a sampling rate of 2000 Hz and amplitude of 78 nV per unit.

        2. Analysis: Patient identifiers will be purged from the saved events and printouts, and a
           study identification number will be assigned. Those saved events will be extracted for
           input into Matlab or Octave for analysis. Custom algorithms written by the primary
           investigator will be used. Both the ventricular far-field and ventricular nearfield
           electrograms will be analyzed. Initially, 3 consecutive ventricular signals during sinus
           rhythm will be evaluated for each patient and averaged to estimate the activation timing
           changes. A baseline template or reference activation sequence will be created for each
           patient and will be used as the reference for all further events from that patient. The
           signal will be rectified but no additional filtering will be applied. Using the peak
           farfield signal as time 0, the difference between near- and far-field peak signals will
           be measured and averaged for the three ventricular events. In turn any available atrial
           fibrillation or bundle branch block conduction disturbance evens will be analyzed using
           the same techniques. Differences between the reference activation sequence and other
           events will be measured and compared. In Figure 1, the upper pane shows an episode of
           baseline rhythm (sinus rhythm). During baseline rhythm for this event, the near-field
           peak signal consistently comes after the far-field peak signal. During ventricular
           tachycardia, the two peaks are nearly simultaneous, representing a change in activation
           timing because of a change in the activation circuit in the ventricles.
    
  