
    
      The Stanford Cancer Institute is undergoing a 5-year Transformation Initiative that began in
      2013. One of the goals of this initiative is to increase patient engagement. The underlying
      premise is that engaged patients will be more likely to attend all their visits, receive all
      their treatments, and understand ways to manage treatment side effects so that they are less
      likely to go to the emergency room (ER) or be admitted to the hospital. An approach being
      tested is to use lay navigators to help identify patient issues and help them address the
      issues through a combination of direct supportive activities (e.g., calling clinical team for
      the patient) and activities that help the patients help themselves (helping them understand
      when side effects warrant a call to their clinical team that they make themselves).

      Information including patient acceptance/refusal of navigator services; number and types of
      contacts with patients (phone, in-person, email); types of issues discussed (financial,
      social, educational, physical, emotional, etc); referrals made; and time spent with patients
      for each encounter will be routinely entered by the navigators for each patient contact. The
      data entered will be evaluated regularly to closely monitor navigator activities and better
      understand cancer patient issues/needs. This information will be used to inform possible
      training needs of navigators, educational needs of patients,needs for better referral
      support,help predict navigator case-load, and other issues.

      Eligibility Criteria:

      All new biopsy positive cancer patients that have a treatment plan to receive at least 2
      treatment modalities: surgery, chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy at Stanford are
      eligible. Because there will be more patients eligible than the navigators can manage, only
      patients with an even MRN will receive a navigator for the pilot. The overall purpose of the
      pilot is to learn which patients benefit most and which services navigators are able to best
      help with. The investigators expect the pilot to last 6-12 months. Mixed methods will be used
      to evaluate the navigators and will include existing patient experience surveys, unscheduled
      hospitalizations, ER visits, interviews with patients, staff (including navigators), and
      physicians regarding their experience with and perceived value of navigators.
    
  