
    
      The null hypotheses are as follows:

      The MuSICCA is not a valid tool for use with children and young people with Disorders Of
      Consciousness (DOC).

      The MuSICCA is not a reliable tool for use with children and young people with DOC.

      The MuSICCA is not a clinical useful tool for use with children and young people with DOC.

      The design has been chosen to test the validity and reliability of the MuSICCA. It will
      involve carrying out the two measures and comparing their results against the current gold
      standard (the Coma Recovery Scale-Revised) and the Coma-Near Coma Scale. The design is
      influenced by previous validation studies of these measures conducted with adults.

      There will be no control group because this is not a Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) and,
      therefore, no recruited participant will be deprived of the potential benefits of the
      measures. All participants will receive intervention through the administration of the
      protocols of the assessment measures.

      The study intends to recruit 80 participants. Recruitment will involve the following
      procedure. Medical/clinical teams at each site will identify potential participants according
      to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The participants' families will be contacted to
      invite them to a meeting to discuss the research. It will be made clear that there will be no
      obligation to attend the meeting and their care or treatment will not be reduced or withdrawn
      if they decide not to be involved in the study. Interested families will be informed about
      the research project at this initial meeting. This information will be delivered verbally in
      person by the assessing clinicians and the families will be given a participant information
      sheet, which will contain all the information about the research so that the family can think
      in their own time about the decision to involve their child. The information given will
      include: 1)what will be carried out during the assessments, 2)how data will be recorded
      (observation recording sheets, video recording), 3)how the data will be stored, 4)what the
      data will be used for, and 5)what will be done with the data when the study has finished. The
      information sheet will also contain information about the families' right to withdraw their
      child from the study at any time without consequence.

      The families will also be given the opportunity to ask questions so that they are satisfied
      that they understand why the research is being conducted, what the research will involve, and
      the extent of their child's involvement in the study if recruited.

      Data collection will take place over a 3-year period at sites in the United Kingdom (UK),
      United States, and other English-speaking countries, e.g. Australia, Canada and New Zealand.

      The data will consist of hand scored forms of the assessment tools and audio-visual
      recordings of the MuSICCA sessions. These recordings will be used to test the reliability of
      the MuSICCA between assessors and between assessment sessions.The selection and allocation of
      video recordings of sessions for inter-rater reliability will be carried out to control for
      differences of experience between assessing clinicians.

      In order to eliminate researcher bias, data will be collated by the trained assessors from
      the treating clinical team, and statistical analysis will be undertaken by an independent
      statistician. In order to eliminate bias during data collection, there will be no interim
      data analysis and data collectors (clinicians) will not be able to discuss with each other
      the findings of their assessments until after the assessments have been completed and the
      results submitted to the research assistant.

      Clinical utility of the MuSICCA will be evaluated using a questionnaire for each family and
      each assessing clinician using the tool. After each MuSICCA report is submitted and feedback
      given to the families, assessing clinicians and families will be asked to complete a short
      questionnaire to assess the clinical utility of the MuSICCA.

      Data storage Raw data (score forms and video recordings) will be stored on a secure
      cloud-based system. Access to the data will be managed and authorised by the Chief
      Investigator.

      Data analysis will be carried out by an independent statistician.
    
  