
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of atezolizumab and idasanutlin in patients with
      estrogen receptor positive (ER+) metastatic breast cancer (mBC) (Phase I).

      II. To determine the anti-tumor effect of atezolizumab and cobimetinib or idasanutlin in
      patients with ER+ mBC (Phase II).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the anti-tumor duration of effect of atezolizumab and cobimetinib or
      idasanutlin in patients with ER+ mBC (Phase II).

      II. To determine the safety and tolerability of atezolizumab and cobimetinib or idasanutlin
      in patients with ER+ mBC (Phase II).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if CD8+ T cells are enhanced in the tumor with either MEK or MDM2 inhibition
      (Phase II).

      II. To evaluate if MHC-I/II and/or PD-L1 expression is enhanced with MEK inhibition (Phase
      II).

      III. To evaluate if T cell chemotractants (CCL5, CXCL9,10,11,13) are upregulated upon MDM2
      antagonism (Phase II).

      IV. To determine if baseline or changes in PDL1 expression, MHC expression, presence of tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes, neoantigen expression/ mutation burden (using ribonucleic acid
      [RNA]-and whole exome sequencing), CCL5, CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, and CXCL13 correlate with
      clinical outcome (Phase II).

      V. To determine if immunological activity of MEK inhibition can be tracked noninvasively
      using Zr^89-atezolizumab (Phase II).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase 1, dose-escalation study of idasanutlin followed by a phase II
      study. Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants with TP53 gene mutation receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 60
      minutes starting with day 15 of course 1 and then on days 1 and 15 of subsequent courses, and
      cobimetinib orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Participants without TP53 gene mutation receive atezolizumab IV over 60 minutes
      starting with day 15 of course 1 and then on days 1 and 15 of subsequent courses, and
      idasanutlin PO daily on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed for 28 days.
    
  