
    
      Background

      Inflammation in the gallbladder due to obstruction of gallstones (acute cholecystitis) is a
      common condition and one of the most common indications for laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In
      most cases, the procedure may be performed without great risk of severe complications. In
      some cases, however, the congested bile in the gallbladder may become infected.

      In clinical routine, acute cholecystitis is often managed as an infectious condition, despite
      the fact that previous studies have shown that the bile in most cases of acute cholecystitis
      is sterile. On the other hand, antibiotic prophylaxis may reduce the risk of surgical site
      infections in those cases when there is a manifest bacterial contamination and, perhaps, also
      reduce the risk of contamination. There is firm evidence supporting acute surgery,
      prefereably laparoscopic cholecystectomy, but the benefit from antibiotic treatment has not
      been full evaluated.

      Previous studies have shown that the benefit from antibiotic prophylaxis is very limited in
      case of laparoscopic cholecystectomy for uncomplicated gallstone disease. There are, however,
      very few studies that have assessed antibiotic prophylaxis in surgery for acute
      cholecystitis.

      The aim of the present study is to assess the benefit of antibiotic prophylaxis in patients
      undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis.

      Methods The study is based on patients admitted for acute cholecystitis at the department of
      acute surgery, Karolinska University Hospital Huddinge. In case the patients fulfill the
      inclusion critera and are suitable for laparoscopic surgery, written and oral information
      about the study is given.

      In case they agree to participate in the study, treatment allocation is determined by a
      sealed envelope system. The patients are randomised to receive either Piperacillin 4g x 3 iv
      preoperatively as prophylaxis or placebo (saline infusion). The study is double-blind.
      Piperacillin/placebo is administrated by a research nurse after allocation. The infusion is
      covered by a bag in order to maintain blinding. Neither the surgeon performing the procedure,
      nor the patient or staff caring for the patient are informed about the allocation. The
      procedure should be performed within 24 days after inclusion. Administration of
      Piperacillin/placebo is started immediately after inclusion and continued until the procedure
      is completed.

      If a categorical indication for antibiotic treatment occurs during surgery, the allocated
      infusion is removed and the patient is given antibiotic as decided by the surgeon. In such
      cases, the patient stays in the study and is analysed according to an intention to treat.

      During the laparoscopic cholecystectomy, at least 10 cc of bile is aspirated under sterile
      conditions from the fundus of the gallbladder with a long needle before the start of the
      peritoneum dissection. The bile is sent for aerobic and anaerobic culture. Bacteria are
      identified using standard laboratory procedures.

      Sample size estimation If the incidence of positive cultures is 50% and in the placebo group
      and this is reduced to 25% if antibiotic prophylaxis is given, 36 patients in each arm would
      be required in order to reach 80% chance of detecting this difference at a p<0.05 level of
      significance (one sided test). A total sample of 100 patients should thus be sufficient to
      test the primary outcome measure.

      Follow-up Samples for CRP, interleukins, bilirubin, AST, ALT and ALP are taken daily from the
      peroperative day until postoperative day 2.

      Quality of life is assessed by SF-36 preoperatively. Level of pain is estimated based on the
      MacGill Pain Questionnaire from the day of the procedure until postoperative day 2.

      One month postoperatively, the patient is invited to follow-up. At follow-up, SF-36 is filled
      in.
    
  