
    
      Patients with severe brain injuries often have slow accumulating recoveries of function.
      Recently, the National Institute for Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) published
      data on their long-term outcomes of over 9,000 patients, 400 of which suffered disorders of
      consciousness (Nakase-Richardson et al. 2012). Patients were followed for 1, 2, and 5 year
      outcomes and several important and unexpected results were obtained: a large majority of
      patients initially in minimally conscious state (MCS) continued to improve recovering
      consciousness within a year and recovery was demonstrated to continue at the 2 and 5 year
      timepoints for as many as 20% of patients. In these cases outcomes included vocational
      reentry. Other studies have confirmed that MCS recovery can occur over long-time periods and
      lead to good outcomes or significant recovery of meaningful cognitive function despite
      enduring convalesce in MCS (Luaute et al. 2010, Lammi et al. 2005).

      In ongoing studies we have discovered that elements of electrical activity during sleep may
      correlate with the level of behavioral recovery observed in patients (Forgacs et al. 2014,
      Thengone et al. 2012). It is unknown, however, whether such changes are causally linked to
      behavioral recovery. Forgacs et al. 2014 showed a cross- sectional relationship between
      retention of key elements of sleep EEG architecture and behavioral level. Thengone et al.
      2012 correlated longitudinal changes in sleep architecture and quantitative spectral measures
      with behavioral recovery in 4 patients with severe brain injuries. No studies, however, have
      used an instrumental causal design to address whether improvement in sleep architecture can
      be promoted in patients with severe brain injuries and if so, whether or not changes in
      wakeful behavioral level are causally linked to such instrumentally generated changes in
      sleep.

      Sleep processes are associated with several critical processes supporting the cellular
      integrity of neurons and neuronal mechanisms associated with learning and synaptic
      modifications giving face validity to this approach. (Steriade, 1999; Tononi and Cirelli,
      2012). For example, studies in healthy volunteers (Huber et al. 2004) have provided evidence
      that local spindle density changes are associated with learning of specific information over
      sleep periods and can be topographically related to cortical populations engaged by the
      wakeful learning process. Additional evidence indicates that recovery of spindles within the
      electrical architecture of sleep is more associated with recovery of motor function in stroke
      (Gottselig, 2002). Collectively, although only a limited number of studies exist there is a
      biological basis for improvement in sleep architecture to potentially drive recovery and
      reorganization of brain networks organizing wakeful behavior.

      These known associations suggest the possibility that targeting the normalization of brain
      electrical activity during sleep may aid the recovery process. In fact, in one human subject
      studied here in our program, central thalamic deep brain stimulation (CT-DBS) applied
      beginning 20 years after severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) correlated with a normalization
      of sleep architecture beginning at the time after exposure to continuous DBS. These findings
      strongly suggest a link between increased driving of synaptic activity during the day and
      modification of sleep processes as this subject was only exposed to CT-DBS during daytime
      hours (Adams et al 2014). These findings improve the likelihood that there is a
      bi-directional causal relationship sleep dynamics and wakeful brain dynamics as linked to
      changes in behavior. Thus, the working hypothesis of the present study is that causal
      intervention to normalize sleep processes in patients with severe brain injuries may aid
      recovery of behavioral function.

      A well-studied mechanism organizing the normal patterns of electrical activity that
      characterizes sleep is the body's release of the substance melatonin. Melatonin is produced
      in the brain and released at a precise time during the day (normally around 8-10PM) to signal
      the brain to initiate aspects of the sleep process each day (Dijk, 1997). It is possible to
      exogenously trigger and drive melatonin signaling of sleep processes and initiation of sleep
      via oral dosing of the agent (Lewy et al. 1992). Use of oral melatonin supplements is common
      for pre- treatment of expected travel delay sleep disturbances ("jet lag") and has been
      investigated in treatment of mood disorders (Lewy et al. 1996).

      Thus, we propose to study the effects of melatonin administration in patients with severe
      structural brain injuries and disorders of consciousness. An existing, though small,
      literature supports the probable success of this study; in neurodegenerative patients
      melatonin supplementation has shown modest benefit in improving some cognitive and
      noncognitive symptoms (Riemersma-van der Lek et al. 2008). Pediatric patients with traumatic
      brain injuries have been considered for treatment with melatonin based on similar
      considerations (Keegan et al. 2013)

      What will we do: We will measure the patient's own timing of release of melatonin and provide
      a dose of melatonin at a standard time at night (8PM) to test the effects on the electrical
      activity of sleep over a three month period. In addition to brain electrical activity, we
      will record sleep behavioral data and physical activity using activity monitors worn by the
      patients. Patient subjects in this study will be studied twice during the three month period
      in three day inpatient visits where they will undergo video monitoring and sampling of brain
      electrical activity using pasted electrodes ("EEG"), hourly saliva sampling for one day, and
      participate in behavioral testing.

      Why are the risks proportionate? Melatonin is very safe and has a limited and known adverse
      effect profile (Buscemi at al. 2004) Melatonin does not accumulate and can be stopped. We
      will carefully monitor the first dose during an in-patient stay. Moreover, from an ethical
      frame there is in this study a clear intention to treat. If our hypothesis is supported
      patients will meaningfully improve in function.
    
  