
    
      25-30 Caucasian obese children will be enrolled at the Pediatric Department of San Paolo
      Hospital - University of Milan.

      Stool samples from all enrolled patients at the different time points (t0, before
      supplementation and diet-lifestyle intervention, t1, four months after supplementation and
      diet-lifestyle intervention and t2 four months after the end of supplementation and after the
      alone diet-lifestyle intervention) will be collected and stored at -80°C until the following
      investigation:

        1. study of the microbiota biodiversity by high-throughput sequencing techniques (16S rRNA
           gene sequencing) in order to establish whether postbiotics could modulate the microbial
           composition in obese children;

        2. analysis of short chain fatty acids concentration by gas-chromatography (GC-FID) in
           order to monitor the effect of postbiotics intake modulating microbial metabolite
           production.

      The following tasks will be also performed at t0, t1 and t2:

        -  Clinical examination including: physical examination, Tanner score evaluation; Bristol
           Stool Chart

        -  Blood pressure will be checked in all children by using oscillometric devices validated
           in the pediatric age group.

        -  Anthropometry including body circumferences and skinfolds, calculation of BMI z scores
           and body composition. Body composition will be assessed using an air displacement
           plethysmography system (BOD POD COSMED-USA).

        -  Dietary assessment:

             1. Food intakes will be recorded by prospective 3-d weighed food records obtained with
                food scales. Parents will be advised on how to record all food and beverages
                consumed during 2 weekdays and 1 weekend day. Quantification and analysis of the
                energy intake and nutrient composition will be performed with an ad hoc PC software
                (MètaDieta®, Me.Te.Da S.r.l., San Benedetto del Tronto, Italy).

             2. Mediterranean Diet Quality Index (KIDMED) questionnaire for Mediterranean Diet
                assessment. The KIDMED index ranges from 0 to 12, and is based on a 16-question
                test that can be self-administered. The sums of the values from the administered
                test will be classified into three levels:

                  1. 8 or more: optimal Mediterranean diet;

                  2. 4-7: improvement needed to adjust intake to Mediterranean patterns.

                  3. 3 or less: very low diet quality.

        -  Hematological and biochemical status including:

             1. Complete cell blood count;

             2. Metabolic and nutritional parameters according to local routines for childhood
                obesity (fasting glucose, fasting insulin, LDL, HDL, total cholesterol,
                triglycerides, Apolipoprotein A and Apolipoprotein B levels, transaminases and
                amma-glutamyl transferase). Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) will be performed.
                The insulin sensitivity and insulin resistance was assessed by calculating HOMA
                index (Homeostasis Model Assessment) and QUICKI (Quantitative Insulin-Sensitivity
                Check Index), using the following formulas:

                  -  HOMA: fasting plasma insulin in mU/l x FPG in mmol/l/22.5

                  -  QUICKI: 1/(log10 fasting plasma insulin in mU/l + log10 glucose in mg/dl)

             3. Inflammatory index (VES, high-sensitive CRP, including fecal calprotectin)

        -  Liver ultrasonography will be performed by a single evaluator.

      All participants will follow a behavior (promotion of physical activity) and dietary
      treatment according to Italian dietary guidelines for childhood obesity.

      Postbiotics will be given at the dose of 80 mg/day (2 ml per day SMART D3 MATRIX Smartfarma
      S.r.l. Via San Vittore 40 - 20123 MILAN; fermented fructooligosaccharides from Lactobacillus
      paracasei strain CNCM I-5220). 2 mk of product will give 1600 UI/die of VIT D3.
    
  