
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a common, costly, and potentially lethal disease in the US. While
      patients with PE are almost universally treated as inpatients and their length of hospital
      stay (LOS) varies widely, there is evidence that outpatient care with low-molecular-weight
      heparins or early discharge of hospitalized patients are effective and safe options for up to
      50% of patients with PE. However, physicians may be reluctant to treat patients with PE on an
      outpatient basis or with brief hospitalization when the perceived risk of mortality or
      experiencing a short-term adverse outcome is not well quantified. The study will develop a
      clinical prediction rule to identify patients with acute pulmonary embolism who are at very
      low risk for short-term adverse outcomes.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The retrospective cohort study will develop a clinical prediction rule that accurately
      identifies low-risk patients with PE who are potential candidates for outpatient care or
      early discharge. The specific aims are 1) to derive a clinical prediction rule that
      identifies patients with PE who have a very low 30-day mortality risk (<= 2%), and 2) to
      assess the performance of this rule in predicting other relevant outcomes (i.e., major
      bleeding, respiratory failure [RF], cardiogenic shock, cardiac arrest) or processes of care
      (i.e., thrombolysis, mechanical ventilation [MV], intensive care unit (ICU) admission, length
      of hospital stay, hospital readmission).

      The study uses 3 large and reliable databases, the PHC4 database, the MediQual Atlas
      database, and the National Death Index (NDI). These databases contain a rich set of clinical
      information and outcomes data. The prediction rule for prognosis will be derived from 8,000
      patients discharged with a diagnosis of PE from all acute care hospitals in Pennsylvania
      during the calendar years 2000-2001. Patients with PE will be identified using primary
      ICD-9-CM discharge codes for PE or secondary discharge codes for PE coupled with primary
      discharge codes that represent complications or treatments of PE. Baseline data that include
      35 potential clinical predictors of short-term mortality in PE will be abstracted from the
      PHC4/Atlas databases.

      The primary outcome will be 30-day mortality ascertained from the NDI; secondary outcomes
      will be major bleeding, respiratory failure, cardiogenic shock, cardiac arrest, thrombolysis,
      mechanical ventilation, ICU admission, length of hospital stay, and readmission.
      Classification tree analysis will be used to construct a simple clinical prediction rule that
      identifies a 20% subgroup of all patients with a 30-day mortality rate of 2% or less. The
      predictive accuracy of this rule will be externally validated in an independent cohort of
      4,000 patients with PE from calendar year 2002 using identical patient identification
      strategies as for the derivation cohort. The safety of this rule will be tested in the
      validation cohort by computing the proportion of very low-risk patients who die within
      30-days or have another adverse outcome. This innovative application will derive a clinical
      prediction rule for prognosis that has the potential to improve the cost-effectiveness of the
      management for PE. The long-term goal of this project will be to validate and implement this
      rule in prospective studies to test its safety and effectiveness and to establish future
      admission/early hospital discharge recommendations for patients with PE.
    
  