
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is an extremely common condition. Between 1.9 and 3.6 million
      patients consult a healthcare professional for IBS each year in the UK (1). The total
      population prevalence is much higher as most IBS sufferers are non-consulters due to the
      perceived lack of effective treatments. IBS can be sub-classified based upon predominating
      bowel habit, i.e. constipation predominant (IBS-C), alternating bowel habit (IBS-A) or
      diarrhoea predominant (2). In recent years, several efficacious treatment approaches have
      been applied to IBS including dietary interventions (low fibre and low fermentable
      oligosaccharides, disaccha¬rides, monosaccharides and polyols (FODMAP)), probiotics (VSL#3)
      and pharmacological agents (linaclotide) (3). Whilst each of these treatment approaches have
      shown efficacy, it is clear that further refinement of the IBS diagnostic algorithm is
      required to better target therapies in order to overcome the inherent heterogeneity within
      the IBS population.

      Bloating and distension are both common and vexatious symptoms in a proportion of IBS
      patients. Bloating is largely regarded as a subjective sensation of abdominal swelling,
      whereas distension refers to an observable increase in abdominal girth. Bloating is
      associated with a reduction in quality of life, is a cause for healthcare seeking and
      represents a considerable challenge to manage effectively.

      The anaerobic breakdown of carbohydrates and protein by bacteria, largely occurring within
      the proximal colon, is through a process known as fermentation, the principal products of
      which are short chain fatty acids (SCFA). One of the proposed mechanisms of bloating and
      distension is colonic dysbiosis and subsequent mal-fermentation. This has been supported by
      data which show that a large proportion of IBS patients improve symptomatically when
      restricting their diet to an 'elemental' formula for 2-4 weeks thus reducing the amount of
      fermentable material in the intestinal lumen.

      The direct in vivo measurement of SCFA concentrations in the human proximal colon is
      technically difficult and invasive. Given that the degree of bacterial fermentation is
      directly proportional to the concentration of SCFA, the measurement of segmental
      intra-colonic pH is an inverse surrogate proxy of the degree of fermentation occurring within
      that territory. We have recently shown that measurement of caecal pH using the wireless
      motility capsule (WMC) in IBS and control patients is both technical feasible and able to
      differentiate between the two populations (4).

      Our study showed that caecal pH is significantly lower in IBS when compared to controls thus
      supporting the concept that mal-fermentation is contributing to IBS symptomatology.
      Importantly, we have also shown that caecal pH is correlated with inhibition of caecal
      contractility which has led us to propose the idea that 'caecoparesis' maybe the long sought
      after alteration in motor function which differentiates IBS patients from healthy
      participants and explains why IBS preferentially experience pain in the right colon and upper
      abdomen in response to balloon distension.

      TRIAL OBJECTIVES The primary aim of this study is to demonstrate that caecal pH is a
      sensitive and reliable biomarker of caecal fermentation in IBS and that normalisation of the
      caecal pH environment will correlate with symptomatic improvement in IBS patients. We
      hypothesise that normalisation of the caecal pH environment with either dietary intervention
      or linaclotide will correlate with symptomatic improvement in IBS patients. To achieve this
      we will recruit a cohort of Rome III defined IBS patients and sub-divide them into the
      appropriate IBS type based on symptoms. We will then characterise their phenotype in terms of
      gastro-intestinal physiology (WMC + lactulose hydrogen breath test) and psychological
      profile. They will then be allocated to one of (2 or 3) treatment arms (control diet, low
      FODMAP diet, control diet + linaclotide). Each treatment arm will last for 28 days after
      which WMC will be repeated and symptoms assessed. Secondary aims will include characterising
      motility and transit in IBS-sub groups, determining the effect of the interventions of
      motility and transit, comparison of ileal and caecal pH profiles with hydrogen / methane
      breath testing data and comparison of symptom change and physiological assessment outcomes.
    
  