
    
      The management of acute myocardial infarction (MI) continues to undergo major changes,
      because it remains to be a major cause of death and disability worldwide. Myocardial
      infarction may be the first manifestation of coronary artery disease or it may occur,
      repeatedly, in patients with established disease. The term "myocardial infarction" may have
      major psychological and legal implications for the individual and society. It is an indicator
      of one of the leading health problems in the world and it is an outcome measure in clinical
      trials.

      Coronary heart disease is a chronic condition and patients are at high risk for new events
      and premature death. Several evidence-based interventions can improve prognosis. Lifestyle
      changes should be explained and proposed to the patients before discharge, including
      cessation of smoking, blood pressure control, and advice regarding diet and weight control,
      and the encouragement of physical activity. Exercise therapy has long been used for
      rehabilitation purposes and the benefit of regular physical exercise is also well
      established. 1 The intensity of aerobic exercise training is a key issue in cardiac
      rehabilitation programmes. Exercise intensity is directly linked to both the amount of
      improvement in exercise capacity and the risk of adverse events during exercise, and
      intensity ranges for aerobic training prescription and design are included in several
      guidelines and publications regarding secondary prevention and cardiac rehabilitation.
      Aerobic fitness is recognized as a robust indicator of cardiovascular health and a
      well-established predictor of total and cardiovascular mortality in subjects with and without
      coronary heart disease. Direct measurements of peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) and ventilatory
      thresholds are considered the gold standard references for the evaluation of aerobic
      metabolism function and, consequently, for aerobic exercise intensity assessment and design.
      The increase of VO2peak after a period of exercise training depends of the components of
      frequency, intensity, time or volume, and type or modality (FITT principle), which constitute
      the key to achieve a safe exercise training effect. Endurance aerobic training is typically
      performed as continuous training at moderate to-high exercise intensity in steady-state
      conditions of aerobic energetic yield. However, interval training (i.e., repeated bouts of
      short-duration, high to severe- or severe to extreme-intensity exercise, separated by brief
      periods of lower-intensity) has been proposed to be more effective than continuous exercise
      for improving exercise capacity. Adding to that, health-related adaptations to low-volume and
      high intensity interval training have been presented. This type of training is characterized
      by sessions that involve a relatively small total amount of exercise at high-intensity (i.e.,
      ≤10 min). To our knowledge, there are no studies that compare HIIT with different volume
      exercise in patients who have suffered MI.

      On the other hand, the relevance of overall high-quality food patterns, rather than focus on
      single nutrients and foods, has emerged as a powerful paradigm to address the diet and to
      assess their potential cardiovascular disease preventive effects. The Mediterranean Diet,
      representing the dietary pattern usually consumed among the populations bordering the
      Mediterranean sea, has been widely reported to be a model of healthy eating for its
      contribution to a favourable health status and a better quality of life, reducing in overall
      mortality from cardiovascular diseases.

      Considering all the above mentioned in MI population: 1) the combination of the Mediterranean
      Diet with exercise seems critical in greater reduction of mortality from cardiovascular
      disease and improved cardiovascular biomarkers, 2) no previous studies have compared the
      effects of a combined dietary recommendations specific to people after MI with exercise
      training at high intensity interval training and different volumes (i.e., high- and
      low-volume).INTERFARCT study is designed to investigate what effect different 16-week aerobic
      INTERval exercise programs with Mediterranean Diet recommendations will have in people after
      suffering an acute myocardial inFARCTion.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To assess the effects of different programs of high intensity aerobic interval training and
      Mediterranean Diet recommendations in the clinical condition, cardio-respiratory fitness,
      biomarkers, ventricular function and perception of quality of life after myocardial
      infarction.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        1. To analyze the differences in the studied variables between the two high intensity
           aerobic interval training programs (high volumen vs low volume) with Mediterranean Diet
           recommendations to observe the effect of exercise volume.

        2. To analyze whether a treatment with only recommendations (exercise and diet) is
           effective in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease comparing to supervised
           exercise.
    
  