
    
      Gestational diabetes is usually managed with diet and insulin, if needed. However, oral
      metformin therapy has been also used to treat gestational diabetes and the short-term studies
      have shown that it is effective and also safe for the child. However, long-term studies of
      its effects are lacking.

      Previously, several years ago, 217 pregnant women with gestational diabetes in Turku and 100
      such women in Oulu, Finland, were randomised to either insulin or metformin therapy to treat
      gestational diabetes. In those studies, the metformin therapy proved to be safe in the
      short-term.

      Now these children are 5-9 years old. In the present study these children (as well as their
      mothers) are investigated when the children are 9 years old. The aim is to study whether the
      metformin given during the pregnancy has any metabolic effects on the child at 9 years of
      age. To do this these families are contacted by mail and asked to participate into the study.

      At 9 years of age, the following investigations will be made (after consent from the child
      and family): oral glucose tolerance test+insulin+c-peptide, plasma lipoproteins, adiponectin,
      PAI-1 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), IL-6 (interleukin-6), HS CRP (high-sensitivity
      C-reactive protein), p-metabolomics, DEXA, abdominal MRI, WISC IV (Wechsler intelligence
      scale for children IV)cognitive testing, BRIEF questionnaire, questionnaire about diet and
      health habits. The study subjects will also be clinically examined and measured and blood
      pressure will be taken.

      All analyses are performed at the University hospital laboratory and radiology facilities
      using modern techniques. The amount of blood taken is limited and also radiation dose from
      DEXA is very small. The data are kept behind lock and key. Statistical analyses will be
      performed to study whether children exposed to metformin during pregnancy have any
      differences in their metabolism and well-being than those exposed to insulin. This study
      involves no new medical treatments to the study subjects.
    
  