
    
      Patients attending the unit as part of their normal outpatients' appointment will be
      approached with regards to whether interested in taking part in the study. During an
      outpatients appointment all new chronic cough patients undertake Demographics assessment,
      full blood count, spirometry test, FeNO measurement and concomitant medication as part of
      their standard medical care. If a patient decides to take part in this study then at this
      visit they will have further tests outside their standard medical care including, sputum
      induction, completion of Leicester cough questionnaire, cough challenge and 24 hr cough
      monitoring at the screening visit. All the data collected in terms of the clinic visit and
      additional tests will be analysed in this study.

      40 patients with chronic cough and a FeNO≥30 ppb will be enrolled in to the High FeNO
      Treatment Groups. They will be randomised on a 1:1 ratio to receive either: Montelukast 10 mg
      daily for four weeks or Prednisolone 20 mg daily for two weeks followed by two weeks
      Montelukast 10 mg. 20 subjects with chronic cough and a FeNO≤20 ppb will be enrolled in low
      FeNO Treatment Group will receive montelukast 10 mg for 28 days.

      The study consists of five visits to the unit. The first visit will be combined with the
      patients scheduled clinic appointment. During this visit the investigators will carry out
      some preliminary assessments such as checking medical history, physical examination, full
      blood count and vital signs. Demographics assessments, spirometry test, FeNO measurement and
      concomitant medication will be recorded as per their scheduled clinic visit.

      Further testing will be conducted with regards to the study, these tests include: sputum
      induction, cough challenge, Hull Airways Reflux Questionnaire (HARQ), Leicester Cough
      Questionnaire (LCQ) and 24h cough monitoring all these tests will be operated at baseline and
      after 2 weeks and 4 weeks treatment.

      Also pregnancy test for women of child bearing potential is required in this study.

      At the end of visit 1, patients will receive 14 or 28 days' supply of the randomised study
      medication.

      Visit 2 (13th day) and visit 4 (27th day): Participants will be asked to come to the unit
      where The Hull Automated Cough Counter will be applied to measure their cough frequency for
      24 hours at the end of their treatment.

      Visit 3 (14th day) and visit 5 (28th day): Patients will be assessed for any adverse events
      and any changes in concomitant medication use during the trial and also their vital signs
      will be checked. After that the FeNo measurement, Pulmonary Function Tests, cough challenge,
      sputum induction, 24h cough monitoring, Hull Airways Reflux Questionnaire (HARQ) and
      Leicester Cough Questionnaire (LCQ) will be repeated to compare with the first assessment.

      At the end of the study all patients will be reviewed by a chronic cough registrar/consultant
      as per the standard care as a clinic patient.
    
  