
    
      The study is a prospective, randomized, and open-label education intervention trial. Patients
      with AF and a CHA₂DS₂-VASc score of 2 or greater will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to an
      early intervention cohort and a delayed intervention cohort within each participating health
      plan. The definition for OAC medication fill will be an OAC medication dispensing or at least
      4 INR tests in the claims data. The claims records of the patients randomized to the early
      intervention cohort will then be linked to "fresh" (i.e. about 1 month old) pharmacy claims
      data at the time of randomization. Patients without evidence of an OAC medication fill during
      the 12 months prior to randomization will be included in the patient-level and provider-level
      early educational intervention. In addition to usual care, these patients and their
      providers, where an individual provider may be identified, will receive a one-time mailing at
      trial start. Patients randomized to this early intervention with evidence of an OAC
      medication fill during the 12 months prior to randomization will be excluded from the trial.

      The delayed intervention cohort will receive usual care over the initial study period. After
      the date on which at least 80% of eligible study participants have at least 12 months of
      follow-up time, "fresh" pharmacy claims data for the delayed intervention cohort that was
      generated and locked at the time of randomization will be used to assess trial eligibility,
      and those patients without evidence of an OAC medication fill during the 12 months prior to
      randomization will be included in the primary and secondary analyses as the delayed
      intervention arm. Patients randomized to the delayed intervention arm with evidence of an OAC
      medication fill during the 12 months prior to randomization will be excluded from the trial
      and will not be included in analyses. The baseline characteristics of the delayed
      intervention patients will be examined at the same time point as the early intervention
      patients, meaning at the time of randomization. The primary outcome is a comparison of the
      proportion of patients not on OAC during the 12 months prior to randomization, who were
      started on OAC over the course of the follow-up through the date on which at least 80% of
      eligible study participants have at least 12 months of follow-up time in the early versus the
      delayed intervention arm. A total of approximately 80,000 patients (randomized 1:1) across
      all participating data partners (Aetna, Harvard Pilgrim, Anthem [of which HealthCore is a
      subsidiary], Humana, and Optum) will be enrolled from participating data partners across the
      United States. The follow-up time for the primary outcome will be 12 months from the date at
      which at least 80% of eligible study participates are enrolled (date on which early
      intervention materials are mailed).

      The providers of patients in the delayed cohort who did not receive OAC medication during the
      course of the 12-month study period and meet the inclusion criteria will receive the delayed
      intervention: the provider-only education intervention, a one-time mailing administered 12
      months after at least 80% of early intervention mailings have occurred (patients will not
      receive any educational materials). The investigators intend to assess the primary and
      secondary endpoints again 24 months after at least 80% of early intervention mailings have
      occurred to assess the durability and longer-term outcomes of the effect of the patient- and
      provider-level education intervention, as well as the use of OAC following the delayed
      provider-level education intervention. However, as this second assessment is exploratory,
      investigators may not conduct these analyses if the results of the primary outcome are
      consistently null.

      Because the Sentinel Distributed Database will be used for follow-up information, and this
      information is refreshed approximately quarterly and this is done on separate timetables for
      the different health plans, it is likely that when at least the required follow-up time is
      available for at least 80% of people, there will be more than 12 or 24 months of followup for
      over 80% of people. All participants' outcomes will be assessed using all possible
      person-time; patients will have different duration of follow-up.
    
  