
    
      Obesity, smoking and alcohol dependence are major health burdens to society. Relapse after
      alcohol and smoking abstinence is common despite the use of combined behavioural support and
      current limited available medications. In obesity, nonsurgical interventions have also been
      disappointing in achieving longterm weight loss. Therefore, there is a pressing need to
      develop novel drug treatments for addiction derived from knowledge of brain mechanisms
      related to relapse and reward responses to food and drugs.

      There is evidence in animals that some gut hormones, produced in the stomach and intestine,
      influence the consumption of food and desire for food, but also alcohol, nicotine and other
      drugs of abuse. Examples of such gut hormones are glucagon-like peptide1 (GLP1) and ghrelin.

      The influence of these hormones is exerted through brain systems involved in the core
      behavioural components of addiction: reward sensitivity, stress, impulsivity and
      compulsivity. These components are often also seen in obesity and food-related disorders such
      as binge eating disorder. It is unknown whether these gut hormones directly influence the
      core behavioural components of addiction in humans, particularly during abstinence.

      The investigators will examine the acute effects of Exenatide (mimics GLP1) and desacyl
      ghrelin (counteracts active acyl ghrelin), which are infused through a vein, on brain reward
      systems, craving for food, cigarettes and alcohol, and addictive and eating behaviours.

      The investigators will recruit adults with nicotine or alcohol dependence who have recently
      stopped smoking or drinking, and overweight/obese adults. The investigators will use
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain scans and computer-based test over 3
      separate study days to study different aspects of eating and addictive behaviours.
    
  