
    
      The MTS Online Feasibility Study is funded for through a five-year K23 NIH training grant
      awarded to Dr. James Davis, the Principal Investigator on this protocol. The study enrollment
      goal is N=50 adult smokers. MTS Online is an Internet-based smoking cessation intervention
      that provides access to video material and instructional support for 8 mindfulness classes
      over a 6-week period. The MTS Online Feasibility Study aims to explore the feasibility of an
      Internet-based version of MTS, specifically looking at issues of on-line participation and
      Internet site use, adherence to instructed mindfulness practice regimen, and overall
      acceptability of MTS Online to a smoking population.

      Participants will be recruited for MTS Online through existing recruitment mechanisms already
      in place for MTS. Specifically, participants who decline or are excluded from the MTS Study
      due solely to scheduling conflicts will be offered participation in MTS Online. All other
      inclusion/exclusion criteria are identical to the MTS study and discussed below.

      After a decline or exclusion from the MTS Study due to scheduling and no other reason,
      research assistant will ask the caller if they would like the phone number for the Wisconsin
      Tobacco Quit Line and will ask the caller if they would like to hear about an online version
      of the MTS program. If the participant says they are interested, the RA will read a
      description of the online program and phone screening through the MTS Online Phone Screening
      Script. This script includes all inclusion and exclusion criteria found in the MTS Study,
      with the exception of the question on whether the caller can attend all the class meetings.
      If at the end of the phone script, the caller decides that they would like to come in for an
      Orientation Meeting, they will be sent an email providing instructions for scheduling their
      Orientation Meeting.

      During the Orientation Meeting/Study Visit 1 MTS staff will provide a general description of
      the study and review the study consent form. If potential participants choose to join the
      study they will sign the consent form. After signing consent potential participants will be
      provided instruction on the use of nicotine patches, smoking calendars and will be provided
      with intervention materials. Research Assistants will assist participants as they log onto
      the MTS Online website and create a unique user ID. This ID will be used for all MTS Online
      features including communicating through the online forum and viewing instructional videos.
      Potential participants will be given a course schedule with a "class time" for their first
      class. After this, participants will fill out a Scan Form Questionnaire and proceed to
      collection of clinical measurements.

      Intervention/Study Sign Up: During the Orientation potential participants will be provided
      with instructions on how to sign up for the intervention and study. This will include the
      following steps that must be completed through the individual's own Internet access (i.e. not
      completed at UW-CTRI).

        1. Sign on to the MTS Online Forum using the username and password provided during the
           orientation.

        2. Respond to the question "Do you want to join the MTS Online Study?" with the answer
           "Yes." Participants will be asked to review Class 1 in the MTS Instructional Video and
           MTS Manual before or during the time scheduled for Class 1. After this time,
           participants will be asked begin using various mindfulness practices and answer some
           questions provided by their instructor on how the practices went. This takes place
           primarily on the MTS Forum where other class participants can benefit from the
           interaction. Participants will, however, also have access to the instructors email
           address for private interactions.

      Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT): All participants will receive two weeks of nicotine
      patches to start on their Quit Day. Patches will be provided by the MTS Study and mailed
      directly to PO Box or home address provided by participants approximately 10 days prior to
      their Quit Day (to assure ample time for delivery). Patch dosing for all participants will be
      as follows:

      14 mg patches for participants who smoke 10 or fewer cigarettes per day 21 mg patches for
      participants who smoke over 10 cigarettes per day

      MTS Online: Participants will have access to 8 classes over a 6-week period through the MTS
      Online website - www.sittoquit.org. The first 5 classes include instruction through the MTS
      Instructional Video and MTS Manual. The last 3 classes are provided through materials in the
      MTS Manual alone. The MTS website contains forum designed specifically for the MTS Online
      Participants. On this forum, MTS Online Feasibility Study participants can discuss topics
      related to smoking and mindfulness in discussion groups moderated by MTS mindfulness
      instructors. Participants will also be provided with the MTS Audio-CD that contains guided
      mindfulness exercises.

      MTS Online Classes: MTS Online classes are provided through the MTS Instructional Video and
      MTS Manual. The classes provide instruction in mindfulness mediation, mindful walking,
      mindful eating, and other mindfulness exercises. MTS Online classes provide instruction on
      how to use mindfulness skills to manage relapse challenges such as smoking triggers, craving,
      withdrawal symptoms, strong emotions, and stressful situations. The forum serves as a quit
      smoking support group and provides a place for participants to learn from one another's
      challenges and through the guidance of a mindfulness instructor. MTS Online classes are
      available through the MTS Online website. The classes will follow a regular schedule in which
      participants are to have watched the video material by a certain date (see course schedule
      above). Following this time, a forum discussion will begin on the website, moderated by the
      MTS Online mindfulness instructor.

      MTS Online Quit Day: Guidelines will be provided to participants for conducting their own
      personal Quit Day. Participants are encouraged to set aside additional time for mindfulness
      practice during their Quit Day. Online forum discussion will also take place on the Quit Day.
      Nicotine patches will be started on the Quit Day and will be continued for 2 weeks.

      MTS Online Instructors: Five instructors will moderate various waves of MTS Online. These
      five include the three instructors who have been trained to teach the Mindfulness Training
      for Smokers Intervention (see Key Personnel). In addition, the study PI, Dr. James Davis, and
      a graduate student working on the project, Simon Goldberg, will co-facilitate the early
      waves. All five MTS Online instructors have completed UW IRB modules provided for Research on
      Human Subjects. The three MTS instructors have been teaching the MTS course for the last 12
      months. MTS Instructors have education the equivalent of a BA/BS or higher and have 2 or more
      years experience teaching meditation and mindfulness practices. MTS Instructors have
      completed the MTS Instructor Training Course provided over a weekend. MTS Instructor Training
      includes standard methods normally provided at CTRI including HIPPA training and UW-IRB
      training for individuals involved in research on human subjects. Instructor Training also
      includes instruction on how to conduct MTS including training to familiarize instructors with
      the MTS Instructional Video, MTS Audio CD and MTS Manual. The list of Key Personnel on the
      IRB protocol will be updated as new instructors are trained.

      MTS Instructional Video: The MTS Instructional Video is a 2-hour DVD course with interviews
      provided by multiple nationally recognized experts on mindfulness and smoking addiction. It
      describes how to apply mindfulness to overcome obstacles in smoking addiction. The video is
      divided into five chapters, one chapter for each class prior to the Quit Day. Most chapters
      are 15- 20 minutes long. The chapters will provide the primary course material for MTS
      Online. Participants will be instructed to watch portions of the video on a pre-specified
      schedule (see above) and participate in forum discussion on topics addressed in the video.

      MTS Manual: The MTS Manual contains organizational materials, conceptual information and
      class exercises. It follows the format of the MTS Video but expands on the information. The
      manual is intended to reinforce and expand participants understanding of how to use
      mindfulness to quit smoking.

      MTS Website: The MTS website is available through the URL: www.sittoquit.org. The MTS website
      contains a 2-minute video on the homepage that provides information on the study and
      intervention. MTS Online participants will be able to gain access to other parts of the web
      site by use of a unique login name and password created during the Orientation Meeting/Study
      Visit 1. The MTS website contains a meeting calendar, the MTS Instructional Video, the MTS
      Manual and the MTS Online Forum specially designed so that participants in the MTS Online
      Feasibility Study can interact with MTS Instructors and other participants. An additional
      forum exists for non-Online participants (i.e. participants in the non-online MTS study). The
      website is maintained through University of Wisconsin information technology services.
      Activity on the web site will be monitored by the PI and by a UW CTRI IT specialist.

      Daily Meditation/MTS Audio CD: MTS Online participants will be asked to meditate each day
      with the MTS Audio CD starting after their first mindfulness class and continuing until 1
      month after their Quit Day, although participants will be encouraged to practice meditation
      indefinitely. The MTS Audio-CD contains a 15-minute and a 30-minute guided meditation
      practice. The CD was made by Dr. James Davis and provides instructions for mindfulness
      meditation.
    
  