
    
      Research and theory concur in suggesting that certain maternal activities have both immediate
      and protracted consequences for children's cognitive development in the first years of life.
      Two conceptually distinct categories of caretaker-child interactions can be identified:
      social and didactic. These encompass much of the everyday behavior of infants' caretakers.
      There are data linking both of these types of behavior to cognitive development in children.
      In previous work we have investigated these relations in early infancy using samples of
      convenience. In the proposed study set, this work will be replicated and extended by focusing
      on the extent to which the characteristics of maternal age, employment status, parenthood
      status and birthorder of the child influence observed relations between maternal, social and
      didactic caretaking on the one hand and infant, toddler, preschool age, and middle childhood,
      and adolescent social and cognitive competencies on the other. For a subset of infants of
      employed mothers, their substitute caregivers will be added to the sample. Understanding the
      full range of experience for those infants with multiple caregivers is important in the
      context of a study designed to elucidate dimensions of experience that influence social and
      cognitive development. Naturalistic mother-infant interaction will be observed when infants
      are 5 months old. When study participants are 20 months old, measures of toddler functioning
      (e.g., play competence and language development) and maternal behavior (e.g., encouragement
      of attention to the environment, I.Q.) will be obtained. At 48 months, measures of
      preschooler psychosocial functioning (e.g., I.Q., cognitive and social competencies) and
      maternal behavior (e.g., "scaffolding") will be obtained. At age 10 and 14 years, data
      assessing the child's adjustment, development, and functioning in multiple areas will be
      obtained from the child, both parents, and the schoolteacher (age 10 only). Measures of
      parental attitudes and family functioning will also be obtained. Theoretical formulations
      about how specific parent-child interactions may contribute to cognition have challenged
      investigators to look beyond demographic variables as markers of parental stimulation and to
      consider specific relations between types of interactions and the acquisition of particular
      skills at different points in time. Understanding the mechanisms linking experience in early
      infancy through toddlerhood, the preschool years, middle childhood and early adolescence with
      intellectual and social functioning is an essential aspect of normative developmental
      research. In addition, examining these phenomena cross-culturally will contribute importantly
      to our understanding of children and their families.
    
  