
    
      Under nutrition among geriatric patients is a recurrent and well documented problem. Up to 55
      % of the elderly are undernourished at the time of admission. Hospitalisation and acute
      illness are associated to loss of muscles and physical ability, complications, dependency,
      morbidity and mortality. Elderly who live alone are more vulnerable to nutritional problems,
      than elderly who live together with another person or in a nursing home. Geriatric patients,
      who are admitted to geriatric ward Aarhus University Hospital due to various acute somatic
      disorders, aged 75 and older and who are living alone with help from the home care facilities
      can participate in the study. According to the power calculation 150 patients must be
      included, 50 patients in each arm of the study. Informed consent will be obtained before
      inclusion and discharge from hospital. Randomization will be computerised and determine if
      the patient will be allocated to the "home visit" group, the "telephone consultation" group
      or the "control group". Patients who suffer from mental disorder (MMSE<22) or active cancer
      are excluded as well as patients who live together with another person or live in a nursing
      home. During hospitalisation the three groups will receive the same nutritional care as all
      patients in nutritional risk. This includes nutritional intervention during hospitalization
      and an individual diet plan at discharge. Patients in the home visit arm will get visits from
      a clinical dietician at one week, two weeks and four weeks after discharge. Patients in the
      telephone consultation arm will be contacted by a clinical dietician at one week, two weeks
      and four weeks after discharge. In both intervention groups the patients and their home care
      helpers will get dietary advice and follow up on their individual diet plan. The main outcome
      is functional ability from discharge and to 8 weeks after discharge. Secondary outcomes are
      quality of life, readmission at 30 and 90 days and mortality at 30 and 90 days.
    
  