
    
      We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind study to compare the effectiveness of
      intravenous metoprolol with that of diltiazem in achieving rate control in adult ED patients
      with rapid atrial fibrillation or flutter. Approval of the study was obtained from our
      hospital's institutional review board. All enrolled patients provided written informed
      consent and HIPAA authorization documentation.

      This study was set in the adult ED of Maimonides Medical Center, an urban teaching hospital
      in Brooklyn, NY with an annual ED census of more than 120,00 patients. A convenience sample
      of adult patients age 18 or older presenting with a supraventricular tachydysrhythmia were
      evaluated for enrollment. Eligible patients had to have a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG)
      showing atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter with a ventricular rate of greater than or
      equal to 120 beats per minute. Data collected included demographics, medical history, vital
      signs and electrocardiogram findings. All patients were immediately evaluated by the treating
      physician utilizing ACLS protocols. At the discretion of the treating physician, intravenous
      adenosine was administered in order to facilitate identification of the underlying
      supraventricular tachydysrhythmia. All patients were attached to a monitor that displays
      cardiac rhythm, heart rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation.

      Upon enrollment, patients were randomly assigned, in a 1:1 ratio, to receive diltiazem
      administered parenterally at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg (to a maximum dose of 30 mg) or metoprolol
      administered at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg (to a maximum dose of 10 mg). Randomization was
      performed through the use of a computer-generated randomization list. Pharmacy released the
      study drug in a locked tackle box coded in number sequence to correspond to that of the
      computer-generated randomization list, upon which the pharmacist also prepared the study drug
      in blinded fashion. The study medications were packaged in identical-appearing dispensing
      kits. Patients who were randomly assigned to diltiazem received a bolus injection in a
      syringe that appeared identical to that of metoprolol. Admixture and labeling were performed
      by the pharmacist in the ED and dispensed to the treating nurse for administration. Doses of
      each study medication were adjusted with normal saline to a total of 10 ml in each syringe to
      prevent un-blinding. The time at which the first dose was administered was denoted as time
      zero (baseline). If the primary endpoint was not achieved at time 15 minutes, then a second
      escalation dose was administered. If the patient had been enrolled in the diltiazem group,
      the escalation dose was 0.35 mg/kg (to a maximum dose of 30 mg), and for patients enrolled in
      the metoprolol group, the escalation dose was 0.25 mg/kg (to a maximum dose of 10 mg). As
      with the initial dose, the escalation dose was prepared by the pharmacist and given to the
      treating nurse for patient administration in a blinded fashion.
    
  