
    
      Background: Head and neck cancer patients are in high risk to suffer from malnourishment, a
      risk that increase in postoperative condition and with the use of enteral nutrition (EN).
      Until now patients who are suffering from indigestion in the ICU received treatment in the
      form of prokinetic drugs, drags that can lead to serious side effects and only can partially
      improve digestion. Acupuncture was used successfully in several clinical trials to improve
      postoperative indigestion in cancer patients without any reported adverse events. This study
      aims is to design a double blind settings in order to investigate acupuncture effect in
      combination of prokinetic drugs in the prevention of indigestion in postoperative oral and
      hypo-pharyngeal cancer patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).

      Methods: Single center, double blind randomize control trial will compare between two equal
      groups. A total of 28 patients that will meet the inclusion criteria: Age 30-80, Post plastic
      surgery for oral cancer or hypo-pharyngeal cancer, Apache score below 20 needed EN. Patients
      will be randomly divided into specific acupuncture (ACU) or non-specific acupuncture (CON)
      for 3 treatments in 3 days by a blind acupuncturist along with prokinetic drugs. The main
      outcome measurement will be the amount of days a patient need to reach his Total Energy
      Expenditure (TEE).

      Expected outcome: The results will shed light on the effectiveness and safety of acupuncture
      in a double blind design for posts-surgery ICU cancer patients. In addition, the study
      presents a revolutionary double blind design that if will prove as successful might influence
      the way double blind acupuncture studies are performed today.

      Other information: The study will be conducted in the surgical ICU department, of china
      medical university hospital, Taichung 404, Taiwan. The study in conducted on stable ICU
      patients and is anticipated to have a minimum risk for adverse events. Patients enrollment
      and data collection will start immediately after china medical hospital research ethics
      committee approval. The study expected completion time: June 2021
    
  