
    
      About total of 80% of population once in their life have gone through Low back pain that
      cause significant loss of productive working hours along with disability. People suffering
      from chronic low back pain and impaired function, often experience anxiety, depression, as
      well as effects on work and social life. Low back pain largely effects the women population,
      aged 45-60 years, accounting for distress on a social as well as economic level.

      Age predicted incidence of low back pain (LBP) was also found to be higher in post-menopausal
      women. (90% between 40 and 60, mean age 50.1 years). Decline in psychological and cognitive
      function along with other health related conditions like heart disease, mood swings, risk of
      cancer are of particular importance in post-menopausal women affecting their quality of life.

      The hormonal changes occurring in women during and after menopause, may also have an impact
      on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) particularly at the physical, psychological, and
      sexual spheres. Physical therapy remains the most advanced conservative option for the
      treatment of LBP Core stability or core strengthening exercises are increasingly becoming an
      important element of the sports world of therapeutics as it provides distal mobility with
      proximal stability(9). Core stability and strengthening exercises are supported strongly by
      theoretical principles for the treatment of spinal disorders that helps in decreasing pain
      and improving function in people suffering from LBP.

      Core strengthening has attracted limited research attention so far yet it has been promoted
      as a mode of rehabilitation, for performance enhancement and as preventive measure of
      injuries related to the musculoskeletal and lumbar spine. The significance of core stability
      exercises in postmenopausal women with backache has been overlooked so far. The proposed
      study focused on Core stability exercises in Postmenopausal woman with Lower back pain to
      investigate the effects of core strength training on lower back pain, disability, strength
      and the quality of life in postmenopausal woman.
    
  