
    
      The VS/VC and STN are both 'stations' in the neural circuitry thought to be dysfunctional in
      OCD. The pre-eminent neurobiological model of OCD implicates abnormalities of orbitofrontal
      cortex (OFC), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and ventral striatum. These structures are
      integral to limbic cortico-striatal-thalamo-cortical circuitry whereby cortical outputs
      synapse successively in ventral striatum, ventral pallidum and mediodorsal nucleus of
      thalamus before projecting back to cortex; within this system, the pallidum projects to
      thalamus either directly or indirectly via the subthalamic nucleus. It is therefore possible
      that the observed clinical improvement in OCD with DBS is due to high frequency electrical
      stimulation disrupting abnormal activity in the limbic circuit and that this can be obtained
      at either of the two target sites. However, the ventral striatum and STN are thought to have
      separate functions, important in different ways for modulating information processing in the
      cortico-striatal-thalamo-cortical circuitry essential for the control of behaviour. Thus,
      although both VS/VC and STN DBS affect the same neural circuit, their mechanism of action may
      be quite different and stimulation at each of these locations may have unique effects on the
      symptom dimensions of OCD.

      Evidence for different clinical effects comes from findings that VS/VC DBS produced early and
      sometimes dramatic mood elevation and anxiety reduction prior to improvement in obsessions
      and compulsions whereas STN DBS, while diminishing obsessions and compulsions, had no effect
      on emotion. This observation is relevant because mood and anxiety are significant symptom
      dimensions in OCD and increases or decreases in the severity of anxiety or depression are
      generally accompanied by parallel changes in the severity of obsessions/compulsions. The
      ventral striatum, as well as being the first target of OFC/ACC cortical outputs, receives
      inputs from amygdala and midbrain dopaminergic neurones, which together provide the emotional
      and motivational impetus for goal directed behaviour. The ventral striatum is therefore in a
      unique position, via its involvement in limbic cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuitry, to
      influence the cognitive and motor processing in parallel circuits which is preparatory for
      action selection and ultimately manifest in thoughts and actions. Denys and colleagues
      proposed that VS/VC DBS influences OCD symptoms via its effect on anxiety and mood. Taking
      this further, Investigators hypothesize that stimulation of ventral striatal neurones
      influences reinforcement learning and emotion processing thereby improving mood and reducing
      anxiety and resulting in a decrease in the intensity of obsessions and compulsions.

      STN DBS on the other hand may have a more direct effect on obsessions and compulsions. The
      limbic STN, like the ventral striatum, is in a unique position to influence behavioural
      outputs of cortico-striatal-thalamo-cortical circuitry. This is because the STN receives a
      direct projection from right inferior frontal cortex which acts as a 'hyperdirect pathway',
      activation of which overrides neural processing in the direct
      cortico-striato-pallido-thalamic pathway. This results in the inhibition of ongoing, planned
      acts and thoughts. Investigators therefore hypothesise that, via this inhibitory mechanism,
      stimulation of STN neurones enables OCD patients to interrupt their repetitive thoughts and
      actions resulting in a decrease in obsessions and compulsions.

      Accordingly, DBS at both sites, because of different mechanisms of action, is predicted to be
      clinically more effective than stimulation of either site alone. It also follows that if
      there are two mechanisms mediating OCD improvement, this should be evident in different
      patterns of cognitive and neurophysiological effects following DBS. In the proposed study
      Investigators will test these predictions clinically and experimentally by using paradigms
      designed to distinguish the two hypothetical mechanisms of action.

      The main aim of CBT is to enable OCD patients to obtain greater control over behaviour so
      that they can inhibit their repetitive thoughts and acts and switch to more meaningful
      alternatives. One abnormal mechanism contributing to such cognitive inflexibility is thought
      to be blunting of the value of positive and negative reinforcement normally used to guide
      responses and dependent on intact OFC-striatal neural circuitry. Dysfunction of this
      cognitive control system has been shown in first-degree clinically unaffected relatives of
      OCD patients thus confirming this mechanism as a neurobiological phenotype of OCD 15.It is
      therefore hypothesised that DBS of VS/VC will improve the processing of reinforcing stimuli
      and that this will result not only in elevation of mood and reduction in anxiety but also in
      increased cognitive flexibility. Investigators will test this by measuring the effectiveness
      of VS/VC DBS on clinical measures of mood, anxiety, obsessions and compulsions and relate
      these to changes in reinforcement learning and emotional processing using cognitive tasks
      sensitive to OCD which measure the ability to respond appropriately to reinforcing
      contingencies.

      Attentional processes are also thought to contribute to impaired behavioural control in OCD.
      Being able to stop or inhibit planned acts when environmental circumstances change depends on
      the function of the right inferior cortical-STN hyperdirect pathway and can be
      operationalised by measuring the stop signal reaction time (SSRT). The finding of specific
      prolongation of SSRT in OCD patients and their unaffected first-degree relatives suggests
      that this cognitive abnormality is also a phenotype of OCD. Although the neural substrate of
      this mechanism does not involve the limbic cortico-striato-pallido-thalamic circuit, recent
      evidence suggests that neural systems outside this circuitry, involving the right inferior
      frontal cortex, are impaired in OCD. Investigators therefore hypothesise that STN DBS allows
      inhibition of repetitive thoughts and acts in OCD by facilitating the action of the
      hyperdirect pathway from the right inferior frontal cortex to STN. Investigators will test
      this by measuring the effectiveness of STN DBS on obsessions and compulsions and relate these
      to changes in SSRT and performance on other tasks sensitive to right inferior frontal cortex
      function which measure the ability to inhibit pre-potent tendencies.

      OCD symptoms and cognitive impairment may be mediated by abnormal cortical excitability due
      to aberrant long term depression (LTD) synaptic plasticity and/or reduced gamma-aminobutyric
      acid (GABA) mediated intracortical inhibition. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can be
      used to measure these neurophysiological processes safely in patients undergoing DBS and both
      abnormalities have been shown to normalise following DBS in other disorders. Investigators
      will use TMS to assess these neural processes before and after DBS in OCD patients and test
      for whether there are differential changes from the two DBS sites and whether combined VS/VC
      and STN DBS produces more vigorous improvements compatible with our hypothesis concerning the
      superior clinical effects of this condition. Investigators will measure intracortical
      inhibition not only at rest but also during the anticipation of reinforcement, previously
      shown to affect motor cortex excitability and which Investigators predict will be
      specifically affected by VS/VC DBS.
    
  