
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the efficacy and toxicity of intensive high-dose chemotherapy (alternating
           I'VE regimen and intermediate-dose methotrexate) followed by autologous peripheral blood
           stem cell transplantation for treatment of patients with intestinal T-cell lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the toxicity of the regimen in a large population of these patients.

        -  To provide a coordinated approach to the treatment of these patients.

        -  To register patients unfit for the protocol chemotherapy into the pathological part of
           the study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients receive CHOP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 15
           minutes, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine IV on day 1. Patients also
           receive oral prednisolone on days 1-5.

      After recovering from CHOP chemotherapy, patients receive I'VE chemotherapy comprising
      epirubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1 and etoposide IV over 2 hours and ifosfamide IV
      continuously on days 21-23. Patients also receive methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 21.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Consolidation therapy: On day 77, stem cells are collected from patients if the marrow
           is clear of disease. After completion of chemotherapy, patients in complete remission
           receive carmustine IV on day 105, cytarabine IV and etoposide IV on days 106-109, and
           melphalan IV on day 110. These patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation on day 112.

      Prior to study treatment, patients undergo a biopsy of the gut to confirm diagnosis and a
      blood sample is taken. Both blood and tissue samples may be used for further studies.

      After recovery from treatment, patients are followed monthly for 4 months, then bimonthly for
      1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and
      then annually thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  