
    
      Prospective, randomized study blinded to observers (spinal or no-spinal). All formal
      approvals will be obtained from different authorities prior to study start. It will be
      registered in an international database (clinicaltrials.gov).

      Patients > 18 years, ASA I-III, undergoing RALP will be included into the study. Patients on
      chronic opiate medication, those with contraindications to spinal anesthesia or allergy to
      any component drugs used during spinal anesthesia or other analgesics used in the study will
      be excluded. Patients living alone or having no adult at home to look after them during the
      first 24 h after home discharge will also be excluded. Informed written consent will be
      obtained from all patients. On the morning of surgery, all patients will receive paracetamol
      1 g orally 1 h before planned surgery, and will be randomized to one of two groups as shown
      below:

      Robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) (morning surgery)

        1. Group MM: This group of patients will not receive spinal anesthesia but have multimodal
           pain management including COX-2 blockers, pregabalin and oxycontin for pain management

        2. Group SF (Spinal/Fentanyl): Spinal anesthesia with bupivacaine 12.5 mg+fentanyl 15 ug
           Robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) (afternoon surgery)

      1. Group MM: This group of patients will not receive spinal anesthesia but have multimodal
      pain management including COX-2 blockers, pregabalin and oxycontin for pain management 2.
      Group SS (Spinal/Sufentanil): Spinal anesthesia with bupivacaine 12.5 mg+sufentanil 5 ug

      Anesthesia will be standardized in all other aspects in all groups and basically include
      propofol for induction, rocuronium as muscle relaxant, sevoflurane and remifentanil for pain
      management and betamethasone + ondansetron as prophylaxis against post-operative nausea or
      vomiting (PONV). Surgery will also be standardized in all patients and follow the routines
      already established in the hospital.

      At the end of surgery, patients will be transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU)
      where they will remain for 4 h observation and subsequently transferred to the general
      surgical wards for observation and discharge home. All measurement times will be taken from
      the end of surgery, which will be considered as t = 0.

      The following parameters will be recorded:

        1. Total morphine consumption during 0-4, 4-home discharge and analgesic supplements after
           home discharge and up to 1 week will be recorded. Time to first morphine administration
           after surgery will be registered.

        2. Blood tests for measurement of cortisol, glucose, insulin, creatinine, NTproBNP and
           hsTnT will be taken at fixed time points before and after surgery.

        3. Pain intensity will be registered using NRS after 1, 2, 3, 4 and every 4 h until home
           discharge, and thereafter every 24 h for 1 week.

        4. All side effects (PONV, pruritus, respiratory depression, oxygen saturation and need for
           supplementary oxygen) and complications (bleeding, reoperation, pneumothorax etc.) will
           be recorded. Postoperative delirium will be assessed 0-2 h postoperatively. Prolonged
           PACU stay or re-admission to PACU will be registered. Clavien-Dindo classification for
           grade of complication will be registered as also Postoperative Morbidity score (POMS).

        5. Respiratory function will be recorded in the following ways: blood gas (after 1 and 4
           h), saturation, spirometry, maximum expiratory pressure preoperatively and after 4 h.
           Need for supplementary oxygen to maintain SpO2 > 93% will be registered.

        6. Time to mobilization, time to discharge to the general ward (from PACU), "home
           readiness" (primary endpoint) and home discharge will be registered in accordance with
           standardized criteria. Criteria for home readiness: normal vital signs, pain intensity <
           4 (NRS 0-10), minimal or no postoperative nausea or vomiting, able to sit, walk and go
           unhindered, no surgical complication (bleeding, fever), fully awake and able to follow
           instructions (normal cognition), normally functioning urinary catheter and an adult at
           home during the first 24 h after discharge home).

        7. Quality of Recovery 15 (QoR 24) will be measured before home-discharge and after 24 h
           using a standardized questionnaire.

        8. Quality of life will be measured preoperatively and after 7 and 30 days using the
           questionnaire EQ5D and WHODAS.
    
  