
    
      RECRUITMENT:

      Potential participants will be referred to our program by their treating clinicians, who will
      be made aware of our study through direct clinician-clinician letters and emails. Subjects
      may also learn of the study through consumer advocacy groups such as the International OCD
      Foundation (IOCDF), local non-profit organizations and local support group meetings and
      through the normals avenues that they share information.

      ENROLLMENT:

      A subject is considered enrolled upon signing informed consent, deemed eligible to be
      screened by the investigator. Decision-making capacity, which includes understanding,
      appreciation, reasoning and ability to express a choice, will be assessed as part of the
      informed consent process. The informed consent process will include discussions with the
      patient's family and referring clinician. Medical records will be carefully reviewed to
      determine adequacy of past treatments including CBT.

      SCREENING:

      Potential subjects meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria and willing to participate in the
      study as demonstrated by signing the informed consent will be enrolled in the study and
      undergo screening.

      After the participant signs the required documents, he/she will undergo two baseline
      evaluations spaced over an approximate 1 month period. Diagnostic and screening ratings are
      completed, followed by complete medical, neurological and neurosurgical evaluations. The
      raters will be trained and certified in the use of the clinician-administered scales of the
      study. The purpose of the screening evaluations is to demonstrate that subject is in a stable
      clinical situation including a stable medical regimen, and are severely symptomatic. If this
      is the case, and they continue to meet inclusion/exclusion criteria, the participant will
      proceed to treatment (surgery to implant the DBS system. Final selection of candidates will
      be made by consensus of the multi-disciplinary investigator team ("Project Advisory
      Committee").

      TREATMENT:

      Subjects treated in Phase 1a will undergo a single stage DBS surgery, in which bilateral deep
      brain leads will be implanted under conscious sedation, followed by implantation of a single
      Implantable NeuroStimulator (INS), Activa PC+S, under general anesthesia.

        1. A head CT will be performed on the morning of surgery for stereotactic planning.

        2. Employing local anesthetic (with or without sedation as clinically indicated), a
           stereotactic headframe (Leksell Model G, Elekta Instruments, Atlanta, GA, USA) will be
           attached to the subject's skull on the morning of surgery in the operating room.

        3. A 3D volumetric image (O-Arm 2, Medtronic Inc,, Boulder, CO, USA) will be performed for
           purposes of defining the volumetric stereotactic headspace.

        4. The images will be uploaded onto a Computer Workstation (Stealth S7, Medtronic, Inc.,
           Boulder, CO, USA) equipped with stereotactic planning software (Cranial 3.0) for the
           purpose of planning the surgery. The preoperative 3T MRI obtained prior to the surgical
           date, will be fused with the CT scan in the surgical planning station. The initial
           target point within the ventral striatum will be chosen based on the subject's specific
           anatomy. The surgical trajectory to this point will also be planned in order to avoid
           prominent vessels, the sulci, and the ventricles. The computer will generate the X, Y
           and Z coordinates to set on the frame as well as the coronal and sagittal angles of
           approach required to establish the desired trajectory and target point. This initial
           target point will be modified by the subject's specific anatomy as determined by the
           preoperative 3T MRI. The final target coordinates will be determined during this
           analysis.

        5. While the surgeon is planning the procedure, the subject will be positioned supine on
           the operating table. A Foley catheter will be inserted. Antibiotics will be administered
           intravenously and vital signs will be monitored. The stereotactic head frame will be
           fixed to the operating table for subject safety, with the head elevated for subject
           comfort. A sterile prep and drape will be performed.

        6. The target coordinates will be set on the stereotactic frame bringing the target point
           to the center of the operating arc. Additional local anesthetic will be given at the
           point of incision. Following incision, a 14 mm burr hole will be made employing a
           self-stopping perforator. The burr hole cap provided with the DBS lead will be secured
           to the skull with two screws. The dura will be coagulated and incised. The pial surface
           will be gently coagulated and a small incision will be made to allow easy entry of the
           electrode guides, which will be inserted to the brain according to standard stereotactic
           protocol.

        7. A microelectrode (MER) probe will be inserted through the cannula and advanced in sub mm
           steps until the target is reached. Intraoperative image guidance will be obtained to
           ensure the MER probe is not mechanically deviated from target. If a deviation is
           identified, the stereotactic headframe will be adjusted accordingly.

        8. Once the above adjustments have been made, the DBS quadripolar electrode (model 3387;
           Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA) will be inserted through the guide tube to the
           target point. Reticles will be attached to the frame and intraoperative imaging will be
           employed to confirm that the lead tip is positioned at the target and assess for the
           presence of intracerebral hemorrhage. Sedation will be withdrawn. An extension cable
           will be connected to the lead sterilely and the other end will be passed off the field
           to be connected to an external pulse generator so that test stimulation may be
           performed. Test stimulation will be performed via each contact to 1) assess for
           stimulation-induced side effects and 2) monitor for acute changes in behavior using a
           Likert-type scale to assess anxiety, arousal, and mood.

        9. Intra-operative X-ray imaging may be performed as needed (up to 4 times per side) to
           ensure proper target has been reached.

       10. A post-implantation 3D volumetric scan will be performed to confirm the electrode
           position.

       11. Intra operative MER and behavioral testing of Stimulation with AFAR video recording will
           be performed.

       12. Steps 5-9 above will be performed to insert the second electrode on the other side of
           the brain to complete implantation of both electrodes.

       13. If there are no untenable side effects, the leads will be secured to the skull with the
           burr hole caps. The free end of the leads will be left in the sub-galeal space and the
           incisions will be closed in anatomical layers.

       14. The headframe will be removed and general anesthesia will be induced. The Activa PC+S
           pulse generator will then be implanted and connected to the brain lead via extension
           cables.

       15. A post-operative CT scan will be performed prior to discharge -to ensure that an
           intracerebral hemorrhage has not occurred.

       16. The subject will be taken to the Recovery Room or the Neurosurgery ICU for
           post-operative monitoring (See below) and will be discharged from the hospital after at
           least one night of observation and when clinically stable. A Basic Metabolic Panel (BMP)
           may be run on the subject to confirm they are clinically stable.

       17. The subject will return to the neurosurgery clinic (Visit 4) for post-operative
           evaluation according to normal clinical practice (approx 1 week after surgery). The
           wounds will be inspected and the subject's neurological status will be assessed. Sutures
           will be removed.

      The subject will return to clinic about 2 weeks post-surgery for their post-surgical
      psychiatric symptom baseline and recording visit (Visit 5). Programming of the DBS device
      will occur at Visit 6, 1 week later.

      The subject will return to clinic every 2 weeks for the first 2 months following the system
      activation. Each visit will last about 3-4 hours and will include clinician administered
      assessments, self-rated assessments, recordings and tasks to be performed.

      Post-surgical 1.5 rs-fMRI scans will also be performed according to Medtronic standard
      post-implant MRI guidelines for deep brain stimulation systems to ensure safety.

      Participants will be asked to keep their current medications constant for the first 6 months
      post-surgery. However, clinical circumstances which mandate changes will be allowed and
      notated should this occur.

      Provocation Tasks:

      The Provocation OC task (Provoc) and the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) will be used to
      start OC-related distress and distress unrelated to OCD (e.g., performance anxiety),
      respectively. Three sessions will be videotaped with Automated Facial Affect Recognition
      (AFAR) system concurrent to recording of local field potentials (LFPs) from VS and scalp
      electroencephalography (EEG).

      CBT Augmentation:

      Starting at Month 7, subjects will receive a two-month (15 session) cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT) course where exposure and response prevention (ERP) for OCD will be delivered.
      Subjects already receiving stable CBT will be allowed to continue it during the study.
      Instead, we have developed standardized instructions to encourage exposure and resist
      compulsions (ERP) during this portion of the trial. Participants will be encouraged at study
      visits to actively confront OC triggers while refraining from ritual engagement. Subjects,
      especially those who are still habitually avoiding, will be given the opportunity to derive
      maximal clinical benefit by receiving a two-month "refresher" course of CBT prior to entering
      the double-blind discontinuation phase at 9 months.

      Double Blinded Discontinuation:

      The purpose of the one-month blinded discontinuation period is to confirm clinical benefit.
      At the end of month 8, subjects will enter a one-month delayed onset withdrawal period in
      which the subject and Independent Evaluators are blinded to timing of discontinuation. The
      decision whether to reinstate active DBS at the end of the discontinuation will be based on
      clinical considerations in discussion with the subject and significant others. The benefits
      and discomforts will be carefully weighed in arriving at a long-term plan. Escape criteria
      will include withdrawing consent or significant clinical deterioration warranting unblinding
      or reinstatement of treatment. Following exit from the discontinuation period, treatment will
      recommence as clinically indicated, including stimulation resumption or continued observation
      with the device off.

      Monthly Programming/Classification/Evaluation Visits until End of Study (EOS):

      Months 10-18 (Visits 20-28) - Following exit from the discontinuation phase based on clinical
      indication, treatment will recommence as clinically indicated around Month 10, including
      stimulation resumption or continued observation with device off. Refining state
      classifications and testing machine learning will continue, if stimulation is reinstated.
      Subjects that participated in the discontinuation phase will be considered off-treatment once
      Month 18 visit (Visit 298) has occurred.These visits will take place monthly for 9 months.
      Each visit will last approximately 3-4 hours.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After the 18 months of the study, the device will remain implanted in those subjects who are
      doing well clinically. For subjects who are not responsive, it will be explanted, if the
      surgical risks of explantation are deemed acceptable by the treatment team. The follow-up
      management will be arranged on a case-by-case basis, depending on geographic location and
      desires of the subject, and DBS therapy management by our team will be guaranteed for at
      least two years if subjects continue to receive DBS therapy and do not arrange alternative
      management during that period. Attempts will be made to collect all device-related adverse
      events in all willing participants at 6-month intervals after they exit the currently
      proposed study.

      Subject participation is anticipated to continue for a minimum of 18 months.
    
  