
    
      Primary Aims and Hypotheses

      The primary aim of the UH3 period is to conduct a pragmatic randomized effectiveness trial of
      a collaborative care intervention targeting PTSD and comorbid conditions after acute care
      injury hospitalization. The investigation aims to determine if injured patients receiving the
      collaborative care intervention demonstrate significant reductions in PTSD symptoms when
      compared to control patients receiving care as usual. The study also aims to determine if the
      intervention patients when compared to control patients will demonstrate significant
      reductions in depressive symptoms, suicidal ideation, and alcohol use problems, and
      improvements in physical function. The primary hypothesis is that the intervention group when
      compared to the control group will demonstrate significant reductions in PTSD symptoms over
      the course of the year after injury. Secondary hypotheses are that intervention patients when
      compared to control patients will demonstrate, significant reductions in depressive symptoms,
      significant reductions in alcohol use problems, and improved post-injury physical function.

      A Priori Secondary Analyses

      The study team hypothesizes that a subgroup of patients will have persistent PTSD symptoms
      that will not remit over the longitudinal course of the investigation, regardless of
      randomization to intervention or control group conditions. The study team also anticipates
      that readily identifiable baseline clinical, injury and demographic characteristics will be
      associated with persistent PTSD symptoms over time (e.g., higher PTSD symptom levels, greater
      pre-injury trauma exposure, intentional injury including firearm related injury mechanisms
      and other characteristics such as unemployment, as well as other baseline factors). Derived
      from previous randomized clinical trials, a cumulative burden index has been developed from
      these baseline characteristics and will be adapted for the current investigation. The study
      team proposes a series of secondary analyses that adjust for and stratify by baseline
      characteristics that put patients at risk for persistent symptoms. It is hypothesized that
      these secondary analyses will identify a subgroup of intervention patients who are not at
      risk for persistent symptoms and who will demonstrate clinically and statistically
      significant treatment responses when compared to patients with similar baseline
      characteristics in the control condition. The study team also hypothesizes that the treatment
      effects will be greatest at the 1-6 month post-injury time points that are temporally
      correlated with the period of active intervention.
    
  