
    
      Background: Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by recurrent epileptic
      attacks and researches have reported that the relation between epilepsy and the reproductive
      dysfunction is not yet completely understood. Seizures are linked with sexual dysfunction as
      part of the disease pathophysiology in these patients. Through epileptic discharge,
      hypothalamus receives signals from hippocampus, amygdala and cerebral cortex.
      Hypothalamic-pituitary axis signaling changes is leading to sex hormones release including
      follicle stimulating hormones and luteinizing hormone changes.

      However, the available antiepileptic drugs (AED) have not yet been proven to have negative
      impacts on sexual function. Evaluation of AED induced sexual dysfunction is complicated, less
      than clear, and is hard to find. Sex hormone levels can be changed due to AEDs which are the
      cause of sexual dysfunction and reproductive disorders Different antiepileptic drugs are
      responsible for reproductive dysfunction in male epileptic patients. The aim of this study is
      to evaluate the effect of valproate versus levetiracetam as a monotherapy on males' sex
      hormones and sperm parameters in newly diagnosed epilepsy. Methods: This comparative study
      included 50 newly diagnosed epileptic male participants from outpatient clinic of Neurology
      department of Zagazig University Hospitals. All participants were subjected to complete
      general and neurological examination, Doppler ultrasonography of the testis, pre and post
      treatment serum sex hormone assay and semen analysis. Post- treatment re- evaluation check
      point was determined if eight weeks have passed after the last seizures. This study included
      two groups, group I: 25 participants, were treated by valproate (VPA) as a monotherapy till
      became seizure free at the last 8-weeks before post treatment check-point, with ages ranged
      from 18-43 years. Group II: 25 participants were treated by levetiracetam (LEV) with the same
      regimens of valproate as a monotherapy, with ages ranged from 20-45 years.
    
  