
    
      Peyronie's Disease is a fibrosing disorder of the penis where scar tissue known as a "plaque"
      forms along the shaft of the penis. This plaque can lead to penile deformity, erectile
      dysfunction and pain during intercourse. Furthermore, Peyronie's Disease has been shown to
      negatively affect the quality of life and cause psychosocial distress. Currently, treatments
      for Peyronie's Disease are invasive (injections or surgery). This study investigates the use
      of a non-invasive and extra-dermal Fractional Carbon Dioxide Laser Therapy to treat chronic
      phase Peyronie's Disease.

      Fractional Carbon Dioxide Laser Therapy works by destroying and reducing abnormal collagen (a
      major component found in Peyronie's Disease plaques) in scarred tissue. Although Fractional
      Carbon Dioxide Lasers have yet to be used in the field of urology, it has already been used
      safely and successfully to treat conditions similar to Peyronie's Disease (ie. hypertrophic
      burn scars).

      Study participants enrolled in this study will be required to attend 6 study visits. The
      first study visit is a 'Screening Visit'. At this visit, a medical history and baseline
      penile measurements (degree of curvature, stretched length, and circumference deformity at
      flaccid and erect states) will be collected. Study participants will also be asked to
      complete the International Index of Erectile Function Questionnaire and Peyronie's Disease
      Questionnaire.

      Following the 'Screening Visit', study participants will be scheduled for three Fractional
      Carbon Dioxide Laser Therapy sessions. These sessions will be scheduled once every six weeks
      (totalling 12 weeks from the first therapy session).

      Following, the last Fractional Carbon Dioxide Laser Therapy session, there will be three
      follow-up appointments (Week 18, Week 24, Week 52). At these visits, post-therapy penile
      measurements, International Index of Erectile Function, and Peyronie's Disease scores will be
      collected.

      Digital photographs may be taken as part of the study's analysis and to track the progress of
      Fractional CO2 Laser Therapy. You will have the option to deny any digital photography.
    
  