
    
      The etiology of erectile dysfunction (ED) has been investigated in many studies. Most often,
      ED is proposed to have a multifactorial etiology, with organic and/or psychogenic causal
      factors hypothesized to affect erectile function. Numerous studies show that Deep and Slow
      Breathing (DSB) reduces stress and anxiety.

      Since ED is multifactorial, many physicians rely solely on phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5)
      inhibitors to increase blood flow to the arteries to maintain an erection. Although it works
      in many patients, some patients can get overly anxious prior to sexual intercourse and not be
      able to produce or maintain an erection. While some patients may realize that DSB may improve
      their anxiety they don't know how to perform DSB properly. We hypothesize that by providing
      software interactivity on deep and slow breathing to this group of ED patients, may in turn
      help reduce their anxiety, thus, maximize the effect of PDE5 inhibitors. The app called
      "Serenita" for mobile phones, designed by Eco-Fusion will be utilized in this study. The app
      performs two functions: it detects stress and focus level and It guides the user through a
      personalized breathing exercise designed to reduce stress and increase focus. Breathing as a
      method to treat stress has three scientifically validated variations, the deep diaphragmatic
      breathing, used for centuries as part of Yoga which often refers as Yogic breathing,
      biofeedback breathing, a method in which the user sees in real-time how his breathing affects
      his stress level, and coherence breathing, a method that synchronizes breathing pace with
      heart rhythms. The technology embedded in Serenita app combines all three methods into a
      personalized guided breathing regimen. The app acquires data by turning the mobile phone's
      camera into a biomedical sensor which peers into a person's blood stream, obtaining heart
      rate, heart rate variability and breathing pace. Then the app processes the data obtained to
      assess user's stress and focus level.

      This study will utilize 6 standardized questionnaires to assess changes in patients'
      responses while using the app:

        -  Erectile Performance Anxiety Index (EPAI), which will ask questions that assess anxiety
           about being able to achieve or maintain an erection during sexual activity.

        -  International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), which will ask questions about sexual
           encounters for the past four weeks.

        -  Psychological and Interpersonal Relationship Scales (PAIRS), which will ask questions
           about sexual self-confidence, time concerns and spontaneity with sexual encounters.

        -  Self-Esteem and Relationship (SEAR), which will ask questions about sexual relationship,
           confidence, stress ad perceived stress and overall sexual relationship for the past four
           weeks.

        -  Sexual Encounter Profile (SEP), which will ask question about each sexual attempt.

        -  Global Assessment Question, which will ask question at end of study if this app has
           improved erectile function.

      These questionnaires are conducted online for easy access and completion. There are no office
      visits.

      Registration to the study could be done at: http://eepurl.com/b3DcP1
    
  