
    
      Chronic constipation is not a disease but a symptom of a condition involving insufficient
      defecation and whose definition varies from person to person. Health professionals define
      constipation as 3 times or less per week defecation and the patients define it as the
      sensation of incomplete bowel evacuation, hard stool, straining, and difficulty in
      defecation. Chronic constipation is a common condition experienced by the general public, and
      it reduces the health related quality of life (HRQOL) by negatively affecting the physical,
      mental, and social well being of individuals. In a recent meta-analysis, the global
      prevalence rate of chronic constipation was reported to be 14%; it was also reported that its
      incidence rate is correlated with increasing age and low-income level, and it is more common
      among females.

      Because the underlying pathophysiology of chronic constipation has not been clearly
      identified, its treatment has been difficult for both healthcare professionals and patients.
      Following the elimination of pathological and secondary causes, the treatment of chronic
      constipation is initiated by non-pharmacological treatment methods, such as lifestyle
      modifications (increased dietary fiber and water intake as well as increased physical
      activity), defecation training, and physiotherapy approaches. If lifestyle modification and
      conservative treatment methods do not help the patient, pharmacological treatment methods,
      such as osmotic laxatives, stimulant laxatives, stool softeners, lubricants, chloride channel
      activators, and serotonin agents, may be used. At the final stage, if the pharmacological
      treatment is not successful in patients with slow-transit constipation, surgical treatment
      options, such as segmental, subtotal, or total colectomy, are considered. Conservative
      treatment methods used in patients with chronic constipation may include abdominal massage,
      connective tissue manipulation (CTM), chiropractic treatment, electrical stimulation,
      anorectal biofeedback and exercise.

      CTM, one of the conservative treatment methods for chronic constipation, generates local
      mechanical effects on mast cells in the connective tissue by short and long tractions and
      thus creates vasodilation by reducing the sympathetic activity. Subsequently, parasympathetic
      effect increases and the improvement in the circulation promotes healing process. But there
      is very little research that examine its effectiveness on constipation and bowel function. In
      the case report of Holey et al., it was reported that CTM was better than abdominal massage
      in improving symptoms of constipation. Also, another study revealed that combination of
      pelvic exercises and CTM played a role in healing bowel functions in women immediately after
      the post cesarean delivery.

      Abdominal massage is another treatment approach using the management of chronic constipation.
      The benefits of physiotherapy in treatment of constipation include mechanical and
      neurological effects. Mechanical effects include accelerating colonic motility, improving
      colonic transit time, coordinating the muscles and increasing abdominal muscle tone. The
      neurological effect is to enhance the activity of the parasympathetic nervous system.
    
  