
    
      Colonoscopy has been widely accepted for the diagnosis and treatment of colon diseases.
      Properly performed, colonoscopy is generally safe, accurate, and well-tolerated. Diagnostic
      colonoscopy is the preferred method to evaluate the colon in most patients with large-bowel
      symptoms, iron deficiency anemia, abnormal results on radiographic studies of the colon,
      positive results on colorectal cancer (CRC) screening tests, post-polypectomy and post-cancer
      resection surveillance, and diagnosis and surveillance in inflammatory bowel disease. In
      addition, colonoscopy has been introduced for CRC screening in some Western countries e.g. in
      the United States and Germany. Recent trials showed that screening colonoscopy has a large
      potential for prevention and early detection of colorectal cancer. Diagnostic colonoscopy is
      usually combined with endoscopic resection of small and medium sized polyps and flat
      neoplastic lesions. Patients in whom larger lesions are detected at a diagnostic colonoscopy
      are usually rescheduled for therapeutic colonoscopy in an appropriate setting.

      Quality parameters for colonoscopy were recently reported. In terms of intraprocedural
      indicators a cecal intubation rate of ≥ 90% for all cases of colonoscopy is widely accepted.
      Even experienced endoscopists classify up to 10% of colonoscopies as difficult and intubation
      of the cecum may then be impossible. A recent study evaluated the efficacy and safety of
      repeating colonoscopy in 520 patients with prior incomplete colonoscopy. Reasons for failure
      to complete colonoscopy in referring institutions were "looping/redundant colon" in 53.8% of
      the cases, "sigmoid fixation/angulation" in 38.8%, "both sigmoid angulation and looping
      colon" in 5.8% of the cases. Issues with sedation caused failures in 1.5% of the patients.
      Conventional colonoscopy can be difficult in particular in these anatomical variations
      because pushing the endoscope tends to form loops with limited or no advancement of the tip
      of the instrument. Techniques like alternating pushing and pulling the endoscope or external
      compression of the abdomen are used to overcome these limitations. Loop formation and
      stretching the colon with the adjacent mesenterium as well as external compression are
      inconvenient or even painful for the patient. In addition these maneuvers prolong the
      procedural duration. We recently compared the use of ultrathin colonoscopies with standard
      colonoscope in a randomized trial in terms of cecal intubation rate, level of sedation,
      amount of propofol needed for sedation, number of external compressions, pain score patient
      satisfaction and other parameters. The results indicate that these parameters can be well
      used for evaluation of a new technique of colonoscopy.

      Spiral assisted endoscopy is based on a completely different concept of advancing an
      endoscope by pleating of bowel on the instrumentation shaft by rotation. This technique has
      been widely used for antegrade enteroscopy. For this purpose a manually rotatable overtube is
      used through which a thin flexible enteroscope is inserted. The distal end of the overtube
      contains a raised spiral thread for pleating the small intestine over the overtube. By
      manually rotating the spiral element the bowel pleats onto the overtube, allowing the
      operator to access and visualize the more distal portions of the small intestine. Spiral
      assisted endoscopy has been also approved and evaluated for retrograde enteroscopy via the
      anal route. It promises advantage for intubation of the cecum and the terminal ileum by its
      principle of pleating at least parts of the colon with consecutive shortening and less loop
      formation. These effects should reduce the need for external compression and they may cause
      less pain for patients. In addition, the spiral should stabilize the position of the
      colonoscope which is advantageous for careful examination and targeted interventions. Spiral
      overtube-assisted colonoscopy achieved a success rate of cecal intubation in 92% of 24
      patients in whom conventional colonoscopy had failed. However conventional spiral endoscopy
      is cumbersome to use and requires assistance by a second endoscopist for its appropriate use.

      The Novel Motorized Spiral Endoscope represents a new technology which offers all of the
      advantageous options of spiral-assisted endoscopy with a faster and less invasive approach.
      The system is similar to other currently marketed endoscopes in that it incorporates a
      flexible insertion tube, light source, digital imaging, and channels for passing accessories
      for sample collection or therapeutic interventions. The system is unique in that it
      incorporates a user-controlled motor contained in the endoscope's handle to rotate a spiral
      cuff located on the endoscope's insertion tube. Rotation of this cuff, which has soft
      spiral-shaped "fins", pleats the colon on to the endoscope's insertion tube, thereby allowing
      rapid and atraumatic access into the colon. The system also includes a display monitor, a
      motor control unit, device to display measured motor current and signal torque, and a set of
      foot pedals. It is currently being evaluated in a prospective study in patients with
      indications for antegrade enteroscopy ("European Novel Motorized Spiral Endoscopy Trial
      (ENMSET)) in the two centers conducting this study. So far more than 60 patients were
      successfully examined without major adverse events.

      The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility and the safety of the Novel Motorized
      Spiral Endoscope to examine the colon. The study is conceived as proof of concept trial with
      the primary aim to achieve a cecal intubation rate of at least 90 % according to quality
      guidelines recommendations. All other clinically relevant quality parameters of standard
      colonoscopy will be evaluated as secondary aims comparable to our recent trial. This study
      represents the first clinical evaluation of using a motorized spiral assisted endoscope for
      examination of the colon with potential advantages for patients in terms of effectiveness and
      convenience of colonoscopy.
    
  