
    
      This is a two-arm, multicenter pilot randomized controlled trial to compare the feasibility,
      acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of REVITALIZE, a 6-week Acceptance and Commitment
      Therapy (ACT) telehealth intervention vs. enhanced usual care (EUC) in fatigued patients with
      ovarian cancer on maintenance PARPi.

      The intervention is called REVITALIZE, and it is a structured, skills-based intervention for
      providing support, knowledge, and skills for coping with fatigue. This type of intervention
      has been used in other studies to treat symptoms such as pain, migraines, or worry. This
      research is being done to develop this program at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the
      University of Pennsylvania's Abramson Cancer Center, and to get patient feedback on the
      telehealth intervention to improve it for a future study. The study is also making a
      preliminary determinations as to whether REVITALIZE does improve psychological flexibility
      and fatigue-related interference and reduce fatigue, psychological distress, and fear of
      cancer recurrence, while improving overall quality of life (QOL).

      The study will pre-pilot the REVITALIZE intervention in up to 5 patients at the Dana-Farber
      Cancer Institute (DFCI). This run-in phase serves to test and refine the newly developed
      6-week ACT intervention in a smaller sample size prior to initiating the randomized control
      trial (RCT) portion of the study. After the ACT intervention has been tested and refined, the
      study will enroll and randomize 40 fatigued patients with advanced ovarian cancer on
      maintenance PARPi at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the Abramson Cancer Center at the
      University of Pennsylvania.

      Participants will be randomized to receive either a 6-week ACT intervention or enhanced usual
      care (educational materials). The study anticipates enrolling approximately 20 patients at
      each site, and 20 patients will be enrolled to each study arm.

      It is expected participants will remain in the study for the duration of the intervention and
      follow-up assessments, which is approximately 3 months.

      The Funding Organization for this study is the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)
      and the Research Funding Provider is AstraZeneca.
    
  