
    
      RESEARCH AIMS:

        -  To investigate the effect of the level of swing assistance on the acute metabolic and
           cardiorespiratory responses during overground gait training with a wearable exoskeleton
           in persons after stroke

        -  To investigate if there is an interaction-effect between the level of swing assistance
           and the duration of walking

        -  To compare the exercise intensity to aerobic training recommendations

      STUDY DESIGN: An experimental, 1-group trial with randomized crossover design.

      PATIENT RECRUITMENT: Participants will be recruited at the AZ Herentals (Herentals, Belgium).

      LOCATION: The trial will be conducted at the REVAlution Center (Herentals, Belgium).

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: See section "Eligibility"

      PROCEDURES: Before the start of the study, informed consent and baseline patient
      characteristics will be collected. Next, participants will be measured during three training
      sessions with the Ekso GT SmartAssist:

        -  20-minute training with high swing assistance

        -  20-minute training with neutral swing assistance

        -  20-minute training with high swing resistance

      Trainings will be performed on a separate day in a randomized order (within one week and
      controlled for time of day).

      Following settings will be used in all three conditions: sitting program ("Min lean");
      standing program ("Auto lean"); step initiation program ("ProStep+"), training mode ("Off"),
      SmartAssist option ("2Free"); and stance support ("Low"). The level of stance support and
      swing assistance will be set symmetrically for the affected and non-affected side.

      During training, participants will walk back and forth at a self-selected walking speed in a
      30m hall way using a cane at the non-affected side.

      Prior to the experimental conditions, participants will have had three training sessions in
      the Ekso GT.

      RESTRICTIONS & PROHIBITIONS: Participants will be instructed to not consume food, alcohol,
      caffeine or nicotine at least 3h prior to the intervention. Usual medication intake will be
      allowed with small amounts of water.

      MATERIALS: The Ekso GT robotic exoskeleton with SmartAssist (Ekso Bionics Inc., USA) will be
      used during the overground training sessions.

      A flexible facemask (adult facemask, small/medium, Cortex, Germany), lightweight chest
      carrying gas analysis system (Metamax 3B, Cortex, Germany) and Bluetooth heart rate belt
      (Polar H7, Polar Electro, Finland) will be used to measure metabolic and cardiorespiratory
      parameters. At the start of each measurement, gas (room air and reference gas (17.4% O2 and
      5.1% CO2)) and volume (3L syringe) calibrations of the breath-by-breath gas analysis system
      will be performed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.

      OUTCOMES: See section "Outcome Measures"

      DATA-ANALYSES: Descriptive statistics will be calculated for baseline patient
      characteristics. To investigate the effect of level of swing assistance and duration, a
      repeated measures ANOVA (within factor duration and within factor assistance level) will be
      conducted (interaction-effect time x duration, main effect assistance level and main effect
      duration). In case of significant differences, posthoc analyses will be interpreted. The
      walking speed will be considered as a covariate in the ANOVA analysis (in case significant
      different between conditions). Significance level will be set at 5%.
    
  