
    
      Non randomised pilot descriptive multicentric study. Since recently it has been shown that
      Nox2p22phox protein is expressed not only in phagocytic cells but also in non-phagocytic
      cells such as fibroblasts, epithelial cells ,vascular cells, neurons. If pathological
      consequences of the deficiency Nox2 and p22phox, essential to the production of bactericidal
      toxic derivatives at the level of phagocytic cells, is well documented, impact of their
      absence in other types of non-phagocytic cells is not known. A better understanding of the
      impact of the absence of these proteins in these tissues could improve the management of CGD
      patients by providing a more specific monitoring of their condition. Similarly the formation
      of different cell models of all genetic forms of CGD that do not exist at present will be of
      great use to study the physiopathology of this disease and as tools for future studies.

      The study requires the inclusion of minor subjects as CGD is usually diagnosed in early
      childhood ( <2 years), it is rare (frequency 1/200 000) and the life expectancy is reduced.

      To elaborate the cells collection, hair and skin biopsy are necessary. They will be performed
      under local anesthesia for adults, and during a planned general anesthesia for minors.

      Fibroblasts and keratinocytes in culture will be obtained by conventional control methods and
      the absence of expression of p22phox or Nox2 will be checked.

      Measurement of the kinetics of neuronal development and apoptosis iPSC will be performed in a
      differentiation system 2 dimensions on stromal cells MS5. For that, markers of neuronal
      differentiation of each step will be measured.

      Measurement of Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) in phagocytes and p22phox deficient Nox2 from
      differentiation from iPSC (chemiluminescence, flow cytometry) will be performed.

      Measurement of the effectiveness of phagocytosis (phagocytic function) in phagocytes
      deficient p22phox and Nox2 from differentiation from iPSC (flow cytometry) will be performed.

      The absence of protein and p22phox Nox2 in phagocytes and p22phox deficient Nox2 from
      differentiation from the iPSC (western blot, flow cytometry) will be verified.

      Kinetic of transformation of fibroblasts derived from CGD patients with deficiency or p22phox
      Nox2 in myofibroblasts will be measured.

      To answer the principal objective of this study the recruitment of 10 patients will be
      necessary.
    
  