
    
      Rationale: The standard operative approach to pulmonary lesions has been via postero-lateral
      thoracotomy and direct vision. This technique has some advantages but its morbidity is
      significant. Some surgeons advocate a resection by video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) to
      reduce the impact on chest wall and the impairment on respiratory mechanic. However, an
      evidence for superiority of the approach minimally invasive is lacking, particularly for the
      difficult assessment of the change in pulmonary function and its relation with chest wall
      modifications.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to compare VATS- over open lobectomy regarding the
      differences of chest wall kinematic analyzed by optoelectronic plethysmography (OEP).

      Study design: A prospective mono-centre single blind trial. Study population: Adult patients
      of either gender candidate for pulmonary lobectomy for non small cell lung cancer.

      Intervention: Patients are submitted to pulmonary lobectomy by video-assisted technique or by
      postero-lateral thoracotomy. This decision follows the usual clinical evaluations, regardless
      of whether or not the study enrollment. In particular, they are candidates for
      postero-lateral thoracotomy if: tumors were close to the hilum or other relevant anatomical
      structures, or the computed tomography demonstrated hilar calcific lymph-nodes or the lesions
      were of greater than 4 cm diameter.

      Endpoint is evaluation of modification of respiratory kinematic after pulmonary lobectomy,
      assessed by OEP. In particular, the volume variation of pulmonary rib cage of the treated
      side versus the relative untreated side and the differences. Respiratory movements and
      thoracic and abdominal volume changes will be recorded continuously by analyzing the
      movements of retro-reflective markers using 8 video-cameras connected to an automatic
      optoelectronic motion analyzer. Subjects are prepared for OEP (markers). Baseline spirometry
      is take prior to exercise test. All exercise take place on an electromagnetically braked
      cycle-ergometer. Throughout the protocol heart rate, oxygen saturation and dyspnoea with the
      Borg scale are recorded. Ventilatory kinematics are monitored throughout exercise using OEP.
      This OEP analysis involves compartmentalization of the chest into three sections: pulmonary
      rib cage, abdominal rib cage, and abdomen to determine the contribution of each component to
      total chest wall volume.
    
  