
    
      These systems vary from the simple systems based on recession of the hairline to more
      advanced multifactorial systems based on morphological and dynamic parameters that affect the
      scalp and hair. Most of these systems have certain limitations. Currently, the most commonly
      used are Hamilton- Norwood classification system for males where there are two areas of hair
      loss that gradually enlarge to produce recession at the temples and thinning in the crown.
      These regions coalesce until the entire front, top and crown (vertex) of the scalp are bald(2
      major pattern,7 grades) and the Ludwig system for females which classify the Female Pattern
      Hair Loss into three grades depending on the reduction in hair density over the crown and
      frontal scalp with retention of the frontal hairline.

      Etiopathogenesis of Androgenetic Alopecia has not yet been fully elucidated. Genetic factors,
      hair follicle cycle abnormalities, aging process and androgen dependent process including end
      organ sensitivity have been all incriminated as etiological factors .

      Dermoscopy has emerged as an useful tool in the diagnosis of hair loss disorder including
      Androgenetic Alopecia. Important features of Androgenetic Alopecia on Dermoscopy include hair
      shaft thickness heterogeneity, yellow dots (irregularly distributed and with a remarkable
      variability in size and shape), perifollicular discolouration (the peripilar sign), an
      increased proportion of thin and vellus hairs (>10 % of the hairs) and a large number of
      follicular units with only one emerging hair shaft. Thin wavy hair and honeycomb
      hyperpigmentation often coexist as additional, nonspecific features Vitamin D is a
      secosteroid hormone that plays an important role in calcium homeostasis and bone health. It
      has three sources: endogenous synthesis in the skin, which is induced by Ultraviolet B
      radiation; dietary intake; and supplementation .

      Basically, Vitamin D is a modulator of both innate and adaptive immune systems through its
      various effects on T and B lymphocytes, dendritic cells and macrophages. There is a
      well-established causal connection between vitamin D deficiency and some autoimmune diseases
      , and possible association with some hair disorders, as it has been demonstrated that vitamin
      D receptors are strongly expressed in hair follicles and keratinocytes. Such an expression
      was found to be necessary for maintenance of the normal hair cycle. Also, it has also been
      shown that lack of vitamin D receptors reduces epidermal differentiation and hair follicle
      growth, and that an optimum concentration of Vitamin D3 is essential to delay aging and hair
      loss.

      Several studies were done to evaluate the role of vitamin D in different hair disorders with
      contrasting results. Some studies revealed low serum levels of Vitamin D in women with
      chronic telogen effluvium,Female Pattern Hair Loss and Alopecia Areata.While, two studies
      showed no correlation between the extent and severity of male androgenetic alopecia with
      serum Vitamin D3 level.

      Based on the above contrasting reports, we sought to evaluate the levels of Vitamin D in
      patients with androgenetic alopecia in order to establish its possible role in the
      etiopathogenesis and hence in the treatment of such a common and chronic hair disorder
    
  