
    
      1. Detection of various tear cytokine levels in patients with superior limbic
           keratoconjunctivitis, conjunctivochalasis, and keratoconjunctivitis sicca

           - Basal tear samples will be collected atraumatically from the inferolateral tear
           meniscus by using glass capillary tubes. Care is taken to avoid touching the corneal and
           conjunctival surface. Approximately 30 μl of tear samples is obtained, and then the
           samples are centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1500 rpm (225g). Tear sample are placed in
           microtubes (Eppendorf) and stored at -70°C. IL-1β, IL-17, TNF-α, and IFN-γ levels will
           be measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits.

        2. Immunohistochemistry stain method for conjunctival specimens - The conjunctiva will be
           collected from SLK and conjunctivochalasis patients who received superior and inferior
           bulbar conjunctival resection as needed. The redundant conjunctiva noted after peritomy
           during cataract or retinal surgery will be excised to serve as a normal control. The
           conjunctival specimens of all the SLK, conjunctivochalasis, and control groups are sent
           to the pathology department for routine paraffin embedding and hematoxylin and eosin
           staining. The surgical specimens are placed into 4% paraformaldehyde at 4 C for one to
           two days and then stored in 1% sodium phosphate buffer at 4 C. They then are embedded in
           paraffin. To enhance tissue adhesion, 5-micrometer thick sections are mounted on glass
           slides pre- treated with Vectabond (Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, California, USA).
           The paraffin sections are deparaffinized, rehydrated and washed with phosphate-buffered
           saline (PBS; pH 7.4). Antigen retrieval is performed by immerse the sections in 0.1%
           trypsin in water bath for 15 mins. The endogenous peroxidase activity is quenched by
           placing the slides in 3% hydrogen peroxide. The slides are then blocked with serum
           followed by incubation with primary antibodies. Primary antibodies (TSL and SCF) are
           incubated overnight at 4°C. Thereafter, incubation with biotin conjugated secondary
           antibody is performed at room temperature for 60 min. Further, incubation with
           avidin-biotin horseradish peroxidase complex is then performed at room temperature as
           well for 30 min using Vectastain elite® ABC kit (Vector labs, CA USA). The location
           where the enzyme is bound will be visualized by the addition of the substrate
           3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAKO, CA, USA), a chromogen which produces a brown insoluble
           precipitate. The sections are then counterstained with haematoxylin, which is followed
           by dehydration and mounting with Vecta Mount Mounting medium was used to evaluate the
           slides.
    
  