
    
      Congenital malformations account for more than 20% of all infant deaths(CDC,2014), and
      congenital heart defects are the most common types of birth defects.

      The prenatal diagnosis of major congenital heart defects remains a challenge. Publications by
      Acherman et al (Acherman RJ .et al) and Sklansky et al (Sklansky MS.et al)have found that
      approximately 35% of cardiac anomalies are detected prenatally, a frequency that is not
      substantially different from that documented by Wigton et al in 1993 (Wigton TR, et al)
      Advances in prenatal ultrasonography have improved prenatal care in recent decades and
      increased the detection of a large number of congenital malformations. The prenatal detection
      rate of congenital heart disease (CHD), however, has not shown the same increase as the
      detection of malformations in other fetal systems (DeVore GR, et al). CHDs are the most
      commonly overlooked lesions in prenatal screening programs(Garne E et al, Tegnander E et al).
      This causes concern as CHD represents the most common congenital malformation and is the
      leading cause of infant mortality in the first year of postnatal life(Garne E). It has been
      estimated that the prevalence of CHD is 4-8 per 1000 neonates(Hoffman JI et al).

      Early detection and accurate prenatal diagnosis of CHD reduces neonatal morbidity and
      mortality rates by allowing provision of adequate prenatal and postnatal care(Randall P et
      al, Goncalves LF et al). Before viability is reached, parents can be counseled on the
      diagnosis, severity and prognosis. Furthermore, it provides parents with the opportunityto
      make informed decisions on the further course of pregnancy. The four-chamber view has become
      the standard approach in screening for CHD. Identification of the right and left outflow
      tracts markedly improves the detection rate of CHD(DeVore GR et al, Stumpflen I et al).

      Prenatal detection of these anomalies has proved challenging. In a British study from 1999,
      Bull(AIUM 2013) reported on 4799 pregnancies affected by major congenital heart defects and
      found that the antenatal detection rate was only 24%. Lower detection rates were noted in
      centers that only assessed the 4-chamber view. Correspondingly, in an attempt to improve the
      antenatal detection rates of congenital heart defects, the American Institute of Ultrasound
      in Medicine, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and International Society
      of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology all have recommended that an attempt should be
      made to image the ventricular outflow tracts during the fetal anatomic survey.( Carvalho JS
      et al. , Bull C., AIUM 2003)

      However, imaging of these outflow tracts can be challenging, and it is not clear that they
      can be typically obtained in generalized non-tertiary care settings. A 2007 study from the
      United States, which included 77,000 births, found that only 36% of major congenital heart
      defects were detected antenatally. It is not clear from the study whether outflow views were
      routinely obtained at all of the laboratories involved, but the study suggests that better
      detection rates could be achieved if outflow views were more routinely imaged.( Bull C. )

      In an effort to improve antenatal detection of these anomalies, the American Institute of
      Ultrasound in Medicine, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the
      International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology have suggested that routine
      ultrasound examinations should attempt to include views of the cardiac outflow tracts. (AIUM
      2003)

      The myriad of fetal positions and the different maternal factors that influence the
      examination make fetal echocardiography one of the more difficult tasks for sonographers. To
      help improve and standardize fetal cardiac examinations, Yagel et al. and Yoo et al.
      described a method in which five cardiac planes are visualizedfor a complete examination of
      the fetal heart(Yoo SJ et al,Yagel et al ). Additionally, three- and four-dimensional (3D and
      4D) ultrasound imaging can be a valuable tool in fetal echocardiography(ACOG 2004, Chaoui R
      et al,AIUM 2010, Yagel S et al M. C. Haak et al , Luciane Alves Rocha et al Rocha LA et al )

      Other proposals have included obtaining routine 2-dimensional (2D) cine clips, universal
      fetal echocardiography, and routine use of 3-dimensional (3D) fast acquisition volumes. One
      reason that 3D sonographic technologies have been suggested is because routine visualization
      of cardiac views has proven to be a challenge with 2D imaging in centers that are less
      experienced with prenatal diagnosis, and 3D stored volumes could then be evaluated further by
      those more experienced.( M. C. Haak et al , Luciane Alves Rocha, et al, Rocha LA et al )

      Fetal Intelligent Navigation Echocardiography (FINE) 5D work flow refers to semi-automated
      identification of specific diagnostic image planes and measurements from a volume dataset
      simultaneously displaying nine standard fetal cardiac views. It allows the examination of
      cardiac planes, such as the axial planes and view of the interventricular septum (IVS plane)
      which are technically very difficult to image using conventional two-dimensional (2D)
      echocardiography (Rocha LA et al).

      However, to be an effective tool in fetal echocardiography, 5D volume acquisition must be
      feasible in routine clinical practice. A number of reports on these new technologies have
      emphasized the requirement of a substantial learning curve for the use of 5D ultrasound
      imaging(M. C. Haak et al , Luciane Alves Rocha et al ). This may explain the delay in
      widespread introduction of this new technique in first- and second level ultrasound
      departments, and even in tertiary referral centers.
    
  