
    
      Non-Adapted Brief Motivational Intervention: The core components of NA-BMI are consistent
      with the person-centered approach of MI and include 1) providing personalized feedback based
      on screening and baseline assessment results; 2) exploring decisional balance (pros and cons)
      of alcohol use from the patient's perspective; 3) building motivation for change through the
      assessment and discussion of the patients' selfreport of levels of importance, confidence,
      and readiness to change drinking; 4) enhancing commitment to change by exploring the
      patient's options for change and developing a change plan if indicated or desired; and 5)
      providing referrals for formal treatment of alcohol problems and other community resources.
      The NA-BMI will not specifically target cultural risk or protective factors beyond any normal
      tailoring that may occur in a standard BMI as described in the current literature. In NA-BMI,
      personalized feedback will be based on drinking norms and frequency of alcohol problems from
      the U.S. general population.

      Culturally Adapted Brief Motivational Intervention: CA-BMI also adheres to the core
      principles of MI and practice of BMI. In CA-BMI, the core components of NA-BMI are adapted to
      be culturally responsive to the unique risk (acculturative stress) and protective (familism)
      factors associated with heavy drinking, alcohol problems, help seeking, and treatment
      utilization among Latinos. It is important to note that CA-BMI goes well beyond any tailoring
      that may occur in NA-BMI by targeting factors that are important predictors of drinking among
      Latinos. Specifically, there are two primary adaptations to the CA-BMI:

        1. CA-BMI will incorporate the assessment and personalized feedback on the impact of
           acculturative stress on drinking so as to decrease temptation to drink and increase
           confidence to avoid drinking. Specifically, participants will receive feedback about the
           types and intensity of acculturative stress they may experience (e.g., issues related to
           immigration, cultural congruity, language barriers, and employment discrimination), and
           clinicians will elicit the relationship of acculturative stress to temptation and
           confidence to avoid drinking.

        2. CA-BMI will also integrate family and community as reasons for change and as agents of
           behavior change when considering the impact of drinking, plans for changing drinking
           behavior, and engagement in help-seeking behaviors. Following methods developed by Lee
           et al. (2011) and Añez et al. (2008), consultants on the grant, investigators will
           incorporate a discussion of how social context and family dynamics are related to
           drinking.

      These modifications result in a culturally adapted intervention that is substantially
      distinct in its content and focus (e.g., deep structural changes) from a non-adapted
      intervention, while maintaining consistency with motivational interviewing and its
      application in brief alcohol intervention. In accord with the two central adaptations,
      investigators anticipate that the potential mediators or mechanisms of behavior change
      specific to CA-BMI are 1) temptation to drink and confidence to avoid drinking and 2)
      increased support from family and friends in general as well as specific support to change
      drinking behavior and seek treatment. Finally, investigators will also evaluate a definition
      of treatment utilization that is more comprehensive than that in the investigators prior
      study, which assessed the use of formal inpatient and outpatient substance abuse treatment
      and attendance to self-help groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous (Field, et al., 2010). In the
      current study, investigators will assess engagement in formal treatment networks as well as
      informal help-seeking common among Latinos (e.g., seeking help from family, religious
      leaders, or respected elders in the community).

      Statistical Analyses Preliminary Analyses: Standard examinations for outliers, data
      distribution, and internal consistency of measures will be conducted. For mixed models,
      investigators will assess the homogeneity of error and normality of residuals at all levels
      of the model, test for multivariate normality of random effects, examine linearity, and
      identify outliers. For structural equation models (SEM), investigators will follow the best
      practice guidelines outlined by Boomsma (2000) for analyzing and reporting SEM models.
      Investigators will also compare groups on all demographic and pretest variables to assess
      whether randomization produced equivalent groups; in the event of nonequivalent variables,
      these variables will be included as covariates in models.

      Data Analysis for Specific Aim 1: Analyses investigating group differences in alcohol
      problems and treatment utilization will use random coefficient models (Raudenbush & Bryk,
      2002; Singer & Willett, 2003). Investigators will construct longitudinal models using the
      following sequence of analytic steps recommended by Singer and Willett (2003): 1) examine
      empirical growth plots; 2) fit an unconditional means model; 3) fit an unconditional linear
      growth model; 4) fit an unconditional non-linear model (e.g., piecewise model); 5) determine
      the best model of longitudinal change by comparing models in the previous two steps using the
      Akaike information criterion (AIC); (f) select the most appropriate error covariance
      structure using AIC; and 6) add level-2 predictors (e.g., intervention conditions). Models
      for binary outcomes (e.g., treatment utilization) will use generalized linear mixed-effects
      models assuming a binary distribution with a logistic link function.

      Data Analysis for Specific Aim 2: Potential moderators will be examined by constructing
      interaction terms between treatment and a priori moderator variables (e.g., acculturative
      stress) to examine the possibility that the relationship between a putative moderator and
      outcome differ across treatments (Aiken & West, 1991).

      In the event of a significant interaction that indicates moderation, investigators will probe
      the relationship methods appropriate for multilevel models (Bauer & Curran, 2005).

      Mediation analysis will be conducted using a growth-curve framework implemented in an SEM.
      Models will be constructed by first fitting growth models for mediators and outcomes and then
      fitting mediational growth models. Investigators will follow the same sequence described
      above for establishing the best model of longitudinal change for Aim 1. Latent growth models
      will be comprised of at least two latent factors; one factor will represent the initial
      status, and one or more factors will represent the growth rate of a variable, where more than
      one factor will be required in the event of non-linear change (e.g., a quadratic term).
      Mediation will be examined following recommendations by MacKinnon (2008) for assessing
      mediation in the growth models context. The growth factor of the mediator will be regressed
      on the initial status of the mediator, the outcome, and the intervention group. A significant
      effect for the intervention group establishes a relation between the intervention group and
      the mediator, controlling for baseline levels of the mediator and outcome. Next, the growth
      factor will be regressed on the initial status of the mediator, the outcome, the slope of the
      mediator, and the intervention group. A significant effect of the mediator growth factor
      establishes a relation between change in the mediator and change in the outcome, controlling
      for baseline levels of the mediators and outcome.

      Data Analysis for Aim 3: Responses to patient and interventionist satisfaction and assessment
      of working alliance will be compiled in aggregate form. The frequency of responses to
      individual items will be reported for patients and interventionists. Likewise, scale scores
      for patients and providers will be reported using means and standard deviations. Comparison
      of responses of patients and interventionist will be made using chisquare in the case of
      frequency data and t-tests in the case of scale scores. Organizational readiness will be
      assessed using a pretest-posttest design. The analysis of pretest-posttest comparison will
      employ Analysis of Covariance or ANCOVA. In this nonrandomized design, the main purpose of
      ANCOVA is to adjust the posttest means for differences among groups on the pretest, because
      such differences are likely to occur. The purpose of using the pretest scores as a covariate
      in ANCOVA with a pretest-posttest design is to (a) reduce the error variance and (b)
      eliminate systematic bias.
    
  