
    
      Task 1 - Prospective evaluation of:

        1. The mid-term shoulder outcomes of ASCR with minimally invasive harvested fascia lata
           autograft The objective of this task is to establish the 3 years postoperative clinical
           and radiological shoulder outcomes of FL-ASCR with minimally invasive harvesting. The
           secondary purpose of this task is to test if the FL-ASCR outcomes remain constant after
           the 2-year evaluation.

           Therefore, the FL-ASCR patients included in this study will have completed the
           preoperative, 6-month and 2-year postoperative evaluations and will undergo a 3-year
           postoperative evaluation of:

             1. Bilateral shoulder active range of motion (ROM): elevation, abduction and external
                rotation (with the arm at the side), measured in degrees with the use of an
                analogic goniometer; and internal rotation, defined as the highest vertebral body
                that the patient's thumb can reach, converted afterwards to a scale of 1-5 points:
                lateral thigh=0; buttock=1; sacrum=2; lumbar=3; 12th thoracic vertebra=4; 7th
                thoracic vertebra=5.);

             2. Bilateral shoulder strength (supraspinatus, infraspinatus, subscapularis and teres
                minor) measured in kilograms with the use of a digital dynamometer;

             3. Bilateral functional shoulder scores: the simple shoulder test (SST, 1-12 points),
                the subjective shoulder value (SSV, 0-100%) and the constant score (CS, 1-100
                points).

             4. True anteroposterior shoulder view radiograph of the affected shoulder: the
                acromiohumeral interval (AHI), considering the distance between the top of the
                humeral head and the undersurface of the acromion, measured using a software
                measurement tool (PACS, Agfa HealthCare); the RCT arthritis will be graded
                according to the Hamada revised radiographic classification.

        2. The donor site morbidity impact of FL-ASCR with minimally invasive harvesting The
           objective of this task is to establish the 3-year donor site morbidity subjective impact
           of FL-ASCR with minimally invasive harvesting. The secondary aim of this task is to test
           our hypothesis that the subjective impact of the donor site morbidity after FL-ASCR does
           not change significantly from the 2-year to the 3-year evaluation. Therefore, at the
           3-year evaluation, the patients will be required to answer to the same three
           closed-ended questions that were asked at the 2-year evaluation to assess the donor site
           morbidity's impact on the patient's overall satisfaction of the surgical procedure:
           "Does the harvested thigh bother you?", "Does your shoulder surgery's end result
           compensate for your thigh's changes?", "Would you undergo the same surgery again?".
           Accordingly, the patients will also be asked asked, in a closed-ended questionnaire, if
           they noticed any of the following donor site changes: deformity, pain, numbness and
           specific donor site-related claudication.

      Task 2 - Analysis of the mid-term graft integrity on the 3-year postoperative magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) to determine the graft mid-term survivorship

      The objective of this task is to determine the 3-year postoperative survivorship of the
      graft, establishing the fascia lata superior capsular graft tearing rate and the most
      frequent site of graft failure at 3 years. A 1.5 Tesla MRI scanner (Siemens Magnetom, U.S.A.)
      will be used to acquire images in the coronal [proton density fat-saturated (PD FAT-SAT) and
      T1-weighted], sagittal (PD FAT-SAT and T2 FAT-SAT) and axial (T2* and PD) planes. We and,
      after blinding, two other independent experienced musculoskeletal radiologists will assess
      the MRI-images from each patient, in order to:

        1. Identify any discontinuity of the graft which, if present, will be classified according
           to its site as a proximal, an intermediate or a distal tear; and as an anterior or a
           posterior tear.

        2. Identify any discontinuity of the onlay repair of the rotator cuff remnants, which, if
           present, will be classified a tear of the onlay repair.

        3. Grade the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor and subscapularis muscle fatty
           degeneration according to the Goutallier et al. classification.

        4. Grade the RCT tendon remnants retraction in the coronal plane according to the Patte
           classification.

        5. Grade the supraspinatus muscle atrophy according to the Thomazeau et al. classification.

        6. Grade the supraspinatus muscle atrophy according to the tangent sign. The graft
           survivorship according to the three separate evaluations will be compared to establish
           the inter-observer reliability of the MRI graft survivorship results.

      The type of progression of graft integrity will be determined by comparing the 6-month with
      the 3-year MRI evaluation of the graft survivorship.

      Task 3 - Comparative analysis of the clinical, radiological and MRI preoperative and
      postoperative variables

      The objective of this task is to find correlations between the graft survivorship and the
      results from tasks 1 and 2. The aim is to establish the clinical importance of mid-term graft
      survivorship.

      The investigators will compare the ROM, shoulder strength, SSV, SST, CS and AHI from
      preoperative to 3 years postoperative; and from 2 years postoperative to 3 years
      postoperative (paired-samples t-test). The investigators will compare all continuous
      variables between the group of ASCR patients who underwent an additional onlay partial RCT
      repair and the group that underwent ASCR without an onlay partial RCT repair, between the
      anterior acromioplasty-ASCR group and the group that did not undergo an anterior
      acromioplasty, between the tenotomy-ASCR group and the no-LHBT group, between the
      preoperative and postoperative AHI<7mm group and the AHI≥7mm group, and between the
      intact-graft group and the graft-tear group (Mann-Whitney U test). The investigators will
      compare all categorical variables, including the donor site morbidity and overall subjective
      outcome results, between the groups (Fisher's exact test).

      To determine the repercussion of FL-ASCR and of the graft integrity on the rotator cuff
      muscle function the investigators will compare the progression of the Goutallier
      classification of each rotator cuff muscle from preoperative to 3 years postoperative, as
      well as the cumulative Goutallier score (the sum of the fatty infiltration stages of the four
      muscles) and the global fatty muscle degeneration index (the mean value of the grades for the
      supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis), between the intact-graft group and the
      graft-tear group.

      A significant difference will be defined as P<0.05.
    
  