
    
      Criteria for verification: 1,600 low birth weight (LBW) infants recruited at the national
      hospital and local health centres and enrolled in a randomised trial of BCG vaccination at
      birth versus later vaccination; information on potential adverse events following early BCG
      vaccination of LBW infants; follow-up of children to 12 months of age with home visits at 2,
      6 and 12 months of age; assessment of tuberculin reaction and scar-formation at 2, 6 and 12
      months of age; assessment of BCG vaccination coverage during infancy; and assessment of
      all-cause mortality during infancy.

      Recruitment: All LBW children delivered at the maternity ward of the national hospital at the
      local Health Centre will be offered enrolment in the study. Furthermore, all children born at
      home in the study area will be weighed and referred for BCG vaccination at the health centres
      as quickly as possible. For mothers of LBW children, the current policy and the purpose of
      the study will be explained. If she accepts participation, she will draw a randomisation
      number indicating whether the children will be BCG vaccinated early or not. At the time of
      enrolment, children will be examined clinically with anthropometrics, and major risk factors
      will be documented (including TB exposure at home, recent infections, access to malaria
      drugs, ethnic group, schooling, housing conditions, mother's recent drug consumption).
      Newborns will only be included in the study if they are considered sufficiently healthy to be
      discharged from the hospital, or when they arrive at the health centre if born at home. Twins
      will be a large part of the LBW children as twinning is common in the study area (around 2%
      of births). They will be allocated to the same group, as there could be confusion for the
      mother as to who had been vaccinated. As is happening at the moment, mothers of children not
      receiving vaccination at birth will be recommended to attend a local health centre as soon as
      the child has gained weight. For ethical reasons, it will not be possible to use a placebo as
      this could mean that some children would not be BCG vaccinated if the mother believed that
      the child had in fact been vaccinated. The children who are not vaccinated initially will
      subsequently be vaccinated at the limited number of health centres in the capital, which
      administer BCG vaccination. The intradermal vaccination technique and vaccine storage will be
      supervised, and it will be monitored as to whether scar-formation and PPD reactivity is
      similar in children vaccinated at the different centres to assure that vaccinations have been
      administered in the same way.

      Follow-up: To assure proper identification of the children, the mother and newborn child will
      be driven home to document the location of the home. The children included in the study will
      be visited at 2, 6, and 12 months of age, to identify subsequent BCG vaccinations by
      inspection of the vaccination card, to weigh the child and measure arm-circumference, to
      assess BCG scarring and to document morbidity, hospitalisations and survival. Sick children
      identified during these visits will be referred for treatment at the relevant health
      institution. If the child has still not been vaccinated, the mother will be encouraged to
      bring the child for vaccination. Should the child have died, a verbal autopsy will be
      conducted. The children will be followed for morbidity, hospitalisations, and mortality up to
      12 months of age. Within the study area they may be followed longer. In order to assure
      detection of possible complications to BCG vaccination, LBW children enrolled in the study
      will be provided with a card identifying the child, and the mother will be told to bring the
      child for consultation at the local Health Centre where consultations and treatment will be
      free of charge. The expected very rare complications will be treated according to WHO's
      recommendations.

      A subgroup of the children will be enrolled in immunological studies. To assess the effect of
      BCG vaccination on the immune profile, initially unvaccinated LBW children will have a blood
      sample collected when they turn up for BCG vaccination at a health centre. For each child
      examined, a BCG vaccinated LBW child matched for age and sex will be examined and a blood
      sample collected.
    
  