
    
      After providing informed consent, study participants will be assessed for study eligibility
      at the screening visit. At screening visit (week -4), venous blood (320~400 mL) will be
      sampled using a double blood bag containing anticoagulant. Autologous plasma will be
      separated from the venous blood by centrifugation. During the 4 weeks of screening period,
      autologous total IgG (purity ≥97%) will be aseptically purified from the autologous plasma by
      chromatography using Protein A. Participants will receive the 8 intramuscular injections of
      autologous total IgG, twice a week for 4 weeks from baseline (week 0).

      The investigators will evaluate the safety and immunostimulatory effect of intervention of
      this study by analyzing side effects, serum concentrations of immunological parameters
      (immunoglobulin, cytokine, etc.), and lymphocyte fraction by flow cytometry analysis of
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

      [Part A) Autologous total IgG therapy in healthy subjects] The duration of this clinical
      study in healthy subjects is 16 weeks from the screening visit. A 4-week screening period
      will be followed by a 4-week intervention period and an 8-week follow-up period.

      [Part B) Autologous total IgG therapy in patients with advanced solid tumor] The duration of
      this clinical study in patients with advanced solid tumor is 12 weeks from the screening
      visit. A 4-week screening period will be followed by a 4-week intervention period and a
      4-week follow-up period(1 cycle).

      If the patients agree to participate in additional long-term repeated study interventions at
      the end of 1st cycle of visit, patients will receive repeated study interventions in same the
      schedule up to week 44 (maximum 4 cycles). At the end of each cycle, antitumor effect will be
      evaluated by serum tumor marker concentrations, anatomical imaging, and Response Evaluation
      Criteria in solid tumors (RECIST ver. 1.1).
    
  