
    
      NP-120 (Ifenprodil) is an N-methyl-D-Aspartate (NDMA) inhibitor that is specific for the NR2B
      subunit of the NMDA Receptor. The NMDA receptor, and specifically the NR2B subunit, is
      involved in glutamate signaling, and is expressed on both neutrophils and T cells. In the
      case of neutrophils, activation of the NMDA receptor can (1) result in expression of CD11b
      which targets neutrophils via ICAM-1 to areas of inflammation, and (2) trigger the autocrine
      release of glutamate. In the case of T-cells, activation of T cells via glutamate can cause
      (1) T cell proliferation and, (2) the release of cytokines. The activation of T cells and
      cytokine release can be blocked in vitro by the addition of Ifenprodil. As such it could be a
      potent anti-inflammatory agent.

      Ifenprodil was discovered by a genome wide RNAi assay to uncover gene targets associated with
      cytoprotective activity against highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza, specifically by preserving
      cell viability in vitro. When tested in a murine model of H5N1, the drug at clinically
      relevant doses: (1) improved survivability from 0% at day 6 to 40% day 14 post-infection, (2)
      the drug significantly reduced edema and lung injury score and (3) reduced infiltrating T
      cells, neutrophils and NK cells and attenuated the 'cytokine storm'. The mortality rate of
      H5N1 in humans is >50%, whereas the mortality rate of COVID-19 infected patients is < 5%, and
      both viruses cause acute lung injury and share similar pulmonary pathologies. NP-120 has also
      been shown to mediate anti-inflammatory responses and reduce pulmonary fibrosis in a murine
      model of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a complication which can occur after a respiratory
      virus infection.

      Based on the fact that H5N1 has a significantly higher mortality rate than COVID-19 but still
      shares similar lung pathologies, Algernon Pharmaceuticals believes Ifenprodil could reduce
      lung injury associated with COVID-19 infection, thereby improving lung function and
      accelerating patient recovery.

      The purpose of this Phase 2b/3 trial is to determine the safety and efficacy of NP-120 in the
      treatment of COVID-19 infection.
    
  