
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the rate of hematologic improvement of the eltrombopag (eltrombopag
      olamine)/lenalidomide combination (as per Modified International Working Group [IWG]
      criteria).

      II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the time to hematologic improvement. II. To evaluate the duration of
      hematologic improvement III. To evaluate the effect of combination treatment on platelet
      counts, platelet transfusions and bleeding events.

      IV. To evaluate the frequency of bone marrow response (complete response [CR] + partial
      response [PR]) and cytogenetic response.

      V. To evaluate the relationship between mutations in bone marrow stem cells and response.

      VI. To evaluate the relationship between various stem and progenitor alterations and
      response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients with platelet counts >= 50,000 receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily or
      every other day (QOD) on days 1-21. If platelet counts fall below 50,000, patients
      discontinue lenalidomide and receive eltrombopag olamine PO daily or QOD until platelet count
      is maintained above 50,000 for 2 weeks. Patients then resume lenalidomide PO daily or QOD. If
      platelets fall below 50,000 again, patients receive eltrombopag olamine as before. When
      platelet counts are maintained above 50,000 for 2 weeks, patients resume lenalidomide
      concurrently with eltrombopag for all subsequent courses.

      ARM B: Patients with platelet counts < 50,000 receive eltrombopag olamine PO daily or QOD on
      days 1-28 until platelet counts is maintained above 50,000 for 2 weeks. Patients then receive
      treatment as in Arm A.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  