
    
      -  Since we are looking for the highest dose of the study agent that can be administered
           safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have liver
           tumors, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose
           of the study drug. The dose the participant receives will depend on the number of
           participants who have been enrolled in the study before and how well they tolerated
           their doses.

        -  Depending upon when the participant enrolls in this study, they will either receive a
           single injection of rRp450, or up to 4 weekly injections of rRp450. Participants in both
           groups will be monitored after the rRp450 injection in the hospital and in the clinic.
           As of July, 2013, because the first phase of the study has been completed, all
           participants from here forward will receive 4 weekly injections of rRp450

        -  For the rRp450 injection, we will insert a small tube into the artery that supplies
           blood to the liver. rRp450 will be injected into this tube so it goes directly to the
           liver. Another tube is inserted into the blood vessel that drains blood from the liver.
           We will use this tube to take blood samples to monitor how the body absorbs and breaks
           down rRp450.

        -  After the rRp450 injection, participants will be monitored closely for any side effects.
           Vital signs will be closely monitored before, during and after rRp450 injection. After
           the rRp450 injection, the tubes are removed.

        -  The following tests and procedures are done before the rRp450 injection: determination
           of overall health condition, performance status evaluation, review of current
           medications and any side effects, physical exam and vital signs.

        -  The following tests and procedures will be done during the injection of rRp450: vital
           signs, review of any side effects, research blood samples taken from a vein in your arm,
           and research blood samples taken from your liver vein.

        -  The following tests and procedures will be done after rRp450 injection: 1 Hour after;
           blood tests: 6 and 12 hours after; blood tests, vital signs, routine blood tests,
           samples of saliva and swabs of the skin of the penis or vaginal secretions (hour 12
           only): 24 hours after, Between days 4 to 7 and Between days 10 to 14; review of current
           medications and side effects, physical exam, vital signs, routine blood tests, swab
           samples of saliva, blood test to see if the body has produced antibodies against HSV-1
           (only on day 4 to 7 and only for participants enrolled in the single injection group).

        -  Liver and tumor biopsies will be performed about 6 days after the rRp450 injection.

        -  Participants will be asked to return to the clinic 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and every 3 months
           thereafter after their last injection of study medication.
    
  