
    
      It is recognized that lesions in some specific neuro-anatomic areas due to brain disease,
      e.g., stroke or brain tumor, may lead to the development of secondary depression. The
      possibility of structural brain abnormalities as a cause of depression stimulated the use of
      structural brain imaging studies. Developments in structural neuroimaging by computed
      tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in the past 15 years facilitated the direct
      examination of specific brain structures, making the study of the relationship between
      anatomy and psychopathology is possible.

      Neuro-anatomic model of mood regulation :

      The prefrontal cortex has extensive connectivity to cortical and subcortical circuits that
      may underlie its importance in cognitive functions and modulation of limbic activity .The
      main subcortical structures participating in these circuits are the basal ganglia, thalamus,
      hypothalamus, brainstem, and the white matter tracts that connect these structures among
      themselves and to the cerebral cortex . A limbic-thalamic-cortical circuit consisting of the
      amygdala, the medio-dorsal nucleus of the thalamus, and the medial and ventro-lateral
      prefrontal cortex, and a limbic-striato-pallidal-thalamic circuit comprising the striatum,
      the ventral pallidum, and the components of the other circuit are the main neuro-anatomic
      circuits that have been proposed to participate in the pathophysiology of mood disorders.

      The basal ganglia connect with cortical and limbic regions through circuits that, despite
      functioning segregated, are organized in parallel , in such a way that lesions in different
      parts of these circuits could result in malfunction. Additionally, the cerebellum, through
      connections with the brainstem and limbic structures, may also be involved in mood
      regulation.

      Both primary and secondary mood disorders may involve abnormalities in specific
      fronto-subcortical neuro-anatomic circuits. Abnormalities in these brain regions or in
      contiguous areas that can affect the connections between these regions could reflect
      malfunction of these circuits, associated with development of mood disorders. Alternatively,
      abnormalities in these circuits could confer vulnerability to mood disorders, and its onset
      could be determined by interactions with environmental and genetic factors. Deficits during
      brain development due to these factors could result in under-development of particular brain
      areas, which could be related subsequently with mood disorders. The aging process or
      pathology such as vascular brain disease could result in atrophy of some of these regions.
      Thus, the influence of genetic, environmental, developmental, and degenerative factors during
      the development of these brain structures may determine the onset of mood disorders .

      Although structural brain abnormalities in Bipolar Disorder have been reported, the pattern
      of structural brain abnormalities based on magnetic resonance imaging is still not clearly
      defined.

      Aim of the study :

      To study the morphometric criteria of different brain structures in patients with Bipolar
      Disorder type I mania in comparison to healthy subjects.

      Subjects and Methods:

      Patients :

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients diagnosed to have mood disorder Bipolar I mania with or without psychotic features
      according to criteria of Diagnostic and statistical Manual of Mental disorder-IV (American
      Psychiatric Association 1994) by psychiatric sheath of psychiatric unit at Assiut University
      hospital .

      The patients will be arranged in Two subgroups:

      first group: twenty five patients in more than one episode second group: twenty age and
      sex-matched healthy subjects will be enrolled in the study

      .

      Exclusion Criteria:

      first and second degree relatives of psychiatric patients will be excluded from the healthy
      controls.

      Persons with any neurological disorder or other psychiatric illness will be excluded from
      controls Patients with proven major structural abnormality as detected during Magnetic
      resonance Imaging Examination will be excluded from patients or healthy controls.
    
  