
    
      A recent retrospective cohort study of 1006 subjects reported a marked reduction in condom
      failure amongst users applying additional lubrication. Improving the reliability of condoms
      would reduce the incidence of unwanted pregnancies and STI's (and hence health and social
      costs). This trial investigates the relative risk reduction amongst couples applying
      additional spermicidal lubrication to condoms, other factors associated with condom failure,
      the acceptability and side effects of additional spermicide and its cost effectiveness.

      200 regular condom users will be recruited from family planning clinics and other community
      sources. A randomised, controlled investigator blinded, crossover design is being used.
      Participants will be reviewed at 3 and 6 months. Couples will be randomised to start either
      with latex condoms alone (Durex Extra Safe) or with additional Duragel (nonoxynol-9
      contracceptive gel) applied to the outside of the condom prior to initial penetration.
      Participants are heterosexual couples using condoms for vaginal non-commercial intercourse in
      stable relationships of at least 3 months duration. Those under 18, or unable to provide data
      due to communication difficulties will be excluded from the trial.

      Data will be collected by questionnaires for all subjects on their contraceptive and STI
      history, key demographic, social and behavioural factors relevant to condom failure risk at
      baseline. At crossover and trial end the rate and types of condom failure, side effects and
      acceptability of additional spermicide, and health service and subject costs are collected. A
      random sample of subjects also participate in a detailed semi-structured interview at the end
      of the study, covering their recent experiences of condom failure, and opinions about condoms
      in general, including the use of additional spermicide. These qualitative findings will then
      be discussed in patient and professional focus groups as a proxy for respondent checking and
      data triangulation.

      The research will provide valuable, detailed information on factors associated with condom
      failure. Confirmation of the previous finding of the protective effects of additional
      spermicide would have a potentially major international impact in the fields of family
      planning and infectious diseases.
    
  