
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the safety of abemaciclib plus olaparib in patients with platinum-resistant
      ovarian cancer by determining the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase 2 dose.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity using overall response rate (ORR) and duration
      of response (DoR) with abemaciclib and olaparib, given in combination, in patients with
      platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess proof of mechanism (RB, phosphoRB, cleaved caspase 3, Ki67, geminin, gamma-H2AX,
      RAD51 nuclear foci, pNBS multiplex, Myc transcriptional targets ODC1 and LDHA, homologous
      recombination genes BRCA1, BRCA2, RAD51, serum thymidine kinase), plasma and tumor
      pharmacokinetics, and subgroups of response (immunohistochemistry [IHC] for Myc, cyclin E;
      next generation sequencing [NGS]/whole exome sequencing [WES] for DCAF, hormone receptor [HR]
      repair gene alterations, Myc, and CCNE1; ribonucleic acid sequencing [RNAseq] for Myc and
      CCNE1).

      II. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      III. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of abemaciclib.

      Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and abemaciclib PO BID
      on days 8-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  