
    
      Protocol for the Study - Muscle Ultrasound: A New Tool for Measuring Progression in ALS

      A. Specific Aims The authors propose to study the change in muscle mass over time in patients
      with ALS. Muscle atrophy is a very common feature of the disease, and in clinical experience
      correlates with progressing weakness. As such, it is a qualitative marker of disease
      progress, although this lacks a quantitative marker. Muscle ultrasound is a safe,
      noninvasive, and rapid method of measuring muscle volume or thickness (1). Recently Arts, et
      al published an assessment of muscle ultrasound, specifically including reduced muscle depth
      and increased ultrasound echogenicity (2). We believe determining quantitatively the rate of
      progression of muscle mass in a group of patients with ALS will lead to a clinically useful
      tool to serve as a marker of disease progression, which may be useful in clinical trials for
      new therapies for this disease.

      B. Background and Significance ALS is a quickly progressive disease that results in skeletal
      muscle weakness, including ventilatory weakness, which is the ultimate cause of death for the
      vast majority of patients with ALS. Median survival from diagnosis is less than 3 years.
      There is only one drug approved to treat ALS, riluzole, and its effects to limit the
      progression of the illness are slight (6). Current study designs often use a primary endpoint
      of either death from ALS or initiation of long-term mechanical ventilation (LTMV). There are
      other tools to assess progression, which can include a questionnaire called the ALS
      functional rating scale (ALS-FRS), a direct measurement of strength, or an electromyography
      technique called motor unit number estimate (MUNE). Each has potential drawbacks, which
      include potential lack of objectivity in questionnaire and variable effort when assessing
      direct strength measurements. There has also been work to correlate magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy findings to progression in ALS, with some positive results (3). However, this
      technology is expensive, time consuming, and not widely available. Muscle ultrasound may be
      sensitive enough to quantitatively detect changes in muscle thickness (4), which may serve as
      an objective tool to measure disease progression, for the purpose of clinical trials. Muscle
      echointensity (EI) is also abnormal in ALS (2, 4), although this assessment is less reliable
      among different observers and ultrasound settings, resulting in less diagnostic precision.
      Normal values for muscle thickness and echointensity are available, with norms varying by age
      and weight (5). Muscle ultrasound is readily available, noninvasive, inexpensive, and could
      be used in the context of a clinical examination. Muscle ultrasound is painless and can be
      completed in a few minutes.

      C. Preliminary Studies/Progress Report As this is a pilot study, there is no preliminary data
      using muscle ultrasound longitudinally in patients with ALS. The study by Arts et al used
      muscle ultrasound to assist in the ALS diagnosis, but to our knowledge, muscle ultrasound has
      not been used to detect longitudinal changes in the illness. This study will help in the
      development of future studies testing pharmacologic agents in ALS, by providing muscle
      ultrasound as a validated endpoint in the progression of ALS.

      D. Research Design and Methods Ten patients will be recruited to participate, and will have
      serial muscle ultrasound examinations every three months, at regularly scheduled clinic
      appointments in the Vanderbilt ALS clinic. Muscles examined will include forearm flexors,
      biceps, and tibialis anterior. The thickness of each muscle will be measured at standard
      sites for these muscles, in addition to the echogenicity as measured by a grayscale histogram
      representation. The rate of loss of ultrasound-measured muscle thickness will be assessed
      over time. Our hypothesis is that there will be significant loss of muscle thickness over
      time, which will correlate with disease severity. As different patients have different rates
      of deterioration, there will likely be significant differences in the rate of muscle volume
      loss from patient to patient. A secondary endpoint will be an increase over time in muscle
      echogenicity. Patients will complete the ALS Functional Rating Scale (ALSFRS-R), a 12 item
      subjective scale that assesses several motor functions, including function of speech,
      swallowing, respiration, and activities of daily living. Grip strength will be measured by
      hand grip dynamometry, using the best result from 3 attempts in each limb. Secondary analyses
      will also be conducted to correlate the decrease in ultrasound-measure muscle depth with the
      ALS Functional-Rating Scale, and with measures from hand grip dynamometry.

      The study will be conducted over a period of 8 months. All patient data will be kept in a
      password-secured online database called REDcap. Any adverse events will be reported to the
      IRB, as none are expected with this safe diagnostic modality.

      E. Inclusion Criteria

        1. All patients must meet the El Escorial criterion for definite or probable ALS.

        2. Patients forced vital capacity (FVC) must exceed 50%.

      F. Exclusion Criteria

        1. Patients with primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) and other forms of motor neuron disorders
           will not participate.

        2. Patients with severe weakness from ALS who require continuous mechanical ventilation,
           who have a forced vital capacity less than 50%, or who have no clinically measurable
           strength in the arms and legs.

        3. Patients without cognitive capacity to give informed consent. This is not a clinical
           feature of ALS, and therefore such patients would have an alternate diagnosis that would
           prevent such capacity.

      G. Privacy/Confidentiality This is minimized by using study numbers, and labeling all patient
      data with study numbers and no other identifying information. The medical record numbers that
      correspond to each study number will be stored only in REDcap, a secure, password-protected
      database.

      H. Human Subjects Research/Risks Careful consideration will be given to the protection of
      subjects from research risks and to the appropriate inclusion of women and minorities in the
      subjects who will be studied. Research risks are substantially limited by the noninvasive
      nature of muscle ultrasound, and the absence of any pharmacologic intervention in the study.
      There is a theoretical risk of breach of confidentiality, which is minimized as noted in the
      section above.

      I. Reporting of Adverse Events/Unanticipated Problems involving Risk to Participants or
      Others The PI will report to the IRB in the event of an adverse event involving any
      participant, study personnel, or others, either from procedures involved in the study, or in
      the event of breach of participant confidentiality. These risks are minimized as noted above.

      J. Statistical Considerations As this is a pilot study, this is not powered to likely find a
      statistically significant difference. Nonetheless, a mixed effect model statistical
      evaluation of the changes in muscle ultrasound values will be carried out for analysis.

      K. Follow-up and Record Retention At the conclusion of the study, the study data will be
      maintained electronically only, in secure, encrypted format by the PI on REDcap for 6 years.
      After that time, any data not submitted to the patient's StarPanel electronic record will be
      destroyed.
    
  