
    
      Two hundred first-time upper endoscopy patients from The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
      will be prospectively selected for participation in the study. One hundred subjects will then
      be randomized to participate in either the standard consent arm or the electronic assisted
      informed consent (EAIC) arm. The electronic assisted informed consent web module is a
      professionally designed program by Emmi Solutions, LLC. Adolescents, if present and greater
      than 13 years of age, will undergo the program apart from their parent as a separate subgroup
      not included in the 100 randomized subjects. At time of endoscopy scheduling, the scheduler
      will ask the subjects if they would like to participate in the study. If interest is
      expressed the study coordinator or PI will contact the subject to explain the study and
      inform them of the study parameters. At time of phone contact, consent or assent via a verbal
      method will be performed. Once verbal consent is given by the subject or verbal assent by the
      adolescent subject they will follow the protocol. No incentives will be given to the
      subjects. Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval will be obtained.

      Between 24 and 48 hours prior to endoscopy, the participant will have the option to access
      the web-based module outside the hospital or through a hospital-based kiosk. The web address
      used is http://www.pedsgiconsent.com. Just prior to starting the module, a five-minute
      electronic pre-intervention test will be given and its results recorded in an electronic
      database. This will gather demographic and pre-intervention state anxiety without personal
      identifying information. After the survey is complete, the educational module will be
      accessed. Upon completion, the subjects will print a confirmatory document of completion and
      a list of questions to hand to their physician at time of endoscopy. Hand written questions
      will also be permitted. Non-EAIC participants will perform a non-educational web program not
      related to gastroenterology and also have their endoscopy questions printed to give to their
      physician. The questions and confirmation sheet will also be presented to their physician at
      time of procedure. Participants will also have space to write further questions by hand on
      the form. The questions collected will be used to assess number and complexity of questions
      asked as influenced by the education program. The web module will record time duration taken
      for the program. After completing the program, the participants will report to the GI suite
      as previously scheduled. The procedure will occur without either the practitioner or nursing
      staff knowing in which arm of the study the participants are enrolled. After the questions
      are answered and formal GI endoscopy procedural consent is obtained, the question sheet will
      be deposited in a lock box in the endoscopy suite for review at a later time. Total time
      spent in the endoscopy suite will be recorded. Prior to the patient's endoscopy, but after
      formal consent is obtained, the participant will then take a ten minute electronic post-test
      to ascertain satisfaction (mGHAA-modified-Group Health Association of America Survey-9),
      change in state anxiety [s-STAI-(Spielberger-State Trait Anxiety Inventory (state section)],
      and change in understanding of consent parameters achieved. Satisfaction will be measured
      using the validated modified Group Health Association of America-9 Survey (mGHAA-9). It is a
      well-validated instrument used to measure patient satisfaction in adult endoscopy. Probing
      questions to evaluate the attainment of consent will be based on a modified survey taken from
      Woodrow's study titled, "How Thorough is the Process of Informed Consent Prior to Outpatient
      Gastroscopy?"(Consent-20)
    
  