
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether the use of autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
           followed by immunotherapy with activated T cells in women with stage IV breast cancer
           improves progression-free survival (PFS) compared to a reported mean PFS in patients
           treated with second-line chemotherapy with matching inclusion criteria by published
           trials.

        -  Determine if this regimen improves clinical response and overall survival.

        -  Perform sequential immune monitoring studies, including phenotyping, cytotoxic assays,
           EliSpots for IFNγ, selected T-cell repertoire (Vβ analysis), HER2/new tetramer analysis,
           and serum tumor markers.

        -  Test correlations between immune function tests and clinical endpoints.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to tumor classification (chemosensitive vs
      chemoresistant).

      Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily for 4 days followed by
      peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) collection for PBSCT and generation of activated T
      cells (ATC). The PBMC are treated ex vivo with monoclonal antibody OKT3 to form ATC. The ATC
      are expanded for 12-14 days in interleukin-2 (IL-2).

      Patients then receive high-dose chemotherapy. Patients with chemosensitive disease receive
      cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour, thiotepa IV over 1 hour, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on
      days -4, -3, and -2. Patients with chemoresistant disease receive ifosfamide IV over 1 hour,
      etoposide IV twice daily, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days -8 to -3. Patients undergo
      autologous PBSC transplantation on day 0 or on both day 0 and day 1.

      Patients then receive ATC IV over 15-20 minutes three times per week starting approximately
      on day +1 for three weeks and then once weekly for at least 6 doses.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years after
      PBSC.
    
  