
    
      BACKGROUND Many veterans with hypertension have poorly controlled blood pressure (BP); new
      strategies for quality improvement are needed. A new model of care delivery, Group Medical
      Visits, holds promise as a means to improve blood pressure control by enhancing patients'
      self-efficacy for self-management of their chronic disease.

      Objectives The overriding goal of this implementation project is to translate research
      findings about management of hypertension into practice and thereby to improve patient
      outcome, i.e., adequacy of control of BP, in patients with hypertension. Specific objectives
      are to develop and implement a model of group medical visits in iterative steps; to evaluate
      whether group medical visits improve patient adherence to prescribed antihypertensive
      medications and improve BP control; and to assess patient, physician, and health care system
      factors involved in successfully making organizational changes to encompass group medical
      visits.

      Methods Study site: primary care clinics at VA Palo Alto. Study Design: staircase design with
      2 steps of design/implementation/formative-evaluation/redesign with increasing numbers of
      participants, followed by a 3rd step evaluating the final model. Participants: primary care
      providers (MDs and RNPs) and their patients with hypertension. Participating primary care
      providers (PCPs) are randomly allocated 2:1 Group Visits (GV)intervention:control; patients
      of intervention PCPs are also randomly allocated 2:1, yielding 3 study arms (patients of
      GV-PCPs enrolled in GVs; patients of GV-PCPs not in GVs, and patients of non-GV-PCPs). This
      design allows for comparison between control patients of primary care providers conducting
      group visits with primary care providers who do not participate in the group medical
      appointment intervention. Intervention: group medical visits of patients with their own PCP.
      Group visits include both education and medical care components. Organizational component:
      tracking of organizational issues in establishing the program of group visits; interviews
      with key stakeholders to identify barriers and facilitators to implementing the new model of
      care. Outcome measures: patients' blood pressures (BPs), medication adherence, satisfaction,
      and health-related quality of life; PCP satisfaction; qualitative analysis of themes from
      interviews for patient, physician, and medical center factors involved in making
      organizational changes to encompass group visits.

      Findings We exceeded the target enrollment for primary care providers (PCPs) with a total of
      16 (11 intervention, 5 control). We enrolled 296 patients; 7 had incomplete baseline data
      leaving 289 patients: 145 allocated to GVs, 73 control patients of GV-PCPs, and 71 control
      patients of control PCPs. We have also enrolled an additional 12 staff members for
      interviews, including the one PCP who did not elect to participate. Study arm comparisons
      will not be made until the final data collection is complete. In formative evaluations we
      found that patient medical needs were met in the group setting and that both patients and
      PCPs were satisfied with the GV format. PCPs and patients have requested that the GVs
      continue after the study ends. Space for the GVs has been a major barrier particularly in
      light of ongoing construction in the clinic building.

      Status We are now in Step 3 with plans to end the intervention phase at the end of March 2006
      and complete final data collection soon thereafter.

      Impact Group Medical visits are a new model of health care delivery that hold promise for
      improving patient access, patient and provider satisfaction, and clinical outcomes.
    
  