
    
      Clopidogrel efficacy appears diminished in patients with T2D who continue to show an
      increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events and mortality compared to those without T2D.
      To the contrary, response to prasugrel and ticagrelor appears conserved in ACS patients with
      diabetes. There are several mechanisms that may be contributing to the blunted response to
      clopidogrel but a postulated decreased concentration of clopidogrel active metabolite is
      worth pursuing further.

      The overall objective of this proposal is to describe the pharmacokinetic profiles of three
      antiplatelet drugs namely, clopidogrel, prasugrel and ticagrelor in four groups of patients
      according to their diabetic or non-diabetic status.

      Patients (n=108) will be recruited to constitute 4 groups: Group I, 27 confirmed T2D with A1C
      ≤7; Group II, 27 patients with poor glycemic control A1C Patients (n=108) will be recruited
      to constitute 4 groups: Group I, 27 confirmed T2D with A1C <7.0; Group II, 27 patients with
      poor glycemic control A1C >7.5; Group III, 27 patients with insulin-treated T2D; and Group
      IV, 27 sex-matched non-diabetic healthy subjects. Subjects with type 2 diabetes according to
      the Canadian Clinical Guidelines will be recruited at the CHUM outpatient clinic. After an
      overnight fast, participants will be admitted to the CRCHUM's Clinical Research Unit (they
      will not be hospitalized). A crossover randomized study design with 3 phases (washout period
      of 12 days between phases) will be conducted. Subjects will receive a single oral dose of
      clopidogrel 300 mg or prasugrel 60 mg or ticagrelor 180 mg in a randomized fashion on 3
      different occasions. Serial blood samples will be drawn and urine collected over 10 hours (PK
      and PD analysis).

      A blood sample will be taken for pharmacogenetic analyses. Additional blood samples will be
      collected just before the administration of antiplatelet drugs to measure fasting insulin,
      glycaemia levels to determine the HOMA-IR. In addition, the following covariates namely,
      gender, age, weight, duration of diabetes and drug profile will be also recorded.

      Their regular medication will be administered 4 hours after the administration of the
      antiplatelet drug.
    
  