
    
      OBJECTIVES: To compare the effects of adding a structured remote surgical coaching (SRSC)
      program to conventional surgery training (CST) versus conventional surgery training (CST)
      alone on general surgery residents' (1) technical performance, (2) technical errors, and (3)
      accuracy of self-assessment for a laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedure. Feasibility of
      conducting remote coaching across different times zones and continents will also be explored.

      Hypothesis 1: Participation in a SRSC program will result in superior technical skills and
      fewer technical errors committed during a laparoscopic cholecystectomy as compared to CST.

      Hypothesis 2: Participation in a SRSC program will result in a more accurate self-assessment
      of participants' technical skills as compared to CST.

      Hypothesis 3: It will be feasible to coach surgery residents remotely across different time
      zones and continents.

      STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING:

      The investigators will conduct a multicenter randomized controlled trial with study
      participants randomized 1:1 into intervention (SRSC+CST) and control groups (CST). The
      investigators will use blocked randomization with a block size of 4 and allocation ratio of
      1:1 to ensure equal participant distribution over the 24 month continuous recruitment period.

      STUDY PARTICIPANTS AND RECRUITMENT:

      The investigators will recruit general surgery residents (PGY 1-5) as study participants. Any
      resident who routinely performs components of a laparoscopic cholecystectomy as a primary
      surgeon (under supervision) and is rotating on a general surgery service will be invited to
      participate.

      STRUCTURED REMOTE SURGICAL COACHING (SRSC) PROGRAM (INTERVENTION):

      Participants randomized to the intervention group will participate in a 3-month SRSC program
      in addition to CST. They will view a standardized 10-minute video presentation, which will
      explain the concept of surgical coaching and the purpose of the SRSC program. Surgical
      coaches will provide structured remote surgical coaching. Credentials and qualifications of
      each of the coaches are described below (Research Team). Zoom web-conferencing platform
      (https://zoom.us) will be used for remote coaching. Participants will be asked to provide a
      video recording of a laparoscopic cholecystectomy that they performed as a primary surgeon
      prior to the coaching session. Each coach will review the video recording and will identify
      key themes for discussion. Coaching sessions will be structured using the modified PRACTICE
      model, will be conducted outside of the clinical environment, and will employ facilitative
      coaching methods to encourage participants to define specific intra-operative problems and
      conceptually troubleshoot various solutions. Key observations and discussion points for each
      session will be recorded in a coaching template. Coaching sessions will be planned to be
      administered on a bi-weekly basis; however, variability may occur to accommodate residents
      operating schedule and exposure. The expectation is for each participant to complete three to
      four coaching sessions each lasting 30-45 minutes.

      CONVENTIONAL SURGICAL TRAINING (CONTROL):

      Participants randomized to the control group will continue of their usual general surgery
      residency training including attending scheduled teaching sessions, and continuing with
      assigned responsibilities on the ward and in the OR. Participants will be asked to record
      videos of 5 consecutive laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedures that they performed as a
      primary surgeon during a 3-month period to mimic the duration of exposure in the intervention
      group.

      DEMOGRAPHIC DATA:

      The investigators will collect age, sex, post-graduate year of training, handedness, number
      of basic, intermediate and advanced laparoscopic cases performed as a primary surgeon or
      assisted before and during the study.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The investigators will measure technical performance during a laparoscopic cholecystectomy as
      the primary outcome. Two assessment scales will be used: the Global Operative Assessment of
      Laparoscopic Skills (GOALS) scale and the Generic Error Rating Tool (GERT) for errors in
      laparoscopic surgery.

      SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The investigators will explore, using a post-study questionnaire, the subjective perception
      of the usefulness of the SRSC program and challenges with remote coaching as the secondary
      outcome. The investigators will also collect feasibility data including duration of time
      spent on video review, preparation for the coaching session, and conduct of the session by
      the coach. Participant self-assessment data for their technical performance at baseline and
      upon the completion of the study will also be collected.

      BASELINE AND POST-INTERVENTION ASSESSMENT:

      The 1st and 5th submitted video recording for each study participant will be assessed by a
      trained rater, blinded to the group allocation and training level of participant, for
      technical skill and errors using GOALS and GERT scales, respectively. Participants will
      self-assess their technical performance with the GOALS scale.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      Using clinically relevant effect size of 1.25 and 1:1 allocation ratio for groups, a minimum
      of 9 participants will be required per group to achieve a power of 0.8 and alpha of 0.05. The
      investigators will aim to recruit a total of 24 participants (12 per group) to account for
      possible participant dropout. An interim analysis will be performed once 9 participants have
      been recruited per group. Recruitment will continue until completion of the interim analysis.

      DATA ANALYSIS:

      The investigators will perform descriptive statistical analysis and will assess the normality
      of data distribution using the Shapiro-Wilk test. For continuous variables with normal
      distribution, the investigators will use a t-test for independent samples for between group
      comparisons, and a paired t-test for within group comparisons. For continuous variables with
      skewed distribution, the investigators will use the Mann-Whitney U test for between group
      comparisons, and the Wilcoxon rank sign tests for within group comparisons. The investigators
      will compare categorical data using the Fisher exact test. The investigators will use
      Spearman correlations to examine the correlation between self-assessment scores and blinded
      rater scores.
    
  