
    
      Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare hematological disorder which is
      characterized by hemolytic anemia, cytopenias and thrombosis. PNH is caused by clonal
      expansion of hematopoietic stem cells with an acquired somatic mutation in the X-linked
      phosphatidylinositol glycan class A gene (4). This gene encodes a protein required for
      synthesis of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors. As a result of the mutation,
      affected stem cells are deficient in GPI anchored proteins. Clonal expansion leads to the
      production of hematological cells lacking the expression of GPI anchored complement
      regulatory proteins CD55 and CD59.

      This leads to chronic complement-mediated hemolysis of the GPI-deficient erythrocytes.
      Eculizumab is a humanized chimeric monoclonal anti-C5 inhibitor which is approved for the
      treatment of PNH and was the first licensed drug targeting the complement system. By binding
      to C5, eculizumab prevents the activation of C5 into C5a and C5b and subsequent the formation
      of the terminal complement complex C5b-9. Eculizumab is currently administered in a flat
      fixed dose for every patient. However, because of the inter and intra individual variability
      in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of eculizumab in PNH patients, a tailored treatment
      approach for the individual is probably preferable. We have recently shown, by means of
      pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation, based on the drug approval data, that eculizumab
      dosing in PNH patients can be successfully tailored by means of Therapeutic Drug Monitoring.

      This approach when implemented in practice will result in overall less pharmacokinetic
      variability, less under-treatment and an average dose reduction of 11%. It should be noted
      that the yearly eculizumab drug costs are about 400.000 euro per patient. Considering the
      fact that in the Netherlands alone approximately 60 patients with PNH are yearly treated with
      this drug, this indicates that development of a model-informed precision dosing tool based on
      the actual pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of eculizumab has the potential to decrease
      treatment costs with 2.640.000 euro on a yearly basis. The starting point of a robust
      tailored dosing approach for eculizumab is the development of a population
      pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model. The majority of the pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamic data in PNH patients are derived from controlled clinical studies and may not
      be representative for general PNH patient population. Therefore, it is pivotal to collect
      more pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data in PNH patients in the actual clinical setting.

      This study is a cross-sectional observational pharmacokinetic study in which we collect
      trough and peak concentrations of eculizumab to describe the pharmacokinetics and complement
      activation markers to describe the pharmacodynamics. With this data, a
      pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model will be developed.
    
  