
    
      While obesity, insulin resistance, and diabetes are highly associated, it is not clear
      whether insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia play important roles in the
      tendency to gain weight and/or inability to lose weight. The role of hyperinsulinemia in
      coronary heart disease (CHD)is also unclear. The specific aims of the proposed research are
      as follows:

        1. To compare insulin resistant versus insulin sensitive nondiabetic overweight individuals
           with respect to their ability to lose weight on a low calorie diet. CHD risk factors
           before and after weight loss will also be assessed to determine the degree to which
           insulin resistance is associated with CHD risk, as well as the impact that differences
           in insulin resistance have on the metabolic benefits of weight loss

        2. To determine if weight loss and its associated metabolic benefits vary as a function of
           the relative amounts of dietary fat and carbohydrate in hypocaloric diets. Because high
           carbohydrate diets increase insulin secretion, the relationship between dietary
           composition and change in circulating insulin concentrations will be analyzed with
           respect to both weight loss and CHD risk factors.

        3. To quantify and compare the improvement in glycemic control and CHD risk factors
           associated with weight loss in obese type 2 diabetics, while being treated with 1) an
           insulin secretagogue (sulfonylurea) or 2) an insulin sensitizer (thiazolidinedione).
           Manipulation of plasma insulin concentrations with these medications will provide a
           mechanism by which to evaluate the impact of circulating insulin concentrations on the
           described outcome measures.

        4. A subgroup of overweight/obese premenopausal women with PCOS will be studied using two
           diets in crossover design with regard to macronutrient effects on endogenous
           hyperinsulinism. For this subgroup age range will be 18-50 years, BMI 25-50 kg/m2.

        5. In order to increase our data and therefore increase our better understanding of fat
           cells and insulin resistance and changes in fat cells with weight loss we would like to
           increase our participant enrollment to 550 all to be enrolled at Stanford University
           Medical Center recruiting Bariatric participants:

      Age for Bariatric patients 30-65 men and women BMI 27-no upper limit Currently we have
      completed all participants except the bariatric and post bariatric population and those with
      hypoglycemia following bariatric surgery.

      The ethnic background of subjects reflects Stanford's patient population.
    
  