
    
      To enhance recovery in vulnerable older adults (aged 60 years or older) undergoing major
      heart surgery. The Investigators seek to reduce the stress of heart surgery on the body by
      providing muscle-building nutrition supplements (with leucine-rich proteins) at key
      time-points during the patients' journey.

      Objectives of this study:

        1. Will leucine-rich protein nutrition supplementation (given in a liquid form like a
           protein shake) can reduce functional decline in frail older patients undergoing major
           heart surgery. The Investigators predict that these supplements will lead to a reduction
           in functional muscle loss (for example how quickly some can walk) and quicker recovery
           both in hospital and after going home.

        2. Will leucine-rich protein nutrition supplementation will enhance health-related quality
           of life of frail older adult patients after heart surgery. The Investigators predict
           that patients will be able to return to activities that they enjoy more quickly and
           experience less depression and anxiety.

      In a two-centre clinical trial, frail older adults (patients who are at risk of a long
      recovery) undergoing major heart surgeries will receive nutrition supplements up to 2 weeks
      prior to surgery, during post-op recovery in hospital, and for the 8 weeks following hospital
      discharge. Prior to surgery, all patient in the study will consume a carbohydrate supplement
      in order to help with nausea symptoms post surgery, glycemic control and GI function. The
      Investigators will ask 150 (pre)frail patients before their heart surgery to participate.
      Patient who are 60 years of age or older who agree to be in the study will be randomly
      selected (75 patients in each group) to receive the nutrition protein shakes or a placebo (a
      shake without the special protein). In addition to how long a patient needs to stay in
      hospital after their heart surgery, The Investigators will measure levels of frailty (by
      different tests of muscle strength), overall nutrition, health related quality of life after
      surgery as well as mood and anxiety at 2 and 6 months after hospital discharge.
    
  