
    
      In a commercial airliner flying at high altitude, the reduced cabin air pressure means that
      all passengers are exposed to slightly lowered oxygen levels ('hypoxia') equivalent to an
      altitude of approximately 5,000 to 8,000 ft. Although mild, this hypoxia is sufficient to
      stimulate some of the body's protective responses (eg changes in breathing and in hormonal
      secretion) and can be dangerous for passengers with heart or lung disease, who must breathe
      supplementary oxygen in-flight or may even be prohibited from flying because of the risks of
      hypoxia.

      It is well known that severe hypoxia results in constriction of blood vessels in the lungs (a
      phenomenon called hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction), which in turn causes an increase in
      the blood pressure in the lungs ('pulmonary arterial pressure'). Unlike other physiological
      responses to hypoxia, this is often harmful and frequently leads to pulmonary hypertension
      and right heart failure (eg in some lung diseases and at high altitude). Even a modest
      increase in pulmonary arterial pressure could be clinically important in some airline
      passengers with heart/lung disease, as it may exacerbate their condition. However, it is not
      known whether the mild hypoxia experienced in an aircraft cabin is able to cause an increase
      in pulmonary artery pressure. Limited evidence suggests that it might - for example, there
      have been reports of passengers acutely developing new right heart failure in-flight, and
      data from animal studies also support this possibility.

      This study aims to establish the effect of mild aircraft cabin hypoxia on pulmonary arterial
      pressure in healthy passengers and also in a patient with Chuvash polycythaemia. In this rare
      genetic disease, cellular responses to hypoxia are 'switched on' to some extent even during
      normoxia, causing increased red blood cell production. Affected individuals usually present
      with symptoms of polycythaemia in early adulthood and are typically asymptomatic following
      treatment with therapeutic venesection. Importantly, affected individuals have exaggerated
      acute hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction which may place them at risk of pulmonary
      hypertensive responses during air travel.
    
  