
    
      Patients with autism have significant social difficulties and communication alterations. It
      has been shown in these patients difficulties to understand some clues indispensable to
      social relations, for example, faces and their emotions and motion of human bodies. The faces
      and human movements are an important source of information helping to interact with others.
      Understanding the intentions of the others through facial expressions and gestures can help
      them to adapt their behavior and their interactions. While in healthy subjects, faces and
      human movements receive special attention, autistic patients seem to pay less attention to
      this kind of social stimuli. It has already been shown that children and healthy adults spend
      more time looking at faces and human movements (relative to objects), whereas the opposite
      behavior is observed in patients with autism. Studying gaze behavior seems to be essential
      for progress in the understanding of autism pathology. Eye-tracking systems allow to measure
      precisely what a subject looks on a picture. Moreover, eye-tracking systems permit the
      measurement of the pupil size which variations are correlated with cognitive processes. The
      objective of this study is to analyze the ocular behavior (ocular scan path and pupil
      diameter) of young patients with autism when viewing faces and human movements and to compare
      these measurements with those of chronologically age-matched healthy children. This work will
      identify attentional problems concerning exploration of human faces and movements that can be
      related to their social difficulties. These disorders should be manifested by an atypical
      ocular scan path and by changes in pupil variation in response to face and human motion. Then
      to follow the evolution of these indices will allow to evaluate the effect of therapies.
      These results will highlight new data essential to understanding disorders of social
      relations and to better adapt rehabilitative strategies.
    
  