
    
      Prospective, single-center clinical study in consecutive patients undergoing carotid
      revascularization with MicroNET-covered stent implanted through direct carotid artery access
      with temporary, intraprocedural flow reversal neuroprotection to provide primary and
      secondary stroke prevention.

      It is an open-label, non-randomized single-arm study supported by the grant from Jagiellonian
      University Medical college (K/ZDS/007819).

      Stroke is a major health problem affecting individual patients and their families and entire
      societies with death and disability impact (fundamental disability cause in Poland, Europe,
      and the USA). Atherosclerotic carotid artery stenosis plays an important part in a stroke
      etiology through embolic and/or hemodynamic mechanism).

      Endovascular treatment with first-generation carotid stents is inherently related to plaque
      and thrombus prolapse through stent struts, as confirmed with the intravascular imaging (IVUS
      and OCT), and monitoring of cerebral embolism by DW-MRI. Plaque prolapse related embolism may
      occur after neuroprotection device removal. Postprocedural plaque-prolapse related ischemic
      events are responsible for 40-60% complications up to 30 days, as indicated by 30-day results
      of large clinical trials (CAPTURE, CREST, or ICSS).

      A successful attempt to address this problem has been an introduction and routine use of
      MicroNET-covered stent. The MicroNET attached to the metallic stent prevents intraluminal
      plaque prolapse. MRI imaging indicated a significant reduction of intraprocedural embolism
      and near-elimination of post-procedural brain embolism by CGuard application. Clinical
      research and meta-analysis of studies confirmed the safety and efficacy of the stent.
      Consistent results were demonstrated in registries such as PARADIGM.

      Another critical approach in increasing the safety of the endovascular route of carotid
      revascularization is development and increased clinical uptake of minimally invasive
      endovascular strategies is the direct common carotid artery access for stenting procedures.
      This way, one can avoid femoral cannulation and navigation through the aorta and aortic arch
      branches. Trans-Carotid Arterial Revascularization (TCAR) offers a neuroprotection mechanism
      by a temporary reversal of the cerebral flow similar to Mo.Ma Ultra or GORE Flow Reversal
      systems, but without limitations of femoral access and aortic arch cannulation. TCAR system
      was CE marked in 2014, and more than 20 000 TCAR procedures were performed worldwide. A
      recent analysis by Yee et al. demonstrated that TCAR carotid stenting procedures are
      equivalent to surgical endarterectomy regarding safety and efficacy, but with lower
      invasiveness, avoiding the aortic arch (and its cannulation-related cerebral embolism) and
      shortened procedure time.

      According to published studies and our own experience, proximal neuroprotection, and in
      particular, the one achieved through direct carotid artery access, minimizes cerebral
      (micro)embolization risk.

      Our prospective TOP-GUARD study aims to evaluate early-, mid- and longterm outcome data (up
      to 5 years) on the results of carotid revascularization combining two systems that are
      currently considered safest: temporary cerebral flow-reversal during stent introduction via
      direct carotid artery access and MicroNET-covered stent implantation.

      Both systems are CE-marked (from 2014), have been successfully used in our center, and will
      follow their on-label indications.

      The TCAR system from SilkRoad Medical (EnRoute) is the preferred method to obtain flow
      reversal for transcervical CAS in the study. However, due to interruption of the EnRoute
      system supplies (COVID19, SARS-CoV-2 Pandemic), routinely available sheaths, catheters, and
      blood filters may be used according to literature to assemble the flow reversal circuit,
      enabling continuation of the study as per the Ethical Committee updated approval.

      Consecutive patients with symptoms or signs of cerebral ischemia (ie. patients with an
      increased risk of complications when conventional carotid stents and neuroprotection systems
      are used) will undergo NeuroVascular Team (neurologist, interventionalist, and vascular
      surgeon) evaluation for their eligibility. They will be treated according to the center
      standard of care, including necessary peri- and postprocedural medication.

      MRI cerebral imaging will be performed at baseline, 24-48 hours post-procedurally and at 90
      days in 50% of study participants.
    
  