
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a safe and non-invasive neurophysiological
      technique with enough scientific literature that supports its effectiveness and safety, both
      in healthy subjects and in different neurological pathologies.

      However, it has not been consolidated yet as a real clinical alternative for other
      pathologies different from depression, due to the impossibility of establishing specific
      intervention protocols given the heterogeneity of the samples and the methods of assessment
      of the results used in the different studies.

      Regarding stroke, although there is large empirical evidence of its effectiveness in motor
      rehabilitation, there are few studies to date focused on cognitive rehabilitation, such
      neglect rehabilitation.

      Hypothesis

      The main hypothesis is that patients who receive a treatment based on tDCS in combination
      with conventional neuropsychological intervention for the recovery of neglect will have a
      greater improvement in neglect symptomatology in comparison to patients who receive the
      conventional treatment in isolation.

      Objectives

      The main objective of the project is to validate a protocol for the enhancement of
      conventional neuropsychological rehabilitation using tDCS in a group of patients with spatial
      neglect secondary to a cortical ischemic stroke in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) in a
      subacute phase (3 to 12 months since the event).

      Specific objectives:

        -  To demonstrate that non-invasive neuromodulation by means of tDCS enhances the efficacy
           of the conventional neuropsychological rehabilitation.

        -  Identify clinical and neurophysiological variables of the patients are the best
           predictors of the efficacy of the combined treatment.

        -  To verify the greater impact of the combined treatment in the improvement of the
           symptomatology of neglect as well as in the patient's quality of life in comparison with
           the conventional intervention.

      Methods

      Design:

      The present study is a parallel, randomized, controlled and triple blind experimental study.
      The patients included in the sample will be randomly distributed into three groups (Exp, Sham
      and Control) that will be blind to the patients, to the researchers who apply the tDCS and to
      the pre and post intervention evaluators.

        -  Experimental group (Exp): active tDCS + conventional neuropsychological rehabilitation.

        -  Control group placebo-tDCS (Sham): placebo tDCS (sham) + conventional neuropsychological
           rehabilitation.

        -  Control group (Control): conventional neuropsychological rehabilitation without tDCS.

      The duration of the study will be 3 years.

      Sample:

      The sample will consist of 30 volunteer patients randomly distributed to one of the
      experimental condition (1:1:1) with blind of the randomization sequence. Randomization will
      be done with the help of the research support department of the Francisco de Vitoria
      University. Patients will be recruited in the Brain Damage Unit of Beata María Ana Hospital
      by the unit neurologist and neuropsychologists among those patients who meet the inclusion
      criteria.
    
  