
    
      Title: Evaluation of the combined intraoperative monitoring of depth of analgesia (NOL),
      depth of anesthesia (BIS) and continuous hemodynamic data (Flotrac EV1000 system) on the
      patients' recovery after cytoreduction surgery and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy
      (HIPEC). A pilot study.

      Hypothesis: Investigators hypothesize that the intraoperative combination of new monitors,
      NOL index for depth of analgesia, BIS index for depth of anesthesia and Flotrac EV1000 system
      as continuous hemodynamic monitoring, to guide the delivery of opioids, hypnotics, fluids and
      inotropes, respectively, will improve the quality of recovery as well as the safety after
      anesthesia in patients undergoing HIPEC (Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy) surgery.

      Background: so far, only vital signs (mostly, blood pressure and heart rate) helped the
      anesthesiologist to administer hypnotics agents, analgesics, fluids and inotrope. Many
      devices have offered pain monitoring for anesthetized patients. The NOL index, a nociception
      monitor using a multiparametric approach, has shown an excellent sensitivity and specificity
      in detecting noxious stimuli under general anesthesia. More recently, it has been shown a
      strong inverse correlation between NOL index response to nociceptive stimulus and the
      increasing doses of opioid analgesia during surgery. Studies on post-operative outcomes when
      using intraoperative NOL monitoring to adapt nociception/anti-nociception balance during
      general anesthesia (GA) also reported in our center an improvement of the time to extubation
      and of the postoperative recovery criteria in PACU after colorectal surgery in the monitored
      group, leading to a quicker discharge from PACU (presented as an abstract at ASA 2018;
      manuscript in preparation). Recent studies also showed that avoiding too deep anesthesia by
      using the BIS index would improve patients' outcome in terms of morbi-mortality. It is also
      accepted that intra-venous fluid and inotropic/vasopressor drugs have an important effect on
      intra and postoperative patients' outcomes, in particular following major gastrointestinal
      surgery. The use of hemodynamic therapy management algorithms has been recommended in a
      report commissioned by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the USA, and by the
      National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in the UK as well as many groups
      working in ERAS protocols in Canada (and especially Montreal, McGill University) and
      worldwide.

      Based on our recent systematic review (in preparation) and out of the 69 selected published
      articles, there is no study so far evaluating precisely the impact of anesthesia on
      postoperative outcomes, and no study combining the NOL, the BIS indexes and the Flotrac
      EV1000 system to evaluate the impact of a more precise anesthesia management on the
      postoperative outcomes after cytoreduction and HIPEC for peritoneal carcinomatosis of
      colorectal origin. Thus, the idea to propose the present study.

      Specific Objectives: primary objective: to compare the time to reach the readiness for
      discharge from hospital and the total postoperative in-hospital length of stay between the
      Monitored group "M" (optimized, personalized and controlled anesthesia) versus the control
      group "C" (standard of care anesthesia). Secondary objectives: to evaluate the quality of
      recovery from anesthesia in the PACU and on the wards and all the adverse events every day
      and until patient's discharge from hospital. The emergence and extubation time of patients
      after anesthesia, time spent in PACU (Aldrete score), intra- and postoperative opioid
      requirements, pain scores (NRS) for several postoperative days, patients' postoperative
      recovery and satisfaction (the Quality of Recovery: QOR-15, 6min walking test, MOCA, etc.)
      will be also compared between the 2 groups. Finally, biological outcomes such as blood gas
      analysis, serum electrolytes, creatinine, DFG, hemoglobin, white blood cell and platelet
      counts, CRP, serum albumin, INR, PTT will be evaluated on a standard basis in both the
      groups.

      Methods: 80 patients scheduled for HIPEC surgery with oxaliplatin for bowel adenocarcinoma
      surgery (without digestive resection) will be included. Randomisation will occur after the
      participant has provided informed consent and shortly before the surgical procedure is due to
      start. Patients in the Control group "C" will be managed by clinical staff according to usual
      practice, desflurane will be administered to keep MAC at 1, and remifentanil infusion rate
      will be adapted to the mean arterial blood pressure to keep it between 65 and 100. In the
      Monitored group "M", the NOL index will guide the administration of remifentanil to keep the
      index between 5-25, and the desflurane will be titrated to keep a BIS index between 45 and
      55. Cardiac output and stroke volume variation will be measured by the Flotrac EV1000 system.
      Patients will receive 250ml fluid challenges with a recommended solution as required, in
      order to achieve a maximal value of stroke volume. Intraoperative epidural analgesia will be
      the same for all. Postoperative analgesia will be based on PCEA and hydromorphone for all.
      All anesthesia related side effects and quality of analgesia and rehabilitation will be
      evaluated daily and until patient's discharge from hospital.

      Data Analysis: all data collected will be analyzed using an intent-to-treat approach. Summary
      statistics for each group, treatment effects, 95% confidence intervals, and p-values will be
      presented for primary and secondary outcomes, and process measures. Intraoperative data in
      the "M" and "C" groups will be compared using parametric (e.g. Student t-test) or
      non-parametric tests (e.g. Mann-Withney U test, Chi-squared test) depending on type of
      variables and distribution. General linear models will be used to carry out group comparisons
      on data on length of hospital stay. Potential pitfalls: analyses for secondary objectives may
      not be sufficiently powered but will nevertheless provide useful information for designing
      and conducting a future multicentric study. Bonferroni corrections will be used to protect
      against type I error.

      Significance/Importance: Adding the NOL, the BIS and continuous hemodynamic monitoring will
      very likely reduce the total length of stay, and improve the postoperative speed and quality
      of recovery as well as will likely reduce the incidence of complications after cytoreduction
      + HIPEC procedures.

      Study Design: Prospective, randomized controlled study.

      Subject Population: Adult patients scheduled to undergo laparotomy for cytoreduction surgery
      + HIPEC for peritoneal carcinomatosis of colorectal origin and under general anesthesia with
      an active intraoperative epidural analgesia.

      Sample Size: 80 patients will be evaluated in this study.

      Study Duration: 2 year(s)

      Study Center: Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, Departments of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine
      and Department of General Oncologic Surgery, CIUSSS de l'Est-de-l'Île-de-Montreal, Montreal,
      Quebec, Canada

      Adverse Events: None expected.

      Subvention/support: Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine of HMR/CEMTL.
    
  