
    
      Inspire will survey its members who have eczema/atopic dermatitis or have had lung cancer to
      identify patients that match the health criteria for the study including 1) a diagnosis of
      one of the two diseases under investigation, and 2) evidence of a family history of the
      disease. Participants will be referred to the Manton Center by Inspire for outreach and
      consent. After consenting to participation, participants will be asked to participate in the
      study by providing 1) relevant medical information/records and family history and 2) a
      blood/saliva/DNA sample for genetic analysis.

      The health and family history information allows the investigators to gain a better
      understanding of the specific disease symptoms seen in an individual or family. The
      blood/saliva sample is used to obtain DNA which can then be analyzed to identify if there may
      be a genetic basis of disease pathophysiology using various tools including exome genomic
      sequencing, genetic variant analysis, familial genotyping and cross-mapping with disease
      phenotype and severity.

      This study will be ongoing for an indefinite period of time, and participation is continuous
      unless an individual requests to be removed from the study. Participants can request to
      withdraw at any time. Active participation primarily takes place at the time of enrollment
      and on a case-by-case basis thereafter for providing clinical updates and/or additional
      samples. Risks include those associated with routine blood draws/saliva sample collections
      and emotional distress associated with genetic and/or medical research. Risks are minimized
      as much as possible by an open consent process and privacy/confidentiality safeguards,
      including a certificate of confidentiality from the NIH and the use of de-identified,
      numerical codes to refer to participants with collaborators.

      Although there may not be immediate, direct benefits to participants, the possible benefits
      of this study include: 1) the development of new diagnostic tests and more detailed
      prognostic information for participants and their families and their disease-linked patient
      communities and 2) a better understanding of the pathophysiology of these conditions, leading
      to the development of new potential treatments. Furthermore, this study offers to return
      genetic test results that are unrelated to lung cancer and eczema/atopic dermatitis, but are
      results that may impact health, like an inherited risk for cancer. The American College of
      Medical Genetics (ACMG) has recommended that findings identified in a subset of medically
      actionable genes associated with various inherited disorders be reported for those undergoing
      genomic sequencing. Pathogenic findings in this subset of genes will be returned to the
      participant.
    
  