
    
      Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) affects a person's ability to move and feel sensation in the body.
      People with injury around the neck, suffer from tetraplegia, which affects function of both
      upper and lower limbs. Although these patients often have a caregiver, their main priority is
      to regain some upper limb function to increase independence. About half of patients with
      tetraplegia have an incomplete injury, i.e. have some sensation and control of muscles
      preserved. Natural recovery takes about a year and is typically accompanied by intense
      physical therapy while patients are in a hospital. Patients spend on average 4 months in
      hospital and, once they go home, there are very limited options for further therapy, in
      particular those living in rural areas.

      This study will test the feasibility of patient and caregiver self-managed hand therapy based
      on the combination of brain computer interface (BCI) and functional electrical stimulation
      (FES). BCI is a system which consists of an electroencephalographic device (EEG), a computer
      and software that can analyse EEG while it is being recorded. To ensure that the knowledge
      stays within hospital, occupational therapists will first be trained who will then train
      patients and caregivers. The BCI-FES therapy is based on a previous clinical study with
      hospitalised patients, in which a researcher administered the therapy. In this study, a
      portable BCI-FES system will be used with an inexpensive consumer BCI, which is designed for
      non-professionals. The primary objective is to assess whether it is feasible for caregivers
      and patients to learn to operate the portable BCI-FES system on their own within 5 training
      sessions. The secondary objectives are to collect feedback from patients and therapists of
      their views via semi-structured interviews and questionnaires; to assess how stable the
      system parameters (EEG parameters, electrode location, FES stimulation parameters)are over
      time; to assess whether there is any functional and neurological recovery.
    
  