
    
      Intradialytic hypotension (IDH) or a significant fall in blood pressure (BP) is the most
      common complication that occurs during hemodialysis (HD) treatment, occurring in up to 20-33%
      of sessions.

      Different mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis of IDH including acute central
      hypovolemia, may be precipitated by rapid or excessive ultrafiltration that lead to
      intravascular volume depletion beyond the level of hemodynamic compensatory response. Other
      proposed mechanisms of intra vascular depletion are volume shift into the extra-vascular
      space due to rapid reduction in plasma osmolality, slow and incompatible vascular refilling
      rate and incorrectly low prescribed dry weight.

      Autonomic dysfunction occurs in considerable amount of dialysis patients up to about 50% .
      This dysfunction reduces the ability to produce an adequate sympathetic response in the
      setting of acute volume diminution.

      Due to the complexity of the dialysis treatment and absence of non- invasive technology, few
      studies followed the hemodynamic changes which occur during a dialysis session especially
      during IDH episodes.

      OL- HDF is a relatively new method of therapy that allows a larger volume of blood filtration
      during a single dialysis therapy compared with standard hemodialysis.

      Compared to conventional HD treatment, OL-HDF treatment was associated with lower incidence
      of IDH and better hemodynamic stability.

      Bioelectrical impedance analysis is a method for estimating body composition in most of the
      cases. The Non-Invasive Cardiac System (NICaS) device (non-invasive cardiac system) applies
      the principle of Whole Body Bio-Impedance and provides continuous data regarding the
      hemodynamic status (i.e. heart rate, stroke volume, cardiac output, cardiac index, and total
      peripheral vascular resistance) as well as respiration rate and total body water.

      Following the hemodynamic changes, the NICaS device will allow to shed light on the
      physiological mechanisms underlying the IDH phenomenon and prove the superiority of OL-HDF
      over regular hemodialysis regarding the hemodynamic measures.
    
  