
    
      This evidence based study has been developed after a review of the literature demonstrated
      that 14 - 58% of women with breast cancer are making decisions regarding complex therapy
      issues in a way that is not congruent with their decision-making control preference. Because
      of the prevalence of decision-making control preference incongruence and strong evidence that
      providing support for a woman's decision making control preference is related to quality of
      life measures, this study will test the implementation of a nursing intervention to support
      the decision making of women with breast cancer. Using sample randomization with assignment
      to one of two groups, this study will explore whether using Degner's Control Preference (DCP)
      Scale supports decision making control preferences in women who are making decisions about
      breast cancer treatment. Results of the study will guide implementation of sustainable
      evidence-based behavioral practices that can have significant effects on quality of care
      outcomes.

      This study will assess satisfaction with decision involvement, depression, and decision
      making distress in women with early stage breast cancer after a decision support intervention
      to support a woman's preferred decision control preference. It is hypothesized that a
      decision support intervention that consists of providing information from the Degner Control
      Preference (DCP) Scale to the provider and patient will have a positive effect on
      psychological outcomes (decision satisfaction, decision making distress, and depression) in
      women making decisions about breast cancer treatment. Testing the effect of the decision
      support intervention on decision satisfaction, decision making distress and depression will
      be measured using t-Tests.

      Patients with early stage breast cancer who are scheduled to have a medical oncology
      consultation, to decide an adjuvant therapy regimen, will be asked to participate.

      128 patients will be randomly assigned to a group in which the patient and their oncologist
      would know the patient's preferred level of decision making control (intervention group) or a
      group that would receive information about a balanced diet (attention control group). Two
      nurses on the research team will consent participants, participate in the intervention, and
      collect data through interviews. Post intervention interviews will occur within 24 hours of
      the intervention and 4 weeks later.
    
  