
    
      Eastern Europe is an emerging epicenter of injection drug use and Human Immunodeficiency
      Virus infection, among women. Within Eastern Europe, the Republic of Georgia is one of the
      last countries where an Human Immunodeficiency Virus epidemic can still be averted. This
      proposal responds to RFA-DA-10-008 International Research Collaborations on Human
      Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome and Drug Use by building on the
      successful collaboration among United States and Eastern European investigators from the
      Republic of Georgia and Russia. Recent data from Georgia's neighbor, Russia, reported 59% of
      Injection Drug Using women Human Immunodeficiency Virus seropositive; this is a threat that
      looms over Georgia. Understanding the risk factors that operate in Russia that drive this
      epidemic may help forestall such a catastrophe in Georgia. As such, this proposal directly
      responds to the Eastern European Region question of "How can drug abuse treatment
      interventions be integrated with established Human Immunodeficiency Virus prevention
      approaches to optimize their combined effectiveness?" Injection drug using Georgian women
      show prevalence rates of 2% for Human Immunodeficiency Virus and 25% for hepatitis C. The low
      prevalence of Human Immunodeficiency Virus in Georgian women provides an important window of
      opportunity to intervene and avoid the possibility of a Human Immunodeficiency Virus
      epidemic. In Georgia, women's expected subordination to men makes women vulnerable to Human
      Immunodeficiency Virus/Hepatitis C infection. The public health impact of the proposed
      project is far-reaching. Taken to scale, our Georgian reinforcement-based treatment model
      holds the promise not only to lessen the possibility of a Human Immunodeficiency Virus
      epidemic and slow the increase in the Hepatitis C transmission rate in Georgia, but also to
      strongly influence the development of women-focused drug abuse intervention models for
      treatment tailoring and dissemination in other nations.
    
  