
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disorder affecting the central nervous
      system that is characterized pathologically by focal demyelinating lesions in the brain
      parenchyma. Meningeal inflammation in MS was first noted in 2004. Ectopic lymphoid follicles
      were described in the meninges of patients with secondary progressive MS (SPMS) and were
      thought to correlate with cortical lesions and atrophy (a surrogate marker for disability).
      Subsequently, inflammation in the meninges has been described in primary progressive MS
      (PPMS) as well as early relapsing MS.

      The ectopic lymphoid follicles are composed of B-cells, T follicular helper cells and
      follicular dendritic cells. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody against CD-20 (a B-cell
      marker) that is FDA approved for the treatment of various lymphomas. It has been shown to be
      effective when given intravenously in trials of Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis
      (RRMS). However, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) penetrance of rituximab is minimal, such that
      CSF levels are < 1% of serum levels after the administration of intravenous (IV) rituximab.
      Indeed, IV rituximab failed to significantly slow disability in a clinical trial in
      progressive MS. Intrathecal (IT) rituximab administration has been used in CNS lymphoma to
      achieve greater CSF concentrations of rituximab. In MS, IT administration of rituximab could
      lead to higher CSF rituximab levels resulting in the disruption of meningeal ectopic lymphoid
      follicles, ultimately reducing cortical lesions and possibly disease progression.

      A recently described finding is the presence of enhancing meningeal lesions on post-contrast
      FLAIR imaging in MS patients. These could possibly represent ectopic lymphoid follicles. This
      finding could serve as a biomarker to identify patients with ectopic meningeal lymphoid
      follicles who might be most likely to derive benefit from IT rituximab therapy.

      The investigators hypothesize that IT rituximab therapy in patients with progressive forms of
      MS could disrupt ectopic lymphoid follicles in the meninges and thus slow progression of the
      disease, which is particularly important because there exist no FDA-approved therapies for
      progressive MS. The investigators hypothesize that using post-contrast FLAIR imaging to
      identify those with enhancing meningeal lesions will provide a biomarker to select patients
      who might be most likely to respond to IT rituximab and to use these lesions to monitor
      therapeutic response.

      The primary aim of this study is to assess the safety of intrathecal administration of
      rituximab in patients with progressive MS. The secondary aims are to evaluate if IT rituximab
      leads to a decrease in the quantity of meningeal lesions on post-contrast FLAIR imaging or to
      changes in biomarkers of inflammatory activity or neuronal injury in the CSF.

      Progressive MS currently has no FDA approved treatments. There is a great need for new
      therapeutic modalities for patients with progressive forms of MS. The identification of a
      novel treatment for progressive MS would have a beneficial impact on tens of thousands of
      patients with progressive MS.
    
  