
    
      In general there is a lack of evidence of the arrhythmic burden in PH. The present study is
      the first to apply continuous long-term cardiac monitoring in patients with PH to describe
      the prevalence of arrhythmias in PH by continuous long-term cardiac monitoring. Furthermore,
      the correlation between heart rate variability and risk assessment parameters including WHO
      functional class (FC), NT-proBNP, 6MWT, cardiac parameters and cardiac function will be
      studies.

      A few prospective studies have demonstrated lower HRV in PH than in healthy individuals,
      however only based on short-term monitoring (20 minutes to 24 hour) and only in a few
      patients. In retrospective studies, a higher mortality in children with PAH and low HRV has
      been shown with 24 hour Holter monitoring. Consequently, there is a lack of evidence
      regarding right heart failure and the prognostic value of HRV.

      Risk assessment in PH is essential in the selection of treatment in PH and for prognosis in
      the study ASPIRE the investigators will assess the use of heart rate variability in pulmonary
      hypertension.

      In conclusion the ASPIRE study will:

        1. Assess the incidence and prevalence of arrhythmias using long term cardiac monitoring
           via a reveal LINQ loop recorder (Medtronic). Furthermore, the investigators will assess;
           Change in cardiac index, right atrial size, RV size, fibrosis and stroke volume.

        2. The investigators will assess the arrhythmic burden in relation to:

             -  Change in 6 MWT

             -  Hemodynamic changes with RHC

             -  Hemodynamic changes in echocardiography

             -  The number of patients progressing one FC (Modified NYHA class)

             -  Changes in NT-proBNP.

             -  Hospital admission for any reason

             -  Death or transplantation

        3. Monitor heart rate variability and address a comparison to known risk markers and CMR
           and echocardiography.

      The study specifically seeks to investigate following:

        -  The incidence and type of supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias in PH by
           continuous long-term monitoring

        -  The predictive value of both right and left ventricular cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR)
           imaging parameters for arrhythmogenesis in PAH, heart rate variability, and heart rate.

        -  Optimization of specific therapy in PAH using continuous long-term arrhythmia monitoring
    
  