
    
      The World Health Organisation, amongst others, recognises that adolescent men have a vital
      yet neglected role in reducing teenage pregnancies and that there is a pressing need for
      effective educational interventions designed especially for them. The If I Were Jack
      intervention aims to increase the intention of both boys and girls to avoid teenage pregnancy
      and addresses gender inequalities in Relationship and Sexuality Education (RSE) provision by
      explicitly focusing on young men and teenage pregnancy.

      This phase II feasibility trial with embedded process evaluation aims to determine the
      feasibility of conducting an effectiveness trial of the If I Were Jack intervention in
      post-primary schools in Northern Ireland. The study will 1) assess the acceptability of the
      intervention to schools (principals and RSE teachers), pupils and parents; 2) identify
      optimal structures and systems for the delivery of the intervention in the classroom; 3)
      establish intervention participation rates and reach, including equality of engagement across
      schools of different socio-economic and religious types; 4) assess trial recruitment and
      retention rates; 5) ascertain variation in normal RSE practice across the participating
      schools; 6) develop and refine survey instruments for use in a phase III trial; 7) assess
      differences in outcomes for male and female pupils; 8) identify potential effect sizes that
      might be detected in an effectiveness trial and estimate appropriate sample size; and 9)
      identify the costs of delivering If I were Jack and pilot the methods for economic analysis
      in a phase III trial.

      School principals, RSE teachers, Year 11 pupils (aged 14-16) and their parents in seven
      post-primary schools will participate in the study. Four schools will be randomly allocated
      to the intervention group and will receive the If I Were Jack intervention over four weeks.
      Three schools randomly allocated to the control group will continue with normal practice.
      Each participating pupil will be in the study for approximately twelve months and will be
      asked to complete a questionnaire three times - at baseline and again five and nine months
      after implementation. The process evaluation will include semi-structured interviews and
      focus group discussions with a sample of pupils, teachers, and parents regarding the
      acceptability and feasibility of the questionnaire, the intervention, and participation in
      the trial. It will also include observations of a sample of lessons and parents' information
      sessions. The cost-effectiveness analysis will capture the costs of delivering the
      intervention compared with current RSE and will pilot economic data collection forms.

      In this feasibility trial, key outcomes will be the quality of intervention implementation,
      and recruitment, participation and retention rates. The study will also pilot the feasibility
      and acceptability of collecting demographic information and other sexual and psychosocial
      data relating to measuring the proposed primary and secondary outcomes in a future phase III
      trial, so that potential response rates can be determined, optimal data collection
      identified, and the costs of these data collection methods assessed.
    
  