
    
      Little is known of the molecular basis of disorders of signalling pathways potentially
      responsible of constitutional defects of platelet functions (adhesion, aggregation or
      secretion) (1-5). Indeed, in routine practice, this investigation is limited by the
      complexity of the analyse using biochemical methods (western blotting), and the requirement
      of large amount of platelets.

      We have designed a new approach for the quantification of platelet cytoplasmic
      phosphoproteins by flow cytometry. Fresh platelets in platelet rich plasma are analysed at
      baseline or after stimulation by major agonists (ADP, TRAP, thromboxane analogue, or
      collagen-related peptide), with and without relevant inhibitors of each pathway. Multiplex
      barcoding is used to identify each condition, allowing a high throughput analysis (6, 7).
      Platelet signalling profiling of Akt, Slp76, P38 MAPK and LIMK can be obtained from a blood
      sample of less than 10 ml, and within 6h The main objective of the study is to standardize
      the method between clinical laboratories with a standard expertise in flow cytometry. The
      study will be performed in 4 academic hospitals members of the French reference network of
      rare platelet diseases. Three groups of patients referred for mild or severe bleeding
      disorders will be included: 1) a control group of patients (30 per centre) with a bleeding
      disorder definitely other than of platelet origin (e.g. "low" von Willebrand); 2) a group of
      10 patients per centre with definite constitutional platelet disorder (e.g. Glanzmann
      thrombasthenia) and 3) a group of 10 patients per centre with a defect of platelet function
      of unknown origin, potentially defective in signalling pathway.

      The control group will serve to standardize the method between centres and to establish the
      reference values. A quality control will be set up by using frozen platelet preparations. The
      patients with definite platelet disorder will be useful for detecting potential signalling
      defects still not described in these pathologies. Platelet signalling defects which could be
      evidenced in these groups will be further identified by conventional biochemical and
      molecular methods after confirmation on a new sample.

      If this new approach can be proposed to clinical laboratories working on rare platelet
      diseases, we expect an advance in our knowledge in the field. In addition the method has a
      potential in pharmaceutical innovation, for identifying (8) or monitoring new antiplatelet
      agents (9, 10), or identifying platelet defects induced by new "target therapies" designed
      for other diseases such as cancer or immune pathologies (10).
    
  