
    
      On Administrative Hold - COVID-19

      Each year ~2.5 million people sustain a traumatic brain injury (TBI). Also a prominent
      general public health issue, TBI is particularly prevalent in Veterans, with 60-80% reporting
      a history of TBI. Over 80% of all TBI are categorized as mild TBI (mTBI), which is associated
      with a myriad of short- and long-term complications. Two of the principal complicating
      factors associated with mTBI are sleep-wake disturbances (e.g., insomnia, excessive daytime
      sleepiness, and circadian rhythm sleep disorders) and chronic pain, including headache and
      diffuse/global pain. Sleep-wake disturbances and chronic pain have an independent prevalence
      of ~70%, individually impair quality of life, impede effective rehabilitative therapies, and
      have staggering functional and economic impacts.

      Furthermore, there is a strong bidirectional relationship between sleep-wake disturbances and
      pain such that impaired sleep exacerbates pain, which leads to greater impairments in sleep
      and worse pain. This vicious cycle between sleep disturbances and pain, which is a
      particularly prevalent and detrimental condition in Veterans with chronic mTBI, represents a
      central challenge precluding effective treatment and ultimately, improving Veteran quality of
      life. Although there are pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies for chronic pain,
      the presence of TBI significantly complicates the effectiveness of these treatment options,
      and have significant adverse effects (e.g., long-term prescription opioid dependence, misuse,
      or overdose). The investigators believe there is profound potential to intervene at the sleep
      level, and, by improving sleep quality, enable Veterans with chronic mTBI to better manage
      their pain and end this vicious cycle.

      This proposal aims to apply a sleep intervention to improve chronic pain in Veterans with
      mTBI. The investigators propose to use morning bright light therapy (MBLT), a readily
      deployable, cost-effective, non-pharmacologic, and home-based sleep intervention, to improve
      sleep-wake disturbances and therefore ameliorate chronic pain and improve quality of life in
      Veterans with chronic mTBI. Outcomes will be assessed pre- and post-intervention, and at a
      3-month follow-up time point. The central hypothesis is that MBLT will improve sleep quality
      and ameliorate pain, resulting in improved quality of life in Veterans with chronic mTBI.
    
  