
    
      Since chymopapain was taken off the market in 2002, no percutaneous treatment has been proven
      to be a valuable alternative to surgical discectomy in herniated disk-related sciatica.
      Intradiscal injection of alcohol was a possibly efficient technique but was not used due to
      its rapid dissipation and nerve toxicity. The gel, by stabilizing the alcohol into the disc,
      now makes it effective locally and cancels its nerve toxicity. As a preliminary evaluation,
      we conducted an open trial with strict methodological criteria to test the efficiency of an
      intradiscal injection using a new product based on jellified ethanol, Discogel®, in the
      treatment of nerve root pain due to compression by herniated disk. A 30% improvement in pain
      VAS was obtained in two thirds of the patients. No complication was encountered. These
      results prompted us to further investigate the effectiveness of Discogel® chemonucleolysis
      using a randomized design comparing it to surgery which remains the gold-standard treatment
      for disk-related sciatica resistant to conservative treatment. Our hypothesis is that
      chemonucleolysis using Discogel® has suitable efficacy and safety profile for large
      application in the treatment of persistent herniated disc related sciatica and that it is
      consequently able to reduce the need of surgery, namely open discectomy, in this indication.
      New minimally invasive approach of herniated disc-related sciatica is crucial, due to high
      prevalence and medico-economic impact of the disease. Awaited advances are enrichment of
      management strategies for herniated disc-related sciatica, earlier recovery of patients
      unresponsive to first line conservative treatment, reduction of the costs and serious adverse
      events related with surgery and finally reduction of the costs associated with induced
      sciatica disability.

      Study design:

        -  Open randomized non-inferiority clinical trial

        -  Discogel® vs surgery, to be organized within four next weeks after randomization

        -  Eligible patients who decline participation to the trial will be followed in an
           observational cohort at the same time-frame as the randomized cohort

        -  Measurement of compliance with the assigned treatment

        -  Patients randomized who will delay or decline the assigned treatment will not be
           excluded from the trial

        -  Visits at 4, 8, 16, 24 and 52 weeks (evaluation of the main and secondary outcomes)

        -  Result analysis will be conducted in Intention to treat

        -  Surgery will be allowed in the Discogel® arm starting at the 16 W visit or before in
           case of intractable pain or complication.

      Study procedures:

      Enrollment of patients will be done from the consultations of Rheumatology, Radiology,
      Surgery and Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine Departments of each study center. Indeed,
      the inclusion visit will not be done by the physician who will perform the chemonucleolysis,
      or the surgeon in charge of the patient. After randomization, chemonucleolysis or surgery
      will be scheduled within the four next weeks. Patients undergoing chemonucleolysis will be
      hospitalized in day hospital of the Rheumatology / Surgery department of each study center.
      The procedure of chemonucleolysis will be performed in the corresponding Radiology department
      or in the usual department. Open discectomy will be performed during a conventional
      hospitalization in the Surgery department of each study center. Duration of the hospital stay
      will depend on patient's recovery after surgery. A duration of about one week is expected.

      The follow-up of patients will be 52 weeks (5 time points). At each time point, main and
      secondary outcomes will be evaluated. Questionnaires will be filled out by the patient,
      before the consultation visit. An independent person (nurse, secretary, clinical research
      technician..) will be available to help the patient to fill his self questionnaire and check
      for the accuracy of the patient answers. It is important to note no physician involved in the
      protocol will participate to the patient evaluation. The physician assessor will be blinded
      for the result of the questionnaire.
    
  