
    
      Objectives. The proposed project is a randomised placebo-controlled, double-blinded,
      multicentric therapeutic trial evaluating the association of antiherpetic treatment to the
      syndromic treatment for the management genital ulcers in Africa, and its impact on the
      genital shedding of HIV and of Herpes simplex hominis type 2 (HSV-2) virus.

      Background. Recent epidemiological studies have shown that infection with HSV-2 is highly
      prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa, and that HSV-2 seropositivity is a marker of high-risk
      sexual behaviour. HSV-2 infection is increasingly being recognised as one of the commonest
      causes of genital ulceration in many African countries. HSV-2 infection may act as a major
      cofactor for HIV transmission, a fact that has long been underestimated. First, genital
      ulcers (caused by HSV-2) are by themselves cofactors of HIV transmission, either by
      increasing infectiousness of dually infected individuals (HSV+/HIV+), or by increasing
      susceptibility of the seronegative partner. Second, HSV-2 infection may transactivate in vivo
      the genital replication of HIV, thereby increasing the infectiousness of dually infected
      individuals.

      Rationale and main objective. HSV-2 infection - as a cofactor of HIV transmission - can be
      targeted by anti-herpetic specific drugs, either as a continuous prophylactic treatment
      during its asymptomatic shedding phase, or as an episodic treatment during
      clinically-apparent genital ulcerations. The main objective of this trial will be to
      demonstrate that acyclovir treatment given during clinical episodes (primary infection or
      recurrences) can reduce genital shedding of free- or cell-associated HIV, thereby
      contributing to a reduction of HIV infectiousness of dually infected individuals (HIV+/HSV+).
      Given the present state of knowledge and hypotheses formulated around the possible role of
      HSV on the HIV epidemic in Africa, the proposed research will contribute to confirm or
      invalidate the existence of mutual reinforcement of HSV and HIV replication. This will
      represent a study of biological plausibility for such an in vivo interaction. In addition the
      chosen intervention strategy has practical and operational implications in that it will allow
      the evaluation of a novel approach to syndromic management of genital ulcers in Africa that
      could later lead to revisions of management guidelines.

      Methods. Approximately 600 women presenting with genital ulcers will be enrolled over two
      years and in two sites: Bangui (Central African Republic) and Accra (Ghana). The syndromic
      management of patients will include antibiotics to cover the presumptive bacterial causes of
      genital ulcerations in these settings (chancroid and syphilis), according to national and
      international guidelines (CDC, UK national guidelines, WHO). In addition, women will be
      randomised to receive either antiherpetic treatment (acyclovir 400 mg 3 times daily for 5
      days, according to UK national guidelines - a shorter regimen than US guidelines) or placebo
      (similar frequency and duration). Clinical examination and cervicovaginal samplings will be
      carried out at D0 and at each follow up visit at D2, D4, D7, D14 & D28. These samples will be
      tested for: etiological diagnosis of ulcers by multiplex PCR; measurement of HIV genital
      viral loads (measuring free RNA and cell-associated proviral DNA) and HSV-2 DNA genital load;
      and diagnosis of other common STDs (at D0). Blood samples will be collected at D0, D2 and D28
      for HIV, syphilis and HSV-2 serological assays, and for HIV plasma loads as well as CD4
      measurements.

      The main outcome will be the determination of the impact of anti-herpetic treatment on HIV
      genital load (and as a corollary, on HSV2 genital load). It will also be possible to measure
      the impact of antibiotic treatment on HIV viral load. The study will allow to evaluate the
      validity of novel syndromic treatment approaches for genital ulcer disease, and a long term
      outcome may be the necessary revision of syndromic management guidelines for GUD to
      potentially include anti-herpetic treatment.
    
  