
    
      The aim of the study is to undertake a large, pragmatic, multi-armed, randomised controlled
      trial to assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of custom-made and prefabricated orthoses
      in addition to exercises and advice compared with exercises and advice alone on the physical
      functioning of children with symptomatic flat feet. We will aim to recruit 1055 children with
      flat feet. They will be allocated to one of three groups, in a 2:2:1 ratio to either (a)
      custom orthoses plus exercises and footwear advice, (b) prefabricated orthoses plus exercises
      and footwear advice or (c) exercises and footwear advice only. We will follow the
      participants up for 12 months after randomisation to assess their physical functioning,
      levels of pain and quality of life. We will undertake qualitative interviews with
      approximately 30 children and their parents, to find out about their experiences of having
      flat feet, and of being in the trial.

      In addition to the main OSTRICH study we will undertake two additional trial methodological
      Studies within a Trial (SWAT) and a sub-study.

      The pen and signposting to multimedia trial information SWAT: This SWAT will evaluate the
      effectiveness of including a pen and/or signposting to multimedia trial information in the
      patient information sheet, which is sent to participants in their recruitment pack.

      The birthday card SWAT: This SWAT will evaluate the effectiveness of sending a birthday card
      to participants on response rates to postal questionnaires.

      Foot scan sub-study: This embedded observational sub-study will assess the capability of a 3D
      scanning approach to identify and stratify severity of pes planus and to assess change in
      foot shape over the duration of the trial. We will investigate the associations between
      aspects of foot shape and score on the physical domain scale of the OxAFQ-C.
    
  