
    
      Patient's undergoing major gynecologic surgery require effective postoperative pain
      management in order to enhance recovery and ultimately allow patients to return to their
      preoperative functional state. Traditionally, acute postoperative pain control has been
      achieved largely with the use of opioid medications. Excessive use of opioids can have
      adverse effects on the recovery process. Side effects include, but are not limited to
      dizziness, sedation, nausea/vomiting, respiratory depression, euphoria, constipation, and
      abuse. In addition, opioid monotherapy can delay post-operative ambulation, contribute to
      prolonged hospital stay and resumption of activities of daily living, and furthermore, have
      long-term sequelae for individuals as well as society at whole.

      Over the past decade, a multimodal approach to pain management has been explored in attempts
      to optimally treat acute postoperative pain. This approach is one of the keys to improving
      the recovery process.

      Acetaminophen is a non-opioid analgesic with a well-established safety and tolerability
      profile that is commonly used in multimodal approach to treating surgical pain. It is
      available in oral, rectal and Intravenous (IV) formulation. IV acetaminophen in particular is
      increasingly used for pain control after surgery as it has demonstrated a significant
      analgesic benefit in a variety of surgery types by reduction in pain intensity while
      decreasing total opioid use. Many studies have evaluated the efficacy of acetaminophen based
      on route of administration. A systematic review demonstrated that there is no clear
      indication for intravenous acetaminophen for patients who can tolerate an oral dosage as
      there was no difference if efficacy outcomes. This is valuable information as the cost of IV
      acetaminophen is exponentially more than the oral form. Although the oral form of
      acetaminophen is as efficient as controlling pain when compared to IV, and is notably
      cheaper, it is not the best option for the nauseated patient or patients whom are restricted
      from oral intake following surgery. Rectal acetaminophen is therefore a feasible alternative
      option in such patients.

      Data on the use of rectal acetaminophen in adults for postoperative pain management is
      limited. Pettersson and colleagues (2005) compared oral, rectal and IV paracetamol in day
      surgery patients. Although they demonstrated significantly higher plasma paracetamol
      concentrations in patients who received oral and IV formations at multiple time points, there
      was no difference in pain ratings. In another study, rectal paracetamol was shown to have a
      significant morphine-sparing effect after hysterectomy.

      At this time, there has been no study in the gynecologic literature to compare IV to rectal
      acetaminophen in terms of pain control and effect on overall opioid use in the acute
      post-operative period.

      The rationale for this study is to determine the optimal way of managing post-operative pain
      in gynecologic surgery in attempt to improve the overall recovery process. More specifically,
      this study will determine if the route of administration of acetaminophen has an effect on
      post-operative pain and use of opioid medication following a minimally invasive hysterectomy.
      The results of this study may guide post-operative pain management after gynecologic surgery,
      and help limit the amount of opioid use, while potentially reducing pharmacological costs for
      patients and hospitals.
    
  