
    
      The prevalence of diabetes type 2 estimated to 628 Million people in the world by 2045 and
      was announced by the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) as one of the biggest epidemics
      in the history. Complications of diabetics Type 2 can range from high blood sugar include
      heart disease, strokes, diabetic retinopathy which can result in blindness, kidney failure,
      and poor blood flow in the limbs which may lead to amputations. It is also linked to other
      manifestations, collectively termed the metabolic syndrome, including obesity, hypertension,
      non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hypertriglyceridemia and cardiovascular disease .

      As blood glucose levels are mainly affected by food consumption, the growing number of blood
      glucose abnormalities is likely attributable to nutrition. Indeed, dietary and lifestyle
      changes normalize blood glucose levels in 55% -80% of the cases. Therefore, maintaining
      normal blood glucose levels is critical for preventing diabetes and its metabolic
      complications.

      Currently, there are no effective methods for predicting the postprandial glycemic response
      (PPGR) of people to food. The current practice of using the meal carbohydrate content is a
      poor predictor of the PPGR and has limited efficacy. The glycemic index (GI), which
      quantifies PPGR to consumption of a single tested food type, and the derived glycemic load
      have limited applicability in assessing the PPGR to real-life meals consisting of arbitrary
      food combinations and varying quantities, consumed at different times of the day, and at
      different proximity to physical activity and other meals. Indeed, studies examining the
      effect of diets with a low glycemic index on TIIDM risk, weight loss, and cardiovascular risk
      factors yielded mixed results . The limited success of GI measure is probably due to the fact
      that it is a general index, which does not take into consideration the large variation
      between individuals in their glycemic response to food. It can be concluded, therefore, that
      in order to control glycemic response of an individual, we should build a personally tailored
      diet which takes into account various factors.

      Although genetic factors influence the levels of fasting blood glucose and glycemic response
      to food, these factors only explain approximately 10% of the variance in the population.
      Supporting this claim is the fact that the number of people with diabetes is increasing in
      recent years regardless of patients' genetic background. In contrast, environmental factors
      such as the composition of the intestinal bacteria and their metabolic activity may affect
      the glycemic response. The entire bacteria population in the digestive tract (microbiome)
      consist of ~1,000 species with a genetic repertoire of ~3 million different genes. The
      microbiome is directly affected by our diet and directly affect the body's response to food.
      This special relationship between the host and the intestinal flora is reflected by the
      composition of bacteria unique to type 2 diabetes and in the significant changes in the
      bacteria composition upon transition from a diet rich in fiber to a "Western" diet rich in
      simple sugars.

      Recently, DayTwo developed a highly accurate algorithm for predicting the personalized
      glucose response to food for each person based on the PNP Study conducted by the Weizmann
      Institute. The algorithm's predictions are based on many personal measurements, including
      blood tests, personal lifestyle and gut bacteria. In a small-scale pilot study that was
      conducted by the Weizmann Institute using the algorithm, the researchers personally tailored
      dietary interventions to healthy and prediabetic people, which resulted in significantly
      improved PPGRs accompanied by consistent alterations to the gut microbiota. These findings
      led to hypothesize that tailoring personalized diets based on PPGRs predictions may achieve
      better outcomes in terms of controlling blood glucose levels and its metabolic consequences
      relative to the current standard nutritional therapy for diabetes.
    
  