
    
      Participants

      A total of 140 participants aged over 18 with distal radius fractures will be included in the
      study.

      Sample Size The primary outcome used to calculate a sample size was the Disability of Arm
      Shoulder and Hand (DASH) Score. In a pilot study of sixty patients with distal radius
      fracture who were evaluated 8 weeks following fracture, the mean DASH score was 29 and the
      standard deviation was 19. A sample size of 126 would therefore provide power (90%) to
      identify true superiority of intervention workbook over current practice with a difference
      between the means equal to 10 (recognised minimal clinically significant difference in DASH)
      as significant at the 5% level (using a one sided test). We anticipate a drop out rate of 10%
      and will therefore aim to enrol 140 patients into the study. (70 in each arm).

      Treatment and Rehabilitation Overview All patients will be routinely discharged from the
      Emergency Department following application of a cast or manipulation and application of a
      cast and followed up in the orthopaedic outpatient clinic. They will be treated operatively
      or in cast for 6 weeks (this treatment decision will be made on a clinical basis by the named
      consultant orthopaedic trauma surgeon responsible for the patient's care) before beginning
      mobilisation. All treatment types will be included in the study as no significant differences
      were seen between groups in terms of patient reported outcome or psychological scores in
      pilot study of 60 patients. Recruitment and randomisation will take place in the outpatient
      department at 2 weeks following injury. At this stage patients will be given one of the
      workbooks and instructed on how it should be used. Patients will not routinely be referred to
      physiotherapy but should individual patients develop a complication for which physiotherapy
      is clinically indicated they will be referred at this stage. Patients will be followed up at
      6 weeks and 6 months following injury. The only deviation from normal practice in this trial
      will be the administration of the workbooks which patients will complete in their own time at
      home. In routine practice some patients would be followed up to 6 months, in this trial all
      patients will be.

      Recruitment

      Participants will be recruited from The Department of Orthopaedics Royal Infirmary Edinburgh.
      Initial management of patients in the Emergency Department and by orthopaedic services will
      be as routine and determined by clinical staff not involved in the trial. Fig 2.

      The first potential contact with trail staff will be at the first orthopaedic outpatient
      appointment with in 2 weeks of injury. At this time all patients with distal radius fractures
      will be assessed clinically and with radiographs by the treating clinical team. Once it has
      been established that they fulfil trial inclusion criteria a member of the research team will
      be notified and the trial will be explained to the patient. They will be given a participant
      information sheet and if they are willing to take part, the research assistant will consent
      them to participate in the trial. The number of patients approached as part of the trial, the
      number that agree and the number that decline and for what reason will all be recorded, this
      data will be anonymised at the time of recording. Recruited patients will then be randomised
      to one of two arms: therapy based workbook intervention or placebo workbook intervention. All
      other treatment decisions will continue to be made by the treating clinical team.

      Randomisation Participants will be randomised to routine rehabilitation plus psychological
      (therapy based) intervention workbook or routine rehabilitation plus placebo (information
      based) workbook group. Randomisation will be stratified based on age, gender and operative /
      non-operative treatment. Patients will be assigned to a group (A-H) based on these factors.
      See flow diagram Fig 1. In each group block randomisation will be carried out using a
      computer generated sequence. Block size will be at random (2, 4 or 6) and sequence of the
      block will also be at random.

      Blinding Participants will be told we are comparing two different rehabilitation workbooks
      but will only see the workbook they are to use. They will not be given any details of the
      other workbook. Both workbooks will have the same format and front cover. Research team
      members involved in taking measurements in clinic will also be blinded to which workbook the
      participant is completing.

      Psychological / placebo intervention Patients will complete a work book during their
      rehabilitation. This will begin following the 2 week follow up appointment. One arm will
      complete the 'Therapy Based Psychological Intervention Workbook'. It will provide information
      about their injury, treatment and expectations. It will address common misconceptions,
      negative illness perceptions and poor coping techniques and aim to improve self efficacy.
      This has been developed in collaboration with a Health Psychology PhD student at University
      of Strathclyde and agreed upon for use in this trial. This has been reviewed in a focus group
      of patients with distal radius fractures. The consensus was that the workbook was useful and
      informative. No objections were raised against the workbook. The other arm will complete a
      'Placebo Workbook. This will contain stretching exercises but no therapy based exercises or
      exercises aimed at addressing illness perceptions or coping techniques. This placebo workbook
      represents the current standard of care in the Department of Orthopaedics, Royal Infirmary
      Edinburgh.

      Baseline Information At 2 week follow up: Information regarding patient age, gender, post
      code, date of injury, history of previous fractures, mode of injury, associated injuries,
      neurovascular injury, open injury, level of pain (11 point Likert scale 0-10 low to high),
      past medical and psychiatric history, current medication, smoking and alcohol status,
      application for injury compensation, dependants, driving status, employment status, education
      status and level of sporting activity will be collected. All patients will complete a pre
      injury DASH score and SF-12. Base line Hospital anxiety and Depression score (HADS), Tampa
      scale for Kinesiophobia (TSK), Pain Catastrophising Score (PCS), General Self Efficacy score
      (SES), Recovery Locus of Control (RLoC) and Illness perception questionnaire - revised
      (IPQ-R), Imaging at this stage will include standardised plain film radiographs including
      antero posterior and lateral views of the wrist. (These radiographs are routine at this stage
      of treatment for patients out with the trial).
    
  