
    
      Traumatic brain injury is not only a significant medical and operational issue for the
      military but is a significant public health issue in the United States. The CDC reports that
      1.4 million Americans sustain traumatic brain injuries each year. Of these 50,000 die,
      235,000 are hospitalized and 1.1 million are treated and released from the emergency
      department. Among children fourteen years old and younger, there are an estimated 2685 TBI
      deaths per year, 37,000 hospitalizations and 435,000 emergency room visits.

      Additionally, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) also notes that TBI is significantly
      under-reported.

      Traumatic brain injury is under detected. Neuropsychological evaluations are often
      nondisclosing The DoD has invested considerable funds in the development of devices for use
      in acute and chronic assessment of TBI. Unfortunately none of these devices have been tested
      systematically to establish reliability of the equipment, reliability of the signals
      obtained, or reliability of the measures derived from the signals obtained.

      The NeuroKinetics i-PAS system is a mobile assessment device with an integrated display for
      eye tracking with the following properties: a head mounted display, a sampling rate of 100
      frames per second, eye tracking in the horizontal, vertical and torsional axes, and pupil
      area measurement with a spatial resolution less than 0.1 o. The testing protocol includes:
      optokinetic tracking, smooth pursuit horizontal, smooth pursuit vertical, saccade random
      horizontal, saccade random vertical, saccade predictive horizontal, antisaccade (horizontal),
      self-paced saccade, saccade and reaction times, visual reaction time, auditory reaction time,
      gaze horizontal, light reflex, subjective visual (vertical) and subjective vertical
      horizontal. Several quantitative measures are computed from the data acquired in each test,
      and these measures are then employed in a multivariate diagnostic assessment.

      It is important to distinguish between a device, a signal and a measure. As used here, the
      term device refers to a hardware technology used to obtain a signal. In the case of
      neurodiagnostic devices, the signal is usually a measurement of voltage as a function of
      time. Examples of signals pertinent to the present discussion include the electrocardiogram
      (providing an assessment of autonomic nervous system status), the electroencephalogram,
      evoked potentials, event related potentials, balance records and eye movement trajectories. A
      clear distinction must be drawn between a signal, typically a voltage record, and a measure
      which is a number that is computed from the voltage signal. Reliability and validity must be
      investigated separately for each measure For example, a dozen measures may be calculated from
      the same EEG voltage signal. The reliability and validity of each measure must be evaluated.

      The objectives of this initial study are limited. The investigators address the question: are
      the measures obtained from the NeuroKinetics iPAS eye tracking system longitudinally stable
      in a clinically stable healthy participant? These measures are described in a subsequent
      section.

      A single channel ECG will be acquired and measures of heart rate variability will be
      calculated from this signal. Measures of heart rate variability provide an indirect surrogate
      measure of complex multifactorial states that can have an impact on psychophysiological
      variables. Alterations of heart rate variability (HRV) are associated with pain, attention
      and cognitive function and fatigue, all of which can affect neurophysiological measures. High
      intra-individual variability in a test-retest study is a warning sign that between recording
      changes in the state of the participant rather than reliability failures in the eye tracking
      measure may be playing a role in low reliability.

      Following consent, eligibility will be established based on head injury history, the score on
      the Symptom Checklist 90 (in the Supporting Documents file), the Short Form 36 (in the
      Supporting Documents file), and the Defense Veterans Brain Injury Center (DVBIC) Three
      Question Screening Tool.

      The standard iPAS eye tracking evaluation as described below will be administered and the ECG
      will be recorded simultaneously during this process.

      A second recording will be obtained within two to six days of the first recording.

      A third recording will be obtained at approximately four weeks following the first recording.

      This study will establish normal values of neuroassessment measures obtained from healthy
      controls and will be used to establish the statistical separation between healthy populations
      and clinical populations presenting neuropsychiatric disorders including TBI-positive
      patients.
    
  