
    
      Since the progression of PD is in most cases inexorable, there is an urgent need for curative
      or restorative treatments, especially for patients whose response to pharmaceutical treatment
      is marred by levodopa-evoked dyskinesias, or intolerable on-off fluctuations. This project
      focuses on the option of surgical implantation of embryonic dopamine neurons. Despite
      promising reports in some early case studies, this daring approach has not always shown
      consistent clinical outcomes. The factors responsible for this state of affairs remain
      uncertain, although some studies showed significantly better clinical outcome in younger PD
      patients (≤ 60 years) as compared to older patients (≥ 60 years). In a number of small
      clinical studies, researchers at the University of Saskactchewan have shown one of the most
      consistent improvements in clinical outcomes in fetal dopaminergic grafts, as has been
      confirmed in a recent review of the literature. Follow-up FDOPA-PET studies have linked
      enhanced tracer uptake in target regions to persistent improvements in unified parkison
      disease rating scale (UPDRS), and FDOPA-PET is informative about the relationship between
      targeting of specific striatal regions and the occurrence of dyskinesias.

      Co-aaplicants of this research study have received approval and funding to undertake a new
      clinical trial of fetal dopaminergic neurons for the treatment of advanced and otherwise
      refractory PD. The main objective of the present study is to correlate the clinical outcomes
      of PD patients who undergo fetal dopamine neuron transplantation in the new study protocol
      with changes in FDOPA-PET/CT. Neurologists at the University of Saskachewan and the Royal
      University Hospital-Saskatoon have assembled an extensive database of PD patients which have
      been followed prospectively for as long as a decade. As noted above, the relationship between
      FDOPA-PET/CT and post-mortem findings is poorly documented in small patient samples, even
      though autopsy findings remain the gold standard for differential diagnosis of parkinsonian
      syndromes, as noted above. The established reputations of these neurologists in the PD
      community continues to be an important prerequisite for brain banking in Saskatchewan, and an
      important side objective of this project is to integrate molecular imaging with prospective
      post mortem analysis of extensively-documented PD patients.
    
  