
    
      Background

        -  Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the fourth most common cancer diagnosis in the United States
           and accounts for the second most cancer-related deaths.

        -  Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a transmembrane protein that was first identified
           for its role in the maintenance of self-tolerance and prevention of autoimmunity.
           Blockade of the interaction between PD-L1 on tumor cells and PD-1 on T cells is expected
           to reverse T cell suppression within tumors. These agents are dependent on underlying T
           cell activation against the tumor cell to be effective.

        -  Avelumab is a fully human IgG1 anti-PDL1 antibody that selectively binds to PD-L1 and
           competitively blocks its interaction with PD-1.

        -  In ongoing phase 1 trials of avelumab, the agent has been well tolerated and has shown
           clinical activity.

        -  Clinical trials with anti-PD-1/L1 agents in colorectal cancer have resulted in minimal
           activity in patients who do not have mismatch repair deficiency (MMR-D).

        -  Therapeutic cancer vaccines targeting overexpressed proteins offer a potential method to
           activate T cells against tumors.

        -  A novel adenovirus based, CEA-targeting vaccine has demonstrated cytolytic T cell
           responses in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

        -  Standard of care agents in first line metastatic CRC have properties been associated
           with improved immune response via immunologic cell death and immunogenic modulation.

      Primary Objective

      -To determine if there is an improvement progression free survival among patients with
      metastatic colorectal cancer lacking a mismatch repair deficiency who are treated with
      standard of care + anti- PDL1 monoclonal antibody + Ad-CEA therapeutic cancer vaccine
      compared with standard of care alone.

      Eligibility

        -  Subjects age 18 and older with previously untreated pathologically confirmed metastatic
           or unresectable colorectal cancer; prior adjuvant therapy is acceptable.

        -  ECOG performance status less than or equal to 2.

        -  Normal organ and bone marrow function.

        -  Subjects with active autoimmune diseases requiring treatment and subjects requiring
           system steroids (except for physiologic doses for steroid replacement) are not allowed.

        -  Tumor sample and whole blood sample must be available for proteomics, genomics and
           transcriptomics analyses.

        -  Subjects with metastatic or unresectable colorectal cancer with mismatch repair
           deficiency (MMR-D or MSI-High) will not be eligible.

      Design

        -  This is a randomized, multicenter phase II clinical trial designed to evaluate the
           potential improvement in progression free survival (PFS) when Avelumab and Ad-CEA
           vaccine are used in combination with standard of care therapy in metastatic or
           unresectable colorectal cancer when compared with standard of care alone (FOLFOX-A).

        -  A lead in cohort, comprising the first 6 evaluable subjects enrolled, will be treated
           with avelumab + Ad- CEA vaccine + standard of care in order to assess the safety of the
           combination.

        -  If no more than 1 subject in the lead in cohort experiences a dose limiting toxicity
           attributable to the IND agents, 70 evaluable subjects will be randomized on a 1:1 basis
           to receive either Avelumab + Ad-CEA vaccine + standard of care (Arm B) or standard of
           care alone (Arm A).

        -  Standard of care therapy consists of 6 - 12 two week cycles of bevacizumab + FOLFOX
           (5-FU, leucovorin, oxaliplatin) followed by two week cycles of bevacizumab +
           capecitabine until disease progression.

        -  Subjects assigned to Arm A that have progressive disease will be offered Avelumab +
           Ad-CEA vaccine in combination with a standard chemotherapy regimen.

        -  Kaplan-Meier curves and a two-tailed log-rank test will be the primary analysis methods.

        -  The accrual ceiling for the study is set at 97.
    
  