
    
      One person in every 500 has Parkinson's and around 127,000 people are living with the
      condition in the UK. Unfortunately, it is a progressive disease that has no cure. Many
      treatments are available that can improve or maintain someone's quality of life, but the
      investigators would like to develop treatments that can be used much earlier in the disease
      process. These could slow down the disease or prevent it from progressing further.

      For most people who develop Parkinson's there is no clear underlying cause. However, the
      investigators are particularly interested in the minority of people diagnosed with
      Parkinson's who have either early onset disease and/or other relatives affected with
      Parkinson's. The investigators believe that variations in inherited material (genes) can
      sometimes cause the disease, and this may run in families. This opens the door to a range of
      studies on the effects of gene variation at a nerve cell and brain level, which the
      investigators hope will lead to new targeted treatments.

      It is already known that some rare gene variants can cause Parkinson's. Some of these are
      inherited in what is called an 'autosomal dominant' way i.e. each child of a person with this
      type of gene change has a 50% chance of inheriting it. However, it is also known that not
      everyone who carries the change will go on to develop the disease. Some people appear to be
      protected against developing the disease and the investigators would like to understand this
      better. Other variants, particularly important in early onset Parkinson's are "recessive",
      and in this form of inheritance there is a very low risk to parents and children.

      The investigators are looking closely at the genetic makeup of people with Parkinson's in
      comparison with unaffected people and in comparison to unaffected and affected family members
      in order to find out more about which gene changes can cause Parkinson's.

      Following the identification of genetic variation that causes Parkinson's, in collaboration
      with the NHS and other researchers, the investigators plan to: 1) develop new NHS tests of
      Parkinson's and 2) develop new disease model which can act as a testbed for new treatments
    
  