
    
      Purpose

      Functional dyspepsia is a common disorder affecting approximately 25 % of the adult
      population. Functional dyspepsia is defined from symptoms according to the Rome II criteria.
      A normal upper endoscopy is also warranted Many of these patients have specific motility
      disorders. A more accurate diagnosis could mean a more effective treatment.

      In this study the patients take several tests in order to make a more specific diagnosis.
      These include: 24 hour pH-monitoring, oesophagusmanometry, drink test and scintigrafy.

      We will study the effect of acid reducing treatment (proton pump inhibitors) on the different
      dysmotility-types and also the effect of medical information and advise.

      We will observe concentrations of total IgE and various specific antibodies against food
      allergens in serum when taking PPI. Results here can vary dependent on whether the patient
      has used PPI anytime before or not.

      Patients

      The patients are included via referrals from general practitioners and hospital doctors. An
      upper endoscopy is performed. If this investigation is normal the patient is considered for
      inclusion in the study.

      Criteria for inclusion are

        -  Age 20 - 60 years

        -  Rome II criteria fulfilled

        -  Helicobacter test negative (urease-test)

        -  Informed consent

      Criteria for exclusion are

        -  Diabetes

        -  Prior gastrointestinal surgery

        -  Treatment with proton pump inhibitors / H2 blockers the last 30 days

        -  Pregnancy / lactation

        -  Current use of NSAIDs

        -  Serious psychiatric illness

        -  Serious egg-allergy

      Study design

      Start of the study: symptom score based on symptoms within the last three days. Lanzo melt 30
      mg daily is given as a morning dose. Patients are randomized in two groups. Group A is given
      thorough information based on the tests taken plus medical treatment. Group B receives
      medical treatment only.

      After two weeks symptom score per telephone. After four weeks a new symptom score. A
      reduction by at least 25 % is defined as treatment response. These patients continue their
      medical treatment for three months. Now all patients receive thorough information.

      Non responders end their medical treatment and they are followed with medical information and
      advise the next three months.

      After eight weeks symptom score per telephone. After 12 weeks symptom score per telephone.
      After 16 weeks the study is ended. Symptom score is taken.

      After 4 and 16 weeks the patient evaluates his/her treatment in five categories: Very
      satisfied, satisfied, less satisfied, no change, worse.

      Symptom score

      Seven symptoms are scored from 1-7 points based on the last week. The symptoms are:
      regurgitation, nausea, early satiety, belching, pain referred to meals, pain not referred to
      meals, postprandial fullness.

        1. No symptoms

        2. Insignificant symptoms (as usual ignored)

        3. Light symptoms (easy to ignore)

        4. Moderate symptoms (easy to tolerate)

        5. Quite marked symptoms (not easy to tolerate)

        6. Marked symptoms (affects daily activities)

        7. Substantional symptoms (can't do daily activities)

      24 hour pH monitoring

      Digitrapper III from Synectics is used. A probe is installed trans nasally to the gastric
      lumen where a pH value is registered. Afterwards the probe is placed five cm over the upper
      border of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). After 24 hours registration is completed and
      analyzed with the use of Polygram 98 from Medtronic Functional Diagnostics AS.

      Total reflux index, reflux with meals, postprandial reflux, nightly reflux and long reflux
      episodes are registered. Pathologic reflux index is defined as pathological if reflux is over
      5 %.

      Acid Clearence Time (ACT) is also estimated. It is found by dividing total reflux time with
      the number of refluxes. Upper normal limit is set to 0,85 minutes/reflux.

      Esophagusmanometry

      We use perfusion manometry. The catheter has sensors in five levels five cm apart. LES is
      first localized and length and resting pressure are registered. We test for normal relaxation
      with swallowing. Then we test the motility (peristalsis and amplitude/duration of pressure
      waves).

      Scintigraphy

      We give a standard meal composed of two omelets, one slice of bread and a glass of water.
      Radioactive Technesium is injected into the omelet and the meal is eaten in ten minutes.
      Picture uptakes are taken according to the protocol the first hour after completion of the
      meal. Gastric emptying time is estimated.

      Drink test The patients drink water 150 ml/min until they feel they must stop. Symptoms are
      registered when they stop and 15 and 30 minutes there after. This is a test to determine
      accommodation and visceral sensibility.

      Blood tests Hemoglobin, sedimentation rate, CRP, leucocytes, thrombocytes, bilirubin, ALP,
      ALAT, g-GT, albumin and amylase are taken to exclude organic disease. It does not represent a
      variable in the study design.
    
  