
    
      The radial and ulnar arteries cuts that need to be urgently repaired using microsurgical
      techniques; after treatment failure rate is quite high among the injured. When straight cut
      repaired with microsurgical instruments under the microscope cut properly; can be obtained
      close to excellent results. However, there are many factors that impact on the arterial
      healing. Hypertension, hypotension, age, diabetes mellitus, obesity and female gender has
      negative effects on the vascular healing. In recent years, positive effects of
      endothelialization begun to focus on the improvement; and has been shown to
      endothelialization on the hematopoietic stem cells and endothelial progenitor cells CD34 and
      CD133 cd309 is effective. CD34 is a type 1 transmembrane protein and is known as the stem
      cell marker. Proliferative cells and endothelial stem cells play an important role still in
      the healing process after vascular incisions. These include CD133 (haematopoietic progenitor
      cells) and CD309 (Vasculoendotelial Growth Factor Receptor 2) is also believed to be
      effective. These stem cells and proliferating endothelial cells is called collectively
      endothelial proliferative cells (EPC). Griese et al in a study had been done on rabbits;
      autologous endothelial cells, obtained from peripheral blood with immunohistochemical
      methods, were transplanted after carotid artery intimal injury experimentally.The EPC-treated
      group was observed that increased endothelialization and significantly reduced neointimal
      hyperplasia, compared to the control group. Kawamoto et al in their study ex vivo;
      endothelial progenitor cells in the myocardial ischemic group, has been shown to have
      positive impact on the preservation of left ventricular function. In another clinical study
      in patients with peripheral arterial disease with ischemic limbs; increase of oxygen carried
      in the extremities in the study group, decrease in rest pain, increase in walk distance and
      had an increase in ankle-brachial index.

      In the investigators study on the vessel laceration, such as CD 34, CD133 and CD309
      endothelial progenitor cells and stem cells in the blood levels will show whether the effects
      on vascular healing. Results to be obtained; frequently encountered and the relatively high
      treatment costs and lead to the loss also great labor; myocardial infarction, peripheral
      arterial disease, ensuring the fistula opening in chronic dialysis patients, provision of
      limb preservation and vitality of limb replantation will open up new horizons.
    
  