
    
      Patients in the U.S. suffer harm too often as they move between sites of health care, and
      their caregivers experience significant burden. Unfortunately, the usual approach to health
      care does not support continuity and coordination during such "care transitions" between
      hospitals, clinics, home or nursing homes. Poorly managed patient care transitions can lead
      to worsening symptoms, adverse effects from medications, unaddressed test results, failed
      follow-up testing, and excess rehospitalizations and ER visits.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Identify the transitional care outcomes and components that matter most to patients and
           caregivers.

        2. Determine which evidence-based transitional care components (TCCs) or clusters most
           effectively yield patient and caregiver desired outcomes overall and among diverse
           patient and caregiver populations in different types of care settings and communities.

        3. Identify barriers and facilitators to the implementation of specific TCCs or clusters of
           TCCs for different types of care settings and communities.

        4. Develop recommendations for dissemination and implementation of the findings on the best
           evidence regarding how to achieve optimal TC services and outcomes for patients,
           caregivers and providers.

      Study Design:

      Capitalizing on the opportunity for a natural experiment observational study, the research
      team will conduct qualitative and quantitative studies. This 52-month study is divided into
      two distinct phases. During the first phase, Project ACHIEVE will use focus groups, with
      patients, caregivers, providers, and site visits to identify the transitional care outcomes
      and service components that matter most to patients. In this first phase, based on this
      information and an extensive evidence-based review of the research literature, the ACHIEVE
      team will develop surveys to be administrated in Phase II. The project team will conduct mail
      and phone surveys of patients and caregivers recruited from approximately 45 hospitals across
      the U.S. to assess what transitional care services patients and caregivers experience and how
      they are associated with outcomes. Additionally, the project team will conduct healthcare
      provider surveys and site visits to assess the facilitators and barriers to implementing
      transitional care strategies, organizational contexts (leadership and physician engagement,
      change culture, etc.), and community collaboration.

      Outcomes and Impact:

      Through rigorous study and evaluation, Project ACHIEVE will:

        1. Identify best practices in care transitions that matter most to patients and their
           caregivers, and reduce excess emergency department and hospital utilization.

        2. Develop a toolkit to guide informed decisions and spread these best practices across the
           U.S.

        3. Develop Care Transitions Surveys that can standardize evaluation of patients' and
           caregivers' experience with care transitions.
    
  