
    
      Peripheral arterial disease involving the lower limbs is becoming an increasingly important
      health issue which places considerable burden on individuals, communities and health care
      resources. PAD affects an estimated 27 million adults >55 years of age in Europe and North
      America (1). The prevalence of PAD in Asia is expected to be similar and is likely to rise as
      the Chinese population ages. Intermittent claudication affects most patients with PAD.
      Although IC is not limb-threatening, the loss of walking ability and the experience of pain
      with ambulation can cause significant social, leisure, and occupational impairment in many
      patients (2-4). The decreased QoL experienced in patients with IC is on par with other
      cardiovascular diseases such as heart failure and heart attack. More alarmingly, physical
      disability is associated with higher risk of death among PAD patients. For these reasons and
      because patients are chronically disabled, the treatment of IC has increasingly become a
      major clinical focus in cardiovascular research.

      For PAD patients, it is critical to focus on therapies that can reduce the underlying
      cardiovascular risk as well as improving functional status and Qol. Although multiple
      therapies (antiplatelet agents, statins, anti-hypertensive agents) have been proven to reduce
      cardiovascular risk in PAD patients, very few therapeutic agents have been shown to improve
      symptoms of IC in PAD patients (5). As such there is a large unmet need in terms of
      leg-specific therapies that can improve walking performance and functional capacity for this
      debilitating disease. Traditional Chinese herbal medicine such as Danshen and Gegen are well
      established in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and well tolerated by most patients.
      The studies done at the Institute of Chinese Medicine of the CUHK showed particularly
      encouraging results (6-8). The outcomes of this study have the potential to change local and
      international practice in providing a novel therapeutic option in the treatment of
      symptomatic PAD. As parallel laboratory research is being done to identify the most active
      components of the D&G formula in preparation for drug development, the efficacy of D&G in PAD
      will offer more assurance for the systemic efforts.
    
  