
    
      Peptic ulcer diseases (PUD) is a common kind of digestive system disease, which mostly
      involves in stomach and duodenum. PUD may occur at any age but mainly at 30 to 49 years (the
      proportion was about 50% among all PUD patients). One epidemiological survey showed that the
      incidence was 17.2% in China and the ratio of gastric to duodenal ulcer diseases was about
      1:2.

      The two most common reasons for causing PUD were infection of Helicobacter pylori (Hp) and
      long-term use of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). In recent year, the infection
      rate of Hp increased continuously. Among Chinese PUD patients, 92.6% infected Hp, and 72.2%
      patients who infected Hp occurred PUD. The typical symptoms of PUD were upper abdominal pain,
      abdominal distension, nausea and vomiting, belching, and inappetence. These symptoms were
      cyclical, rhythmic and chronic, and were usually tolerable. However, PUD may progress to
      bleeding or perforation, and these acute complication always lead to worse prognosis.

      Along with the development of medical science, traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is playing
      an increasingly rule in treatment of PUD. Shen Ling Bai Zhu San is a classic Chinese
      medicinal formulae originally described in Tai Ping Hui Min He Ji Ju Fang in the Fang Song
      Dynasty (1102 AD), which is composed of ginseng, tuckahoe, atractylodes, baked licorice,
      coixenolide, Chinese yam, lotus seed, shrinkage fructus amomi, platycodon grandiflorum, white
      hyacinth bean, and dried orange peel. It is mainly used for treating the syndrome of spleen
      qi deficiency, including dyspepsia, chest and stomach distress, borborygmus and diarrhea,
      limb weakness, thin body, sallow complexion, pale tongue with white and greasy coating, and
      weak and slow pulse, etc.

      In the theory of TCM, spleen is the source for producing qi and blood and thus is the root of
      life. PUD are classed as the syndrome of "Pi Man (fullness)" in TCM, which was caused by
      spleen qi deficiency, imbalance of rise and fall, and/or stagnation of qi activity. Shen Ling
      Bai Zhu San could invigorate spleen by supplying spleen and remove wet, nourish the stomach
      and intestine, and thus improve symptoms of PUD. Pharmacological researches showed that Shen
      Ling Bai Zhu San could regulate function of anaerobic and aerobic bacteria in
      gastrointestinal tract; specifically, it could promote growth of probiotics (e.g.
      bifidobacterium) and inhibit main drug-resistant strains (e.g. enterococcus), and thereby
      enhance the body's self-healing function of ulcer.

      Jiangzhong Hou Gu® Mi Xi™ is a dietary therapy form of Shen Ling Bai Zhu San, of which
      removes atractylodes and platycodon grandiflorum (two herbs that could not be used as food)
      from Shen Ling Bai Zhu San, and adds perilla leaf for adapting a dietary therapy. Jiangzhong
      Hou Gu® Mi Xi™ used the main formula of Shen Ling Bai Zhu San, so that it could theoretically
      maintain the treatment effects. Although the reliable health effects of Shen Ling Bai Zhu San
      has been proved in previous studies, Jiangzhong Hou Gu® Mi Xi™ is optimized in formula and
      its preparations changed from electuary to rice paste, so that its functional mechanism and
      efficacy may also be different. Therefore, the investigators plan to perform a hospital-based
      randomized controlled trial, enroll patients from 13 hospitals in Jiangxi Province in China,
      aims to assess function and safety of Jiangzhong Hou Gu® Mi Xi™ in patients with spleen qi
      deficiency and PUD.
    
  