
    
      Oral isotretinoin is a retinoid that controls gene expression related to cellular
      proliferation, differentiation, with specific action over sebocytes, reducting sebaceous
      gland size and secretion rate. Its binding to specific retinoid nuclear receptors is weak. It
      is the gold standard drug to treat moderate to severe acne. Other indications have been
      suggested: seborrhea, seborrheic dermatitis, rosacea and non-melanoma skin cancer prevention.
      There are well known reversible side effects like the mucocutaneous - cheilitis, dryness of
      skin, nose and eyes and risk of alterations in lipid profile and transaminases. The major
      problem is teratogenicity which demands pregnancy control by two different methods, from
      treatment beginning to one month after treatment end.

      Seborrhea and seborrheic dermatitis are chronic and correlated conditions characterized by
      oily skin, hair and scalp, erythema, desquamation and negative impact on quality of life.
      Seborrhea is a very common problem, affecting 30% of population. Seborrheic dermatitis
      affects 3 to 5% of world population, with no differences for gender and race. The
      etiopathogenic factors involved in these conditions are: individual susceptibility, elevated
      sebaceous secretion and irritant action of products from lipophilic yeasts of Malassezia
      gender. The treatment usually involves topical use of corticosteroids, salicylic acid,
      ketoconazole, ciclopirox olamine, pimecrolimus and tacrolimus. The dermatosis impact on
      quality of life has been more and more evaluated by generic and specific questionnaires. The
      most used generic questionnaires are:"Dermatology Life Quality Index or DLQI" and "Medical
      Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey or SF-36". Recently a specific questionnaire
      for oily skin named "Oily Skin Self-Image Questionnaire or OSSIQ" was published. This will be
      an interventional, therapeutic and quality of life randomized, comparative (parallel groups),
      blinded evaluation clinical trial, comprising 50 men and women, aged 18 to 40. Treatment with
      low-dose oral isotretinoin (20 mg a day, every other day) will be compared to topical
      anti-seborrheic products to evaluate the reduction of sebaceous secretion and colonization of
      affected areas by saprophyte yeasts of Malassezia gender. Efficacy will be evaluated by
      clinical parameters, as well as by sebum measure and application of two quality of life
      questionnaires: SF-36 and OSSIQ (after translation and validation for Brazilian Portuguese).
      Safety will be evaluated by skin hydration measure, side effects report and observation. The
      devices Sebumeter and Corneometer, from Courage & Khazaka, Köln, Germain, will be used. For
      subjects using oral isotretinoin blood counting, transaminases, lipid profile and pregnancy
      test will be requested as selection criteria, on days 30 and 180. Results will be submitted
      to statistical analysis.
    
  