
    
      1. This is a prospective observational study aimed to register adverse events occuring on
           biological treatment in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients in Poland.

        2. Eligible are pediatric and adult patients in whom anti-TNF (tumor necrosis factor)
           treatment is started for Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis or indeterminate colitis,
           financed by the National Health Care System and who gave their informed consent for
           participation in the study (for children the consent of a parent is required).

        3. The study data are collected in a dedicated on-line data - base.

        4. Each centre participating in the study is obliged to screen for the study all
           consecutive patients in whom the biological treatment is started. If a patient refuses
           to consent, this information must have been documented in the data - base.

        5. Patient data collected at the start of anti-TNF treatment include the type of anti-TNF,
           demographic data, the type, extension or location, course and activity of IBD,
           indication to biological treatment, history of previous treatment, operations,
           extraintestinal manifestations and co-existing diseases. As regards to the anti-TNFs,
           biosimilars are categorised as distinct drugs in order to separately follow-up the
           safety profile of each.

        6. Data on response, tolerability and safety of anti-TNF and on concomitant treatment are
           updated following each visit. Adverse events logs and serious adverse events log are
           completed if necessary.

        7. Registration of new patients will be ongoing from Jan 2014 do Dec 2015. After this time,
           a centre may choose to continue doing the study.

        8. In addition, data on health events in enrolled patients will be collected independently
           from the National Health Care System database, also after the on-site observation of
           patients is completed.
    
  