
    
      Checkpoint inhibitors represent new, promising treatment opportunities in the palliative lung
      cancer setting. Among programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) and programmed cell death ligand-1
      (PD-L1) inhibitors, atezolizumab (Tecentriq® ), a PD-L1 inhibitor, has been shown to
      ameliorate outcomes for NSCLC patients with metastatic disease: The open-label phase II
      multicenter studies POPLAR and BIRCH revealed an improved overall response rate and a benefit
      in overall survival (OS) under atezolizumab monotherapy. The open-label, randomized phase III
      OAK trial led to atezolizumab approval as monotherapy for patients with metastatic NSCLC
      whose disease progressed during or following platinumcontaining chemotherapy regardless of
      PD-L1 status.

      Despite these developments, platinum-based chemotherapy regimens are still standard of care
      for lung cancer without druggable alterations. Lately combining conventional
      chemotherapeutics with immunotherapy showed promising results: A phase I study of first-line
      atezolizumab plus chemotherapy demonstrated efficacy regardless of PD-L1 status and an
      acceptable safety profile in multiple tumor types. Accordingly, ongoing phase III trials
      address potential benefits of platinum-based immunotherapy combinations in comparison to
      standard platinum-containing regimens in first-line NSCLC and SCLC. If additional bevacizumab
      might further enhance atezolizumab efficacy by inhibiting vascular Endothelial Growth Factor
      (VEGF)-related immunosuppression is currently investigated in the IMpower150 trial.

      Patients under intensive care for advanced cancers develop symptoms due to cancer progression
      and, possibly, due to therapy-related sideeffects. These symptoms are often not detected
      promptly by the treating physician leading to functional impairment and deconditioning of the
      patient's status with potential implications for the general outcome. Improved symptom
      control in late-stage cancer under exhaustive therapy regimens was achieved through
      intensified symptom management. Systematic collection of symptom information by electronic
      patientreported outcomes (ePROs) in addition to clinical routine provides an attractive basis
      for intensified symptom management. However, despite new, intriguing results, the proof of a
      significant benefit (defined as primary outcome measure) under first-line treatment is still
      limited in oncology trials.

      In the palliative setting of lung cancer, routine treatment monitoring includes imaging at
      certain intervals. However, as approaching imaging assessments clarify the patient's fate,
      they are often a source for anxiety and concern. Additionally, patients with emerging
      symptoms often wait until the next routinely scheduled consultation with their treating
      oncologist. As a consequence, tumor progression without therapeutic hindrance over several
      weeks may occur and naturally shorten the patient's survival time. Clinical monitoring via
      self-assessed symptom-based approaches endows several benefits. Remarkably, 75-95% of
      relapses in lung cancer patients come with symptoms and, thus, a direct PRO measurement might
      be useful in the detection of an early disease progression. Easily accessible web-based
      application tools such as CANKADO were developed to report PROs more frequently compared to
      routine assessment. These tools help to strengthen the connection between patient and
      treating physician and to reduce patients' anxiety. Of note, even during treatment with toxic
      chemotherapy, most patients are willing and able to self-report via the web. Physicians
      appreciate PROs and trust in patient-reported information. In line with this, several
      promising studies confirmed a benefit from proactive, web-based monitoring programs. If
      symptoms occurred or worsened, the respective physician was informed earlier what resulted n
      improved OS, quality of life (QoL) and also in economic advantages due to less unnecessary
      routine check-ups. So far, these studies were performed on heterogeneous patient populations
      during chemotherapy. The current study is aimed to test the benefit of a web-based
      application tool in NSCLC, SCLC and TNBC patients during the recently approved first-line
      treatment strategy with atezolizumab in combination with chemotherapy.
    
  