
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety profile of CXCR1/2 Inhibitor SX-682 (SX-682) alone and in
      combination with nivolumab in subjects with refractory RAS mutated microsatellite stable
      (MSS) metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), including the maximum dose that can be
      administered until adverse effects prevent further dose increases (i.e., the maximum
      tolerated dose [MTD] or recommended phase 2 dose), and the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the efficacy of SX-682 in combination with nivolumab on the basis of the
      objective response rate (ORR), the duration of response, and the rate of progression.

      II. Characterize the single-dose and multidose pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of SX-682.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess overall survival (OS). II. Explore potential biomarkers associated with
      pharmacodynamic and clinical response to SX-682 alone and combined with nivolumab, where the
      biomarker measures include, but are not limited to, tumor CMS4, gene expression,
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutations (KRAS, NRAS and BRAF mutation status via ribonucleic
      acid [RNA] and DNA sequencing), IRF2 (interferon regulatory factor 2) expression, lymphocyte
      clonality (via sequencing), myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSCs), regulatory T-cells
      (Tregs) and CD69/CD8 T cells, and in the circulation, circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), T- and
      B-cell subpopulations, neutrophils, the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), MDSCs, Tregs,
      the CD4:CD8 ratio, chemokines and cytokines.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of CXCR1/2 Inhibitor SX-682, followed by a
      phase II study.

      MONOTHERAPY STAGE: Patients receive SX-682 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COMBINATION STAGE: Patients receive SX-682 PO BID on days 1-56 and nivolumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 29. Treatment repeat every 56 days weeks for up to 12
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study, patients with no have tumor response are followed up every 3 weeks
      for 90 days, and patients with tumor response every 3 months for up to 6 months.
    
  