
    
      Children and adolescents with HIV/AIDS are living well beyond the life expectancy that was
      projected for them in the recent past. Little is known about the psychosocial variables that
      coincide with long-term survival of HIV/AIDS. This longitudinal study will examine the
      psychosocial factors and adaptive coping strategies associated with long-term survival of
      HIV/AIDS and how these factors change over a period of three years. In addition, data will be
      collected from the primary caretakers on both their own and their perceptions of their
      child's adjustment and coping. Subjects will include children who have been infected (either
      perinatally or through transfusion) for at least eight years and who are aware of their
      diagnosis.

      Studies of children with chronic illnesses report that adaptive coping strategies such as
      maintaining a hopeful attitude, social support and information seeking may affect
      psychological adjustment and help to buffer the negative psychological effects that a chronic
      illness may have. HIV-infected children not only have the added stress of living with
      debilitating and progressive symptoms in a disease that threatens their life spans, but their
      disease often stigmatizes them and causes them to be ostracized. The largest proportion of
      children with HIV disease acquired it perinatally, and therefore the mother is also infected.
      Thus it is expected that these families have at least two infected natural family members,
      causing multigenerational effect in terms of epidemiology, multiple separations and the death
      of close family members. As a result, children need to develop coping strategies in order to
      deal effectively with this disease.

      Preliminary results from a longitudinal study assessing psychiatric disturbances in
      HIV-infected, school-aged children indicate that these children exhibit elevated levels of
      separation anxiety, depression and overanxious disorder. Whether similar results will be
      found in older HIV-infected children is not yet known. Research that can identify the coping
      resources, such as social support, family communication styles, hopefulness and quality of
      life, that 1) buffer the negative effects of stress on the mental health of HIV-infected
      children and 2) identify areas of vulnerability, would be important in our attempts to design
      early mental health interventions.

      The HIV-infected child's perceived social support, self-esteem, psychological adjustment, and
      adaptive coping will be based on self-reports from the child. The caretakers will also give
      ratings of the child's adjustment in addition to providing information on how they feel their
      child has changed in the past year. Caretakers will complete measures regarding family
      environment, their own adjustment, and demographic variables. The child's health care
      provider will complete a questionnaire assessing his/her current health status. The effects
      of age and disease progression in both the child and parent will be taken into account for
      the final analysis of this study.
    
  