
    
      The European guidelines put SWL and PNL as an equal treatment options for non- lower polar
      renal stones from 10 to 20 mm size regardless of density. However, several studies reported
      markedly reduced SFR after SWL with increased density. Also, in practice, the investigators
      noticed a high failure rate in renal stones with high density regardless of stone size.
      Several studies were conducted to compare SWL and PNL as treatment options for medium size
      lower caliceal stones. However, no studies compared these options for non- lower polar
      stones.

      In the present study the investigators will compare mini-PNL and SWL in treatment of non-
      lower polar, medium size, high dense renal stones in reference to the SFR and safety of the
      procedures.

      Adult patients with renal stones who agree to participate in the study will evaluated
      evaluated by full medical history taking and thorough physical examination, urinalysis, urine
      culture and antibiogram, complete blood cell count (CBC), serum creatinine, liver function
      tests and coagulation profile. Plain abdominal X-ray for kidney, ureters and urinary bladders
      (KUB), abdominal ultrasonography and abdominal non-contrasted computed tomography (NCCT).
      Preoperative assessment of renal anatomy and stone characteristics will be based on the
      findings of abdominal NCCT.

      patients with high density (>1000 HU), non-lower polar, single renal stone of 10 to 20 mm
      size will be randomly divided into 2 equal groups. mini-PNL group, in which PNL procedures
      will be performed using miniature nephroscope and SWL group, in which SWL procedures will be
      performed using Dornier Lithotripter. SWL will be performed for a maximum of 3 sessions.

      Patients will be followed up regularly, post-operatively for 3 months. NCCT will be performed
      after 3 months for detection of stone free status. Baseline data, intra-operative and
      post-operative parameters will be compared between groups.
    
  