
    
      HIV-1 infection ultimately results in impaired specific immune function by virtue of the
      initial binding of the HIV-1 virion envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120) to the CD4 receptor in
      complex with a chemokine receptor on the T-cell surface1. Even though gp120 elicits
      virus-neutralizing antibodies, HIV-1 eludes the immune system and leads to the onset of AIDS.
      Ever since the discovery of the virus as the causative agent, there has been an intense
      effort to develop therapeutic methods to inhibit or prevent infection.2-4 CD4, a cell surface
      glycoprotein expressed on T cells, plays an important role in the recognition of antigens by
      T cells and in their activation.5 It also acts as a receptor for HIV-1 as gp120 binds to it
      via its D1 domain and, uses this interaction to infect CD4+ T cells.5 Therefore, there has
      been interest in finding molecules that block the binding of gp120 to CD4 (entry inhibitors)
      as a way of reducing HIV-1 infectivity.

      Studies have demonstrated evidence of high affinity binding of EGCG to the CD4 molecule with
      a Kd of 10nM with subsequent inhibition of gp120 binding to human CD4+ T cells. EGCG binds in
      the same molecular pocket on CD4, as does HIV-1-gp120 at physiologically relevant
      concentrations.

      This is a phase I, placebo-controlled, dose-blinded, randomized study of Polyphenon® E as
      monotherapy in participants who are HIV-1-infected with a CD+ T lymphocyte count of at least
      250 cells/mm3 and are ARV-naïve or ARV-experienced. There will be three treatment arms, each
      consisting of 8 evaluable participants. Two participants in each study arm will be randomized
      to receive placebo. Dosing will be escalated sequentially contingent on the safety profile of
      previous doses. Safety data from all participants receiving Polyphenon® E in the preceding
      arm will be evaluated and considered acceptable prior to escalation to the next higher dose.
      PK analyses will be also performed as each arm is completed. If at least 4 subjects on active
      drug in each arm have evaluable PK data, subjects will not be replaced. As the inability to
      achieve adequate EGCG concentrations that are necessary to inhibit HIV-1 replication is a
      major concern in this study, it is necessary to confirm EGCG pharmacokinetics in the event
      that the primary outcome measure of virologic response is not observed for each arm. For each
      PK visit on Study Days 1 and 14, a total of 10 blood samples will be obtained per subject. If
      only a few samples cannot be used (this depends on the individual subject's pharmacokinetic
      profile, although one or two unevaluable samples will not likely cause a subject's data to be
      unevaluable), PK analyses can still be performed and will not require subjects to be deemed
      unevaluable and replaced.
    
  