
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess whether concurrent radiotherapy with daily temozolomide improves overall
           survival as compared to no daily temozolomide in patients with non-1p/19q deleted
           anaplastic glioma.

        -  To assess whether adjuvant temozolomide improves survival as compared to no adjuvant
           temozolomide in patients with non-1p/19q deleted anaplastic glioma.

      Secondary

        -  To assess whether concurrent and adjuvant temozolomide prolongs progression-free
           survival and neurological deterioration-free survival in patients with non-1p/19q
           deleted anaplastic glioma.

        -  To assess the safety of concurrent and adjuvant temozolomide in patients with non-1p/19q
           deleted anaplastic glioma, including late effects on cognition.

        -  To assess the impact of concurrent and adjuvant temozolomide on the quality of life of
           patients with non-1p/19q deleted anaplastic glioma.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to institution, WHO
      performance status (0 vs > 0), age (≤ 50 vs > 50), presence of 1p LOH only (yes vs no),
      presence of oligodendroglial elements (yes vs no), and O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase
      promoter methylation status (methylated vs unmethylated vs indeterminate). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radiotherapy* once daily, 5 days a week, for 6.5 weeks (total of
           33 fractions).

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy* once daily, 5 days a week and receive oral
           temozolomide once daily for 6.5 weeks (total of 33 fractions of radiotherapy).

        -  Arm III: Patients undergo radiotherapy* once daily, 5 days a week for 6.5 weeks (total
           of 33 fractions). Beginning 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive
           adjuvant oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5. Treatment with adjuvant temozolomide
           repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses.

        -  Arm IV: Patients undergo radiotherapy* once daily, 5 days a week and receive oral
           temozolomide once daily for 6.5 weeks (total of 33 fractions of radiotherapy). Beginning
           4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive adjuvant oral temozolomide
           once daily on days 1-5. Treatment with adjuvant temozolomide repeats every 28 days for
           up to 12 courses.

      NOTE: *Patients must begin radiotherapy within 8 days after randomization and within 7 weeks
      after surgery.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaires, including QLQ-C30 version 3, BCM20, and the
      Mini Mental Status Exam at baseline, 4 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy, and then
      every 3 months for 5 years.

      Tissue samples are collected at baseline for histology review, 1p/19q analysis, methylation
      status of the O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase promoter, and isocitrate dehydrogenase
      mutation analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.
    
  