
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus has increased dramatically in adolescents. This
      appears to be a direct result of the increase in prevalence and severity of obesity in the
      pediatric population. In adults with type 2 diabetes, it is well known that the risk for
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) is quite high. This has led to current clinical recommendation
      that adults with diabetes be considered equivalent in risk to those adults who already have
      existing coronary artery disease. It is not known if adolescents with type 2 diabetes have an
      equivalent high level of risk of CVD as the adult population. If they do then it would be
      expected that they would develop clinical CVD in their late 20's or 30's. This would have
      important clinical implications and would suggest the need for very aggressive management of
      CVD risk factors and diabetes.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study is a cross-sectional evaluation of cardiac and vascular structure and function in a
      population of adolescents with type 2 diabetes compared to a group with similar age, sex,
      race and BMI with obesity alone and a non obese group with similar age, sex and race. 300
      subjects with type 2 diabetes, 300 subjects with obesity and 300 non obese subjects will be
      studied. Assessment of CVD development will be accomplished using novel non invasive imaging
      methods for subclinical atherosclerosis including echocardiographic measurement of cardiac
      structure and function, ultrasound evaluation of carotid intimal medial thickness, and
      evaluation of endothelial function by brachial artery reactivity. The primary hypothesis is
      that adolescents with type 2 diabetes will have greater abnormality in cardiac and vascular
      structure and function compared to controls with obesity. Subjects with obesity alone will
      have greater abnormality in cardiac and vascular structure and function compared to controls
      who are not obese. Correlates of cardiac and vascular abnormalities including markers of
      inflammation, adiponectin, diet and physical activity will also be evaluated.
    
  