
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients with locally advanced or recurrent carcinoma
           of the urothelium treated with neoadjuvant carboplatin, paclitaxel, and gemcitabine
           followed by concurrent cisplatin and radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the feasibility of administering this regimen to these patients.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed) of patients treated with the
           neoadjuvant regimen and those treated with the whole regimen.

        -  Determine the proportion of patients who qualify for concurrent cisplatin and
           radiotherapy after receiving the neoadjuvant regimen.

        -  Determine the potential value of suppressor gene expression analysis (p53 and
           retinoblastoma gene) and HER2 expression as indicators of prognosis and/or response in
           patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and
      carboplatin IV over 15 minutes on day 1 and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for a maximum of 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 4-8 weeks after the completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients receive cisplatin
      IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a maximum of 2 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo concurrent
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  