
    
      Study design A 10-year follow-up study of a randomized controlled clinical trial (RCT)
      carried out from 2001 to 2003, including assessment of patient satisfaction, denture
      repair/replacement and OHRQoL. Data will be gathered through telephone interviews. Since the
      contacts were last used a decade ago, the phone number may have been changed, but we will
      make every effort to find new numbers for any participant those contact information is no
      longer valid .

      Subjects Patients who participated and completed 6-month follow-ups in the RCT (T group: 50,
      and S group: 54; total 104 subjects) will be contacted by telephone.

      Interviews and blinding Potential subjects will be told that we are investigating conditions
      of their dentures 10-years after the delivery and that we will ask general questions, as well
      as for their ratings of satisfaction and OHRQoL regarding their dentures. After this, the
      subjects will be asked whether they are willing to respond to the interviews. If they agree,
      the interviewer will ask the questions according to a flow chart (Appendix 1a, b). The
      subjects will not be told to which group they had been assigned, and a blinded research
      assistant will carry out the interviews and data gathering. The research assistant worked
      with these participants during the active study 10 years before. Patients will be excluded if
      they cannot respond properly to the questions.

      Questionnaires Data will be gathered by four questionnaires: socio-demographic (Q1: Appendix
      2), denture history/oral health (Q2: Appendix 3), general and related satisfaction outcomes
      by answering VAS (visual analog scale) scores out of 100 (Q3: Appendix 4), and OHQOL measures
      (OHIP-EDENT) 12, 13 (Q4: Appendix 5).

      Analysis Denture history The difference in number of people who keep and use the dentures at
      10 years will be calculated in percentages. A Chi-squared test will be employed for the
      statistical analyses. Finally, the prevalence of problems associated with the dentures will
      be calculated.

      Satisfaction The differences between the treatment groups in their general satisfaction
      ratings on 100mm VAS after the prostheses are worn for 10 years. A two-sample independent
      t-test will be employed. VAS items of comfort, stability, esthetics, retention, function and
      ease of cleaning are also included. These will be compared between the groups using t-tests.

      OHRQoL OHIP-EDENT consists of 19 statements and responses varying from 0 to 4 on a Likert
      scale. The possible range between 0 and 76 will be derived individually and compared between
      the two groups. A two-sample independent t-test will be employed.
    
  