
    
      Study objectives:

        1. To determine if it is possible to recruit parents who have a BMI ≥25 with children whose
           BMI is over the 85th percentile and assess the recruitment rate.

        2. To assess the acceptability and feasibility of collecting height and weight data from
           both the parent and child during two assessment visits (baseline and follow-up).

        3. To explore trends and variance in outcomes between treatment allocation to support the
           utility of a future definitive trial and to develop a sample size calculation.

        4. To assess the acceptability and sensitivity of secondary outcome measures to evaluate
           the potential impact of parental attendance at WW on weight related behaviours of the
           family and child (eg. eating habits and physical activity levels).

        5. To test the assumptions in the logic model through which parental participation is
           assumed to impact on child outcomes (Programme Theory).

      WWChild is a randomised feasibility study with an embedded process evaluation, aiming to
      recruit 60 participants. Participants will be recruited through advertising using relevant
      channels that will target parents of children of primary school age.

      All eligible participants will be registered and allocated to either 3 month programme with
      WW or to a waiting list control arm. Participants initially randomised to the control arm
      will receive free access to 3 month programme with WW after follow up data has been
      collected. Children will not attend the WW sessions.

      Screening of participants will take place at multiple time-points. The initial screen will be
      conducted online by people who are interested in the study (self-referred). Those potentially
      meeting eligibility criteria will be asked to contact researchers at the Clinical Trials
      Research Unit by telephone or email, who will provide more information about the study and
      re-assess eligibility. If potentially eligible and interested, they will be invited to a
      baseline assessment visit, where eligibility will be confirmed, consent will be obtained,
      participants will be registered and baseline data will be collected. Participants will also
      be randomised at the end of this visit.
    
  