
    
      The patient that is meeting during time travel at Psychiatric Emergency come with their
      families wich live (or have been lived) the crisis at home, in the street, with their family
      doctor. With a psychic incoming sufferance, when the patient refuses his medicines, doctors
      ask to someone close to the patient to become his Third party, his first guarantor of the
      without consent care commitment. These without consent hospitalizations at Toulouse
      University Hospital, and all over France hospitals, rise continuously. Our daily nursing
      exercise is to support those helping people. The sentiment felt by our nursing team during
      the exchange, underlines ambivalence and several emotional problems and difficulties, which
      are even harder for a first time occurence.

      Patient's close relatives that become a " resource " during non-consensual hospitalization
      could be affected indirectly by the burden of this referent role. Between culpability,
      isolation and exhaustion, the studies show that their ability to " resist " is a real help
      for patient progression. This statement is showed by nursing team (even belonging to others
      structures) listened during our exploratory investigation.In our professional practice, our
      specific emergency environment is firstly focused about patient in crisis situation and about
      his security. In this environment, there is no formerly dedicated time for relatives needing,
      once actors and public in this acute disease. Relatives hard experiences in a very central
      moment that we could consider as care beginnings, should impact therapy and patient health
      care plan. An early, well defined nursing act, built on close relatives needs and
      expectations could enhance this particular moment that should facilitate the following of the
      patient disease. A lot of data cited in literature specify the central role of relatives for
      a psychic patient, but there is no study about an early nursing intervention for Relatives
      during a psychiatric emergency.
    
  