
    
      A major knowledge gap is the degree to which poor treatment outcomes in alcohol-abusing
      patients are due to noncompliance alone. Problem alcohol use impacts on retention in care and
      adherence to daily TB treatment. Poor medication adherence and increased default from TB care
      have been documented for patients consuming alcohol regularly in several countries. Yet there
      has been no research to identify reasons (beyond adherence) for these poorer outcomes among
      patients with problem alcohol use. A key barrier to understanding the persistent biologic
      effect of alcohol on TB disease is inadequate data on adherence, including detailed data on
      daily adherence (or number of missed doses of medication). Research combining better
      approaches to alcohol ascertainment and adherence monitoring is needed to advance
      understanding of the pathways by which alcohol use and TB disease interact.

      Aim 1: To (i) examine the associations between problem alcohol use and TB treatment outcomes,
      and (ii) demonstrate that these associations persist independent of adherence to TB
      treatment.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the effect of problem alcohol use on the pharmacokinetics
      (PK)/pharmacodynamics (PD) of TB drugs.

      Culture-positive, pulmonary TB patients will be recruited in Worcester, South Africa, and
      followed over an 18-month period. Patients will complete an interviewer-administered
      questionnaire on their alcohol use and other health-related behaviors, and their recent
      alcohol use will be confirmed using a biomarker (phosphatidylethanol). Chest radiographs,
      sputum smears and culture, and blood samples will be collected to compare the biology of
      treatment response in patients with and without problem alcohol use. During the 6-month
      treatment period, smart mobile-phone technology will be used to document daily drug adherence
      by trained community workers. Serial measures of alcohol intake and serial sputa isolates
      will be collected to assess treatment response and TB drug side effects will be recorded. In
      addition, intensive PK/PD studies of isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide will
      be performed in 200 HIV-seronegative patients. The full cohort will be followed for 12 months
      post-treatment to examine long-term TB outcomes, including relapse and death.
    
  