
    
      The study participation will begin on the day of surgery and end at the time of last surgical
      follow-up visit, approximately two weeks later. All procedure related, follow-up clinic visit
      and PACU data will be collected by the research team from the patient's EPIC record
      (demographic data, pain scores in the PACU, analgesic consumption, time to perform block,
      time to discharge, etc). Data pertaining to the recovery of patient at home will be collected
      via phone call or email to the caregiver of the child. Late complications will be identified
      by reviewing the follow-up surgical note.

      Questionnaire Administration The physical Pain journal/questionnaires

      The physical Pain journal/questionnaires will be handed out to the caregiver before discharge
      from the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit. The answers to the Pain Journal/Questionnaire will be
      retrieved in 3 potential ways (depending on the caregiver's preference or availability):

        1. By phone call at 24-48h

        2. By answering a REDCap questionnaire

        3. Bringing the physical forms to the surgeon's office at the 2 week visit

      The caregiver will fill out pain scores at home in the Pain Journal. The pain scores used
      (FLACC and PPPM) have been extensively validated. In addition, written instructions for using
      the pain scores to guide pain management interventions at home will be provided. Prior to
      discharge, caregivers will also be educated by a member of the research team on pain
      evaluation using the pain score and pain management algorithm.

      The caregiver will be asked to answer a short questionnaire (Postoperative Parent Survey)
      about their child pain in the first 24 hours after discharge from the hospital. The caregiver
      will receive a phone call from the research team 24-48 hours after discharge to retrieve the
      results of the Pain Journal and Postoperative Pain Survey. If the parent could not be
      contacted by phone after two attempts, an email containing a REDCap survey with the same
      questions from the Pain Journal and Pain Survey will be sent automatically after discharge to
      the caregiver, in the hope that the parent would be able to answer the questions at a more
      convenient time. The email will contain a REDCap survey with the same questions from the Pain
      Journal and Pain Survey.
    
  