
    
      Background:

        -  We have constructed a single retroviral vector that contains both and $ <= chains of a T
           cell receptor (TCR) that recognizes the DP0401/0402 restricted MAGE-A3 tumor antigen,
           which can be used to mediate genetic transfer of this TCR with high efficiency.

        -  In co-cultures with HLA-DP0401/0402 and MAGE-A3 double positive tumors, the anti-
           MAGE-A3- DP0401/0402 restricted (anti-MAGE-A3-DP4) TCR transduced T cells secreted
           significant amounts of IFN-y with high specificity.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  Determine a safe dose of the administration of autologous CD4 cells transduced with an
           anti- MAGE-A3-DP0401/0402 restricted (MAGE-A3-DP4) TCR and aldesleukin to patients
           following a nonmyeloablative but lymphoid depleting preparative regimen.

        -  Determine if this approach will result in objective tumor regression in patients with
           metastatic cancer expressing MAGE-A3-DP4.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this treatment regimen.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are HLA-DP0401/0402 positive and 18 years of age or older must have

        -  Metastatic cancer whose tumors express the MAGE-A3-DP4 antigen;

        -  Previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred following at least one
           first line treatment for metastatic disease;

      Patients may not have:

      - Contraindications for high dose aldesleukin administration.

      Design:

        -  PBMC obtained by leukapheresis will be enriched for CD4 cells and transduced with the
           retroviral vector supernatant encoding the anti-MAGE-A3-DP4 TCR.

        -  The study will begin in a standard phase 1 dose escalation. After the MTD cell dose has
           been determined, patients will be enrolled into the phase 2 portion of the trial at the
           MTD established during the phase 1 portion of the study. In the phase 2 portion,
           patients will be entered into two cohorts: cohort 1 will include patients with
           metastatic melanoma; cohort 2 will include patients with renal cancer and other types of
           metastatic cancer.

        -  Patients will receive a nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of ex
           vivo tumor reactive, TCR gene-transduced PBMC plus IV aldesleukin.

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor response every 1-6 months until off
           study criteria are met.

        -  For each of the 2 strata evaluated in the phase 2 portion, the study will be conducted
           using a phase 2 optimal design where initially 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled.
           For each of these two arms of the trial, if 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a
           clinical response, then no further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the
           first 21 evaluable patients enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will
           continue until a total of 41 evaluable patients have been enrolled in that stratum.

        -  For both strata, the objective will be to determine if the treatment regimen is able to
           be associated with a clinical response rate that can rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in favor of a
           modest 20% PR + CR rate (p1=0.20).
    
  