
    
      This is a single-center, controlled, randomized, study using a BSP inoculum challenge as a
      model to assess the activity of antimalarial agents. The study will be conducted in 2 cohorts
      (n = 6 and n = 10). Cohort 2 will not commence until at least after day 12 of cohort 1 and
      review by Safety Review Team following day 9 exit of cohort 1. The participants will be
      randomized 1:1 to the two registered antimalarials. This is an enabling study using
      registered antimalarial drugs as reference treatments (one slow acting and one fast acting),
      aimed to inform trial design, endpoints and testing regimens for assessing new candidate
      antimalarial drugs in development. The study will follow the sequence of the challenge
      inoculation, reference treatment and follow-up.

      Healthy male participants will be inoculated on Day 1 with ~1,800 Plasmodium
      falciparum-infected human erythrocytes administered intravenously. On an outpatient basis,
      participants will be monitored morning (AM) and night (PM) from day 3 to day 5 for adverse
      events and the unexpected early onset of symptoms, signs or parasitological evidence of
      malaria. On day 5 evening, participants will be admitted to the study unit and confined for
      safety monitoring and antimalarial treatment. Reference treatment administration will begin
      on the evening of Day 6 and continued on Day 7 and 8 (3 days of treatment).

      If clinical or parasitologic evidence of malaria (either the identification of two or more
      malaria parasites on a malaria thick film, platelet count less than 100 x109/L, or the onset
      of clinical features of malaria) occurs before day 6 evening, allocated treatment will begin
      at this time.

      Following treatment, participants will be followed up as inpatients for at least 86 hours, (4
      evenings) to ensure tolerance of the therapy and clinical response, then if clinically well
      on an outpatient basis for safety and continued presence of malaria parasites via PCR and
      thick blood film review.

      Adverse events will be monitored via telephone monitoring, within the clinical research unit
      and on outpatient review after malaria challenge inoculation and antimalarial study drug
      administration. Blood samples for safety evaluation, malaria monitoring, and red blood cell
      antibodies will be drawn at baseline and at nominated times after malaria challenge.
    
  