
    
      Subjects with MPM will undergo surgical mediastinal lymph node biopsy (cervical
      mediastinoscopy) and simultaneous surgical biopsy of the pleural tumor by thoracoscopy, at
      which time tumor tissue (at least 2 g) and peripheral blood will be collected for the study.
      These procedures are performed as standard of care in the treatment of these subjects. The
      subject will be randomized. Three days to three weeks after the biopsy, subjects will be
      randomly treated with either MEDI-4736 (15 mg/kg once intravenously) or MEDI-4736 (1500 mg
      once intravenously) plus tremelimumab (75 mg once intravenously) or a control group in a
      randomized controlled study design. There will be two treatment arms (MEDI4736 only and
      combination MEDI4736+tremelimumab) and one untreated arm (control). Randomization, stratified
      by receiving previous chemotherapy or not, will be performed and will help to minimize
      patient selection biases between three arms. Subjects under 30 kg will be treated with
      weight-based dosing for both MEDI4736 and Tremelimumab combination therapy. These patients
      are excluded from fixed based dosing to limit endotoxin exposure from the drug preparations.
      One to six weeks after the infusion, subjects will undergo resectional surgery, including
      extrapleural pneumonectomy (EPP) or pleurectomy/decortication (P/D), at which time the tumor
      will be removed (typically 200-1000 g) and obtained for study. Four patients that do not
      undergo treatment with MEDI-4736 or tremelimumab will be included as controls. Blood will be
      obtained after the induction of general anesthesia for both the thoracoscopy procedure and
      the EPP or P/D resectional procedure, as is routinely done in these procedures. The sixth rib
      will be obtained at the time of the resection. After the removal of the tumor, standard
      protocol includes intraoperative heated chemotherapy using a lavage of intracavitary
      cisplatin in the presence of conserved renal function (Sugarbaker et al., 2013, 2014;
      Richards et al., 2006).
    
  