
    
      Radical cure of P. vivax malaria can be achieved using large doses of primaquine which have
      shown to cause some degree of hemolysis even in subjects who tested normal by the
      conventional qualitative G6PD tests. Different regimens of drug might be more appropriate in
      subjects with intermediate G6PD activity which can be currently measured only in well
      equipped laboratories. Validation of new qualitative and quantitative point-of-care tests is
      essential to for safe deployment of standard and new radical cure regimens against Plasmodium
      vivax.

      This study will evaluate performances of quantitative POC G6PD tests (Biosensors) against
      gold standard quantitative laboratory based tests and genotyping. Patients will be searched
      from the electronic record database to identify up to 150 patients with the following
      characteristics: approximately 50 G6PD-deficient men and women (however only a very small
      percent of deficients are homozygous women) approximately 50 G6PD-heterozygous women with
      intermediate activity, and approximately 50 G6PD-normal individuals and patients who meet the
      screening criteria will be contacted at their home by a clinic staff member. The home visitor
      will explain study details and invite to participate in the study. If the patients express
      interest in participating, they will be directed to visit the following month at the clinic
      where they usually receive care.

      After signing the informed consent form, two blood samples will be withdrawn; one sample will
      be taken by finger-stick (200 µl) and one sample (0.5 ml) will be taken by arm venipuncture.
      The blood from capillary sample will be used to assess G6PD activity using the POC tests, CBC
      and laboratory based quantitative tests. The venous blood will be used for reference standard
      quantitative G6PD assays, Hb typing analysis, CBC and buffy-coat will be stored for DNA
      extraction for G6PD genotyping only; leftover blood will be discarded.
    
  