
    
      Part I. Lactobacillus reuteri in treatment of functional abdominal pain in children

        1. Introduction

           Probiotics are defined as live microorganisms which confer a beneficial health effect on
           a human host. Their beneficial effects are based on: promotion of resistance to enteric
           pathogens, prevention of small bowel bacterial overgrowth and immune system modulation.
           The most commonly used probiotics are bacteria of genera Lactobacillus or
           Bifidobacterium. Other nonpathogenic genera, including Escherichia, Enterococcus and
           Bacillus, and nonbacterial organisms, such as a nonpathogenic yeast Saccharomyces
           boulardii, have also been studied.

           A probiotic preparation must contain a certain minimum number of colony-forming units
           (CFU) per dose (4). Doses used in therapeutic and preventive trials vary. A daily intake
           of 1.000.000 to 1.000.000.000 CFUs is a reported minimum for therapeutic purposes. There
           is an increasing number of studies on beneficial effects of probiotics in treatment of
           acute infectious diarrhoea, and prevention of antibiotic associated diarrhoea. Role of
           probiotics in the treatment of functional GI disorders is still controversial.

           Recurrent or chronic abdominal pain affects 10-15% of school-age children. Functional
           abdominal pain (FAP) is defined as occasional or continuous abdominal pain with a
           frequency of at least once a weak during at least two months; most frequently the pain
           is located around umbilicus and not related to meals. Although visceral hypersensitivity
           plays a certain role in pathogenesis of a pain, FAP is probably a complex disorder.
           Irritable bowel syndrome is defined as abdominal pain or discomfort associated (in at
           least 25% of time) with two of these criteria: 1) relief after defecation, 2) change in
           stool frequency or 3) change in stool consistence.

           Pathogenesis of this disorder is complex and included interaction of psychosocial
           factors, motility disorder and visceral hypersensitivity. Therapeutic possibilities are
           pepermint oil, serotonin reuptake inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants. Although
           there are studies confirming positive effect of probiotics in children and adults with
           IBS, there is no clear evidence for the effect of probiotics in FAP. The number of
           studies and the patients included is also relatively small to draw final conclusions.

           Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate whether Lactobacillus reuteri could
           have a beneficial role in treatment of functional abdominal pain in children.

        2. Study population

           All paediatric patients referred to a pediatric gastroenterologist for functional
           abdominal pain (age 4-18 years) at the Department of Paediatrics, Children's Hospital
           Zagreb, University Hospital "Sestre Milosrdnice".

           Their symptoms will be evaluated with the use of Rome III criteria for functional
           gastrointestinal disorders of children and visual-analogue scale (Wong-Baker faces pain
           rating scale) for pain.

        3. Intervention

           All children with functional abdominal pain whose parents have signed an inform consent;
           will receive either probiotic or placebo for 3 months.

           As a part of randomized, double blind controlled trail, patients will be randomized into
           one group (A or B) and none of investigators or patients will know true nature of the
           product (active product or placebo).

        4. Hypothesis

           L. reuteri can effectively treat functional abdominal pain in children.

        5. Aims

           To evaluate the effect of L. reuteri on the number and severity of episodes pain in
           children with functional abdominal pain

        6. Sample size for independent cohort study

           Probability of event in control group = 0,5 Difference between groups: 30% (ref. 18)
           Probability of event in experimental group = 0,35 Controls per case subject = 1 Alpha =
           0,05 Power = 0,95

           For Fisher's exact tests:

           N (total) = 2x138 (69 per group)

        7. Randomization

      The trial will be prospective, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study.
      Probiotics, Lactobacillus reuteri and placebo will be supplied by Biogaia, Stockholm, Sweden.

      Randomization will be performed using computer generated numbers based on which every patient
      will get a number and receive the preparation successively. All products, probiotic and
      placebo will be packed in identical packages and will have identical smell and taste and have
      only mark "A" or "B", true nature of the preparation would not be revealed to investigators
      or to participants.

      After all calculations and statistical analysis true nature of the preparations will be
      revealed in front of uninvolved witnesses.

      BASELINE (VISIT 1): randomization VISIT 2: 4 weeks after randomization END OF STUDY (VISIT
      3): End of study 3 months after baseline VISIT 4: 4 weeks after the end of study (16 weeks
      after the baseline).

      All the symptoms will be monitored using diaries attached to protocol.

      In order to achieve adherence to therapeutic protocol parents will be contacted by phone at
      least once in 7-10 days. Participants will be instructed to keep diary on a daily basis
      (adherence to therapy, pain diary). All patients will return packages with all used, and
      unused product.

      Part II. Lactobacillus reuteri in treatment of chronic constipation in children - randomized,
      double blind, placebo controlled study

        1. Introduction

           Defecation disorder is a frequent problem in childhood and in 90-95% of children
           presents a functional problem.

           Chronic constipation in childhood is defined with at least two of these criteria: 1)
           stools twice a weak of rarer, 2) at least one episode of fecal incontinence per weak
           after having already achieved toilet control, 3) stool withholding manoeuvres, 4)
           painful of difficult defecation, 5) presence of large fecal masses in rectum, 6) stool
           of a large caliber.

           In adults, there is some evidence that chronic constipation is related to a
           gastrointestinal flora with decreased number of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria and
           increased potentially pathogenic bacteria, yeast and fungi. Dysbiosis with increased
           clostridia has also been reported in children with chronic constipation. Majority of
           infants have higher frequency of defecation and the consistency of stools is softer in
           breast-fed infants in first months of life. Breast-fed babies produce more lactic acid
           in colon which decreases intestinal pH. As a result bifidobacteria proliferate. Also,
           colonic flora has been shown to influence peristalsis. Although there is evidence that
           lactobacilli and bifidobacteria increase stool frequency and decrease stool consistency
           in normal individuals the evidence for efficacy in constipation is limited.

           Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate whether Lactobacillus reuteri could
           have a beneficial role in treatment of chronic constipation in children.

        2. Study population

           All paediatric patients referred to a pediatric gastroenterologist for chronic
           constipation (age 2-18 years) at the Department of Paediatrics, Children's Hospital
           Zagreb, University Hospital "Sestre Milosrdnice".

           Their symptoms will be evaluated with the use of Rome III criteria for functional
           gastrointestinal disorders of children, Bristol scale for stool shape and consistence
           and visual-analogue scale (Wong-Baker faces pain rating scale) for pain.

        3. Intervention

           All children with chronic constipation whose parents have signed an inform consent; will
           be randomly assigned into one of two following groups: probiotic or placebo.

             1. Group which will receive L. reuteri at a dose 100.000.000 CFU per dose plus
                lactulose in a dose 1-3 ml/kg, according to the stool frequency and consistency,
                for 3 months.

             2. Group which will receive placebo plus lactulose in a dose 1-3 ml/kg, according to
                the stool frequency and consistency, for 3 months.

           All children with a presence of a impacted stool in rectum (on digital rectal exam) at
           baseline will receive bisacodyl suppository for disimpaction. As a part of randomized,
           double blind controlled trail, patients will be randomized into one group (A or B) and
           none of investigators or patients will know true nature of the product (active product
           or placebo).

        4. Hypothesis L. reuteri may effectively treat chronic constipation in children.

        5. Aims To evaluate the effect of L. reuteri on the frequency and consistency of stools and
           episodes of pain in children with chronic constipation

        6. Randomization: as in Part I.

      BASELINE (VISIT 1): randomization According to the list of patients they will be randomized
      into two groups (A or B): "probiotic" group and "placebo" group.

      VISIT 2: 4 weeks after randomization. END OF STUDY (VISIT 3): End of study 3 months after
      baseline. VISIT 4: 4 weeks after the end of study (16 weeks after the baseline).

      All the symptoms will be monitored using diaries attached to protocol.

      ETHICS: as in Part I.

      ADHERENCE: as in Part I.
    
  