
    
      PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN 1.1 Hypothesis Primary hypothesis: The percentage of mucosa
      visualized during the withdrawal of a colonoscopy with reference to the position in the colon
      by means of the scope-guide is an appropriate parameter for assessment of the quality of
      colonoscopy and correlates with the probability of the detection of adenomas.

      Secondary hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that the percentage of visualized mucosa differs according
      patient specific parameters (e.g. gender, age, BMI, bowel preparation), procedure specific
      parameters (e.g. patient position, device, buscopan, fentanyl, withdrawal time) and
      investigator specific parameters (professional experience as resident and consultant).

      STUDY DESIGN AND PROCEDURES 2.1 Study Design: The investigators will perform a
      non-interventional, single center exploratory study. Only total colonoscopies will be
      included. All of the examinations will be performed by board-certified specialists or fellows
      in training, supervised by the former. The investigators will enroll only participants who
      will have an explicit indication, in other words who will get a colonoscopy anyway.
      Therefore, colonoscopies will be conducted for a wide variety of indications including, but
      not limited, to CRC screening, CRC/ adenoma surveillance, abdominal symptoms such as pain,
      irregular defecation (diarrhea or constipation), gastrointestinal occult or overt bleeding,
      family history of polyps or CRC, prior colonic resection, hereditary polyposis syndromes and
      inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). Since the study does not pose any additional risk to the
      participants (the only thing which changes for the patient is that the endoscopic images from
      colonoscopy and scope guide will be filmed), the enrollment can be done during consultation
      hour, at the ward or shortly before a colonoscopy.

      2.2 Recruitment, screening and informed consent procedure: Patients will be recruited by the
      project team in the Department of Visceral Surgery and Medicine at the Inselspital. The
      patient will be provided with information regarding the study. If the patient shows interest,
      the investigator will explain the study protocol, answer questions and check inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. For this study, no compensatory fee will be paid.

      2.3 Study procedures: If the patient agrees to participate in the study and has signed the
      informed consent the colonoscopy will be performed in the usual setting and using general
      safety measures. The endoscopist will start filming all the phases of the colonoscopy and the
      position of the scope-guide simultaneously. Both films will be uploaded to the local server
      and then cut and analyzed with the help of iMovie. The only study procedure specific for the
      study is the filming and no other study specific measures will be taken.

      Basic parameters of patient history and colonoscopy procedure will be recorded (compare CRF).
      As always, any findings of the colonoscopy will be reported to the participant/ patient after
      the procedure.

      2.4 Withdrawal and discontinuation: If an individual withdraws informed consent after the
      colonoscopy or during the analysis of the data, he/she will be withdrawn from the project.
      All videos will be anonymized. In case of withdrawal, patient data and videos will not be
      considered for study purposes and will be deleted completely.

      STATISTICS AND METHODOLOGY 3.1 Evaluation of Videos: All videos will be anonymized. Then the
      percentage of visible mucosa and lumen during withdrawal will be determined in each video.
      The scope-guide will allow to correlate the images with the position of the colonoscope
      within the colon. The investigators will record the amount of time spend in colon segments
      such as the cecum, ascending colon, right flexure, right transverse colon, left transverse
      colon, left flexure, descending colon, sigma and rectum. For each of these segments, the
      investigators will record the amount of time with good mucosa visibility and poor mucosa
      visibility.

      In addition to manual analysis, computer-aided analysis and artificial intelligence methods
      will be developed to assist the evaluation of the videos. The development of computer-aided
      methods consists of two phases. In the first phase, frames in the video will be extracted as
      individual images. Experienced physicians will be assigned to annotate the images. The
      position of the scope-guide will be extracted for the annotation. Then a classifier based on
      deep neural network will be trained on these annotated images. The percentage of visible
      mucosa and lumen during withdrawal will be determined in each video based on the
      classification results of each individual frame. The classification according to the
      scope-guide will allow to correlate the images with the position of the colonoscope within
      the colon. The amount of time spending in colon segments such as the cecum, ascending colon,
      right flexure, right transverse colon, left transverse colon, left flexure, descending colon,
      sigma and rectum will be determined based on deep learning prediction results. Each frame
      will be classified to good mucosa visibility and poor mucosa visibility and the amount of
      time with good mucosa visibility and poor mucosa visibility of each of the segments will be
      determined accordingly. In the second phase, videos will be analysed directly with deep
      learning methods and the consistency between the frames will be explored during the analysis
      to improve the accuracy.

      The investigators will also analyse advancements of the endoscope from the anus to the cecum.
      To this end, the time until each of the segments is reached will be recorded as well as all
      loops which have formed within the colon.

      3.2 Statistical analysis plan 3.2.1. Statistical evaluation of the primary endpoint For
      evaluation of the primary endpoint (adenoma detection rate as a function of mucosa
      visibility) the investigators will rank all investigations regarding mucosa visibility and
      will divide the study population in 50% individuals with the best mucosa visibility and
      compare this number to the 50% of individuals with the worst mucosa visibility. They will
      compare the fraction of individuals with at least 1 detected adenoma to individuals without a
      detected adenoma (Fisher exact test). They will subsequently use multivariate logistic
      regression to correct for confounders (age, gender, family history of CRC, personal history
      of adenomas, advanced adenomas, carcinomas, BMI and bowel preparation).

      3.2.2. Power analysis Our study is exploratory and no proper power analysis is possible. To
      provide an estimation the investigators assume that the effect of poor vs. good mucosa
      visibility will be as good as the effect of one of a number of technical devices recently
      tested in clinical studies to improve adenoma detection during colonoscopy. Such new
      technical devices (NTDs) include mucosa caps attached to the tips of the endoscope which
      flatten and stretch the mucosa or lenses to improve the field and angle of view. In a recent
      meta-analysis, NTDs increased the odds of adenoma detection by 35% (odds ratio 1.35) 25. In a
      screening colonoscopy, an adenoma detection rate of at least 20% would be expected 26 (i.e.
      50 individuals with at least one adenoma among 250 individuals). In individuals with optimal
      mucosa visibility, this number would be 35% higher (i.e. 68 in 250 individuals). According to
      the power analysis using G* Power 3.1 27, 419 individuals would be needed to detect such a
      difference (i.e. 20% vs. 27% adenoma detection) with a power of 80% at an alpha level of 5%.
      The Investigators are aiming to include 500 individuals to account for an estimated 15% of
      investigations which could not be evaluated due to incomplete examinations or technical
      problems.

      3.2.3 Statistical analysis of the secondary endpoints For the secondary outcomes, observed
      effects and interactions will be statistically substantiated by parametric and non-parametric
      tests and/ or multivariate analyses considering confounders as appropriate. A p-value <0.05
      will be considered significant.

      3.3 Handling of missing data: The nature of this exploratory study allows for some tolerance
      regarding missing data. Patients with incomplete or missing data/videos due to technical
      problems will be excluded from the study.
    
  