
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE:

      Diabetes is a national health priority but diabetes risk is extremely high for Latinos from
      low-income households. Health guidelines recommend that individuals learn strategies to
      self-management their diabetes, but getting people to adopt required lifestyle changes is
      challenging and many people are not able to prevent their pre-diabetes from escalating or to
      control their diabetes. Systematic reviews show that culturally competent self-management
      programming can significantly improve diabetes outcomes, and different models for culturally
      competent programming have been developed.

      STUDY AIMS:

      The goal of this study is to compare the effectiveness of 2 distinct evidence-based models
      for culturally competent diabetes health promotion. The hypothesis is that the program model
      that interfaces most synergistically with patient's culture and everyday life circumstances
      will have the best diabetes health outcomes.

      Aim 1: Characterize the ways that three culturally competent diabetes self-management
      programs interface with patient culture and socioeconomic context

      Aim 2: Measure and compare improvement in patient capacity for diabetes self-management.

      Aim 3: Measure and compare patient success at self-management Study Description

      OVERALL STUDY DESIGN:

      This study follows NIH standards for mixed-method research by integrating data from
      quantitative and qualitative components of the study in an iterative fashion. The sample size
      and power estimates are based on realistic evaluation of effect size. Data collection will
      involve programmatic assessments, interviews, focus groups, surveys, and testing for A1c,
      BMI, and stress. The research team has the expertise and experience in patient-engaged
      research necessary to conduct the proposed study and the investigators have an institutional
      infrastructure that supports the academic and community partnerships necessary for this
      study.

      MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE INTERVENTION AND COMPARATORS:

      This study compares 2 diabetes self-management programs that serve a large Latino patient
      population from low-income households in Albuquerque, New Mexico

        1. The Diabetes Self-Management Support Empowerment Model

        2. The Chronic Care Model

      PRIMARY & SECONDARY OUTCOMES:

      PRIMARY: Improved capacity for diabetes self-management measured through improvements in
      diabetes knowledge and diabetes-related patient activation.

      SECONDARY: Successful diabetes self-management.

      ANALYTIC METHODS:

      Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize patient characteristics. Means and
      standard deviations or medians and quartiles will be calculated for continuous variables and
      will be compared across site by ANOVA or Kruskal-Wallis test, depending on the distribution
      of the data. Frequencies and percentages will be calculated for categorical variables and
      will be compared with the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. Significant
      differences will be noted and to adjust for possible confounding, those variables will be
      considered for inclusion as covariates in the analyses for the primary and secondary outcomes
      in addition to other clinically meaningful variables and their interactions. It is expected
      that patient characteristics to be similar across the two treatment sites; however, to
      control for potential differences in the populations, the investigators will adjust for
      potential confounding covariates by using propensity scores to stratify subjects into groups
      based on the probability that they attended a particular treatment site given particular
      demographic characteristics including sex, age, primary language, level of education,
      nativity, and type of insurance. Patients will be grouped by quintile of propensity score for
      a total of five strata and each will be analyzed for the primary and secondary outcomes
      independently. Analyses will be performed in standard statistical software. Propensity score
      matching allows for causal inference in our non-experimental settings by selecting similar
      subsets of comparison units between treatment groups across a high-dimensional set of
      pretreatment characteristics. For qualitative data, the investigators will conduct a
      rigorous, disciplined, empirical analysis based on plausibility, credibility and relevance.
      The investigators will conduct a theory-driven qualitative content analysis, reading through
      transcripts to identify conceptual categories and patterns related to specified domains of
      inquiry, creating a qualitative codebook, and developing conceptual summaries for each
      transcript. Following review and summary, the investigators will code transcripts for
      systematic themes and subthemes and explore interconnections between theme categories and
      develop a holistic interpretation of the data ("constant comparison").
    
  