
    
      Post-operative pain remains one of the patient's greatest concerns after Total Knee
      Arthroplasty (TKA). Insufficient pain control can delay mobilization and inhibit
      rehabilitation efforts. Multimodal analgesia, including peripheral nerve block, is
      recommended for pain relief, and reaching an effective level of pain management, while
      minimizing opioid side effects, is vital to a patient's recovery and satisfaction of care
      delivered. The ON-Q pain relief system continually infuses local analgesia for effective pain
      relief.

      This is a prospective, randomized control trial designed to compare the effects of using the
      short-term and long-term combination ON-Q nerve blocks in connection with TKA surgery. The
      ON-Q nerve block and pump system provides slowly infused, continuous delivery of a local
      anesthetic to the surgical site and nerves. The use of concurrent saphenous and posterior
      knee nerve blocks with the ON-Q system has been adopted as standard procedure at our
      institute. The study does not involve an alteration to the typical procedures currently being
      employed. Ultrasound will ensure the accuracy of catheter placement by a regional
      anesthesiologist.

      All consecutive TKA patients who meet study criteria will be recruited for enrollment in the
      study prior to surgery. Pre-operatively, patients will be asked to complete health
      questionnaires, assessments to measure reported pain levels and location, and range of
      motion. Home medications will be reviewed, and hemoglobin/hematocrit blood levels will be
      recorded. Patients randomized to the long-term group will receive education on how to connect
      the ON-Q ball/pump to the catheter using a demonstration set to show understanding of the
      skill. Patients in the long-term group will also receive a 750mL ON-Q ball/pump filled with
      bupivacaine 0.125% for the select-a-flow saphenous catheter nerve block and a 400mL ON-Q
      ball/pump filled with bupivacaine 0.125% for the posterior fixed rate catheter nerve block to
      enable the nerve blocks to last up to the 7 days of treatment.

      Post-operatively, blood loss, inpatient hemoglobin/hematocrit levels, pain medications
      consumed and side effects, range of motion by Physical Therapy, and pain assessments will be
      recorded. After discharge, patients will receive daily phone calls up to day 7 post-op to
      collect reported pain scores, pain medications consumed and side effects, signs/symptoms of
      catheter site infection, and physical therapy or activity for that day. This information, as
      well as health questionnaires, will also be collected from both treatment groups at the
      2-week and 6-week follow-up office visits.

      Data will be analyzed at the conclusion of the study.
    
  