
    
      Aim: To conduct a randomized control trial comparing patient outcomes and satisfaction with
      or without expert panel review before making a final decision about surgery for grade I
      degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis. A prospective, multi-center registry aimed at
      addressing important issues pertaining to outcomes from treatment for degenerative
      spondylolisthesis and spinal stenosis will be generated.

      Background: Surgery may be offered to patients with symptomatic lumbar stenosis with
      degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis who fail nonoperative treatment measures including
      physical therapy and epidural steroid injections. For patients with lumbar stenosis without
      spondylolisthesis, a decompression alone is typical, while those patients who do have
      degenerative spondylolisthesis and who also have significant mechanical back pain may be
      offered lumbar decompression with or without fusion. These guidelines were written based upon
      the SPORT study, which provided the highest quality of evidence available at the time.
      Additional studies have show that costly interventions such as lumbar fusion may ultimately
      be cost-effective if they provide durable clinical benefit. Two recent publications in The
      New England Journal of Medicine present new evidence with conflicting results on superficial
      review. The Spinal Laminectomy versus Instrumented Pedicle Screw (SLIP) trial provides level
      I evidence for the efficacy of fusion to improve clinical outcomes and lower reoperation
      rates compared to a standard laminectomy and medial facetectomy over a four year time frame
      in patients with neurogenic claudication associated with stable single level
      spondylolisthesis. Conversely, the Swedish study provides level II evidence that the addition
      of a variety of fusion techniques does not have significant benefit in the first two years
      following operation compared to a variety of decompression techniques in a heterogeneous
      population of patients with stenosis associated with spondylolisthesis. The patient
      populations treated, surgical techniques used, and outcome measures assessed differed between
      the two studies and when taken together, underline the need to new comparative effectiveness
      data for patients with this problem.

      Plan: Before making a decision regarding which specific operation should be performed in each
      case, each patient will be randomized to receive an expert panel review or to not receive an
      expert panel review. For patients who receive an expert panel review, the patients'
      de-identified lumbar MRI (sagittal and key axial images), 36-inch standing plain radiographs
      (if available), and flexion and extension radiographs will be uploaded into a web-based
      platform and reviewed with plans to share the reviews with patients and their treating
      physicians in real time. For patients who are randomized to no expert panel review, they will
      discuss with their surgeon the best surgical option for them and proceed as they would in
      standard of care. Patients with symptomatic lumbar spinal stenosis and single level
      degenerative grade I spondylolisthesis will be treated either with decompression or
      decompression with fusion. Symptomatic spinal stenosis will be defined as radicular and/or
      back pain either induced by or aggravated by activity and relieved by rest in a patient with
      either moderately severe or severe lumbar spinal stenosis. Patient-reported outcomes will be
      captured at baseline, at 3 and 6 months, and annually out to five years.

      Interim Analysis: An interim analysis is planned when 150 patients have reached eligibility
      at 6 month follow-up. Patients' change from baseline patient-reported outcome questionnaires
      will be assessed.
    
  