
    
      This project is supported by CureSMA (http://curesma.org/).

      The Registry functions as a liaison between patients and families interested in participating
      in research and researchers interested in studying SMA. The Registry contains information
      from 2,500 families and over 3,000 individuals with SMA from all over the world and continues
      to grow.

      The Registry has helped recruit participants for clinical trials and has provided data for
      important SMA research studies. The Registry helps centralize information on this rare
      genetic disease, provides families a way to learn about research studies and provides
      researchers a way to find research participants.

      Individuals and families affected by SMA are invited to join the Registry. Participants are
      asked to complete questionnaires about the symptoms, treatment, medications, and other
      experiences with SMA. Visit the Participant Portal for more information on how to sign up for
      the Registry.

      Participant information is stored in a secure database. Researchers who are interested in
      studying SMA can request two types of data from the Registry, de-identified information and
      identifiable information. De-identified information does not contain any names or personal
      identifiers, and can be given to researchers without having to contact Registry families.
      Identifiable information includes information that can identify you and will never be
      released without getting your written permission to do so. Identifiable information includes
      data such as names and dates of birth. Some researchers may also request contact with
      families to obtain specific information or to request participation in a research study. In
      these instances, the Registry will contact each potential participant to ask if they are
      willing to share their identifiable information for a research project.

      The Registry recognizes the importance of global collaboration. Working together with
      researchers from all over the world is very important in the investigation of SMA. In 2008
      the Registry joined the group, Translational Research in Europe for the Assessment and
      Treatment of Neuromuscular Diseases (TREAT-NMD) in a global collaboration to further the
      research goals of the neuromuscular disease community. TREAT-NMD has developed a global
      database that compiles deidentified data transferred from participating registries around the
      world. The main objective of the TREAT-NMD database is to assess the feasibility of clinical
      trials, to facilitate the planning of clinical trials and to support the enrollment of
      patients in clinical trials. This international database will also be used to answer
      questions regarding the prevalence of particular neuromuscular disorders and assessing the
      support of other activities such as assessing standards of care and diagnosis.
    
  