
    
      The treatment of lymphedema following breast cancer therapy is typically a burdensome
      multi-modality process that entails different degrees of intensity depending on the severity
      of fluid accumulation. In breast cancer survivors, it is most commonly initiated after
      visible swelling occurs in a limb. Common treatments utilized are multi-modality and include
      massage, compression, exercises, and skin care. The current gold standard treatment for
      advanced fluid accumulation is complex decongestive physiotherapy (CDP). CDP includes
      components of compression, lymphatic drainage, skin care, and exercise and is commonly
      delivered in two phases with the first phase being a several week course delivered in the
      outpatient clinical setting and the second a home maintenance program. CDP is considered the
      gold standard due to prospective data demonstrating its efficacy, a series of 537 patients
      found significant arm volume decreases with CDP and subsequent studies have confirmed volume
      reductions along with improved quality of life in those patients undergoing CDP. Studies
      comparing CDP to other treatment modalities are limited but some have favored CDP. CDP is
      limited in that access to long term prospective follow-up treatment may not take place and it
      requires significant resources and costs.

      Recent studies have suggested that early diagnosis and treatment allow for less burdensome
      and aggressive therapy utilization moving forward. Increasing data support the idea that
      early intervention improves outcomes for women with lymphedema following breast cancer
      treatment. Recent prospective data have shown that with a short course of compression therapy
      (sleeve and gauntlet), ranging from 4 to 6 weeks, the rate of progression of fluid
      accumulation is limited. Specifically, the Stout Gergich et al. study provided sound
      preliminary data to support that four weeks of treatment using a 20-30 mmHg compression
      garment and gauntlet can, over 18 months of post intervention follow-up, reduce volume and
      prevent the need for CDP.

      These findings are encouraging; however, it should be noted that these studies have
      significant limitations including small patient numbers, limited follow up, a lack of
      randomization, and a lack of subclinical detection of increasing extracellular fluid.
      Therefore, while some data exist that suggest that early intervention with clinically
      apparent extracellular fluid accumulation is beneficial, there are less data to support the
      hypothesis that subclinical detection and subsequent early intervention are beneficial. Based
      on data from these studies, it may be possible to prevent chronic lymphedema with early
      detection and intervention. Early detection may be best achieved by identifying changes in
      extracellular fluid instead of change in whole arm volume. Given the potential to improve
      patient outcomes and possibly prevent chronic lymphedema, additional research is warranted in
      large randomized trials that address some of the limitations of the previous work.

      BIS is a technology designed to identify changes in extracellular fluid. The investigators
      propose to determine if subclinical detection of increasing extracellular fluid via BIS and
      subsequent early treatment with four weeks of a compression sleeve and gauntlet results in a
      reduction in the rates of progression to chronic lymphedema as compared to the same
      intervention when initiated from use of the most common arm measurement method (tape
      measurement).

      The investigators will secondarily explore selective correlatives related to lymphedema and
      lymphedema progression. As multiple factors may lead to lymphedema, the influence of
      potential risk factors on lymphedema progression will be evaluated. Time to actual
      progression will also be examined. Because lymphedema results in problematic symptoms and
      diminished quality of life, correlatives using validated instruments will also be examined.
    
  