
    
      The strategy for treating relapsed and refractory adult ALL patients is through reinduction
      chemotherapy followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation, provided that the toxicity of
      the salvage regimen is acceptable. However, this leukemia is characterized as being highly
      refractory to standard chemotherapy and therefore novel therapeutic approaches are
      desperately needed. Clofarabine is a second generation nucleoside analog FDA approved for the
      treatment of relapsed and refractory pediatric ALL. Clofarabine has been administered to
      adult patients with hematologic malignancies with an acceptable toxicity profile with 8% of
      relapsed ALL patients attaining a complete response (CR). The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      clofarabine IV in adult patients has been determined to be 40 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive
      days, which is lower than the tolerable daily dose for pediatric patients, 52 mg/m2/day. More
      recently, Karp and colleagues reported their experience with clofarabine in combination with
      cyclophosphamide in 18 patients with refractory acute leukemias. Encouraging responses were
      seen in the refractory ALL patients with 67% (4/6) patients experiencing a CR. Toxicity did
      not allow dose escalation of clofarabine and the MTD was defined as 10 mg/m2 administered
      over 6 non-consecutive days when combined with cyclophosphamide 200-400mg/m2 over a total of
      7 days per cycle. As such, we are conservatively evaluating a clofarabine dose of 20mg/m2 for
      five days with a dose de-escalation step if there is dose limiting toxicity.

      The addition of monoclonal antibody therapy is an attractive approach in the treatment of
      relapsed and refractory ALL since it targets both B and T progenitor ALL subtypes and has
      different mechanisms of action and side effects than chemotherapy. Alemtuzumab is a humanized
      monoclonal antibody to CD52 which is expressed on the majority of neoplastic lymphocytes,
      including 70% of ALL and 100% of Philadelphia positive ALL. The CALGB evaluated alemtuzumab
      as consolidation in front-line therapy for patients with ALL and demonstrated feasibility and
      found alemtuzumab administration at 30mg subcutaneously administered for 12 doses to be safe
      and well tolerated in a frontline consolidation setting in ALL. In the present protocol
      targeting refractory and relapsed ALL patients, the maximal alemtuzumab dose will be 30 mg as
      in Stock's study, but will be administered intravenously in order to improve the induction
      chemotherapy pharmacokinetics. Premedication with dexamethasone, benadryl, and acetaminophen
      will be given to all patients prior to alemtuzumab infusion to prevent infusional reactions
      associated with intravenous dosing.

      The combination of purine analogs and alemtuzumab have been administered simultaneously
      safely with promising additive activity in other relapsed and refractory lymphocytic
      leukemias. A recent case series reported patients with relapsed and/or refractory ALL who
      failed several induction chemotherapies to achieve complete responses to fludarabine and
      alemtuzumab combination regimens. All patients were able to proceed to allogeneic SCT with
      refractory ALL patient relapsing at 8 months while relapsed patients remain in remission at 6
      and 24 months.

      Other approaches utilizing combination chemotherapy have failed to demonstrate consistent
      activity that would qualify them as standard of care. Therefore the standard of care for
      patients with relapsed and refractory ALL is enrollment into clinical trials.

      All patients will receive alemtuzumab in a dose escalation fashion (3, 10, 30mg). Successive
      escalating doses will be administered if the previous dose is tolerated. Previously, Stock et
      al established the safety of 12 doses of 30mg of alemtuzumab in ALL. The treatment regimen is
      designed to have alemtuzumab administered prior to administration of clofarabine to allow
      dose escalation of the monoclonal antibody and decrease confounding acute toxicities such as
      infusion reactions and cytokine release. Clofarabine dose is modeled after previous trials in
      adult and pediatric ALL. The starting dose of clofarabine is lower than standard phase II
      doses for adult hematologic malignancy to conservatively evaluate tolerability and toxicity
      of clofarabine in combination with alemtuzumab. Alemtuzumab dosing will be limited to a total
      of 12. However, patients can continue with additional cycles of clofarabine if they do not
      show progressive disease or have unacceptable toxicity.
    
  