
    
      1. Nonsignificant Risk (NSR) Devices

           The two devices SS-1000 and Pentacam are considered non-significant risk devices and the
           conduct of the trial will adhere to the abbreviated requirements of Investigational
           Device Exemption (21CFR812.2, 2011).

        2. Overall Trial Design

           The trial design is a prospective precision trial with the following factors:

           The trial will be conducted at one investigational site. The site will have three
           SS-1000 devices and three Pentacam devices available. Three certified operators (#1, #2
           and #3) will be randomly assigned to one set of devices (one SS-1000 and one Pentacam),
           such that operator effect are confounded with instrument effect. All participants will
           have one visit and undergo the same set of assessments. Each assessment will consist of
           2 consecutive readings (M1, M2).

           To ensure the highest physiological stability of the eyes all measurements will be done
           at least 3 hours after subject awake (Lattimore MR, 1999). To decrease the diurnal
           variation each subject will have, all measurements excluding screening measurements are
           performed within a 2 hour window. All measurements are performed in constant dim
           lighting conditions.

           Subject will be advised to keep eyes closed between scans to prevent eye dryness. If
           subject experience eye dryness subject will be allowed extra time to recover between
           measurements.

        3. Randomization

           3.1 Trial eye

           If subject has one eligible eye with pathology, that eye will be selected as the trial
           eye.

           If subject has two eligible eyes, with or without pathology, the trial eye will be
           randomly selected by tossing a coin (Head=right eye, Tail=left eye).

           The same eye will be used for all measurements.

           3.2 Order of examination

           Randomization schedule will be generated using a computer and will be used to determine
           the order of the devices (SS-1000 vs. Pentacam) and the order of the
           instruments/operators (instrument set #1, instrument set #2 or instrument set #3).

        4. Masking

           The corneal condition (thin, normal and thick) will not be available to the operators
           while obtaining data for determination of repeatability and reproducibility.

        5. Discussion of Design

           The trial design serves the purpose to evaluate the agreement and precision (total
           precision / repeatability / reproducibility) performance characteristics for SS-1000 and
           Pentacam. The precision results will be used for the evaluation of substantial
           equivalence between SS-1000 and Pentacam.

           This trial is designed to use the same cohort of subjects to minimize between subject
           variability. Each subject undergoes examination by 3 operators with 3 instruments each
           and 2 replicates in each condition. This design will provide a head-to head comparison
           in total precision, agreement, repeatability and reproducibility.

           The between-operators will be confounded but all assessments in the trial are objective
           and automatically assessed by both investigational devices. Hence, potential biases
           should be at a minimum in terms of interpretation of trial results. Potential biases may
           occur due to the fatigue of subjects and/or the operators. Thus, to minimize biases the
           order of the devices will be randomly assigned.

           To avoid other confounding factors (e.g. visit) subjects will have all assessments done
           at one visit, each subject undergoes 12 measurements. The duration of the tests are
           estimated to last at least 1 hour which we considered as the upper limit for a subject
           before fatigue and eye irritation due to dryness. Once a subject starts to experience
           dryness in the eyes, subject will not be able to fixate and keep the eye open without
           blinking while the measurement takes place. To prevent eye dryness subject should have
           his eyes closed between measurements.

           All devices are evaluated using the same set of subjects and allows for direct
           comparison of the investigational device and the predicate device.

        6. Trial Population

      A total of 66 eyes from 66 subjects meeting all of the following inclusion criteria and none
      of the exclusion criteria will be recruited:

      6.1 Inclusion Criteria

      Subjects/eyes who meet each of the following criteria are eligible for the trial:

        -  Subject Inclusion Criteria

             1. Female or male age 22 years or older at time of screening

             2. Able to fixate at the internal fixation

             3. Able to open eyes sufficiently to enable a full image area

             4. Written informed consent obtained from subject before any investigational
                assessment

        -  Eye Inclusion Criteria

           5.Eyes with one of the following cornea conditions (Francis BA, 2008):

             1. Normal cornea (CCT between 511-580 µm with or without pathology)

             2. Thin cornea, i.e. previous refractive surgery, corneal ectasia, keratoconus (CCT
                ≤510 µm with or without pathology)

             3. Thick cornea, i.e. Fuchs' dystrophy, bullous keratopathy, corneal edema (CCT >580
                µm with or without pathology)

                6.2 Exclusion Criteria

                Eyes who meet one or more of the following criteria are excluded from the trial:

                1. Use of rigid contact lenses within one week from start of trial 2. Use of soft
                contact lenses within 24 hours of any trial measurement 3. Aphakic eyes 4. Eyes
                with a history of intraocular, corneal surgery, except refractive surgery 5.
                Currently on mydriatic and/or miotic medication that can affect ocular physiology
                6. Seriously ill or unconscious subject, mentally ill person, mentally handicapped
                person, person who is unable to read or write

                When both eyes of a subject are eligible, one eye will be randomly selected.

                To ensure recruitment of eyes with a range of corneal thicknesses, inclusion
                criterion no. 5 will be controlled:

                  1. Normal cornea (22 eyes)

                  2. Thin cornea (22 eyes)

                  3. Thick cornea (22 eyes).

                     6.3 Subject identification

                     All subjects enrolled must be identifiable throughout the trial. This will be
                     done by using a 3-digit subject number starting at 001 allocated to the
                     subject when enrollment is determine by the investigator.

                     6.4 Subject Withdrawal

                     The subject will be advised in the informed consent form that he/she has the
                     right to withdraw from the trial at any time without reason. The subject may
                     also be withdrawn from the trial at the investigator's or Tomey's discretion
                     at any time. In case a subject drops out of the trial or is withdrawn from the
                     trial, the withdrawal page in the case report form (CRF) should be completed.
                     On the withdrawal page the investigator should record the date of the
                     withdrawal, the person initiating the withdrawal and the primary reason for
                     withdrawal.

                     Subjects withdrawn during trial will not be replaced.

                7. Visit Schedule and Assessments

                7.1 Visit

                The following procedures will be performed at the visit:

                • Obtain written informed consent before any trial procedures are performed

                • Obtain demographic data (age, race, and sex).

                • Obtain corneal characteristics and pathology.

                • Screening with SS-1000 and Pentacam.

                • Recording of concomitant medication.

                • Assess compliance with inclusion and exclusion criteria.

                  -  Imaging by 3 devices and 3 instruments/operators in a random order o Two
                     readings with SS-1000 (1) by Operator #1 o Two readings with Pentacam (1) by
                     Operator #1

                     o Two readings with SS-1000 (2) by Operator #2

                       -  Two readings with Pentacam (2) by Operator #2

                       -  Two readings with SS-1000 (3) by Operator #3

                       -  Two readings with Pentacam (3) by Operator #3

                  -  AE recording if any has occurred in relation to trial procedures.
    
  