
    
      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a presacral nerve
      block on post-operative pain following total laparoscopic hysterectomy. Given that the
      presacral nerves carry pain sensation from the midline pelvic structures suggests that
      blocking this important nerve pathway intra-operatively would provide an excellent
      complementary method of analgesia in this patient population. Considering the frequency of
      hysterectomy, further improvements in pain management with this simple additional step could
      offer great benefits for patients and for the healthcare system by minimizing narcotic
      consumption, hospital stay, recovery time and time away from work.

      Methodology:

      This study is a single-center parallel group randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing the
      administration of a presacral nerve block using 10 millilitres (mL) of local bupivacaine (5
      milligrams [mg]/ml) versus 10 mL of normal saline (sham block). Participants will be selected
      using a convenience sample from Mount Sinai Hospital's outpatient gynecology clinics. All
      women undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy will be considered for this study. Baseline
      characteristics, including age, gravity, parity, medical history, surgical history, body mass
      index (BMI) and indication for surgery will be collected on all study participants.

      Study participants will be randomized on the day of surgery. The investigators will create a
      randomization list using a computer-generated allocation sequence in equal ratio. The
      investigators will place the drug/placebo designation in numbered opaque envelopes and secure
      the envelope to the patient's chart on the day of surgery. The randomization number will
      correspond to a pre-filled syringe (containing either drug or placebo) that will be labelled
      with the randomization number only. A list of syringe numbers and corresponding group
      allocation will be kept on a secured server and will not be visible to the surgeon or study
      personnel. The surgeon will complete the laparoscopic hysterectomy according to his/her
      preferred operative technique. After the hysterectomy is completed, and prior to desufflating
      the abdomen, the surgeon will be presented with study drug (bupivicaine/placebo) loaded in a
      syringe with a spinal needle. The surgeon will laparoscopically instill the drug/placebo into
      the presacral space after confirming hemostasis as the final step before closing the abdomen.

      The surgeon, research team, participants and data analysts will be blinded to treatment
      group. Participants will receive standard perioperative care including induction/maintenance
      of general anesthesia and prevention/treatment of post-operative nausea, vomiting and pain.
      Following surgery, patients will complete a self-administered visual analogue scale [VAS] for
      pain at 1-, 2- and 3-hours after surgery (primary outcome). In addition, the investigators
      will calculate total narcotic and anti-emetic consumption prior to discharge and report on
      any adverse events (secondary outcomes).

      Outcomes:

      The primary outcome will be early post-operative pain measured at 3-hours following surgery
      by a self-administered VAS for pain. Secondary outcome measures will include: (a) pain
      measured at 1- and 2-hours following surgery by a self-administered VAS for pain (b) total
      narcotics administered from end of surgery until discharge and (c) adverse
      effects/complication rates. The following will also be collected: estimated blood loss;
      operative time; total length of stay in post-anaesthesia recovery unit (PACU) prior to
      discharge; time to first void after surgery; and time to first ambulation after surgery. Due
      to the short follow up period for the majority of data collection, the investigators
      anticipate near 100% retention of study subjects.

      Statistics:

      Based on a sample-size calculation to detect a 30% reduction in self-reported pain using a
      VAS for pain (with alpha 0.05 and power 0.9) the study will require 30 patients per group.
      With a conservative estimate of 5 total laparoscopic hysterectomies per week, the
      investigators expect to surpass this target within 6 months of starting our study.

      Success of the intervention will be assessed by comparing primary and secondary outcome
      measures between the two treatment arms using an independent student T-test (α = 0.05) for
      continuous variables and expressed as the difference between means with accompanying 95%
      confidence intervals.
    
  