
    
      Background: Recurrent, excessive, uncontrollable worry about multiple topics is common in
      older adults, but it is not well studied. This significant worry can negatively affect
      thinking, and it is associated with poorer sleep, more depression, and worse general health.
      Despite its prevalence, researchers have not studied significant worry enough, particularly
      in low-income racial and ethnic minority populations. We know these groups are unlikely to
      have adequate mental health care. We also know that older adults and minorities prefer
      treatments for worry that do not require medication, and that these kinds of treatments can
      be effective. Additional tests of treatments that do not involve drugs are needed in
      low-income racial and ethnic minority populations. Such person-centered research could expand
      access to appropriate care.

      Objectives: The study team plans to compare two approaches, one called Calmer Life (CL) and
      another called Enhanced Community Care (ECC). CL helps individuals by providing
      worry-reduction skills and resource counseling for basic needs in a flexible, culturally
      supportive manner. ECC relies on standard information and resource counseling. The study will
      answer three questions. First, compared to ECC, is CL more effective at relieving significant
      worry? Second, which one is more effective at reducing anxiety and depression and improving
      sleep, ability to do daily activities, and use of medical services? Third, are improvements
      still present three months after treatment concludes?

      Methods: In agreement with our community partners and governed by a council of community
      leaders, consumers, and providers from low-income minority communities, we will conduct the
      study. This community-academic partnership, created four years ago, introduced CL to the
      community. Case managers and community health workers from partner organizations were trained
      to implement CL. They taught worry-reduction skills and helped participants increase their
      use of community resources. Content was flexible so that participants could choose which
      skills to learn and whether or not to include religion or spirituality. They also could learn
      skills at home, by telephone, or in the community. In a new, larger comparison study, we will
      enroll 120 women and 30 men who are 50 years of age or older with significant worry. Most (80
      percent) will be African American, and 70 percent will have income below poverty.
      Participants will be assigned by chance to CL or ECC and treated for six months. Brief
      assessments at enrollment and at six and nine months will rely on participants' reports.
      Differences will be measured statistically.
    
  