
    
      The objective of this clinical investigation is to assess the safety and efficacy of the
      Passeo-18 Lux DCB for the treatment of stenotic, restenotic or occlusive lesions of the
      femoropopliteal arteries. Furthermore a non-inferiority hypothesis will be tested with the
      IN.PACT Admiral DCB as comparator.

      The patients will be selected based on the investigator's assessment, evaluation of the
      underlying disease and the eligibility criteria. The patient's medical condition should be
      stable, with no underlying medical condition which would prevent them from performing the
      required testing or from completing the study. Patients should be geographically stable,
      willing and able to cooperate in this clinical study, and remain available for long term
      follow-up. The patient is considered enrolled in the study after obtaining the patients
      informed consent, if there is full compliance with the study eligibility criteria and after
      successful guidewire passage through the study target lesion.

      Prior to the index procedure the following will be collected: an informed consent for data
      collection, demographics, medical history, medication record, physical examination, clinical
      category of acute limb ischemia (Rutherford category), the resting ankle-brachial index
      (ABI), blood sample test (complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic panel and if
      applicable pregnancy test) and a walking impairment questionnaire.

      During the procedure the guidewire will cross the entire study lesion after which the lesion
      will be assessed through angiography. A pre-dilatation with a standard non-drug-coated
      balloon will be performed followed by a dilatation of the lesion with either a Passeo-18 Lux
      (Biotronik) or an IN.PACT Admiral balloon (Medtronic). If dilatation was not successful (>30%
      stenosis, perforation, occlusive or flow limiting dissection) prolonged inflation should be
      attempted after which bail-out stenting with a bare nitinol stent is allowed in case of
      inadequate results.

      The regular follow-up is necessary to monitor the condition of the patient and the results of
      the procedure. The patients will be invited for the following required follow-up visits at
      1,6 and 12 months. During these visit the following data will be collected: medication
      record, physical exam, target limb ABI and Rutherford classification, duplex ultrasound of
      target vessel, walking impairment questionnaire and possible adverse events.
    
  