
    
      Before the operation, the parameters required for the collection of the EURO-scores are
      recorded, allowing an assessment of perioperative risk (age, gender, type of planned surgery,
      concomitant diseases).

      After the patient arrives in the operating room the required electrodes to measure the
      intracerebral oxygenation are stuck bitemporal on the patient´s head. The measurement of
      oxygenation begins before induction of anaesthesia (while the patient is still awake) and
      will continue until 24 h postoperatively.

      The measurement of cerebral oxygenation is not intended to serve as a replacement for the
      collection of routine peripheral oxygen saturation, but will be performed
      additionally.Therefore the anaesthesiological management depends primarily on the peripheral
      oxygen saturation and arterial blood gases according to our clinical routine.

      If, however, intracerebral oxygenation shows an ominous decline, this change can be corrected
      by targeted measures very early (such as increasing the inspiratory oxygen concentration). At
      the specified test points following additional parameters are determined: Mean arterial blood
      pressure, central venous blood pressure, cardiac output, serum lactate, venous oxygen
      saturation, arterial blood gas analysis, fluid balance. These parameters are collected as
      part of a routine cardiac surgery. To measure these parameters no additional punctuation or
      blood draws are therefore necessary. To determine the cytokines IL-6 and IL-10, procalcitonin
      (PCT) and the S-100 protein, however, it is necessary to take 5ml blood to the respective
      measuring points from an already existing venous access.

      In the ICU the collection of the above mentioned parameters occurs at admission, after 6h and
      12h, and on the morning of the first postoperative day (and possibly on further
      ICU-treatment-days). Additionally, each 12 h after surgery, the SOFA and the CAM-ICU-Score
      are recorded.

      An already before surgery performed CAM-ICU questionnaire serves as a direct comparison with
      the post-operative acquired CAM-ICU score. In case the patient is still be ventilated, the
      test cannot be performed and will be documented correspondingly.

      The treatment, monitoring of vital signs including intermittent blood gas analysis and other
      diagnostic measures (clinical chemistry, radiology, etc.) corresponds to the standard
      surgical procedure for heart surgery of the University Hospital Aachen.
    
  