
    
      For a deeper understanding of the mechanism underlying the effects of MPH and implementation
      intentions, neurophysiological data (with a special interest on the P300 component) during a
      Go/NoGo task will be assessed additionally to the behavioral performance (i.e., response
      times and error rates). Meanwhile, the information may contribute to a better understanding
      of a potential influence of culture on the effect of implementation intentions. The effect
      may be equally effective in the cultures, but the underlying processes might still differ. On
      the other hand, differences between the two cultural groups might be explained by different
      neurophysiological activity during the tasks.

      Two primary research questions arise: (1) Are MPH and implementation intentions (i.e.,
      if-then plans) effective in enhancing the performance of executive function tasks measured by
      the Go/NoGo task in children and adolescents with ADHD compared with those without ADHD
      within each culture? (2) Does culture play a role in moderating the effect of implementation
      intentions on executive function tasks in children and adolescents with ADHD, respectively?
      Based on the research questions, two hypotheses are formulated. First, after the treatment of
      MPH and the self-regulation strategy of forming implementation intentions, it would result in
      less inhibition errors and more increased amplitudes of NoGo P300 and NoGominusGo P300 in
      children and adolescents with ADHD. Second, participants with ADHD in Taiwan may benefit more
      from the self-regulation strategy, which is reflected in more increased amplitudes of NoGo
      P300 and NoGominusGo P300 than found in their counterparts in Germany. However, since this is
      the first study to compare the effects of forming implementation intentions in a
      cross-cultural way, this latter analysis is more exploratory.
    
  