
    
      Bipolar II disorder is largely unstudied, with much less known about its treatment in
      comparison to Bipolar I disorder. While established mood stabilizers treat and prevent
      subsequent episodes of hypomania, chronic or recurrent depressions are harder to treat or
      prevent. In general the treatment of depression in Bipolar II patients is often complicated
      and there is no clinical unanimity on what approaches to follow. Administration of proven
      antidepressants would seem most appropriate and are most often used, but their use often
      involves a number of difficulties. Among these are:

        -  antidepressant efficacy is established for unipolar patients and extrapolation to
           Bipolar II patients is done without empirical support

        -  Bipolar II patients can have switches into hypomanic behavior in response to
           antidepressant treatment given as monotherapy

        -  even when mood stabilizers are concomitantly given, switches to hypomanic states still
           occur when antidepressants are added

        -  antidepressants can cause cycle acceleration or induce rapid cycling when given to
           Bipolar II patients

        -  non-response and loss of response are common reactions to antidepressants in Bipolar II
           patients

      This study will also assess the tolerability of Geodon in the treatment of patients diagnosed
      with Bipolar II disorder who currently meet criteria for a Major Depressive Episode by
      examining the incidence of adverse events and the withdrawal rate due to adverse events.

      This will be an open-label study. Subjects will be treated for 8 weeks with Geodon, starting
      at a dose of 20 mg twice per day. The maximum dose will be 60 mg twice per day. Subjects will
      have a physical exam, electrocardiogram (ECG), standard laboratory tests and a urine drug
      screen at the screen visit.

      Efficacy evaluations will include 17-item Hamilton Depression Scale, Hamilton Anxiety Scale
      (HAM-D), Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, and the Young Mania Rating Scale. Social
      outcome will be measured with a quality-of-life scale (the Q-LES-Q). Overall efficacy will be
      rated using the Clinical Global Severity and Improvement Scales.
    
  