
    
      Immunosuppression following organ transplantation is associated with a myriad of
      gastrointestinal complications including severe diarrhea. Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is the
      immunosuppressant most often associated with this plaguing symptom. A retrospective study of
      patients from 10 US transplant centers receiving MMF immunosuppression after kidney
      transplantation showed that nearly 50% of patients suffered from at least one
      gastrointestinal symptom within the first 6 months after transplantation. (Tierce 2005) The
      majority of these patients have diarrhea. However, Immunosuppression Associated Diarrhea
      (IAD) is often observed in association with other immunosuppressive agents as well. It is the
      investigator's observation that IAD is equally problematic whether the immunosuppressive
      regimen includes MMF or not. When IAD is severe it can be difficult for the recipient to
      maintain adequate levels of immunosuppression. Not infrequently, IAD is so distressing that a
      recipient's immunosuppressive medications are tapered, changed or stopped. During these times
      of drug manipulation, patients are at risk for early acute rejection. Approximately 30% of
      renal transplant patients who have their MMF regimen adjusted or discontinued suffer an
      episode of acute rejection. Reversing a rejection episode is expensive and adds significant
      risks for the recipient and long-term allograft survival. Thus, a strategy to support and
      maintain normal healthy bowel function moderating or obviating IAD is highly desirable.

      Repopulation of the normal intestinal microflora in kidney transplant patients after kidney
      transplantation may maintain normal bowel function. This study is designed to test the
      hypothesis that the administration of a food supplement probiotic consisting of high amounts
      of six strains of lactic acid bacteria normally found in the human colon will favorably
      support and maintain bowel function moderating or obviating IAD.
    
  