
    
      Definitions:

      Intubation is a traumatism for laryngeal mucous membrane. Due to local inflammatory reaction,
      laryngeal edema occurs in nearly all intubated patients, but only some of them develop
      clinical symptoms, as post-extubation stridor or acute respiratory distress. Stridor is
      commonly defined as a high-pitched sound produced by airflow through a narrowed airway, and
      accepted as a clinical marker of post-extubation laryngeal edema. The main complication of
      post-extubation laryngeal edema is reintubation, defining major post-extubation laryngeal
      edema. Early recognition of laryngeal edema is essential since these patients have the
      highest risk of evolving to respiratory distress and extubation failure. Even before
      extubation, signs indicative of laryngeal edema may be present. The search for a test that
      adequately identifies patients at risk for extubation failure is ongoing.

      Trial Procedures:

        -  At day 0: Selection of patients filling inclusion criteria. Oral and written information
           of patient and his refer person, and collecting of non-opposition.

        -  At day 0: inclusion of patients ventilated with inspiratory assistance just before
           schedulded extubation. Information of patient on procedure course.

        -  First ultrasonography of protocol: The patient is in the supine position, with the neck
           hyper-extended, and the probe is placed on cricothyroid membrane with a transverse view
           of the larynx. The standard scanning plane is predetermined: it should contain several
           landmarks, including the vocal cords, false cords, thyroid cartilage and arytenoids
           cartilage. The oral and laryngeal secretions are suctioned. Ultrasonic air-leak volume
           is defined by difference between air-column width cuff inflated and air-column width
           cuff deflated. Shape of air-column cuff inflated and cuff deflated is also recorded in
           observation notebook.

        -  Then the patient is extubated after spontaneous ventilation trial, according to unit
           protocol, by the physician in charge. After extubation, surveillance of post-extubation
           stridor and acute respiratory distress occurrence during the first 24 hours.

        -  If the patient is reintubated for major post-extubation laryngeal edema, onset of 48
           hours corticotherapy, and realization of second, third and fourth laryngeal
           ultrasonography, daily to next schedulded extubation.

        -  At discharge of intensive care unit, data collection about mechanical ventilation
           duration, intensive care hospitalization duration, occurrence of ventilation-acquired
           pneumopathy, mortality at 28 days.
    
  