
    
      Study Participants: For this study, the investigators will recruit 56 participants separated
      into two groups. Group 1 will enroll 23 individuals with a BMI between 22 and 25. Group 2
      will enroll 23 obese individuals. Study participants will be between the ages of 18-35 and in
      good health.

      Pre-Screening: Basic eligibility will first be determined by phone or through a
      questionnaire. The investigators will acquire weight and height information to calculate BMI,
      as well as ask about any chronic health problems. At the end of the pre-screening, an email
      address will be requested in order to email a copy of the consent form for the participant to
      review before the first visit, during which the consent form will be reviewed with the
      participant and any questions addressed. A cell phone number will also be requested to text
      participant reminders the night before their appointments (visit 1 and visit 2). If the
      participant declines a reminder text, a reminder phone call will be set-up.

      Screening: During the in-person screening, the investigators will ask several questions.
      Participants with chronic health problems (significant vascular disease, hepatitis, renal
      disease, diabetes, immunodeficiency) will be excluded. Individuals already immunized with
      Pneumovax23 or Prevnar (another vaccine that protects against pneumococcal infection) will
      also be excluded. A pregnancy test will be given to females to exclude pregnant individuals.
      An HbA1C (finger prick to get a drop of blood) will also be performed to exclude participants
      with high blood sugar levels. Physical exams will be performed and vitals will be taken on
      participants who pass the initial screening to help assess health.

      Questionnaires will also be given at the first visit to assess stress, which has been shown
      to affect the ability to protect against infection.

      Study Visits: All participants will receive a Pneumovax 23 vaccine, questionnaires, physical
      exams, and undergo 2 blood draws.

      Part of the blood will be sent to a research laboratory for gene analysis. This will help us
      determine if certain genetic markers explain individual differences in Pneumovax 23 efficacy.
    
  