
    
      For the current study, consenting patients planned for upfront surgery, will be randomly
      allocated to 2 groups- 20 patients each group: Propofol TCI-based Total Intravenous
      Anesthesia group (Propofol group) and Sevoflurane group (Sevoflurane group), according to
      computer generated randomization number.

      Patients will be monitored routinely with ECG, non invasive blood pressure, and a pulse-
      oximetery (SPO2), every 5 min. An intravenous access will be established with 20- 22 G
      cannula. A perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis will be given to all patients. None of the
      patients will receive any premedication.

      After preoxygenation with 100% O2 for 3 min: group specific separate interventions will be
      performed.

      Patient will be ventilated with TV of 6-8ml/kg,respiratory rate will be adjusted to maintain
      end-tidal CO2 value between 40 - 45 mmHg. Crystalloids will be used for hydration (4-6
      ml/kg/h), and intraoperative volume deficits will be replaced by additional administration of
      a solution according to clinical needs. For TIVA group, the depth of anaesthesia will be
      monitored using Bispectral Index, with target BIS value between 40 and 60. For Sevoflurane
      group, the depth of anaesthesia will be monitored using MAC, with target MAC value between
      0.8 and 1. Half hour before conclusion of surgery, all patients will receive 0.1mg/kg of
      ondansetron as prophylaxis for PONV. At the end of surgery, muscle relaxation will be
      reversed by glycopyrrolate (10mcg/kg) and neostigmine (50mcg/kg).

      Patients in both groups will receive intra-venous non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
      1-1.5mg/kg diclofenac + Paracetamol 1gm just before conclusion of surgery for postoperative
      analgesia. Postoperative pain & PONV will be managed as per institutional protocols.

      ASSAY Peripheral blood (5ml) will be collected from patients in EDTA vaccutainer and (5ml) in
      another vaccutainer containing clot activator. The sample will be collected at following time
      points.

        1. before anaesthesia (Tpre)

        2. after removal of tumor intraoperative (Ti)

        3. 2 h after surgery (T2h) , and

        4. (T24h) 24 hours after surgery

      Estimation of serum cytokines : by sandwich ELISA and by cytokine bead array (CBA) method.

      Expression of various lymphocyte subsets (CD3+ T cells, CD4+ helper T cells, CD8+ cytotoxic T
      cells, γδT cells, NK cells and B cells) by flow cytometry
    
  