
    
      The precise dose of protamine needed to neutralize unfractionated heparin (UFH) is unknown.
      Research suggests that low dose protamine is associated with decreased need for transfusions
      in cardiac surgery. The ATS guidelines recommend that half of the total UFH dose given for
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) should be neutralized with protamine. However, it is unknown if
      this is routinely followed by anesthesiologists. Furthermore, the reference standard for UFH
      has changed recently and it is unknown how this has affected the dose of protamine in the
      perioperative period. Protamine does have a very short life and heparin rebound occurs very
      commonly.

      It is common practice to divert the suctioned mediastinal blood following CPB while the
      patient is still anticoagulated. The traditional practice is that once half dose protamine
      has been given, suction to the cardiotomy reservoir is turned off. All surgical field blood
      loss is then diverted to wall suction. The inherent risk of letting too much protamine into
      the CPB reservoir is that UFH therein may get neutralized and predispose to clot formation in
      the venous reservoir. This precludes an emergency 'crash' on to CPB, should that be required
      for some reason. Experience of the Investigators indicates that most surgeons will turn off
      suction leading to the cardiotomy reservoir once half the total protamine dose has been
      administered. The concern with this is that "half dose" protamine may be quite different for
      different anesthesiologists.

      The research investigators hypothesize low dose protamine is sufficient to neutralize the
      effects of UFH as monitored through activated clotting time (ACT). Anesthesiologists
      administer varying doses of protamine to neutralize UFH in cardiac surgery and the rationale
      behind such decisions is unclear.

      Thus, the primary objective of this study is to evaluate the dose of protamine required to
      neutralize UFH following CPB. Secondary objectives are 1) to assess the amount of protamine
      needed to neutralize UFH in intravenously administered cardiotomy reservoir blood. 2) To
      examine the amount of residual heparin postoperatively in the cardiac surgery ICU; 3) to
      examine, through semi-structured interviews, the decision-making processes involved in
      managing (anti)coagulation in cardiac surgery.
    
  