
    
      The research hypothesis is to assess whether exenatide once weekly can reduce subclinical
      atherosclerosis (as measured by carotid-intima media thickness [cIMT]) in patients with T2DM.

      The primary objective is to assess whether exenatide once weekly can reduce subclinical
      atherosclerosis (as measured by cIMT) in patients with T2DM.

      Primary endpoint: Reduction in cIMT. The secondary objective is to assess whether exenatide
      once weekly can reduce atherogenic lipoproteins, oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction
      in patients with T2DM.

      Secondary endpoint: Reduction in atherogenic lipoproteins, oxidative stress and improvement
      of endothelial dysfunction.

      The purpose of the present 8 months study is to elucidate largely unknown non-glycemic
      effects of exenatide as add-on to metformin, including effects on cIMT, oxidative stress
      parameters and atherogenic lipoproteins, in addition to its benefit on glycemic control,
      weight loss and other efficacy parameters, as well as the safety profile of exenatide.

      The data for clinical and biochemical analyses, including collection of efficacy variables,
      ECG, pulse and physical examination, will be collected at baseline and after 8 months of
      therapy (at 6 months of the treatment, only the routine laboratory analyses, including HbA1c,
      will be performed).

      Clinical diagnostic tools will include the measurement of:

        1. cIMT, that will be assessed by B-mode real-time ultrasound using a single sonographer
           (Medison SonoAce Pico, with a probe of 7.5-10.0 MHz) in a standardized manner with fixed
           angles of insonation;

        2. Endothelial dysfunction, that will be assessed by flow mediated dilation of brachial
           artery.

      Biochemical analyses will include the analysis of:

        1. Routine testing: blood testing, liver and kidney profile, plasma lipids, glucose
           metabolism parameters;

        2. Oxidative stress parameters (plasma glutathione, serum lipid hydroperoxides, reactive
           oxygen species);

        3. Atherogenic lipoproteins, e.g. the analysis of 11 distinct lipoproteins including
           very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), 3 intermediate density lipoprotein (IDL) subclasses
           and 7 low density lipoprotein (LDL) subclasses.
    
  