
    
      Background:

      Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is of great value in supporting patients with
      severe cardiopulmonary failure, but the mortality rate is still high.

      Acute kidney injury (AKI) and fluid overload (FO) are the leading causes of death in patients
      under Veno-arterial (VA) ECMO. Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) is an effective
      way to remove toxic substances and provide fluid management. According to current guidelines,
      CRRT is withhold until at least one of the following criteria is met: severe hyperkalemia (>
      6.5 mmol/L), metabolic acidosis (pH < 7.2), pulmonary edema, blood urea nitrogen level > 112
      mg/dL, or oliguria (urine output < 200 mL/12h) for more than 72 hours. However, fluid
      overload and metabolic disorders may cause irreversible damage to the patient and therefore
      increase mortality. The hypothesis of ELITE study is that simultaneous CRRT may provide
      better fluid management and avoid metabolic disorders, and bring survival benefit in VA-ECMO
      patients.

      Patients under VA-ECMO are critically ill with high plasma catecholamine levels and treatment
      of various inotropic agents, which are toxic to the failed myocardium. Beta-blockers can
      antagonize the effects of endogenous and exogenous catecholamines. The hypothesis of ELITE
      study is that beta-blocker may protect the failing heart function and reduce 30-day
      mortality.

      Study design:

      ELITE study is a prospective, multi-centered, open, 2×2 factorial randomized controlled
      clinical trial.

      In the simultaneous CRRT versus conventional-indication CRRT arm, patients under VA-ECMO will
      be randomized to the following 2 groups:

        1. Simultaneous CRRT group: CRRT is initiated simultaneously (not late than 24 hours from
           the initiation of ECMO treatment), regardless of presentation of conventional indication
           of CRRT. CRRT lasts for 12 hours or more is recommended.The physician can decide when to
           withdraw CRRT based on the patient's condition.

        2. Conventional-indication CRRT group: CRRT is not initiated unless conventional indication
           of CRRT is presented. The conventional indication of CRRT is as follow: KDIGO stage 3
           AKI and one of the following criteria is met: severe hyperkalemia (> 6.5 mmol/L),
           metabolic acidosis (pH < 7.2), pulmonary edema, blood urea nitrogen level >112 mg/dL, or
           oliguria (urine output < 200 mL/12 h) for more than 72 hours.

      In the Beta-blocker versus routine therapy arm, patients with a maintaining dosage of
      dopamine/dobutamine <5 μg/kg/min, and with neither epinephrine nor norepinephrine will be
      randomized to the following 2 groups:

        1. Esmolol group: Patients will receive a continuous esmolol infusion in addition to
           routine management. The esmolol infusion commences at 25 mg/h and increases by 25 mg/h
           every 20-minute until the maximal tolerate dosage is reached or the heart rate reduced
           to 75±5 bpm, or an upper dose limit of 2000 mg/h is reached. Continue infusing esmolol
           to maintain the heart rate threshold or at the discretion of the physician until either
           ICU discharge or death. Oral beta-blockers should be considered before the withdrawal of
           esmolol.

        2. Control group: All beta-blockers, including esmolol, should not be used during ICU
           treatment, unless the doctor thinks there's a strong indication.

      Primary outcome: All-cause mortality at 30 days.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. All-cause mortality at 365 days

        2. Proportion of patients with long-term RRT indicated

        3. Success rate of weaning from ECMO: defined as survive > 24 hours after weaning

        4. Any serious adverse events (SAEs), including bleeding, severe arrhythmias, ventilator
           associated pneumonia, hemorrhagic infection, surgical site infection, any reason induced
           limb ischemia, stroke and any adverse events that the physician regards as serious.

        5. EQ-5D score at 365 days

        6. Duration stay at ICU and hospital.

        7. Unplanned readmission to hospital.

        8. Cause-specific mortality

      Sample size consideration:

      The sample size calculations are based on the following hypothesis: (a) an estimate 30-day
      mortality of 70% in the control group; (b) a 20% relative risk reduction for each
      intervention alone (simultaneous CRRT and beta-blocker); (c) no loss to follow-up; (d) no
      interaction of the two interventions.

      For each intervention, we calculated that a sample size of 496 patients would be required,
      248 patients for the treatment group and 248 patients for the control group. In the 2 × 2
      factorial design, patients will be randomized to one of four arms, the sample size of each
      would be 124 patients. With a crossover rate of 10%, the study will randomize 548 patients,
      137 patients per arm.
    
  