
    
      A majority of patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder experience impairments
      in social relations and employment. Many patients experience impairments in their ability to
      live independently, requiring assistance in such activities as money management, shopping,
      food preparation and hygiene. These impairments in functioning have been shown to be related
      to cognitive deficits associated with the disease.

      Galantamine is a medication that has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of mild to
      moderate Alzheimer's disease. Both animal and human models have shown that galantamine can
      enhance learning and memory. Case reports and preliminary research have suggested that
      galantamine is an effective adjunctive treatment for schizophrenia, improving both cognition
      and negative symptoms. Improvements in functioning require that gains in cognition be
      maintained long enough to allow for the acquisition and application of new skills and
      behaviors.

      Thus, this nine month, open label study assessed the efficacy of galantamine, dosed at 4-12
      mg/twice a day, for the treatment of functional impairments in individuals, ages 18-60, with
      schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder. The primary outcome measures were changes from
      baseline to end of study in scores on the Independent Living Scale (ILS) and the Quality of
      Life Scale (QLS). Secondary outcome measures included assessments of symptoms, cognition,
      side effects, and movement disorders.

      Twenty-one subjects signed informed consent and fourteen subjects were initiated on
      medication. Six subjects completed the study. As per a priori plan, those subjects (n = 8)
      who were treated with study medication for at least four months were included in the analyses
      of treatment outcomes. Our findings regarding the efficacy of galantamine for functional
      outcomes, including activities of daily living and quality of life, did not support our
      hypothesis that long-term treatment with galantamine would yield improvements in these
      domains in patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders. In fact, in the current study, we
      did not observe any anticipated improvements in cognition. In addition, we did not observe
      any anticipated improvements in symptoms, specifically negative symptoms.
    
  