
    
      Management of patients with hematologic malignancies, renal failure or diseases requiring
      intensive care often necessitates the use of central venous catheters (CVC). Beside obvious
      advantages CVCs bear a great risk for local or systemic infections. In the US estimated 250
      000 catheter-related blood stream infection (CRBSIs) occur each year with mortality rates of
      12-25%. Diagnosis of CRBSIs remains challenging as systemic clinical signs are unspecific and
      local signs of infection are often absent. Conventional methods for diagnosing CRBSIs require
      removal of the CVC. However, only 15% of CVCs removed in patients with clinical suspicion of
      CRBSI prove to be infected. It has been shown that CRBSI can also be detected by the
      differential time to positivity (DTP) method without catheter removal. The Gram
      stain/acridine-orange leukocyte cytospin (AOLC) test and PNA FISH test are another methods
      for the diagnosis of CRBSI that does not require the removal of the CVC and additionally have
      shown to be fast. Up to date methods for diagnosis of CRBSI are performed only when CRBSI is
      clinically suspected. Thus, patients may actually suffer from CRBSI and are at risk to
      concurrently suffer from or develop complications like endocarditis or septic embolism when
      diagnostic procedures for the detection of CRBSI are introduced. Since CRBSIs are not
      entirely preventable by strict hygiene measures earlier diagnosis of CRBSI in subclinical
      stages is desirable to avoid CRBSI-associated morbidity and mortality. Previously a pilot
      study showed that Gram stain/AOLC screening of CVCs in neutropenic patients was a useful test
      to predict the development of CRBSI on average 48 hours before the diagnosis was established
      by routine measures. In the pilot study Gram stain/AOLC screening test exhibited high
      specificity whereas sensitivity was moderate. PNA FISH is a specific slide-based staining
      technique that provides pathogen identification from blood samples containing a given amount
      of bacteria or fungi within a 1,5 hours. PNA FISH test has a slightly lower detection limit
      compared to Gram stain/AOLC which might therefore result in higher sensitivity when used as a
      screening tool. The aim of the project is to investigate a more sensitive and specific test
      for anticipative diagnosis of CRBSI using biphasic PNA FISH test compared to Gram stain/AOLC
      test.
    
  