
    
      Diabetes is a complex, chronic illness requiring continuous medical care with multifactorial
      risk-reduction strategies beyond glycemic control. At present, about 114 million diabetics
      and 11.6% incidence rate of diabetes in China have produced huge chronic disease management
      pressure and created great challenges for China's limited medical resources. (1-5).
      Meanwhile, with population aging and increasing prevalence of obesity in China, the number of
      patients with diabetes mellitus, diabetes-related complications and related mortality are
      expected to further increase, which also indicates greater healthcare expenditure and
      socioeconomic burden. A multi-center, cross-sectional survey of outpatients conducted in 606
      hospitals across China showed that the majority of patients with type 2 diabetes did not
      achieve the goal of HbA1c <7.0% (6). There are varieties of problems including inadequate
      patient education, inability to track the out-of-hospital situation of diabetes, and lack of
      effective patient follow-up and education between each visits (1-5). Many researches have
      proved that comprehensive diabetes management education can significantly improve the quality
      of life of patients, decrease the incidence and mortality of diabetes complications, and
      relieve the government's medical economic burden (7). Besides, A number of studies have shown
      that the early detection and comprehensive management of diabetes can prevent the occurrence
      of a variety of complications and decrease the disability rate and premature death rate of
      diabetes. Therefore, how to improve the current situation of diabetes control in China is
      very important and a real problem in front of every doctor, patient and health institution.
      According to the diabetes management guidelines published by American Diabetes
      Association(ADA) and the National Institutes of Health(NIH), continuous follow-up of
      patients, diabetes self-management education and support (DSME/S) combined with
      multidisciplinary team comprehensive management can be abled to achieve better management
      results, and it is also a more comprehensive and cost-effective way to manage diabetic
      patients (8-12). In order to support health professionals to improve medical efficiency and
      promote patients develop healthy lifestyle, Shared Care diabetes management model established
      and believe that it will provide a sustained and effective solution for improving the
      effectiveness of comprehensive management for patients and reducing the burden of national
      chronic disease management.

      The Shared Care aims to provide patients with a continuous management model of
      omni-directional and lifelong care management, and to strengthen diabetes self-management
      education and supports (DSME/S), achieve better health outcomes and delay incidence and
      mortality of diabetic complications. The model consisted of a medical team that includes
      dietitians, diabetes educators, nurses and physical therapist led by physician, and provides
      comprehensive disease and health management for patients with diabetes through outpatient
      consultation and out-of-hospital online continuous management. The management strategy is
      adjusted and individualized based on patients' habit and situation. Compared with traditional
      diabetes outpatient settings, patients of Shared Care return to the hospital for regular
      follow-up every three months since the initial visit after the informed consent. For each
      follow-up, a comprehensive management plan is made by a multidisciplinary team, including
      doctor consultation, diabetes management, foot evaluation, fundus assessment, insulin
      injection assessment, exercise evaluation and guidance, etc. The patients download the Shared
      Care mobile application during the outpatient service and connect with the smart-glucometer
      BG1 to upload blood glucose dairy, blood pressure diary and food log in real time.

      With patient's informed consent, Patient-related vital signs (such as height, weight, body
      mass index, blood pressure, waist, hips), laboratory indicators (including glycated
      hemoglobin, low-density lipoprotein, total cholesterol, triglycerides, kidney indicators such
      as urine microalbumin and creatinine Ratio, glomerular filtration rate), blood glucose
      records, online learning frequency and other data will be uniformly recorded and
      comprehensively analyzed.

      All out-of-hospital online diabetes educators are qualified as registered nurses. Before the
      start of the study, the nurses should uniformly receive training and examination related to
      diabetes education in the Department of Endocrinology of Chaoyang Hospital. The main contents
      of online education include personalized assessment and suggestions on diet, hyperglycemia
      and hypoglycemia events, drug use and insulin preservation as directed by doctors, and on
      blood glucose monitoring and reminders for revisit every three months, etc. In case of
      special circumstances or prescription adjustment, online diabetes educators should follow the
      training process to summarize the patient's condition with the doctor on the same day or
      during the weekly regular outpatient clinic, or arrange additional subsequent visit of the
      patient, all online consultation process is carried out under the supervision of the doctor
      (the diabetes educator spends about 5 minutes a week to discuss the condition of special
      patients with the doctor according to the actual situation). The model enables both patients
      and medical teams to carry out real-time data sharing, intelligent analysis and remote
      monitoring, thus significantly improving management efficiency and releasing medical
      resources.

      A series of preliminary studies had been conducted in Chaoyang Hospital since January 2018.
      mean age of patients enrolled was 54.69 ± 11.14 years; the duration of diabetes was more than
      7.8 ±7.0 years, and more than 70% were complicated with hypertension and / or dyslipidemia.
      The baseline glycemic achieving rate of patients with a duration more than 10 years was less
      than 35%. After participated in the Shared Care management model, glycemic achieving rate of
      patients with diabetic was more than 75%. Compared with the baseline HbA1c 7.4±1.5%, patients
      HbA1c in the latest follow-up was 6.6 ±1.0%, with the average decreased of 0.8 ±1.6% (P
      <0.05). The 3B achieving rate (HbA1c <7%, LDL-C < 2.6mmol/L, BP <130/80mmHg) of patients
      under the management of Shared Care Model was 21.84%. The baseline urinary microalbuminuria /
      creatinine (UACR) 35.8mg/g was not significantly increased compared with the last follow-up
      of 32.1mg/g (P>0.10). The daily cost of hypoglycemic medicine was significantly reduced in
      patients with the duration of diabetes less than 2 years or 15 years or more (medicine daily
      cost of the baseline and the latest follow-up was 3.5 RMB per day and 2.3 RMB per day
      respectively in patients with the duration of diabetes less than 2 years (P<0.05); medicine
      daily cost of the baseline and the latest follow-up was 10.4 RMB per day and 9.5 RMB per day
      respectively in patients with the duration of diabetes of 15 years or more (P<0.05)), but
      there was no significant increase in patients with other durations of diabetes.

      The study evaluated and explored the effect of patient management and related factors under
      the Share Care management model aims to provide a clear evidence for the choice of new
      diagnosis and treatment strategies for patients with diabetes.

      All patients enrolled in the study need to go through screening, initial visit, revisit,
      half-year visit and annual visit. The following is an overview of the research design.

      Screening:

      210 patients with type 2 diabetes who met the criteria were enrolled. All patients with
      informed consent will undergo basic interviews, vital sign measurements and related
      biochemical tests. During the screening phase, the following variables will be collected:
      age, sex, smoking status (current smokers, former smokers, non-smokers), duration of
      diabetes, duration of dyslipidemia, concomitant diseases and medication, etc. Besides, vital
      signs, 12-lead electrocardiogram, regular blood test and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), the
      patient's blood lipid spectrum includes total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), High
      density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C),
      albumin-to-creatinine ratio(ACR) and safety laboratory measurements (creatine kinase, SCr,
      BUN, UA, ALT, AST) also will be collected. The designated researcher will conduct a serum
      pregnancy test on all fertile women. The body mass index ((BMI)) is calculated by dividing
      weight by the square of height (kg / m2). After fasting overnight for 8 to 12 hours, the
      blood samples were collected before breakfast the next day. EGFR will be calculated using a
      Modification of diet in renal disease (MDRD).

      Initial visit:

        -  Check the inclusion / exclusion criteria to confirm whether subjects are eligible to
           participate in the study. After confirming, the subjects will be randomly divided into
           the shared care group or the traditional therapy group according to the random number
           table.

        -  Basic vital signs: including height, weight, waist, hips, blood pressure, etc.

        -  Collection of metabolic indicators: HbA1c, ACR, blood biochemistry, etc.

        -  The number and days of emergency visits or hospitalizations due to diabetes-related
           factors (diabetic ketoacidosis, diabetic hyperosmotic coma, severe hypoglycemia) in the
           past three months before joining the study

        -  Filling in and recording the related behavior scale (summary of diabetes self-care
           activities (SDSCA), chinese diabetes management self-efficacy scale(C-DMSES), adjusted
           diabetes-specific quality of life scale (A-DQOL), morisky drug compliance scale and
           depression-anxiety-stress scale (DASS-21)).

        -  Insulin evaluation (including rotation of patients' insulin injection site, each change
           of needle, skin condition, preservation of insulin and correct use of insulin pen, etc.)

        -  Fundus evaluation.

        -  Foot evaluation.

        -  Health education.

        -  Daily medicine cost of patients

      Revisit (every three months):

        -  Basic vital signs: including height, weight, waist, hips, blood pressure, etc.

        -  Collection of metabolic indicators: HbA1c, ACR, blood biochemistry, etc.

        -  The number and days of emergency visits or hospitalizations in the last three months (or
           since the last visit) due to diabetes-related factors (diabetic ketoacidosis, diabetic
           hyperosmotic coma, severe hypoglycemia)

        -  Daily medicine cost of patients half-year visit (every 6 months from the initial visit)
           needs to be added on the basis of the index of revisit.

        -  Basic vital signs: including height, weight, waist, hips, blood pressure, etc.

        -  Collection of metabolic indicators: HbA1c, ACR, blood biochemistry, etc.

        -  The number and days of emergency visits or hospitalizations in the last three months (or
           since the last visit) due to diabetes-related factors (diabetic ketoacidosis, diabetic
           hyperosmotic coma, severe hypoglycemia).

        -  Daily medicine cost of patients.

        -  Insulin evaluation.

      Annual visit (every 12 months from the initial visit) in addition to all the indicators of
      revisit, there is also an increase:

        -  Filling in and recording the related behavior scale (summary of diabetes self-care
           activities (SDSCA), chinese diabetes management self-efficacy scale(C-DMSES), adjusted
           diabetes-specific quality of life scale (A-DQOL), morisky drug compliance scale and
           depression-anxiety-stress scale (DASS-21)).

        -  Insulin evaluation (including rotation of patients' insulin injection site, each change
           of needle, skin condition, preservation of insulin and correct use of insulin pen, etc.)

        -  Fundus evaluation.

        -  Foot evaluation.

        -  Insulin evaluation.

      After being included in the study, patients were randomly divided into two groups: shared
      care group (experimental group) or traditional therapy group (control group). The total
      observation period for each patient was 1 year. Follow-up was carried out every 3 months. At
      each visit, the patient's basic condition, various vital signs and metabolic indicators,
      daily medicine cost of patients, and the number and days of emergency visits or
      hospitalizations in the last three months (or since the last visit) due to diabetes-related
      factors (diabetic ketoacidosis, diabetic hyperosmotic coma, severe hypoglycemia) will be
      collected.

      Patients can download the Shared Care mobile application and connect with the
      smart-glucometer BG1 to upload blood glucose dairy in real time during the clinic. With
      patient's informed consent, the patient's follow-up data, laboratory indicators, etc. are
      uniformly collected and recorded for analysis.
    
  