
    
      The study has three purposes:

        1. To establish a procalcitonin (PCT) algorithm to assist in the identification of
           bacterial infection in patients with fever and chronic kidney disease (CKD) being
           treated by hemodialysis;

        2. To establish an algorithm to assist clinicians in distinguishing infection from fluid
           overload in patients with CKD treated by hemodialysis with shortness of breath using PCT
           and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP);

        3. To allow for evaluation of new tests, such as DNA, RNA, metabolite, and protein based
           tests, which might prove useful in the evaluation of clinical complications encountered
           by patients with chronic kidney disease treated by hemodialysis including infections and
           fluid overload.

      Baseline Visit:

        1. Review of medical and medication history

        2. A physical exam and routine clinical laboratory tests (hematology and chemistry) will be
           performed.

        3. PCT and BNP levels will be measured twice prior to hemodialysis (HD) treatment to
           establish baseline levels.

        4. Optional: If the subject consent, samples will be obtained for genetic tests (DNA, RNA,
           metabolite and proteins) for new tests to be developed in the future.

      Follow Up:

      1. A physical exam, routine clinical laboratory tests (hematology and chemistry) and medical
      and medication review will be obtained monthly.

      If a subject develops signs of infection or shortness of breath during the course of the
      study, additional research blood samples for procalcitonin, brain natriuretic peptide, and
      for genetic testing (Optional) will be obtained as follows:

        1. For patients with suspected infection, PCT levels will be drawn at the time of suspected
           infection and again at the start of the next HD treatment.

        2. For patients with shortness of breath, PCT and BNP levels will be drawn at the time of
           the complaint and again at the start of the next HD treatment.
    
  