
    
      The plan is to conduct the study through a cluster-randomized approach. Recruitment will take
      place amongst inpatients in the Swedish forensic mental health services. The clusters of
      patients randomized to the two study conditions will in effect be inpatient forensic mental
      health wards at Swedish forensic facilities. Enrolment and randomizing of clusters will take
      place stepwise during the duration of the study. Inpatient wards at participating sites will
      be randomized to either the control or the active condition and patients at these wards will
      be asked to give informed consent before participating in the study. After training, the
      staff at these wards will administer IMR to patients during two group sessions and one
      individual session a week. The IMR treatment administered consist of 10 chapters containing
      information and exercises pertaining to subjects relevant to mental health and recovery, such
      as medication use, social support, problem solving, etc. Translation of the original
      IMR-manual into Swedish and adaptions to the forensic mental health setting was done with
      permission from the original developers and authors of the treatment protocol. Study
      participants at control wards will receive treatment as usual. Data collection takes place at
      four times during the study (before start of treatment, four months into treatment, post
      treatment and during a three month follow-up). During data collection, participants fill in
      self-report measurements of symptom levels, functional impairment and perceived hope.
      Clinicians with good knowledge of participants also complete informant questionnaires on
      perceived levels of patient symptoms and functioning. During the data collection that takes
      place before treatment, participants also complete a neuropsychological test ("Zoo park" from
      the Behavioral assessment of dysexecutive syndrome, BADS). Anamnestic data pertaining to the
      pre-admission functioning and criminal history of the patients in the active condition will
      also be collected from the patient files. The data collection mentioned in the previous two
      sentences will be done to investigate potential moderators of treatment outcomes.

      The outcome measures used in the study are WHODAS 2.0 (World Health Organization Disability
      Schedule 2.0 self-report and informant versions), IMRs (Illness management and Recovery
      treatment scale, self-report and informant versions), HoNOS-S (Health of Nation Outcome
      Scale-Secure version) and ASHS (Adult State Hope Scale). During the data collection four
      months into treatment, only IMRs and ASHS is completed, whereas all outcome scales are
      completed during the other data collection points. During the data collection post-treatment,
      treatment participants also complete CSQ-8 (Client Satisfaction Questionnaire-8).

      The experiences of the staff administrating the treatment also will be investigated, with the
      purpose of exploring the process of implementing the intervention in this setting. This will
      be done using the Swedish version of the NoMAD-questionnaire (Normalization Process Theory
      Measure), which is a tool developed to operationalize the theoretical framework of
      Normalization Process Theory. The staff will complete this questionnaire after receiving
      training in the intervention, three months after treatment commencement and during a
      follow-up a year after treatment commencement. During the latter two of these data collection
      points staff will also be interviewed in a semi-structured fashion, using the questions in
      the NoMAD-questionnaire as a starting point for collection of more in depth qualitative data
      on the implementation of IMR. The part of the study pertaining to staff experiences of
      working with IMR are exploratory in character and we do not consider NoMAD to be a measure of
      treatment outcome.

      As mentioned above, certain anamnestic data and neuropsychological performance (measured by
      the Zoo-map subtest), will be collected and analyzed as potential moderators of treatment
      outcome. The pre-treatment self and informant-report of everyday functioning (measured by
      WHODAS 2.0) will also be analyzed as a potential moderator of treatment effects on the other
      outcome measures. Of special interest in this regard will be discrepancies between the
      participants´ self reported functional status (assessed by WHODAS 2.0 self report) and other
      measures of functional status (informant version of WHODAS 2.0, performance on the Zoo
      map-test and anamnestic indicators of functioning). This interest is motivated by previous
      research indicating that overestimation of own abilities play a part in predicting outcomes
      for schizophrenia spectrum patients.
    
  