
    
      The prevalence of cerebral palsy is increasing as the survival rate of extremely premature
      infants is improving. Studies have suggested an apparent association between maternal
      magnesium sulfate administration and a reduced risk of cerebral palsy. Other studies have
      suggested a possible association between magnesium sulfate and a reduction in neonatal
      cranial ultrasound abnormalities which may be markers for subsequent development of cerebral
      palsy.

      This multicenter trial tests whether prophylactic magnesium sulfate given to women, for whom
      preterm delivery is imminent, reduces the risk of death or moderate to severe cerebral palsy
      in their children. Women presenting from 24.0 to 31.6 weeks gestation with advanced preterm
      labor or premature rupture of the membranes (pPROM) and no recent exposure to magnesium
      sulfate are randomized to receive either intravenous magnesium sulfate or masked study drug
      placebo. The study drug is administered as a 6 gram loading dose followed by a 2 gram/hour
      infusion (or equivalent rate for placebo). If after 12 hours, delivery has not occurred and
      is not anticipated, the infusion is stopped. No other parenteral tocolytics other than the IV
      medication may be used. Retreatment with study medication is given any time labor recurs or
      delivery is anticipated until gestational age is > 34.0 wks. Standard clinical management and
      therapy is to be maintained for all study patients. Patients are assessed for signs of
      intolerance to the study medications and maternal data are collected up to hospital
      discharge. A sample of venous blood is collected and neonatal cranial ultrasounds are
      performed. Up to three follow-up visits are scheduled over two years where certified
      examiners, masked to study group assignment, collect physical and neurological data,
      including a modified Gross Motor Function Classification Scale. The Bayley Scales of Infant
      Development is also administered. Cranial ultrasounds are reviewed centrally.

      The primary outcome is a composite outcome of death or moderate to severe cerebral palsy.
      Secondary outcomes include maternal infectious morbidity, pulmonary edema and placental
      abruption, neonatal stillbirth and death, intraventricular hemorrhage, periventricular
      leukomalacia, neonatal infectious and noninfectious morbidity.
    
  