
    
      Diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease (diabetes and CVD) place a heavy and growing
      burden on people living in low and middle income countries. Many of them could be healthier
      if their disease was accurately diagnosed and correctly treated, but many are not. Doctors
      and nurses working in primary health care clinic are best placed people to diagnose and
      treat, especially where local clinics are near and free. But this raises two questions: 1.
      How to ensure that diabetes and CVD get the priority they need in overloaded clinics? 2. How
      to ensure rational evidence-based diagnosis and prescribing for diabetes and CVD? The
      investigators have developed a way of improving primary health care for people who have long
      term health conditions. It is a patient management tool (PMT), that is, a printed manual of
      flowcharts taking doctors and nurses from symptoms to diagnoses to treatments, tests or
      referrals, with advice on how to make decisions along the way about diagnoses, tests,
      treatments and referrals. They are prompted to think of other diseases and health problems
      that might be undetected or neglected. The package also includes a method of training known
      as outreach education. First trainers are trained, then trainers train groups of doctors and
      nurses at their workplaces, showing them how to use the guidelines, and using their own
      patients and clinical problems as examples. This outreach training is repeated several times
      in short sessions. The investigators' research in Africa has shown that this approach can be
      effective, cost effective, feasible and sustainable. It has been rolled out throughout South
      Africa and other African countries. But it has have not yet been shown to be effective for
      diabetes and CVD. The investigators have also not tried or evaluate it in Latin American
      countries, which have different health systems, and have many more doctors providing primary
      health care. Now co-investigators in the Brazilian city of Florianopolis have decided to put
      this educational package in place throughout the city, and have agreed to do so as a
      randomised controlled trial. This will clearly show whether PACK Brazil is effective, cost
      effective and feasible under Brazilian conditions. The core of the research will be a
      randomised controlled trial. 48 primary care clinics in the city will be randomly chosen
      either 1) to get the whole package of patient management tool plus training, or 2) only to
      get the patient management tool (which is expected to will make little difference without
      training). The investigators will compare patients in these two groups of clinics to see the
      effects of the training. They will use the clinics' electronic medical records to identify
      about 32000 adults diagnosed with diabetes and CVD. After the training starts they will
      follow these patients up for a year, and assess whether they are being appropriately treated
      and tested. The primary endpoints will be 1. Number of participants in whom at least one of
      the following tests was recorded: body mass index, plasma glucose, serum cholesterol,
      electrocardiogram, and 2. in participants with a diagnosis of hypertension recorded
      previously, average systolic blood pressure recorded. Secondary endpoints will include
      frequency of tests, the number who have each type of test, diastolic blood pressure in
      participants with hypertension, serum glucose levels in participants with diabetes,
      prescription of indicated treatments and treatment intensification, health measures (hospital
      admissions and deaths), and indicators of diagnosis and treatment of comorbid conditions such
      as depression. Eligible patients will be identified and outcomes measured using electronic
      medical records.
    
  