
    
      Currently, a minority of anatomic pulmonary resections are being performed by VATS (15%). The
      technical difficulty and increased actual and perceived danger of VATS lobectomy is related
      to PA branch manipulation, stapling and division. This is the main limitation for many
      thoracic surgeons regarding the adoption of VATS lobectomy into their practice. Furthermore,
      the majority of VATS lobectomies are being performed in high volume, academic medical centers
      with a resultant disparity in socioeconomic status between those that undergo VATS versus
      open lobectomy. If we can find a way to decrease the manipulation required by the surgeon on
      the PA branches, these procedures will be safer, less stressful for the surgeon and therefore
      more prevalent for anatomical pulmonary resections.

      Energy utilization in VATS lobectomy may also be more cost effective than endostaplers. The
      use of a single device for lymph node dissection, hilar dissection, and PA branch sealing may
      allow for overall procedural cost savings. There may also be a potential benefit in
      decreasing overall length of hospital stay due to decrease in chest tube duration secondary
      to decreased post-operative pleural fluid output following VATS lobectomy when using energy
      as opposed to cautery for mediastinal lymph node dissection.

      Objectives:

        -  Systematically evaluate the immediate, short- and medium-term efficacy and safety of PA
           sealing utilising ACE+7 in a human VATS Lobectomy/Segmentectomy.

        -  Understand cost issues related to use of ACE+7 in human VATS Lobectomy/Segmentectomy.

      General satisfaction of the surgeon utilizing energy sealing devices compared to standard
      endostaplers will be assessed using a post-procedural online survey administered by the
      research team immediately following each procedure.

      This multi-institutional, international trial will be important to decrease the bias
      associated with single center studies and bolster the confidence level of thoracic surgeons
      in the results of the trial. Study sites have been specifically chosen in the USA, Canada and
      Europe in order to increase the worldwide generalizability of results.
    
  