
    
      Sample size estimation:

      The previous trial (the CAPRIT study) showed that 2.0 g/dL increase of hemoglobin (Hb)
      reduced 69% of 2-year decline in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (Choukroun G, et
      al. J Am Soc Nephrol, 2012). Given that the annual eGFR decline in our patients with Hb level
      <10.5 g/dL was 1.66 (SD, 2.47) mL/min per 1.73 m2, the investigators hypothesized that the
      2-year eGFR decline in the conservative anemia management group and the aggressive anemia
      correction group should be 3.32 (SD, 4.94) and 1.03 (SD, 4.94) mL/min per 1.73 m2,
      respectively. In order to compare the actual efficacy of the intervention with the
      assumptions above and to evaluate the need for an early termination of the trial, the
      investigators will perform one interim analysis using a Pocock type α-spending function when
      a total of 50-60% of the target sample size completed this study or dropped out. Assuming 20%
      of dropout or lost-to-follow, the planned sample size of 272 patients would yield a power of
      90% for group comparison by using t-test with a type I error of 5%.

      Regarding cholecalciferol supplementation, 1,000 IU/day would increase serum
      25-hydroxyvitamin D level by 11.8 ng/mL in patients with BMI <30, as suggested by the
      previous trial (Gallagher JC, et al. Ann Intern Med, 2012). The investigators found in our
      prospective cohort study that the 98.2% of Japanese kidney transplant recipients had BMI <30,
      and that 10 ng/mL increase in 25-hydroxyvitamin D level was significantly associated with
      0.75 mL/min/1.73 m2 less decrease in annual eGFR change independent of potential confounders
      (in submission). As with the anemia intervention arms above, the investigators will perform
      one interim analysis using a Pocock type α-spending function when a total of 50-60% of the
      target sample size completed this study or dropped out in order to compare the actual
      efficacy of the intervention with the assumptions above and to evaluate the need for an early
      termination of the trial. Therefore, the investigators expect 1.77 mL/min per 1.73 m2 in eGFR
      would be preserved by 1,000 IU/day of cholecalciferol supplementation for 2 years. Based on
      this assumption, this study size will provide a power of 70%.

      Estimating kidney function:

      In primary analyses, eGFR will be calculated by using the Japanese equation as in sample size
      calculation (Matsuo S, et al. Am J Kidney Dis, 2009). However, this formula has not yet been
      validated in kidney transplant recipients. Therefore, the investigators will use the
      creatinine-based CKD-EPI equation with Japanese coefficient (Stevens LA, et al. Nephrol Dial
      Transplant, 2010. Horio M, et al. Am J Kidney Dis, 2010) and an available formula if
      validated in Japanese kidney transplant recipients at the time of analysis.

      Statistical analyses:

      For group comparison in a primary analysis, the investigators will use t-test or Wilcoxon
      rank sum test according to the distribution of eGFR change. In the further analyses, to
      analyze the time course of eGFR with respect to treatment assignment, changes in eGFR over
      time will be analyzed with a linear mixed model for repeated measures with both fixed and
      random intercept and slope. The multivariate model will contain time-varying eGFR as
      dependent variable and treatment group as well as the number of measurements (time) as
      independent variables. The study hypothesis will be tested by adding appropriate interaction
      terms between the exposures and time. For secondary endpoints, the investigators will use
      t-test, Wilcoxon rank sum test, or log-rank test for group comparison, and generalized linear
      models or Cox proportional hazards models to estimate each effect of the interventions,
      appropriately. The investigators will also adjust for baseline levels or past history of each
      outcome. Other potential confounders, such as age, sex, time since transplantation, blood
      pressure, urinary protein level, and diabetes, will be adjusted in sensitivity analyses.

      The interaction will be checked between anemia management and cholecalciferol supplementation
      as well as between each intervention and baseline levels of urinary protein, eGFR, Hb,
      25-hydroxyvitamin D, the use of active vitamin D compounds, and the length of time since
      transplantation. Additionally, stratified analyses will be conducted according to 0.2
      g/g･creatinine of urinary protein and the date of transplantation (November 1999, the release
      date of mycophenolate mofetil in Japan). However, the study size is not large enough to
      statistically evaluate these interactions. The results from these analyses should be
      interpreted with caution and regarded as exploratory and hypothesis generating.

      Missing values:

      Missing values will not be imputed in primary analyses. In sensitivity analyses, the
      investigators will use multiple imputation method and last-observation-carried-forward
      method.

      Note:

      The interim analysis plan was added to the protocol with an increase in the sample size from
      246 to 272, which has been approved by the local ethics committee on August 27, 2018.
    
  