
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To establish a specimen bank from peripheral blood specimens collected from women with a
           full spectrum of breast disease (invasive breast cancer [IBC], ductal or lobular
           carcinoma in situ [CIS], or benign breast disease [BBD]) with standardized clinical
           follow up and serial specimen collection for those with IBC.

        -  To determine the ability of quantitative real-time reverse-transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR)
           to discriminate between patients with IBC, CIS, and BBD by comparing baseline assay
           values from pre-biopsy specimens to the histologic diagnosis.

        -  To determine the ability of qRT-PCR to predict treatment response by comparing serial
           assay values from patients with evaluable IBC to their objective response.

        -  To determine the ability of qRT-PCR to predict relapse by comparing the serial assay
           values from all patients with IBC to their disease status.

        -  To determine the ability of qRT-PCR to perform as an independent prognostic factor by
           comparing baseline assay values from all patients with IBC to their disease status,
           stratified by known breast cancer prognostic factors.

      Secondary

        -  To perform exploratory studies identifying potential targets for novel nucleic acid and
           proteomic-based early detection assays.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo baseline peripheral blood specimen collection pre-biopsy and then
      periodically for up to 10 years. Specimens are analyzed for circulating tumor cells via
      quantitative real-time reverse-transcriptase PCR, immunofluorescence, and bidirectional
      pyrophosphorolysis-activated polymerization allele-specific amplification; and for protein
      profiles via mass spectometry, liquid chromatography, enzyme digestion, and tandem mass
      spectometry. Patients' tumor tissue (invasive breast cancer [IBC] only) is analyzed for p53
      via IHC. Medical records are reviewed periodically.

      Patients with IBC complete a quality of life assessment at baseline and every 6 months for up
      to 10 years.
    
  