
    
      Background: Over 1 million Veterans have PTSD and most (80% or more) do not receive
      first-line treatments, evidence-based psychotherapies, despite significant VA investment to
      increase access to these treatments. Clinicians often struggle to engage Veterans in
      evidence-based psychotherapies because they can be emotionally challenging treatments.
      Engagement could be catalyzed by mental health providers integrated into primary care (i.e.,
      VA's Primary Care-Mental Health Integration, or PC-MHI) to maximize the reach of engagement
      efforts beyond specialty PTSD settings. Shared decision making, a process by which the
      patient and provider discuss treatment options, weigh benefits and risks, and select a
      treatment that meets the patient's needs, addresses known patient and provider barriers to
      evidence-based psychotherapies, including knowledge, self-efficacy, and trust. However, no
      study has examined shared decision making for PTSD in primary care. The proposal will address
      this knowledge gap by developing and refining a shared decision making intervention for PTSD,
      Patient Readiness for Improvement through Motivation, Engagement, and Decision-making
      (PRIMED), using input from Veterans with diverse perspectives, PC-MHI providers, and VA
      operational partners to optimize integration of shared decision making into clinical care.
      The investigators will collect acceptability and feasibility data to support an application
      for a future effectiveness-implementation trial.

      Significance/Impact: Dr. Chen's proposed research addresses three HSR&D and VA priorities: 1)
      increase engagement and retention of Veterans in evidence-based PTSD treatments, 2) advance
      health services research methods, specifically implementation science and user-centered
      design, which focuses on thorough integration of Veteran and frontline provider input, and 3)
      support suicide prevention efforts through effective treatment of PTSD, a major risk factor
      for suicide.

      Innovation: The proposed project will promote significant change in current VA clinical
      practice. PC-MHI providers typically refer out patients with PTSD and defer discussions about
      treatment options to specialty providers. This proposal will help PC-MHI providers use a
      formal engagement strategy, shared decision making, to improve patients' knowledge of
      first-line PTSD treatments and to build motivation for care.

      Specific Aims: 1) Refine PRIMED using user-centered design methods and diverse Veterans'
      perspectives, 2) Beta test PRIMED in one rural and one urban PC-MHI clinic to optimize
      integration into clinical workflow and achieve satisfactory acceptability and feasibility
      across a range of settings, 3) Conduct a small, randomized pilot trial (N=40) of PRIMED vs.
      usual care in two VA PC-MHI clinics to assess the feasibility of study procedures, which will
      inform a future larger trial.

      Methodology: In Aim 1, Dr. Chen will conduct qualitative interviews using user-centered
      design methods with 25 VA PC-MHI patients with PTSD, oversampling women veterans and
      racial/ethnic minority veterans, to refine the PRIMED intervention protocol. In Aim 2, Dr.
      Chen will use rapid, iterative beta-testing with approximately 20 patients to optimize the
      acceptability and feasibility of delivering PRIMED in the clinical setting and its
      integration into clinical workflow across varied settings (small rural clinics and large
      urban clinics). In Aim 3, Dr. Chen will conduct a pilot randomized feasibility trial (N=40)
      to assess the feasibility of recruiting and randomizing Veterans and measuring treatment
      engagement and clinical outcomes.

      Next Steps/Implementation: The research and training activities will prepare the nominee to
      conduct a multi-site, hybrid type 1 effectiveness-implementation trial to test the
      effectiveness of PRIMED for increasing receipt of first-line PTSD treatments and to begin to
      assess implementation barriers and facilitators. Future work to move this research into
      practice would involve collaborating with operational partners to improve VA SAIL performance
      measures in mental health, which are weighted to encourage evidence-based psychotherapies.
    
  