
    
      A randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled study of the effect of liraglutide as an
      additional treatment to insulin on HbA1c, body weight and hypoglycaemia in poorly regulated
      type 1 diabetes patients.

      Background Treatment with glucagon-like peptid 1 (GLP-1) agonists liraglutide and exenatide
      leads to weight loss and decrease in haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) in oral anti diabetic treated
      type 2 diabetes patients. Smaller studies have shown similar effects in insulin treated type
      2 diabetes patients, with no increased risk of hypoglycaemia.

      It is estimated that 40-50 % of type 1 diabetes patients in the US suffers from overweight or
      poor glycaemic control (HbA1c > 8 %). At present treatment of type 1 diabetes solely consists
      of insulin injections.

      A recent study reports effects of adding liraglutide to a group of well regulated (HbA1c <
      7.5 %) normal to overweight insulin treated type 1 diabetes patients for 24 weeks. A decrease
      in HbA1c, weight, insulin doses and glycaemic excursions measured by continuous glucose
      monitoring was seen. The study was not placebo controlled.

      The available literature suggests that GLP-1 agonists reduce insulin dose and weight in well
      regulated type 1 diabetes patients, who are normal- to overweight. To our knowledge, no study
      has addressed whether liraglutide will improve HbA1c and reduce bodyweight in overweight and
      poorly regulated type 1 diabetes patients.

      At present the most efficient way to reduce HbA1c is to use insulin pump therapy, and most
      studies suggest that this will decreased HbA1c by approximately 0.5 %. Insulin pump therapy
      is however only an option in very compliant patients. In most clinics treating type 1
      diabetes 40-50 % of patients will have HbA1c > 8 % and many of these patients will, due to
      insufficient compliance, not be candidates for an insulin pump.

      At Steno Diabetes Center approximately 3000 well characterized type 1 diabetes patients is
      followed in the outpatient clinic, and 40-50 % of these have HbA1c > 8.0 %. If liraglutide
      given once daily results in a reduction of HbA1c of 0.5 % it will probably be a very
      cost-effective additional therapy for type 1 diabetes patients in insufficient metabolic
      control.

      Several studies have shown that liraglutide lowers systolic blood pressure. Dysregulation
      increases the risk of microvascular complications in type 1 diabetes of which
      microalbuminuria results in a need for treatment with antihypertensive medication. Overweight
      increases the risk of hypertension and arteriosclerosis and thereby cardiovascular diseases.
      Carotis intima media thickness is a validated estimate for future cardiovascular disease and
      pulse wave velocity is a measure of arterial stiffness. We perform 24 hour blood pressure
      measurements to document possible effects of liraglutide on blood pressure and CIMT and PWV
      to investigate the effect of liraglutide on cardiovascular disease and arteriosclerosis.
    
  