
    
      Background

      Tracheostomy is one of the most frequently performed techniques in intensive care units
      (ICU). A few years after the description of the percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT),
      endoscopic guide as part of the technique was performed in four patients. The authors
      concluded that the endoscopic guide provided advantages to the realization of PDT. Other
      authors have state that endoscopy, significantly reduces the incidence of serious
      complications such as posterior tracheal tears, false passage, pneumothorax and subcutaneous
      emphysema. However, currently endoscopic guide as part of the percutaneous tracheostomy is
      controversial. Although for some authors its use reduces the number of complications, others
      found that endoscopic guide increases the procedure cost, increases airway pressure and PaCO2
      and sometimes requires the presence of another physician. Thus, some do not consider it
      necessary when the physicians have enough experience with percutaneous tracheostomy.
      International guidelines conclude that there is insufficient evidence to support the routine
      use of bronchoscopy during percutaneous tracheostomy in order to decrease the number of
      complications. In addition the routine use of endoscopic guide is heterogeneous according the
      published surveys. Specifically, in Spain its use was the lowest of the six published nation
      surveys. Extensive randomized trials to compare percutaneous tracheostomy with endoscopic
      guide and without endoscopic guide are needed in order to clarify this controversial issue.
      This constitutes the justification of this trial.

      Hypothesis

      Percutaneous tracheotomy performed under endoscopic guidance decreases the incidence of
      perioperative complications of the procedure.

      Main goal

        1. - To assess the incidence of perioperative complications of percutaneous tracheotomy
           under endoscopic guide versus blind percutaneous tracheotomy.

        2. - To assess the ventilatory parameters during percutaneous tracheostomy with and without
           endoscopic control.

      Methodology

      Prospective, multicenter randomized study. Patients admitted to the ICU who need tracheostomy
      due to prolonged mechanical ventilation, who do not have neither contraindications to perform
      the percutaneous technique nor contraindications to perform fibrobronchoscopy will be
      randomized.

      The percutaneous tracheostomy will be carried out with the single-step dilation method. For
      its realization, the usual protocol will be followed.

      The included patients will be randomized 1:1 (percutaneous tracheostomy with endoscopic guide
      vs percutaneous tracheostomy without endoscopic guide). The randomization system will be by
      closed envelope. A sample size of 221 patients in each branch has been calculated.

      The percutaneous tracheostomy and fiberoptic bronchoscopy will be performed by staff with
      experience with both procedures.
    
  