
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the safety of the combination of sodium stibogluconate and interferon
           alfa-2b with chemotherapy.

        -  To confirm the activity of sodium stibogluconate in augmenting cytokine effects.

      Secondary

        -  To quantify the effects of sodium stibogluconate on interferon alfa-2b induced gene
           modulation and signal transduction pathways by measuring the serum soluble gene
           products.

        -  To define the effectiveness of sodium stibogluconate in inhibiting the protein tyrosine
           phosphatases SHP-1 and SHP-2 assayed from peripheral blood leukocytes of patients
           receiving sodium stibogluconate in combination with interferon alfa-2b.

        -  To define the pharmacokinetics of sodium stibogluconate in serum at escalating doses.

        -  To assess clinical response to the combination of sodium stibogluconate and interferon
           alfa-2b as priming for combination chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Course 1: Patients receive sodium stibogluconate IV over 15 minutes on day 1 and days
           15-18; interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously (SC) on days 8-12 and 15-18; cisplatin IV over
           30-60 minutes and vinblastine IV on days 19 and 20; and dacarbazine. After a 2-week rest
           period, patients proceed to course 2.

        -  Course 2 and all subsequent courses: Patients receive sodium stibogluconate IV over 15
           minutes and interferon alfa-2b SC on days 1-4; cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes and
           vinblastine IV on days 5 and 6; dacarbazine. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.* NOTE: *Patients with stage IV disease
           who have no evidence of disease [NED} receive only 4 courses of therapy.

      Cohorts of 6 patients receive escalating doses of sodium stibogluconate until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which
      dose-limiting toxicity occurs (i.e., no more than 1 patient at a given dose experiences DLT).

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for immunological and pharmacokinetic
      studies. Samples are analyzed for serum soluble gene products and protein tyrosine
      phosphatase inhibition.
    
  