
    
      For this study, we aim to include 12 patients with intractable, chronic orofacial pain of
      peripheral origin with a baseline VAS of at least 5 (0= no pain, 10= worst possible pain).
      The investigator (Dylan Henssen) contacts the pain nurse, neurosurgeons and pain physicians
      to ask them to seek contact with their patients to inform them about this research.
      Afterwards, if the patients wish to learn more or wish to participate, they receive an
      information package, including an information letter and an informed consent form. When the
      patient agrees to be included they receive four McGill Pain questionnaires which must be
      filled in weekly. After these four weeks, the patient is invited to the outpatient clinic to
      meet with the investigator. During this consultation, the patient talks about the pain he/she
      experiences, submits the four filled-in questionnaires and receives further information about
      the research. After the consultation, all patients are randomized in double-blinded fashion.

      At the next meeting at the Donders Institute at Nijmegen, the patient takes place in a
      relaxing chair. A second, independent researcher will install the transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS) coils, one on each side of the patient. The coils are positioned in such a
      fashion that both the coils can stimulate the primary motor cortex. Then the independent
      researcher starts the stimulation protocol. In the first session, the patient either receives
      unilateral or bilateral stimulation. After this session, the patient fills in a new McGill
      Pain questionnaire in order to measure the pain sensation after the first session of TMS.
      Then the patient goes home for one month. At home, another 4 McGill Pain Questionnaires are
      asked to fill in. After this, the patient returns to the Donders Institute to take place in
      the relaxing chair in order to be treated in the second session. Again, the patient either
      receives unilateral or bilateral stimulation, depending on what was received during the first
      session. Again, the patients are asked to fill in 4 new McGill Pain questionnaires, one per
      week (See figure 1).

      At the end of this session, the patient is invited to meet with the investigator or
      independent researcher once more to talk about their experiences and pain relief during the
      research. This interview takes place at Radboudumc and is audio recorded.

      All the McGill Pain questionnaires are analyzed by the researcher (Dylan Henssen) using SPSS.
      Afterwards, the independent researcher discloses which patient received uni- or bilateral in
      which order. The audio recorded interviews are transcribed verbatim and analyzed using
      Atlas.tii.
    
  