
    
      Social anxiety disorder (also known as social phobia) is an Axis I anxiety disorder
      characterized by intense fear and avoidance of social or performance situations in which one
      might be scrutinized. Its onset is typically in the early teen years. It is the third most
      common mental disorder in the United States, exceeded in prevalence only by depression and
      alcoholism. Approximately 20% of the individuals with social anxiety disorder have alcohol
      problems. Anecdotal and empirical evidence suggests that alcohol is used by some socially
      anxious individuals to self-medicate anxiety symptoms, a practice that could lead to alcohol
      abuse and/or dependence. The proposed project further explores the self-medication hypothesis
      through the use of a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Paroxetine
      (a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) is the drug to be used in the study. Individuals
      who drink alcohol to cope with social anxiety symptoms and who meet DSM-IV criteria for the
      dual-diagnoses of social anxiety disorder and alcohol use disorders will be enrolled in the
      trial. All individuals will be seeking treatment for social anxiety disorder. The treatment
      phase will last 16 weeks. Dosing will start at 20 mg/day (paroxetine or placebo) and will
      increase gradually to a maximum dose of 60 mg/day. Each week during treatment and at the end
      of the trial, assessments will be made with standard instruments to determine the effect of
      paroxetine (versus placebo) on social anxiety severity, alcohol use, and more specifically,
      the intentional use of alcohol to cope with social anxiety symptoms. Additionally, 6 month
      and 12 month follow-up interviews will be conducted. The overarching hypothesis is that
      because paroxetine will improve social anxiety severity, alcohol use and/or alcohol use for
      coping will also be reduced in the paroxetine-treated group.
    
  