
    
      Integrins

      Integrins are a group of molecules responsible for intercellular adhesion and signalling.
      They comprise a superfamily of heterodimeric receptors that are composed of 18 different α
      and β subunits. In combination, they can generate 24 different receptor subtypes with a range
      of physiological and pathophysiological functions. The αvβ3 receptor is an integrin that is
      found at low levels on mature endothelial cells but is markedly up regulated on endothelial
      cells of actively growing blood vessels. It was previously known as the vitronectin receptor
      although it was subsequently found to bind many other ligands including fibrinogen,
      fibronectin, laminin, thrombospondin, von Willebrand factor, and certain collagen subtypes.
      These features are also seen with the αvβ5 integrin receptor, with both receptors recognising
      the arginine-glycine-aspartate (RGD) motif present on these ligands.

      1.1.2 Role of αvβ3 and αvβ5 Integrins in Cardiovascular Disease

      The expression of αvβ3 and αvβ5 receptors is up regulated in a number of diseased states and
      this has been particularly well characterised in the angiogenesis associated with tumour
      growth and metastases. However, there are many potential roles for this integrin pathway in
      cardiovascular disease including myocardial infarction, atherosclerosis, restenosis, aortic
      stenosis and aneurysm disease that have been relatively unexplored.

      1.1.2.1 Aortic Stenosis

      Aortic stenosis is characterized by extensive valvular thickening due to accumulation of
      fibrous tissue and remodeling of the extracellular matrix. In all three layers of the valve,
      abundant fibroblast-like cells are found and are commonly referred to as valvular
      interstitial cells. A sub-population of these cells become activated by the inflammatory
      activity within the valve and differentiate into myofibroblasts. Whilst fibroblasts control
      the synthesis of collagen in the normal valve, myofibroblasts are responsible for the
      accelerated fibrosis observed within stenotic valves. In addition, matrix metalloproteinases
      are secreted by myofibroblasts and inflammatory cells, and have an important and complex role
      in the restructuring of the valve leaflet matrix. As already indicated, activation and
      differentiation of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts are dependent on αvβ3 and αvβ5 receptor
      expression. In addition, mirroring the situation in carotid atherosclerosis, patients with
      severe aortic stenosis have a high incidence (78%) of intraleaflet haemorrhage and this is
      associated with angiogenesis and more rapid disease progression.

      Histopathological studies have confirmed fibrosis to be an integral part of the left
      ventricular hypertrophic process in aortic stenosis. Myofibroblasts infiltrate the myocardium
      and secrete extracellular matrix proteins including collagen types I and III. Areas of
      fibrosis are observed to co-localize with areas of myocyte apoptosis and it has been
      suggested that fibrosis occurs as a form of scarring after myocyte death and injury. As with
      fibrosis in the valve, the renin-angiotensin system, transforming growth factor-beta and an
      imbalance in matrix metalloproteinase and their tissue inhibitor activity have all been
      implicated in this process. A mid-wall pattern of fibrosis has been observed in the
      myocardium of up to 38% of patients with moderate or severe aortic stenosis and has been
      associated with a more advanced hypertrophic response. Importantly, there is also an 8-fold
      increase in mortality associated with mid-wall fibrosis.

      1.1.2.2 Atherosclerosis and Restenosis

      The development of atherosclerosis is due to a complex interplay of oxidised lipid,
      inflammatory cell infiltration, and smooth muscle cell migration in the arterial wall. Once
      established, atherosclerotic plaques may progress and rupture leading to the clinical
      presentations of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. Features associated with plaque
      rupture include a thin fibrous cap, lipid-rich pool and intraplaque haemorrhage. Indeed,
      plaque rupture is particularly associated with plaque neovascularisation and
      vascular-endothelial growth factor expression suggesting that instability may be induced by
      angiogenesis. Thus, up regulation of αvβ3 and αvβ5 receptors may represent a novel marker of,
      and potential therapeutic target for, plaque vulnerability.

      1.1.3 Fluciclatide

      Fluciclatide is a RGD-containing cyclic peptide that has recently been developed as an
      18F-radiotracer to detect tumour angiogenesis by positron emission tomography. It is highly
      selective for the αvβ3 and αvβ5 receptors with affinities (EC50) of 11.1 and 0.1 nM
      respectively with minimal cross reactivity with the αIIbβ3 receptor (EC50 281 nM).
      Pre-clinical tumour work has demonstrated that 18F-fluciclatide is taken up by glioblastomas
      and that this is suppressed by the anti-angiogenic tyrosine kinase inhibitor, sunitinib,
      confirming the specificity of fluciclatide for areas of angiogenesis. It has been assessed in
      phase I clinical trials and found to be safe and well tolerated.

      1.1.4 Aims

      To date, there have been many preclinical studies examining the application of radiotracers
      targeting the αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrin receptors. The clinical application of these tracers has
      been largely limited to oncology as a method of assessing angiogenesis within tumours. Here
      we wish to explore the role of the αvβ3 and αvβ5 receptor radiotracer, 18F-fluciclatide, to
      assess angiogenesis and fibrosis in patients with aortic stenosis as a measure of both
      valvular and myocardial fibrosis. This patient group will have co-existent aortic atheroma
      and this will provide us with an opportunistic assessment of tracer uptake in
      atherosclerosis. We feel it is important to assess a range of cardiovascular conditions to
      determine whether αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrin receptor expression is particular to certain disease
      processes. If successful, these preliminary data will permit the more detailed exploration of
      specific disease areas and novel therapeutic interventions. At present, fluciclatide is not
      licensed or approved for clinical use and is being used here as an Investigational Agent to
      explore the pathophysiology of aortic stenosis.

      1.2 ORIGINAL HYPOTHESES

      We hypothesise that 18F-fluciclatide can identify the expression of the αvβ3 and αvβ5
      integrin receptors in vivo in man in two major cardiovascular disease areas: aortic
      atherosclerosis and aortic stenosis. Specifically, we hypothesise that 18F-fluciclatide will:

        1. Be taken up into aortic atherosclerotic plaque.

        2. Show demonstrable uptake in the aortic valve and myocardium of patients with aortic
           stenosis that will correlate with the degree of active angiogenesis and fibrosis.

      6.1 ANGIOGENESIS AND FIBROSIS IN AORTIC STENOSIS

      Aortic stenosis is associated with substantial left ventricular hypertrophy and consequent
      myocardial fibrosis with the latter predicting prognosis. Left ventricular hypertrophy and
      associated fibrosis is also a major risk factor for adverse cardiovascular events in a number
      of other conditions including essential hypertension. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging is
      the gold-standard method of assessing for the presence of myocardial fibrosis but it does not
      necessarily indicate the on going activity of the fibrotic process. In this study, we will
      assess the uptake of 18F-fluciclatide in patients with aortic stenosis as a model of pressure
      overload left ventricular hypertrophy. We will also seize the opportunity to determine
      whether there is any uptake of 18F-fluciclatide in the aortic valve given that this has been
      shown to have areas of fibrosis and angiogenesis.

      All study patients and healthy volunteers will undergo blood sampling, echocardiogram,
      positron emission and computed tomography scans with 18F-fluciclatide as well as cardiac
      magnetic resonance imaging with assessment of gadolinium late enhancement. Following
      injection of 18F-fluciclatide, patients will be monitored using our standard clinical
      approach, including observation of haemodynamic parameters, and this will continue throughout
      their study visit until departure. In patients undergoing aortic valve replacement surgery,
      aortic valve tissue will be retained and a 3-mm tru-cut biopsy of left ventricular myocardium
      obtained with which to compare the findings from the scans.

      Healthy volunteer patients will not undergo repeat assessment. After a period of one to two
      years from their initial scan, patients with Aortic Stenosis will return for repeat blood
      sampling, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging with assessment of late gadolinium enhancement
      and echocardiogram. Those patients who have undergone an aortic valve replacement will
      undergo repeat positron emission and computed tomography scans with 18F-fluciclatide six
      months after their operation, prior to their second cardiac MRI scan.

      Blood samples will be assessed using standard clinical biochemical and haematological
      profiles such as full blood count and urea and electrolytes. In addition, markers of cardiac
      ischaemia, fibrosis and angiogenesis will be assessed. Additional serum, plasma and DNA will
      be stored at -80 degrees Celsius for future potential analyses.

      6.1.2 Study Interpretation

      We anticipate that myocardial uptake of 18F-fluciclatide will be increased in patients with
      aortic stenosis and left ventricular hypertrophy. We expect the degree of myocardial uptake
      to correlate with cardiac magnetic resonance imaging assessment of fibrosis as well as the
      histological measures of fibrosis and αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrin receptor expression. We expect
      the degree of myocardial uptake to predict cardiac magnetic resonance imaging assessment of
      fibrosis following a period of one to two years. In exploratory analyses, we will also take
      the opportunity to assess the extent of 18F-fluciclatide uptake within the aortic valve
      itself, and if successful, correlate this with histological measures of angiogenesis and
      fibrosis.

      6.2 ANGIOGENESIS IN AORTIC ATHEROSCLEROSIS

      Patients with aortic stenosis will have a high prevalence of concomitant aortic
      atherosclerosis. In Dr Dweck's Fellowship, we were able to exploit this association and
      undertake secondary analyses of 18F-sodium fluoride uptake in aortic and coronary
      atherosclerosis. This generated some highly innovative findings that informed our
      understanding of atherosclerosis and the role of calcification.

      6.2.1 Study Schedule

      We will use the datasets obtained from the patients above to explore the uptake of
      18F-fluciclatide within the thoracic aorta. Atherosclerosis will be identified using computed
      tomography and magnetic resonance images obtained of the thorax at the time of the study
      scans. No additional image acquisition will be required. This will provide pilot data to
      inform subsequent dedicated studies focused on acutely inflamed atherosclerotic plaques, such
      as patients with recent transient ischaemic attacks or strokes attributable to carotid
      disease.
    
  