
    
      Cardiothoracic Surgeon:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will receive a DVD containing multiple videos of
      different surgeons or surgical trainees performing CAB procedures. You will be trained by the
      Principal Investigator (PI) on how you should rate the performance of each surgeon/trainee.
      You will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups:

        -  If you are in the Conventional Rater (CR) Group, you will receive conventional training
           from the PI about how to rate the videos.

        -  If you are in the Video Rater (VR) Group, you will receive conventional training from
           the PI about how to rate the videos. You will also receive a video rater training
           manual.

      You will receive up to 38 different recorded procedures while you are on study. Each
      procedure should last about 15 minutes. You will record the identification code that appears
      at the beginning of each video, and the date and time that you viewed each video. You will
      watch each video and then rate the performance of the surgeon/trainee using a checklist and a
      Global Rating Scale. These rating documents will be given to you on a thumb drive that you
      will either fill out on your computer or print out and fill in by hand. You will be given
      more detailed instructions on how to fill out the checklist and rating scales by the
      Principal Investigator (PI).

      Your identity will be coded and blinded throughout the study. No identifying information will
      be directly linked to your responses. Only the video identification numbers and your code
      number will be used to identify the assessment data. The code key will be stored in a
      separate computer or thumb drive.

      Length of Study:

      You will have 1 month to view and rate all videos. You will be contacted 1 time each week by
      the PI to monitor your progress.

      After you have watched and rated all the videos, you will return the videos, your responses
      (either on the thumb drive or on printed hard-copies), and the video rater training manual
      (if you are in the VR group) in a pre-paid mailer.

      Up to 20 raters may take part in this study.

      Cardiothoracic Surgical Trainee:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will fill out a form that asks about your
      surgical experience. It will also ask about your age, sex, and initials, but these fields are
      optional.

      You will then use the ProXennon Surgical Headlight Camera System (a small camera that is
      mounted in place directly over a high-intensity light that you wear on your head) to record
      yourself performing CAB procedures. The main principal investigator (PI) will be present when
      the system is being used to make sure that it is set up properly and to collect the videos
      when the procedures are complete. No audio will be recorded. Each video will begin when the
      dissection of a coronary artery has begun and will end when all manipulation of the
      anastomosis is complete. You will record at least 6 separate anastomoses, or at least 2-3
      procedures.

      The time taken to set-up the recording equipment will be documented by the PI for each
      procedure. After each procedure, a questionnaire will be completed by the intra-operative
      personnel (nurses, anesthesiologist, perfusionist, operative surgeon, assistant surgeon) that
      contains questions about any interference from the recording equipment. Neither you nor the
      intra-operative personnel will be identified in this questionnaire.

      The videos will be given a code number. The code key will be kept separately from the video
      recordings. No identifying information will be directly linked to your videos. Only the
      researcher in charge will have access to the code key. This is so the researcher will be able
      to link the videos to the form you filled out at the beginning of the study describing your
      surgical experience. All data will be presented in aggregate to protect participant identity.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you have submitted your last recording

      This is an investigational study. The ProXennon Surgical Headlight Camera System is an
      approved, standard method of recording CAB procedures.

      Up to 22 trainees and up to 8 experienced surgeons may take part in this study.
    
  