
    
      ERAS (Enhanced recovery after surgery) strategy is extremely important for patients receiving
      esophagectomy including the preoperative preparation (smoking cessation, exercise
      prescription and nutrition prescription), intraoperative management, and postoperative
      analgesia and respiratory rehabilitation. However, despite the less invasive thoracoscopic
      esophagectomy and laparoscopic gastric tube reconstruction was developed, respiratory
      complications including acute lung injury (ALI) were observed up to 20% and associate with
      50% of mortality. A new preventive anesthetic ERAS strategy including precise perioperative
      fluid management and preventive management after tracheal extubation should be developed.

      Previous report indicated that none of the variables studied except fluid administration were
      shown as a risk factor for the development of respiratory complications on the multivariate
      analysis on esophageal surgery. However, there are rare prospective investigations of
      perioperative fluid administration strategy on postoperative complications after
      esophagectomy. Our group has studied on goal-directed fluid optimization and we found that
      the goal of optimization may differ for specific surgery. For esophagectomy, new anesthetic
      ERAS strategy should include precise preoptimized circulatory management and aggressive
      postoperative pulmonary care. Based on Frank-Starling law (stroke volume, SV, response to
      fluid therapy), a precise goal for perioperative goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) becomes
      possible in anesthetic practice. However, the effects of preoperative maximization of SV
      remain unknown. Following our study in last year, we planned to randomize 120 esophagectomy
      patients in the following 3 years into different GDFT groups (SV maximization and SV
      normalization groups). Postoperative THRIVE (Transnasal Humidified Rapid-Insufflation
      Ventilatory Exchange) therapy will be take place immediately after tracheal extubation. Blood
      samples will be obtained preoperatively to postoperative day 1 to measure lung injuries,
      kidney injuries as well as the inflammatory and oxidative markers. The clinical records will
      be collected (including extubation time, ICU stay, hospitalization days, 30-day mortality,
      90-day mortality, readmission, postoperative cardiovascular, pulmonary, and renal
      complications, gastric tube related complications etc. ). The goals of this study are to
      testify the effectiveness on enhance recovery by new anesthetic ERAS strategy.
    
  