
    
      It's a non-interventional, multi-centre study.

      The request for Temporary Hebergement must be made by the principal investigator or on the
      recommendation of the other doctors in the co-investigator department at least 48 hours
      before the discharge from hospital. The EHPAD (Retirement Home) coordinating physician and/or
      nurse coordinator and the social worker plan the hospitalization release for Temporary
      Accommodation admission. The social worker must validate with the doctors the feasibility and
      coherence of the project of return to home, and write a summary attached to the admission
      file (social report) which will be used in the final analysis of the patients' return-to-home
      projects included in the study.

      The hospital discharge for admission to HT is made with the agreement of the hospital doctor
      and the host EHPAD (Retirement home). A "check-list" is established to complete the patient's
      chart.

      Upon admission and management of the patient in Temporary Hebergement , he will be followed
      by his treating physician. If necessary, the on-call doctor of the department that referred
      the patient may be contacted in case of hospital-applicant care. A mid-term review will be
      planned by the EHPAD (Retirement home social) worker to anticipate situations at risk of exit
      blockage at Day 30. The patient will be able to benefit from physiotherapy and speech therapy
      on prescription by liberal professionals working in the EHPAD, as well as occupational
      therapy and psychomotricity on the prescription of the coordinating physician during the
      development of the accompanying project. In addition, the Temporary Hebergement beneficiary
      will be able to participate in all the social activities of the residence, according to his
      wishes.

      The following data: Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients (Nottingham Scale) and
      Caregivers (SF-36 Scale), Caregiver Helper Questionnaire for Home Patients, Caregiver Burden
      Scale (Zarit) , ADL and IADL scales, EHPAD Patient and Caregiver Perception Questionnaire,
      Study Acceptability Questionnaire for Included Topics, Patient Comorbidity Evaluation Scale
      (Charlson) and Socio-Dataeconomic) are collected retrospectively, at Day 0 (inclusion), at
      Day 15, Day 30, Day 90 and Day 180 which corresponds to the end of the follow-up of patients
      provided for in the protocol
    
  