
    
      Vaginal, oral and systemic inflammation in preterm birth

        1. Summary

           The prevalence of preterm birth (PTB) is increasing. While intrauterine infections may
           be the primary cause of PTB, remote infections may also be part of the aetiology and
           risk for gestational complications. Predicting and identifying women at risk for
           delivering preterm is difficult. Comprehensive studies are needed to study all
           infectious and inflammatory processes that may be involved in birth complications.
           Social, ethnic and behavioural risks are part of the factors involved. Thus,
           case-control studies of infection in pregnancy must acknowledge and control for such
           other factors.

           The oral cavity provides a unique study model of periodontal infection and inflammation.
           Gingivitis and periodontitis have been associated with an elevated risk for PTB. A large
           entity of bacteria including both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria competent to elicit a
           systemic hyper-inflammatory host immune response can be identified in periodontal
           infection. Inflammation of the gingival tissues increases in pregnancy. Knowledge
           obtained through studies of clinical parameters as well as studies of bacteria and
           cytokines in oral, vaginal and blood samples in pregnant women at risk for preterm birth
           would establish evidence-based background for successful clinical strategies to prevent
           or reduce the risk for PTB.

           The objectives of the present matched case-control study of pregnant women are to
           investigate local and remote infection (microbiological analysis by culture, and DNA-DNA
           checkerboard) and inflammation (cytokine assays in samples from vaginal and oral
           samples), and routine clinical data in three groups of pregnant women:

           I. Women medically considered at risk for and WITH actual preterm birth delivery

           II. Women medically considered at risk for preterm birth delivery but who deliver
           WITHOUT birth complications

           III. Women with a normal uneventful pregnancy (control group)

           The investigators aim to test the following hypotheses regarding associations between
           oral infection and PTB:

           I. There is a shared infectious aetiology between oral and vaginal infections (primary
           outcome)

           II. In women at risk for PTB the vaginal and oral bacterial microbiota are similar

           III. There are similar systemic and/or local inflammatory responses (haematogenous
           dissemination and bacteraemia, feto-maternal immune response) that can be induced by
           vaginal and/or oral infection, contributing to PTB.

           IV. Elevated inflammatory markers are found at the onset of symptoms in pregnant women
           at risk for PTB and normalize after birth.

        2. Current status in this field of research

           2.1. Introduction

           Preterm birth (PTB) is defined as delivery before 37 weeks of gestation and a birth
           weight of < 2500 grams. PTB is the most important determinant of perinatal morbidity and
           mortality. Among those born before 32 weeks of gestation many children will suffer from
           lifelong sequelae of prematurity ranging from mild to severe developmental disorders.

        3. Detailed Research Plan

      3.1. Scientific objectives (Aims)

      The investigators aim to test the following hypotheses regarding associations between oral
      infection and PTB:

      I. There is a shared infectious aetiology between oral and vaginal infections (primary
      outcome)

      II. In women at risk for PTB the vaginal and oral bacterial microbiota are similar

      III. There are similar systemic and/or local inflammatory responses (haematogenous
      dissemination and bacteraemia, feto-maternal immune response) that can be induced by vaginal
      and/or oral infection, contributing to PTB

      IV. Elevated inflammatory markers are found at the onset of symptoms in pregnant women at
      risk for PTB and normalize after birth

      3.2. Patient grouping

      The study design is a longitudinal, non-interventional case-control study of pregnant women
      including (I) a control group of women with uneventful pregnancy

      (II) a group of women medically considered at risk for PTB and actually delivering preterm

      (III) a group of women medically considered at risk for PTB but with uneventful pregnancy.

      Subjects will be examined at three time points (I) within 18-34 weeks of pregnancy when they
      get symptomatic

      (II) within two days after delivery and

      (III) 4-6 weeks post-partum. This would allow the investigators to compare all examined
      parameters between and within groups over the defined time frame.

      Due to the medical inclusion criteria clinical medical/dental examinators cannot be blinded.
      At the first examination the clinicians will not know whether subjects belong to group II or
      group III. All laboratory processes will, however, be performed with no knowledge of group
      assignment.

      The investigators intend to enrol a total of 180 pregnant women with a clinically perceived
      risk for PTB or at no/low risk based on routine clinical assessment criteria. Consecutive
      consenting pregnant women seeking care at, or are being referred to the Frauenspital,
      University of Berne will be asked to participate when admitted to the prenatal care unit
      because of risks for PTB, e.g. shortening of the cervical length, preterm contractions or
      prelabor premature rupture of membranes. The investigators anticipate a 10% dropout rate.
      They intend to continuously match subjects in the control group to those in the risk groups.

      Consenting women will receive study examinations as well as obstetric standard of care during
      pregnancy provided by medical faculty investigators. Dental faculty investigators at the
      Department of Periodontology, University of Bern will perform dental examinations, data and
      sample collections from the participating subjects at either the Clinics of the Dental School
      or at the Frauenspital for bedridden pregnant women. There will be no specific dental
      interventions as part of the study. The dentists who normally provide care for study subjects
      will continue to do so. There are currently no known dental procedures that can reduce the
      risk for PTB. Dental procedures during pregnancy are considered at low or no risk to the
      pregnant women or the fetus.

      The investigators will collect information on all medical and dental treatments performed
      during pregnancy. They will assess obstetric and dental clinical conditions, using procedures
      that they follow in both clinics. The investigators will also assess bacteria and fungi in
      vaginal and oral compartments, and serum and local vaginal/oral inflammatory markers
      (cytokines and C-reactive protein). They recognize that genetic and socio-economic factors as
      well as ethnicity are important factors in risks for PTB. The control group will therefore be
      paired and matched for gestational age, ethnicity, age, parity and smoking. The investigators
      anticipate that some of these subjects in the assigned no risk control group may actually
      deliver with PTB. Only women who deliver uneventfully will be included in the control group.
    
  