
    
      OBJECTIVES: Primary

      I. Compare outcome, in terms of overall survival, disease-free survival, event-free survival,
      and complete response rate, in older patients with previously untreated acute myeloid
      leukemia treated with daunorubicin and cytarabine with or without oblimersen.

      Secondary I. Determine the significance of expression of select Bcl-2 family member proteins
      known to be modulated by oblimersen (e.g., Bcl-2) or which potentially mediate resistance to
      oblimersen (e.g., Bcl-XL or Mcl-1) in predicting clinical outcomes in patients treated with
      these regimens.

      II. Correlate clinical outcomes with serial changes in levels of mRNA and protein expression
      of Bcl-2, its pro-apoptotic binding partner Bax, and other anti-apoptotic Bax-binding
      proteins (e.g., Bcl-XL or Mcl-1) in patients treated with these regimens.

      III. Determine the effect of pre-treatment characteristics (e.g., morphology, cytogenetics,
      molecular features, expression of multidrug resistance molecules, functional assays of drug
      efflux, prior myelodysplastic syndromes, age, and white blood cells) on toxicity of these
      regimens and outcomes in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

      Arm I:

      Remission induction therapy: Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-10,
      cytarabine IV continuously on days 4-10, and daunorubicin IV on days 4-6.

      Patients who achieve complete remission (CR) proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients who
      do not achieve CR receive a second course of induction therapy.

      Second remission induction therapy: Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-8,
      cytarabine IV continuously on days 4-8, and daunorubicin IV on days 4-5.

      Patients who achieve CR proceed to consolidation therapy.

      Consolidation therapy: Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-8 and high-dose
      cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 4-8. Patients with a continuing CR receive a second course
      of consolidation therapy.

      Arm II:

      Remission induction therapy: Patients receive cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7 and
      daunorubicin IV on days 1-3.

      Patients who achieve CR proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients who do not achieve CR
      receive a second course of induction therapy.

      Second remission induction therapy: Patients receive cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5
      and daunorubicin IV on days 1 and 2.

      Patients who achieve CR proceed to consolidation therapy.

      Consolidation therapy: Patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-5.
      Patients with a continuing CR receive a second course of consolidation therapy.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicity, failure to achieve CR after 2 courses of remission induction therapy, the presence
      of leukemic cells in the cerebrospinal fluid, leukemic regrowth, or relapse during
      consolidation therapy.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years, every 3 months for 2 years, and then
      annually for 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 500 patients (250 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4.2 years.
    
  