
    
      American adults have a high prevalence of overweight, obesity and prediabetes. Small weight
      loss delays the progression to type 2 diabetes and decreases cardiovascular risk, yet
      adherence to long-term calorie restriction is difficult to sustain. There is an urgency to
      find effective, easy-to-implement and to sustain, affordable lifestyle interventions.
      Restricting the food intake interval, or TRE has been shown in small-scale pilot studies to
      result in weight loss and improve metabolism, while being less challenging than intervention
      focusing on calorie restriction. The investigators propose to rigorously assess the efficacy
      of TRE, administered via a smartphone application, on weight loss and decreased
      cardiovascular risk. To achieve this goal, metabolically unhealthy mid-life adults with
      overweight or obesity who habitually eat for more than 14h/day, will be randomized to a
      restricted eating window to 10h/d (TRE) or to their habitual eating window (≥14h, HABIT), and
      followed up to 12 months. Ambulatory measures of food intake, sleep, physical activity and
      glucose, and in-patient 24-h well-controlled studies will be done to determine the effect of
      TRE versus habitual eating duration (HABIT), as well as the mediators of these effects.
      Hypotheses: 1) TRE vs. HABIT will result in decreased fat mass, measured by quantitative
      magnetic resonance, and effect mediated via decreased daily total energy intake, measured by
      double labeled water; 2) TRE vs. HABIT will result in lower insulin resistance, lower
      glycemia and shift in fuel utilization preferentially to lipid mobilization; 2) Adherence to
      TRE will associate with the short-term effect (3 months) and the long-term sustainability (12
      months) of TRE on fat mass loss. Results from this study will provide important insights into
      understanding the physiological and molecular interactions between restricting daily eating
      interval and metabolic function, and could provide evidence for using TRE interventions to
      improve metabolic health and decrease cardiovascular risk in the large number of mid-life and
      older Americans in great need of lifestyle intervention
    
  