
    
      This observational study has been approved for ethical compliance by the Queen's University
      Health Sciences & Affiliated Teaching Hospitals Research Ethics Board. Following signed
      informed consent, investigators will collect blood samples from 20 liver resection patients
      preoperatively and then at 3 different time points after their liver surgery at Kingston
      General Hospital (upon entry to the post-anesthetic care unit [PACU], on postoperative day 2,
      and immediately prior to discontinuation of the bupivacaine infusion). These blood draws will
      occur at the same time as standard of care blood draws. Blood will be centrifuged, and plasma
      will be stored in duplicate at -70°C until all samples are collected. Samples will be shipped
      to collaborators in the UK (University of Glasgow and University of Strathclyde) who will
      quantify the concentrations of free and bound bupivacaine as well as AGP. In addition to
      quantifying circulating bupivacaine and AGP concentrations, investigators will also assess
      postoperative wound pain on a visual analog scale from 0 to 10, and the presence/absence of
      local anesthetic toxicity symptoms (tremor, tinnitus, dizziness, blurred vision, hypotension
      and arrhythmia (including bradycardia).6 These will be assessed as close as possible to the
      blood collection times (preoperatively, upon arrival to the PACU, on postoperative day 2, and
      immediately prior to discontinuation of the bupivacaine infusion). Finally, demographic and
      surgical characteristics will be recorded for all participants.

      Inclusion criteria are competent ASA I-IV patients 18 years of age and older scheduled for
      elective liver resection of at least 3 segments who receive epidural bupivacaine infusion for
      pain control. Exclusion criteria: pregnancy, renal failure requiring dialysis, sepsis,
      ejection fraction documented as <15%, taking fluvoxamine or itraconazole, and inability to
      understand and read English.

      Investigators have several outcomes of interest in this study. Of primary interest: plasma
      concentrations of free and bound bupivacaine and AGP at various time points after surgery.
      Additional outcomes of interest are pain scores and signs or symptoms of local anesthetic
      toxicity. Demographic and surgical characteristics will be collected for each patient.
      Descriptive, univariate and multivariable analyses will be completed with the assistance of a
      biostatistician.
    
  