
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is a major cause of visual impairment in the United States. Diabetic
      Macular edema (DME) is a manifestation of diabetic retinopathy that produces loss of central
      vision. Data from the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) estimate
      that after 15 years of known diabetes, the prevalence of diabetic macular edema is
      approximately 20% in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM), 25% in patients with type 2
      DM who are taking insulin, and 14% in patients with type 2 DM who do not take insulin.

      In a review of three early studies concerning the natural history of diabetic macular edema,
      Ferris and Patz found that 53% of 135 eyes with diabetic macular edema, presumably all
      involving the center of the macula, lost two or more lines of visual acuity over a two year
      period. In the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), 33% of 221 untreated eyes
      available for follow-up at the 3-year visit, all with edema involving the center of the
      macula at baseline, had experienced a 15 or more letter decrease in visual acuity score
      (equivalent to a doubling of the visual angle, e.g., 20/25 to 20/50, and termed moderate
      visual loss).

      The frequency of an unsatisfactory outcome following laser photocoagulation in some eyes with
      diabetic macular edema has prompted interest in other treatment modalities. One such
      treatment is pars plana vitrectomy. These studies suggest that vitreomacular traction, or the
      vitreous itself, may play a role in increased retinal vascular permeability. Removal of the
      vitreous or relief of mechanical traction with vitrectomy and membrane stripping may be
      followed by substantial resolution of macular edema and corresponding improvement in visual
      acuity. However, this treatment may be applicable only to a specific subset of eyes with
      diabetic macular edema. It also requires a complex surgical intervention with its inherent
      risks, recovery time, and expense. Other treatment modalities such as pharmacologic therapy
      with oral protein kinase C inhibitors and antibodies targeted at vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) are under investigation. The use of intravitreal corticosteroids is another
      treatment modality that has generated recent interest.
    
  