
    
      Compassion and empathy are essential components of health care quality. Several studies have
      found a significant decrease in empathy and compassion levels during medical school and
      residency (Hojat, 2004; Bellini, 2005; Stephen, 2006; Neumann, 2011). However, compassion
      training is usually excluded from medical education. Compassion training in medical students
      can increase their wellness and decreased burnout (Weingartner, 2019), which in turn improves
      patients clinical outcomes (Kim, 2004; Rakel, 2009; Hojat, 2011; Attar 2012; Del Canale,
      2012; Steinhausen, 2014; Trzeciak, 2017; Moss, 2019). Given that compassion can be trained
      through standardized interventions (Stephen, 2006; Hojat, 2009a; Goetz, 2010; Kelm, 2014) and
      educational programs (Patel, 2019), it highlight the need to investigate interventions aimed
      to improving both, provider self-care and patient care.

      Hypothesis:

        -  Compassion Cultivation Training (CCT©) program would improve psychological well-being
           while reducing psychological distress (stress, anxiety and depression) and burnout
           symptoms in medical students as compared to a waitlist control group.

        -  These improvements would be maintained at 2 and 6 months after finishing the program.

        -  Mindfulness and compassion changes and emotional-cognitive emotional regulation
           processes would mediate the relationship between the program and the psychological
           distress and well-being changes.

        -  Compassion skills after the program will be a protective factor for stress and worry
           produced by COVID-19 pandemic.

      Procedure:

      The study will follow a randomised waitlist controlled trial with five assessment moments
      (i.e., pre, inter-session, post, 2-month and 6-month follow-ups). Participants will be
      recruited via constitutional email and the informative screens of the Medical School at
      Complutense University of Madrid. Participants will be randomized to either CCT© group (N=20)
      or waiting list control group (N=20). The procedure will include an online assessment via
      Qualtrics software at the different time points, as well as the completion of a "practice
      diary" as the inter-session assessment one per week the day before each session.

      Program description:

      The Compassion Cultivation Training (CCT©) is an 8-week evidence-based standardized
      meditation program designed at Standford University. The CCT© is aimed at cultivating
      compassion and empathy toward oneself and others. The program is conducted in groups of 15-20
      participants and consisting of weekly 2 hour on-line sessions (due to COVID-19 restrictions)
      with 20-30 minutes of daily formal meditation practices and informal compassion practices.
      The CCT© program will be guided by a certified instructor from the Compassion Institute.
      Program adherence and fidelity will be monitored through revisions of the recorded sessions.
      The CCT© program comprises six sequential steps: 1) Settling the mind; 2) Loving-kindness and
      compassion for a loved one; 3) Self-directed loving-kindness and compassion; 4) Common
      humanity; 5) Cultivating compassion for others; and 6) Active compassion (Tonglen).
    
  