
    
      Meibomian glands are essential for maintaining ocular surface health and integrity secrete
      various lipid components to forms a lipid layer to prevent excessive tear evaporation.
      Functional disorders of the meibomian glands, referred to today as meibomian gland
      dysfunction (MGD), are increasingly recognized as a high incidence disease commonly
      characterized by terminal duct obstruction and/or abnormal glandular secretion, often results
      in ocular surface epithelium damage, chronic blepharitis and dry eye disease that
      significantly reduces quality of life. A wide variation of the prevalence of MGD were
      reported from 0.39% to 69.3%, which is likely due to lack of diagnostic methods. To identify
      which clinical features are likely to be predictive of progressive disease in MGD may
      indicate the early diagnosis and proper treatment strategies.

      Histologic section through the normal meibomian glands and the obstructed human meibomian
      gland revealed that obstruction of orifice in MGD could lead to dilation of the central duct,
      damage of the secretory meibocytes and finally result in atrophy of dilated meibomian glands
      and glands drop-out. It was thus be accepted that detailed changes of meibomian glands
      morphology are key signs to diagnose and evaluate the severity of MGD. The detailed changes
      including dilation, distortion, shortening and loss of visualisation of glands which can be
      directly observed and visual assessment by the developed of non-contact meibomian gland
      infrared imaging technology. Quantitative evaluations of meibomian glands were obtain by
      developing imaging processing techniques. The most common use is the image editing software
      Image J (National Institute of Health; http://imagej.nih.gov/ij) which can identify the gland
      region on the image manually by the users and may lead to inter-observer variability. Koh et
      al., first applied original algorithms to automatically analysed gland loss in meibography
      images with a manually pre-processing. Reiko et al., then develop an objective and automatic
      system to measure the meibomian gland area. However, the existing methods of meibomian gland
      analysis have been limited to clinical use where large number of images needs to be analyzed
      efficiently due to the inter-observer variability or time-consuming process.

      Meanwhile, the existing quantitative morphological parameters obtain by those imaging
      processing techniques, including percentage of MG drop-out and gland atrophy area, were
      suggested to not only be advanced stages or terminal changes in MGD, but also occurs as an
      age-related atrophic process. The early findings of MGD induced by the primary pathologic
      obstruction including degenerative gland dilation, irregularly shapes of gland and change of
      meibum quality are still difficult to be evaluated automatically and quantitively from the
      image. Moreover, the meibomian gland drop-out is still an approximate assessment without
      specific pattern. Whether the atrophy or loss occur in upper or lower eyelids, central,
      distal or proximal, total loss of gland or partial loss of gland has the greatest effect on
      the pathology progress of MGD will be important to identify. Thus, a comprehensive analysis
      technique to automatically detect multi-information of meibomian gland morphology will
      benefit the future early diagnosis and management of MGD.

      Recently, an automated quantitative meibomian gland analyzer based on all kinds of infrared
      meibomian gland images was develop to obtain more detail in meibomian gland, including width,
      length, area, signal intensity correlated to the quality of meibum, deformation index and
      ratio of area of each visible specific gland. The purpose of this study is present as
      separate sections the following points: (1) to compared the detailed characteristics of
      morphology of meibomian glands in normal subjects, MGD patients and ADDE patients by the
      automated quantitative analyzer; (2) to identify the inter-examiner and intra-examiner
      repeatability of the new technique; (3) to explore the correlation among morphological
      parameters of meibomian gland and risk factors，clinical symptoms and signs; (4) to explore
      the sensitivity and specificity of meibomian gland morphological parameters in MGD diagnosis.
      (5) using morphological parameters as new assessment of MGD severity and efficacy indicators
      for treatment.
    
  