
    
      Detailed Description: The endothelial cell layer is responsible for the control of vascular
      homeostasis, a process mediated by vasoconstricting and vasodilatory substances. The
      principal endothelium-dependent vascular dilator is nitric oxide (NO), and the reduction of
      its synthesis or bioavailability is the main cause for the development of endothelial
      dysfunction. The use of photobiomodulation may be beneficial in several clinical situations.
      At the endothelial level, the stimulatory effects on vascular endothelial growth factor, NO
      secretion, number of capillaries and proliferation of endothelial cells are outstanding. It
      has also been shown an increase in glutathione levels, antioxidant effect and angiogenic
      potential, which shows a potential vascular effect, and consequently, an improvement in
      endothelial function. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of
      photobiomodulation on the arterial endothelial function of healthy individuals. The study
      design will be a randomized, crossover, clinical trial and the sample will be composed of 16
      healthy subjects selected by the eligibility criteria, and randomly randomized according to
      the order of intervention of the groups. The hypothesis is that at the end of the irradiation
      protocol with photobiomodulation an increase in endothelial function and blood markers of
      endothelial function occurs, and no tissue temperature variation. The primary objective is to
      evaluate the effects of photobiomodulation on the arterial endothelial function of healthy
      individuals. The secondary objectives are: 1) To evaluate the time of blood vessel dilation
      after photobiomodulation. 2) To evaluate the effects of photobiomodulation on blood markers
      (hemogram) and endothelial markers (cGMP and L-arginine), and Nitric oxide (nitrite and
      nitrate). 3) To analyze associations between markers and metabolites with endothelial
      function due to the effects of Photobiomodulation. 3) Analyze the local temperature before
      and after photobiomodulation. 4) Analyze the local temperature before and after the
      measurement of Endothelial function. 5) Evaluate possible associations between blood and
      endothelial markers, nitric oxide pathway metabolites and Endothelial function with local
      temperature. 6) To compare the effects of energy doses and wavelenghts of photobiosmodulation
      on endothelial function, blood and endothelial markers, and metabolites of the nitric oxide
      pathway. The research will be developed in room 709 of the Laboratory of Physiotherapy in
      building II, UFCSPA and, for randomization, the simple technique will be used through numbers
      generated by a freely available software. The generation of the sequence of numbers will be
      done by a blind researcher, after the selection of the individuals by the eligibility
      criteria. The study will be separated in phases in according to photobiomodulation device
      employed. Initially, we will use the laser with 658nm, power output of 10mW per point and
      fluence of 18J, 36J e 54J per area. The individuals will be randomly assigned to: group 1
      (energy dose of 18J), group 2 (energy dose of 36J), group 3 (energy dose of 54J), and group 4
      (placebo). In the second phase, we will use the laser with 810nm, power density of 714 mW/cm2
      and fluence of 30 J per spot. The individuals will be randomly assigned to: group 1 (energy
      dose of 30J), group 2 (energy dose of 60J) and group 3 (placebo). Finally, we will measure
      the time of blood vessel dilation after photobiomodulation with 30J and 60J. The normality of
      the data will be evaluated by the Shapiro-Wilk test. Data with symmetrical distribution will
      be presented as mean ± standard deviation, and data with asymmetric distribution as median
      and interquartile range (P25 - P75). The baseline characteristics of the patients will be
      compared by Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney when the distributions are parametric or
      non-parametric, respectively. The categorical variables will be compared by the Chi-square
      test. Variance Analysis (ANOVA) will be used for repeated measures for pre and
      post-intervention data analysis, or the Mann-Whitney test (asymmetric distribution), followed
      by Bonferroni post hoc. The Pearson or Sperman correlations will be used for possible
      association between the analyzed variables. Statistical significance of 5% (p <0.05) will be
      observed.
    
  