
    
      Background:

        -  Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, accounting for more
           than one million deaths every year.

        -  Several genetic and epigenetic alterations are involved in initiation and progression of
           NSCLC. Some of these alterations are seen in normal and preneoplastic cells as well,
           suggesting a sequential development from normal epithelial cells to cancer, through a
           multistep process, usually coincident with cigarette smoking.

        -  This natural history protocol is an extension of our Molecular Profiling protocol to
           enable tissue collection for more in-depth proteomic and genomic analyses to understand
           tumor biology and treatment response.

        -  A cohort of patients enrolled in this natural history study is likely to enroll in the
           IRB approved protocol for end-of-life in-patient hospice and rapid autopsy following
           death (13-C0131). Longitudinally collected tumor tissue from these patients, including
           from several metastatic sites at autopsy will be a unique resource to understand tumor
           evolution.

        -  There will be opportunity to embark upon a wide array of studies in the future with the
           longitudinally collected tissue samples tagged with clinical information from patients.

      Objectives:

      - To allow sample acquisition for use in the study of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
      Small cell lung cancer (SCLC), extrapulmonary small cell cancer (ESCC), pulmonary
      neuroendocrine tumors (PNET), and thymic epithelial tumors (TETs).

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed NSCLC, SCLC, ESCC, PNET, and
           TET.

        -  Patients consulted in the Clinical Center without a definitive diagnosis, but clinically
           considered likely to have a thoracic malignancy of the above histologies, pending
           further tissue acquisition and/or pathology review.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

      Design:

        -  This is a bio-specimen collection and natural history protocol in which samples will be
           collected from patients with NSCLC, SCLC, ESCC, PNET, and TET.

        -  Eligible patients undergoing screening for or participating in NIH protocols or eligible
           patients treated elsewhere and referred from other oncologists will be referred for
           participation in this study.

        -  Upon providing informed consent, patients will undergo sample acquisition procedures,
           which may include a tumor biopsy, bone marrow biopsy or the collection of blood, urine
           or other body fluids.

        -  An accrual ceiling of 2000 subjects is planned over an accrual period of 10 years.
    
  