
    
      The objective of this project is to examine the health consequences of unwanted pregnancy and
      denial of legal pregnancy termination services in Nepal on women and their children. Births
      following unwanted pregnancies can be associated with negative physical, social and economic
      consequences for both the woman and child. Half of all unintended pregnancies are terminated
      before they are carried to term and, when performed in unsafe or illegal conditions, the
      consequences can include infection, infertility, and death. The incidence of mortality and
      morbidity from abortion are notoriously difficult to measure. Widespread stigma associated
      with unwanted pregnancy - even in settings in which termination is legally available -
      contribute to misreporting, concealment, and misattribution of termination-related morbidity
      and mortality. In addition, many women seek illegal methods-both safe and unsafe-which
      further confounds efforts to measure the prevalence of mortality and morbidity from
      terminations. The effects of unwanted pregnancy on children, including children born prior to
      and subsequent to the unwanted pregnancy, are also not well established. A prospective
      longitudinal study of women with unwanted pregnancies is required to validly investigate the
      health consequences for women and their families of termination outside of the legal system
      and delivery of an unwanted pregnancy, as compared to legal termination. Such a study is only
      possible in places like Nepal, where termination is legal but barriers prevent some women
      from receiving the service.

      Aim 1: To investigate the predictors of denial of legal pregnancy termination services and
      identify groups of women who may be at elevated risk of adverse sequelae from unwanted
      pregnancy.

      Aim 2: To assess the health consequences for women of childbirth and illegal termination
      after denial of a legal termination. By comparing the two groups of women denied termination
      of pregnancy to those obtaining legal procedures, the study team will assess the health
      effects of denial while accounting for factors associated with experience of unwanted
      pregnancy.

      Aim 3: To measure the effects of legal and illegal termination compared to birth on the
      health and development of women's existing and subsequent children

      Prospective longitudinal data from women in a less developed country would provide valuable
      evidence for the development of programs and policies globally to improve access to and
      utilization of safe termination services where they are legal, and harm reduction services
      for women who are unable to access services.
    
  