
    
      The Nutrient Drinking Test will be performed as part of the screening visit to ensure that
      all patients that consent to participate in the full study are able to complete the imaging
      studies that require ingestion of 400ml liquid nutrient (Fortisip Vanilla (Nutricia Clinical)
      diluted 1:1 with water to 0.75kcal/ml, 4.5g fat/100ml).

      Subjects will drink one from a series of beakers containing 40ml liquid nutrient every
      minute. During the drinking test, subjects will score satiety, fullness, bloating, heartburn,
      nausea and epigastric pain at 5-min intervals using a 100mm visual analogue scale (sample
      attached). Participants will be instructed to cease intake when they reported maximal satiety
      or very severe dyspeptic symptoms (defined as VAS score of >90 mm). The total volume ingested
      will be recorded. Symptoms will be assessed again 15 and 30 min after cessation of intake.

      If the subject fulfils the inclusion and exclusion criteria including ingestion of ≥400ml at
      the drinking test and consents to continue then appointments will be made for gamma
      scintigraphy and MRI studies according to a prospective randomization plan.

      MRI Study Day After eligibility has been confirmed subjects will ingest the paramagnetic
      contrast labelled liquid nutrient test meal according to a standardized protocol. Subjects
      will drink one from a series of ten beakers containing 40ml liquid nutrient every minute.
      During the test meal, subjects will score satiety, fullness, bloating, heartburn, nausea and
      epigastric pain at baseline, 5 and 10 minute using a visual analogue scale (VAS 0-100 mm).
      These measurements will be repeated at 30min and at the conclusion of the imaging study (see
      below).

      Studies will be performed using a 1.5T whole MRI system (Intera, Philips, Best, The
      Netherlands). Six rectangular surface coils (height = 20 cm, width = 10 cm), fixed around the
      abdomen and connected to independent receive channels were used for signal detection.

      Gamma Scintigraphy Study Day After eligibility has been confirmed subjects will ingest the
      radiolabelled liquid nutrient test meal according to a standardized protocol. Subjects will
      drink one from a series of ten beakers containing 40ml liquid nutrient every minute. During
      the test meal, subjects will score satiety, fullness, bloating, heartburn, nausea and
      epigastric pain at baseline, 5 and 10 min using a visual analogue scale (VAS 0-100 mm).
    
  