
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      The main objectives of this proposal are (1) to characterize motor learning abnormalities in
      patients with focal dystonia; (2) to show, using transcranial magnetic stimulation, that this
      abnormal motor learning went together with an impaired modulation by somatosensory inputs of
      short and long-interval paired-pulse inhibitions (sICI, lICI) and facilitations (sICF, ICF)
      of MEPs (ICIs and ICFs are thought to reflect activity of inhibitory and excitatory
      interneurons in the primary motor cortex M1); (3) to show that abnormalities of long-term
      potentiation and long-term depression (LTP/LTD)-like mechanisms (tested using a paired
      associative stimulation (PAS) intervention), thought to play a crucial role in learning, are
      associated in dystonia with an abnormal modulation of ICIs and ICFs by somatosensory inputs.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      30 patients with a focal upper limb dystonia and 45 healthy volunteers will take part in the
      main study.

      19 patients with a focal upper limb dystonia and 24 healthy volunteers will take part in the
      control study.

      DESIGN:

      In the main study: subjects will complete 5 different sessions: visit 1: clinical screening,
      1 hour; visit 2: PAS session, 3 hours; visit 3: a minimum of 7 days later, motor learning
      session, 3 hours; visit 4: follow-up 24 hours later, 1hour and half; visit 5, follow-up 48
      hours later, 1 hour and half. During the PAS session they will receive 15 minutes of repeated
      paired stimulations (transcranial magnetic stimulation -TMS- and peripheral stimulation)
      thought to produce LTP/LTD like phenomena in M1. During the motor learning sessions, they
      will be asked to perform, as fast as possible, a metronome-paced (0.5 Hz) pinch of their
      index finger and thumb. They will have 3 blocks of motor practice during the motor learning
      session.

      Between each block of motor practice and before and after PAS, while they rest, subjects will
      receive paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulations (TMS) associated or not with
      peripheral nerve stimulation in order to assess interactions at M1 cortical level between
      somatosensory incoming volleys and intracortical inhibitory and excitatory interneurons.

      In the control studies: subjects will complete a maximum of eight sessions. They will receive
      a PAS intervention. Before and after the PAS intervention, spinal excitability will be tested
      by the means of H reflexes evoked in wrist flexors muscles; H reflexes will be delivered
      alone or will be conditioned by cubital or radial nerve stimulation.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The behavioral effect of the motor training or of the PAS intervention will be assessed by
      measuring the mean peak acceleration (MPA) of thumb movement during the blocks of motor
      practice and the mean maximal peak force (MPF) between the index finger and thumb before and
      after the blocks of motor practice.

      The activity of different sets of intracortical interneurons (short and long interval GABA
      related inhibitions: sICI, lICI, intracortical glutamate-related facilitation: ICF and short
      interval facilitation: sICF) can be tested using paired-pulse TMS paradigms. The effect of
      learning (or of PAS intervention) on the interaction between somatosensory afferent input and
      intracortical processes will be assessed by comparing the amount of sICI, lICI, ICF and sICF
      when associated or not with a peripheral nerve stimulation (median and ulnar nerve
      stimulation) in a trained muscle (flexor pollicis brevis: FPB) and a non-trained muscle
      (abductor digiti minimi: ADM) at different times during and after the motor learning or the
      PAS intervention.

      The effect of PAS on spinal cord excitability will be assessed by comparing the size of the H
      reflex alone, the amounts of postactivation depression and those of presynaptic inhibition
      before and after PAS.
    
  