
    
      Hepatitis C has traditionally been treated in subspecialty health centers given the
      complexity of older pegylated interferon containing regimens, formerly the standard of care.
      This model has persisted into the modern era of direct anti-viral agents (DAAs) despite their
      relative simplicity, creating a bottleneck of human resources necessary to fight the largest
      infectious epidemic in North America. In addition, stigma and fear over cost has lead payers
      to restrict treatment in People Who Inject Drugs (PWIDs), even though a majority of new
      infections occur in this population.

      This study evaluates the effectiveness of treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) with
      elbasvir-grasoprevir in people who inject drugs (PWIDs) in a real world, community health
      clinic setting.

      There are two prospective cohorts of PWIDs of 25 patients each, both in primary care-based
      community health clinics in Portland, Oregon. Cohort one is actively engaged with ambulatory
      medication assisted therapy with buprenorphine or extended released injectable naltrexone.
      Cohort two maintains active injection drug use with needle exchange and risk reduction
      education.

      These groups are compared to a 50 patient retrospective cohort of people with substance use
      disorders at tertiary care hepatology-based Academic Health Center.

      All patients have genotype 1 or 4 HCV and are treated with elbasvir-grasoprevir for 12 weeks.
      The investigators exclude patients who: are under the age of 18; have a history of liver
      transplant; have failed past treatment of HCV; have an Aspartate aminotransferase Platelet
      Ratio Index (APRI) > 0.7 or APRI >0.7 but fibrosure/fibroscan of F2 or less; patients with
      genotype 1a and Nonstructural 5a (NS5a) resistance associated variants (RAVs); have clinical
      or radiologic evidence of cirrhosis; have aminotransferase levels >10x upper limit of normal;
      have a hemoglobin of less than 11g/dL, and are co-infected with hepatitis B or HIV.

      The investigators hypothesize there is no difference in sustained viremic response at 12 or
      48 weeks post-completion treatment (SVR 12, 48) when treating patients with a DAA in a
      community health clinic setting as compared to the standard-of-care subspecialty setting.
    
  