
    
      This study was a single-center, randomized, controlled, double-blind, parallel versus placebo
      that consisted of six visits. The first visit was a screening evaluation to determine whether
      subjects meet the inclusion criteria. The selected subjects were invited to a second visit
      that consisted of a medical history, 2-h oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), collection of
      stool samples for DNA isolation and collection of 5 ml blood sample. The participants
      received the first stage dietary strategy for 15 days. In the third visit and second stage of
      dietary treatment, subjects were randomized to received the dietary portfolio (DP) or placebo
      (P) treatment accompanied of the reduced energy diet for 1 mo. In the fourth and fifth
      visits, with a 1 mo interval, dietary assessment and compliance to the DP or P was evaluated.
      During each follow-up visit, a 24-h dietary recall was collected, a physical activity
      questionnaire was filled out and anthropometric and clinical parameters were assessed. In the
      sixth visit, a 2-h oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was performed, and a stool sample for
      DNA isolation and 5 ml blood were collected.

      Dietary Intervention In the first stage, the participants consumed a reduced-energy diet
      tailored to provide a 500-kcal/d deficit as recommended by NIH (8) the with respect to their
      habitual diet for 15 days. The diet plan consisted in 45-55% carbohydrates, 15-20% protein,
      25-35% fat, <7% saturated fat, 200 mg/d cholesterol, 20-35g fiber, 2000-3000 mg/d sodium
      based on total energy. In the second stage the participants continued to consume the reduced
      energy diet with the addition of a combination of functional foods (dietary portfolio; DP).
      The DP provided 200 kcal that were subtracted from the diet. The DP consisted of a mixture of
      14g of dehydrated nopal, 4g of chia seed, 30g of soy protein, 4g of inulin,) and 1g of
      flavoring. The placebo (P) consisted of 28 g of calcium caseinate, 15g of maltodextrin and 1g
      of flavoring. The kcal, appearance and flavor were similar in DP and P. The DP and P was
      given in a package in dehydrated form ready to be dissolved in water. The DP was divided into
      two packages, the first package contained 17.3 g of DP or P given in the breakfast and
      dissolved in 250 ml and the second package was given at the dinner time (15:00-16:00 h) and
      contained 34.7g of P and DP dissolved in 300 mL of water.

      Dietary compliance Dietary compliance was assessed with a 24-h dietary recall and 3-d food
      record (food log), during each visit that were analyzed by Food Processor Nutrition Analysis
      Software. The compliance of the consumption of the DP or P was evaluated with the number of
      empty packages returned at the following visit. Physical activity was assessed using the
      International physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ).
    
  