
    
      In this study, the Investigators will test the following hypothesis: A protein meal with high
      EAA levels will stimulate protein anabolism in a dose-dependent way but the exact
      relationship differs among cancer patients. The primary endpoint will be the extent of
      stimulation of net whole-body protein synthesis at each level of protein intake in the
      individual cancer and control subject. This project will provide important clinical
      information on the anabolic capacity of dietary protein with high EAA levels and the level of
      protein intake required to become anabolic in cancer patients on an individual bases. In this
      way, this study will provide preliminary data for the development of individualized
      nutritional strategies that will stop the process of ongoing muscle loss in cancer patients.

      General aims:

        -  To study the whole-body protein anabolic effect of several dosages of a high-quality
           protein sip feeding in cancer subjects as compared to healthy controls.

        -  To investigate the anabolic threshold in subjects with cancer as compared to healthy
           controls.

      The mechanisms underlying lean tissue loss in cancer remain to be unraveled, which may be
      because of the complexity of the metabolic alterations that are present when symptoms such as
      weight loss become obvious. Multiple factors like anorexia and inflammation are present in
      cancer, all contributing to the loss of lean tissue in these patients by creating a drain on
      the body protein stores. Previous studies showed that oral supplementation of large amounts
      of calories in cancer is only partially successful and this indicates that the composition of
      dietary supplements and meals is important to successfully counteract muscle wasting.
      Although our previous study supports the concept of supplementing high-quality milk proteins
      in lung cancer subjects, the dose-response anabolic effects of proteins with high EAA levels
      are still unclear. Furthermore, there is no insight in the actual protein requirements in
      cancer. The knowledge gained from this study will benefit our insight in terms of promotion
      of protein gain after feeding in cancer patients.
    
  