
    
      Among the different combination regimens of new drugs in CRC treatment, the combination of
      capecitabine and oxaliplatin seems especially attractive. Both drugs have a different and
      relatively mild toxicity profile. In phase II studies that used the recommended dose of XELOX
      (capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 twice daily on days 1-14 with intravenous oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 on
      day 1 every 3 weeks), RRs were between 42% and 55%, with PFS times of 6.0 to 7.7 months,
      which showed that the XELOX combination was effective in the first-line treatment of patients
      with metastatic CRC. (Cassidy et al, 2004; Scheithauer et al, 2003)

      Colorectal carcinomas (CRC) are characterised by enhanced VEGF expression and the
      corresponding high microvascular densities, indicating increased angiogenic activity and
      leading to worse patient survival.(Zheng et al, 2003; Des Guetz et al, 2006) Recently, the
      final results of XELOX-1/NO16966, a study of first line therapy, confirmed that
      bevacizumab+chemotherapy (XELOX or FOLFOX) was superior to chemotherapy alone in terms of PFS
      (HR 0.83; p=0.0023) although the OS data did not reach statistical significance (HR 0.89;
      p=0.0769). (Saltz et al, 2008)

      The bevacizumab data provide a treatment option for patients with metastatic CRC based on
      VEGF inhibition. It is hypothesized that other anti-angiogenic agents such as endostar, may
      augment the effect of chemotherapy regimens in CRC. Endostar, a recombinant human endostatin
      which expressed and purified in E. coli, was approved by the SFDA for the treatment of
      non-small-cell lung cancer in 2005. Ling et al. found that endostar suppressed the
      VEGF-stimulated proliferation, migration, and tube formation of human umbilical vein
      endothelial cells (HUVECs) in vitro, and the antiangiogenic effects of endostar were
      correlated with the VEGF-triggered signaling. (Ling et al, 2007) A Chinese phase III clinical
      trial in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer, endostar--a new angiogenesis inhibitor
      prolonged the overall survival, time to progression and improved response rate. (Wang et al,
      2005) Based on these results, we design this phase II clinical trial of oxaliplatin,
      capecitabine and endostar as first line treatment, to evaluate whether endostar can bring
      survival benefits to patients with advanced colorectal cancer.
    
  