
    
      Following confirmation of eligibility and written informed consent to participate in the
      study, kidney recipient candidates will be randomized at the time of their evaluation
      appointment to the treatment arm (donor eligible for reimbursement of lost wages) or the
      control arm (donor not eligible for reimbursement of lost wages).

      Consented, randomized recipients will be followed for up to one year from the baseline visit,
      with no required in-person visits beyond baseline. Data will be collected at baseline, six
      months after baseline, and one year after baseline. Demographic data (e.g. age, sex, race,
      ethnicity) will be collected on all recipients during screening and eligibility assessment.
      At baseline only, we will collect recipient household size, household income, and limited
      clinical data (on dialysis or not; date of dialysis initiation (if on dialysis); on deceased
      donor waiting list or not; date of wait-listing if on waiting list). At six months after
      baseline (and at one year after baseline, if applicable), we will collect recipient outcome
      data (date of receipt of living donor or deceased donor kidney transplant, if applicable;
      date of death, if applicable).

      Demographic data (e.g. age, sex, race, ethnicity), household size, and household income will
      be collected on all potential donors that come forward for participating recipients, ideally
      as soon as they are known to the participating transplant center, and no later than six
      months after baseline and one year after baseline, if applicable). Administrative and
      financial data will be required only from the subset of donors meeting all of the following
      criteria:

        -  Donors whose recipients are randomized to the treatment arm; AND

        -  Donors who will incur lost wages and wish to receive lost wage reimbursement

      A randomized controlled trial is the gold standard for program evaluation, since it allows
      for a statistical comparison of otherwise similar patients, and determination of a causal
      relationship between the intervention and the measured outcome. By comparing the outcomes of
      the control and treatment arms, we can determine whether the availability of reimbursement of
      lost wages for living donors increases the likelihood that the potential recipient will
      receive a living donor kidney within a year of their initial evaluation visit to a
      participating transplant center. We will also conduct secondary analyses of the timing of
      transplants and the demographics of the living donors.
    
  