
    
      Aim: The first objective of this project is to test different pain mechanisms that could be
      involved in the increase of pain thresholds and tolerance in suicidal patients. The second
      objective is to test whether there's a loss of pleasantness during social touch in suicidal
      patients.

      The main aim is to compare the efficacity of CPM between three groups of depressed patients:
      recent or former suicide attempters and non-attempters. The secondary aims are 1) to compare
      the wind-up mechanism between groups, 2) to compare the difference of excitability of Aδ and
      C fibers between groups, 3) to correlate these physiological results to clinical variables
      (emotional reactivity and emotional regulation, dissociation and body perception), and 4) to
      compare the pleasantness associated with social touch between groups.

      Target population: 153 depressed women will be enrolled and divided into three groups. I)
      Women having recently attempted suicide (less than 72 hours) - II) women having a past
      suicide attempt (more than 72 hours) - III) Women without lifetime history of suicidal
      behaviour (affective control group).

      Materials: The heat test stimuli are performed by a thermode (TCS II, QST Lab) which produces
      ramping heat pulses from 32°C to 52°C. For the conditioning stimulus (cold pressor task),
      participants will insert their arm (up to the elbow) in circulating cold water (8°C). Pain
      intensity is rated by a CoVAS (computer visual analog scale). This scale is similar to a
      classic visual analog scale (VAS) ranging from "no pain" to the "most intense pain
      tolerable". The participant has just to move a cursor, thanks to the computer mouse. The
      stroking is performed thanks to a Natural hair Blush Brush (No. 7, The Boots Company).

      Clinical assessment: A clinical assessment will be made by a trained researcher. This
      assessment will evaluate psychiatric diagnosis by the DSM-V (Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders), the severity of depression by the IDS-C30 (Inventory of
      Depressive Symptomatology), the intensity of suicidal thoughts by the CSSRS (Columbia Suicide
      Severity Rating Scale), and the suicidal life history by the RRRS (Risk-Rescue Rating Scale)
      and SIS (Suicidal Intent Scales). It will also gather information about socio-demographic
      variables, the number of depressed episodes, the number of psychiatric hospitalizations, the
      hormonal status, and the current medications. All psychotropics medications taken by the
      patient will be collected for the last 72 hours, as well as the dose and the date of the
      beginning of the treatment. The patients will also have to complete some self-report measures
      about the severity of their depression (BDI-II), their level of anxiety (STAI), their
      physical and psychological pain (EVA current and past), their childhood trauma (CTQ), their
      emotional state (PANAS), their difficulty in emotional regulation (DERS), their emotional
      reactivity (ERS), their body perception (BIS), their dissociative experiences, their
      borderline symptomatology (BSL-23) and the kind of non-suicidal self-injuries practiced
      (SHI).

      Blood tests: The blood test is made between 2 and 24 hours before the experimental procedure.
      The biological collection is made to measure medications' concentration if the patient takes
      antiepileptics and/or lithium, and to measure complete blood count (CBC).

      Experimental design: All three pain mechanisms and social touch will be tested in one session
      lasting 1h approximately.

        1. To distinguish the threshold of Aδ and C, a thermal stimulus will be used to provoke
           painful and non-painful sensations (Thermode QST lab). Successive and alternate phases
           of painful (hot) and non-painful (warm) stimulations will be used. The warm phase will
           remain stable at 38°C for 5 seconds whereas the hot phase will consist of ascending heat
           pulses from 39°C to 52°C for 1 second each. At every phase, the participant will be
           asked if she feels pain or not to determine the pain threshold. The Aδ fiber threshold
           will be the first time when the participant will report pain during the hot phase. The C
           fiber threshold will be the first time when the participant will report pain during the
           warm phase. These measures will be repeated five times.

        2. Wind-up and CPM will be evaluated successively in three steps:

             1. To measure the activity of the wind-up, a constant temperature (individually
                determined) will be applied during 2 minutes on the left forearm (stimulus test).
                This temperature will correspond to a painful sensation of 40/100 on the CoVAS for
                each patient previously evaluated. During the test, the participant will report the
                intensity of pain on the CoVAS in a continuous manner. The patient will move the
                cursor along the continuous line to indicate the pain she feels and every change.

             2. The CPM activation will be produced by a counter nociceptive stimulation (cold
                pressor task). The right forearm of the participant will be placed during 2 minutes
                in a cold water maintained at 8°C (conditioning stimulus).

             3. To measure the efficiency of the CPM, the hot constant temperature (corresponding
                to CoVAS= 40/100) will be re-applied, during 2 minutes on the left forearm
                (conditioned stimulus). As previously, participant will report her pain on the
                CoVAS.

      Before and after the painful tests, the participant will have to complete two self-report
      measures. The PANAS to evaluate their emotional state and the STAI state to evaluate their
      anxiety.

      In a final step, the pleasure associated with social touch will be tested. The experimenter
      stroked the participant's marked skin areas for 70 seconds with a soft brush in either
      CT-optimal speed (3 cm/s; slow touch group associated with pleasantness) or non-CT-optimal
      speed (18 cm/s; fast touch group associated with a neutral feeling). The pleasure associated
      with the stroke is then assessed on a 10-point Likert scale (from really unpleasant to really
      pleasant). In this within design, the reaped measures (slow touch vs fast touch) will be
      counterbalanced between participants.

      Pairing: A pairing will be made on age and antidepressant class (none, selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), tricyclic,
      others). For each category of antidepressant, a 1 will be attributed if the patient takes one
      medication of this category and a 0 if not. In each group, the sum of every classes of
      medication will have to be equal. As a reminder, class of antidepressant are exclusive
      between them.

      Medical load: To control medication, a medication load index will be calculated as described
      in Olié and al., 2018. Antiepileptics and lithium medications will be dosed in plasma.
    
  