
    
      Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is a tridimensional spine deformation affecting 2% of
      subjects between 10 and 16 years-old being predominant among girls. It is a severe,
      progressive and multifactorial disease, and a genetic origin is currently admitted.

      AIS is progressive (in 3 out of 10 cases) when the scoliosis radiographic frontal angle (Cobb
      angle) strictly increases by 5° between the diagnosis date and the end of growth. This
      progression can be severe requiring heavy treatments (corset, surgery) and it can generate
      adverse effects (spine pain, cardio-respiratory and functional consequences on walking). The
      lack of reliable criteria to predict the evolution of AIS is a real problem for the
      therapeutic decision and it can impact the socio-economic cost of the disease.

      Several studies show orthostatic postural control anomalies in AIS. The orthostatic postural
      control is elaborated from the central integration of different sensorial signals (visual,
      somesthesic and vestibular).

      Posturography, on computerized integrate force plates, allows to quantify sensorial
      components of orthostatic postural control. This technique can confirm the disorders of
      orthostatic postural control in AIS, but the parameters used can not evaluate with precision
      the progressive potential.

      The posturographic signal analysis could lead to the implementation of therapeutic strategies
      adapted to progressive risk. Moreover, this method could prevent the progression in major
      scoliosis, limit the use of radiography, the application of a constraining corset (worn 23
      hours a day) and the possibility of heavy surgery (extent arthrodesis).

      The hypothesis of this study is that progressive AIS is characterized by a disorder of
      orthostatic postural control. The analysis and the treatment of posturographic signal on
      computerized integrate force plates, coupled to clinical and radiographic examinations, could
      highlight predictive and reliable factors at the moment of diagnosis. Thus, it could help the
      clinician in his therapeutic approach, based on the postural control improvement
      (individualized prescription in kinesitherapy, better adaptation to orthopedic treatments by
      corset). This method is non-invasive, without side effects, fast and achievable in routine
      care at the moment of the diagnosis of AIS.
    
  