
    
      This study is a prospective, single-arm, multi-center, pilot trial of Bronchoscopic Thermal
      Vapor Ablation for Lung Cancer (BTVA-C) in patients with primary lung cancer or metastatic
      cancer in the lung.

      Subjects identified for this study will be those that have microscopic proof of malignancy.
      Patients who have consented to participate in this study (enrolled) will undergo screening
      assessments to evaluate the inclusion criteria associated with their lung cancer and general
      health. Only patients that meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion
      criteria will be scheduled for treatment with the BTAV-C System.

      A total of 10 subjects will be treated at up to 3 investigational sites within the EU.

      Prior to the vapor ablation procedure, the patient's CT scan is analyzed to evaluate the
      location and size of the target lesion. The segments and airways associated with the lesion
      are identified and images are created to aid in the navigation to appropriate treatment
      locations during the upcoming procedure.

      At the time of the vapor ablation procedure, the Uptake catheter is placed in a selected
      airway with a thin bronchoscope. A balloon at the distal end of the catheter is then inflated
      to occlude the bronchus prior to vapor infusion. Sterile water is heated to approximately
      100° - 140°C by a reusable generator and vapor (steam) is infused into the targeted region
      for 8 seconds at a precisely controlled flow rate and power. If necessary, the catheter is
      moved to the next airway and the procedure is repeated until all desired airways have been
      treated (maximum 3 treatments). The treatment creates a uniform field of necrosis in the
      parenchyma around the lesion.

      Patients will be evaluated for clinical symptoms in the 30-day period following ablation.
      Local control of the tumor will be evaluated based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) from low dose CT scans at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months following ablation.
    
  