
    
      Typical standard of care for these patients is initial visit followed by two diagnostic
      blocks ((0.5 ml) of 1 % Lidocaine per level). They are asked to complete the pain diary and
      if they experience a 75% or more decrease in the NRS, they are scheduled for Cooled RFA of
      the lateral branches of S1, S2, and S3 dorsal rami nerves and of the dorsal ramus of L5
      nerve.

      If patients do not experience adequate pain relief after either of these injections, it is
      determined that the cooled RFA procedure will not work for them. Therefore, if they fail to
      receive adequate pain relief after either of these two injections, they will exit the study
      and other alternatives will be explored. The patient will also exit the study if they fail to
      achieve success 1 month after RFA treatment. The treatment of the study patients will not
      deviate from the standard of care.

        -  All study Patients

             -  Visit 1 - Initial Visit During the initial visit, the eligible patients will
                undergo a routine physical examination where it will be determined if the subject
                is eligible for the study. If eligible, the physician will explain the study and
                determine if subject is interested. Informed consent will then be obtained and the
                patient will be scheduled for the first fluoroscopy-guided diagnostic block with
                0.5 ml of 1% Lidocaine of the lateral branches of S1, S2, and S3 dorsal rami nerves
                and of the dorsal ramus of the L5 nerve. The baseline information, including a
                3-day average Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) regarding level of pain, the Oswestry
                Disability Index (ODI), and analgesic consumption will also be obtained during the
                initial visit.

             -  Visit 2 - First Diagnostic Block The participant will be asked questions about
                their level of pain (NRS) and any change in analgesia medications since their last
                visit. They will then undergo the first fluoroscopy-guided diagnostic block (DB)
                with 0.5 ml of 1 % Lidocaine per level. A brief physical examination - including a
                sensory exam of the buttock area - will be performed after the block and the
                patients will be given a pain diary to complete after the procedure until the pain
                intensity reaches pre-procedure intensity (see the flowchart attached). The results
                of the exam will be documented, i.e ; "no sensory deficit" or "sensory deficit to
                pinprick in the buttock area". Pain diary will require the patients to scale their
                pain intensity using the NRS on an hourly basis and to document their activities
                during this period time. This will be done in accordance with the International
                Spine Intervention Society practice guidelines with respect to the diagnostic
                blocks as a prerequisite for radiofrequency ablation. (14). A follow-up appointment
                will be scheduled in 3-5 days after the first set of diagnostic blocks (this
                appointment will be pre-scheduled in conjunction with the appointment for the first
                diagnostic block).

             -  Visit 3 - First Follow-up (3-5 days after first block) The patient will be
                evaluated, including NRS and analgesia medications, and the pain diary reviewed. If
                a 75% or more decrease in the NRS is reported for ≥ 2 hours after the procedure,
                the patient will be scheduled for a second set of fluoroscopy-guided diagnostic
                blocks (see Module 1). According to the International Spine Intervention Society
                and most of the major insurers' guidelines, two "positive"diagnostic blocks are
                necessary in order to proceed to RFA. If the first diagnostic block doesn't provide
                temporary ≥ 75% pain relief, the patient will exit the study.

             -  Visit 4 - Confirmatory Block The participant will be asked questions about their
                level of pain (NRS) and any change in analgesia medications since their last visit.
                They will then undergo the second fluoroscopy-guided diagnostic block with 0.5 ml
                of 1 % Lidocaine per A brief physical examination - including a sensory exam of the
                buttock area - will be performed after the block and the patients will be given a
                pain diary to complete after the procedure until the pain intensity reaches the
                baseline (see the attached flowchart). The results of the sensory exam will be
                documented, i.e ; "no sensory deficit" or "sensory deficit to pinprick in the
                buttock area". This will be done in accordance with the International Spine
                Intervention Society practice guidelines with respect to the diagnostic blocks as a
                prerequisite for radiofrequency ablation. (14). A follow-up appointment will be
                scheduled in 3-5 days after the second set of diagnostic blocks (this appointment
                will be pre-scheduled in conjunction with the appointment for the second diagnostic
                block).

             -  Visit 5 - Second Follow-up (3-5 days after 2nd block) The patients will be
                evaluated again at their second follow-up appointment, including NRS and analgesia
                medications, and the pain diary reviewed. If this block is "negative," the patient
                will exit the study after the follow-up and will be treated by alternative methods;
                if it is "positive", the patient will be scheduled for a Cooled RFA.

             -  Visit 6 - Cooled RFA These subjects that experienced a "positive" response to two
                sets of diagnostic blocks will undergo Cooled RFA of the lateral branches of S1,
                S2, and S3 dorsal rami nerves and of the dorsal ramus of L5 nerve as described by
                Kapural et al. (15). All patients will be evaluated for buttock hypoesthesia
                immediately after the intervention.

             -  Visit 7 - 1 Month Follow-up after Cooled RFA At this time, the following data will
                be collected: 3-day average NRS scores, satisfaction with the treatment, ODI, and
                analgesic consumption. Physical evaluation, including sensory exam of the buttock
                area will be done. If the procedure is successful (NRS scores improvement by ≥ 50%
                and satisfaction with the treatment) the patients will be scheduled for the second
                and final follow-up at 6 months post-intervention. Otherwise, they will exit the
                study.

             -  Visit 8 (Final) - 6 Month Follow-up after Cooled RFA At this time, the following
                data will be collected: 3-day average NRS scores, satisfaction with the treatment,
                ODI, and analgesic consumption. Physical evaluation, including sensory exam of the
                buttock area will be done.

        -  Data to be collected The following data will be collected for each patient: Name, MRN,
           date of visit, NRS scores, ODI information, concomitant meds, pain diary, treatment
           satisfaction, and sensory exam info.
    
  