
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Peripheral arterial disease is a common disorder effecting up to 15% of men over age 55 and
      women over age 65. Patients with peripheral arterial disease are at increased risk for
      stroke, myocardial infarction or other adverse vascular outcomes. Therapy for this disorder
      is currently limited with only 2 FDA approved drugs (Pentoxifylline, cilostazol). These
      agents improve walking distance by 10 to 40 percent. Other agents such as verapamil and
      prostacyclin analogs have significant side effects. Although therapy with angiogenesis
      inducers, including injections of plasmid constructs for vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF) or VEGF protein, is beneficial, the widespread applicability of this therapy is
      questionable. The study used an alternative approach, which may be safer and more effective.
      The basis for this approach is the ability of L-arginine to enhance endogenous vascular
      nitric oxide production, improving blood flow acutely. Furthermore, since several angiogenic
      growth factors may act at least partially through the production of nitric oxide, this
      therapy could produce a sustained benefit by the induction of an increase in skeletal muscle
      capillary density.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A randomized placebo-controlled trial to assess the effects of L-arginine on functional
      status was performed in patients with peripheral arterial disease. Blood flow was assessed by
      Doppler and plethysmography and measures of nitric oxide synthesis (plasma and urinary
      nitrogen oxides) were performed. The effect of L-arginine on treadmill walking distance was
      determined. The potential for L-arginine induced angiogenesis was assessed using magnetic
      resonance angiography.

      There were two separate studies of oral L-arginine. The first was a dose ranging study
      involving 80 patients receiving four different doses of L-arginine (9 grams, 6 grams, 3
      grams, or 0 grams). The dosing of L-arginine was performed in a randomized placebo-controlled
      fashion. Patients receive six weeks of therapy. Patients with diabetic retinopathy, active
      malignancy or previous malignancy in a state of remission, or autoimmune disorders were
      excluded. Ophthalmological exams were performed to screen for pathological angiogenesis in
      the retina. After the completion of the dose response study, the investigators studied the
      safety and efficacy of prolonged (12 months) L-arginine therapy. The primary end point was
      absolute claudication distance (ACD) and a statistical analysis was performed of the
      logarithm ACDT / ACDB. A treadmill was performed at one month after cessation of therapy to
      determine if there was a structural alteration of the indices of limb hemodynamics including
      the ankle brachial index (ABI) and plethysmography was performed at 6 and 12 months of
      therapy and at 1 month after sensation of therapy. The study correlated measures of limb
      blood flow with evidence of increased nitric oxide synthesis by measuring urinary nitrogen
      oxide. Flow mediated vasodilation (FMVD) of the brachial artery was measured. The choice of
      monitoring flow mediated vasodilation of the brachial artery, while appropriate for showing a
      systemic enhancement of nitric oxide synthesis, would not directly support an improvement of
      endothelial function in the vascular bed of interest.

      Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) was measured with the prediction that patients with
      elevated ADMA levels, depressed urinary nitrogen oxides and reduced FMVD might be more
      responsive to L-arginine therapy. A second aim of the protocol was to determine if the
      chronic enhancement of nitric oxide synthesis by L-arginine supplementation had an enduring
      effect on conduit vessel structure. The ankle brachial index, plethysmography, and MR
      perfusion imaging were performed at 0, 6 and 12 months on therapy, and at 1 month after
      cessation of therapy.
    
  