
    
      Study Site

      The study will be conducted at Belu regency (south latitude 90 - 100; east longitude 1240-
      1260) which located in the Nusa Tenggara Timur province, central part of Indonesia.

      Atambua District Health Office reported that most of high endemic malaria areas were situated
      in the southern part of the regency in 2011. The highest Annual Parasite Incidence (API)
      reported was in the subdistrict of Wewiku (72.1 cases/1,000 people). Therefore, this study
      will focus in high case incidence of villages in Wewiku sub-districts.

      Study design overview and demographic census

      The study design is "randomized cluster trial" by microscopic malaria screening at high
      malaria incidence at village level. Two-four villages with malaria prevalence of >8% or
      sub-villages with malaria prevalence > 10% in school children will be selected as study
      villages or sub-villages.

      Census visit will be performed in all target villages. All clusters will be then listed and
      randomized to one of study arm using generated randomization softwares.

      There will be 3 study arms, i.e. (1) 6 weeks interval of MST, (2) 3 months interval of MST;
      and (3) control without MST. Each MST should cover at least 80% of the villagers.

      Treatment will be given to all malaria-positive individuals on microscopic examination. The
      treatment will be provided based on suitable dose for body weight as recommended by the
      Ministry of Health, Republic of Indonesia (Table 1). The drug that will be given is 3-day
      dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHP) treatment and 1-day primaquine (PQ) treatment for P.
      falciparum. For patients who are infected by P. vivax and P. ovale,PQ will be given for 14
      days; while the dose of DHP is equal to the dose for P. falciparum infection. Treatment for
      P.malariae infected subjects is similar with that for P. falciparum but without PQ. For
      individuals in all arms, the drug will be given by health care personnel at their houses
      assisted by health care volunteers of the integrated health post (Posyandu cadre).

      Ethics Consideration

      An informed consent will be collected from every head of families or their representative.
      They have 1 week to consider whether they will participate in our study or not.

      Adverse events will be identified and recorded in Case Report Form by field team in
      collaboration with cadres and primary health center attendants. These subjects will be given
      symptomatic treatment at the village/sub-village level or at the local health center.
      Relationship between adverse event and study drug will be determined by Data Safety and
      Monitoring Board (Prof Rianto Setiabudy, dr Erni Juwita Nelwan and dr Hasan Basri) who will
      also decide how often the data will be sent to Jakarta. Specific Adverse Event are black
      urine, gastro intestinal disturbances, blue lips and breathless.

      Serious Adverse events is an adverse event which becomes serious and could endanger the life
      of subjects, cause prolonged hospitalization and disability to conduct normal life. The Data
      Safety and Monitoring Board will be recorded in Severe Adverse Event form and reported to
      Principal Investigator, sponsors, Ethic Committee, Regulatory and Data Safety and Monitoring
      Board within 24 hours. Severe Adverse Event subjects will be treated in Atambua Hospital
      until recover completely. All expenses will be paid by sponsor. Complete Severe Adverse Event
      report will be distributed within one month after the occurrence of Severe Adverse Event.

      Evaluation Malaria incidence Inclusion Criteria Children at elementary school (6-12 year old)
      of the all selected clusters despite of random allocation.

      Sample size Sample size is calculated based on the differences of malaria incidence between
      before and after intervention in each arm. Baseline incidence is determined from
      positive-malaria children in monthly cohort between MST1 and MST3 in arm 1 or MST1 until MST3
      in arm 2. Malaria incidence in the arm 2 is assumed to remains constant at 0.7 new
      cases/person-year during study(unpublished data). The impact of the intervention arm is
      expected to reduce malaria incidence maximum by 50% to 0.35 new cases/person-year. With the
      proposed sample size of 70 children per arm, we will have a power of 82% to detect a
      significant difference. Considering a 10% of loss to follow-up and a design effect of
      cluster-randomized trial 1.5, we will recruit 115 children per arm.

      All school-age children who participate in the study and have malaria-positive blood smears
      will receive complete treatment as previously mentioned. The antimalaria drug will be given
      by direct observation treatment (DOT) technique or under supervision performed by school
      teachers with the assistance of the health care volunteers.

      Blood samples drawn by pricking the finger tip in school-age children are used for
      microscopic examination, Polymerase Chain Reaction assay, hemoglobin measurement, serological
      examination for malaria antibody and Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase deficiency assessment.

      Anemia in malaria infection

      Inclusion criteria Elementary school children aged 6-12 years who participate in cohort
      study.

      Sample size Sample size calculation is performed by WinPepi software with the assumed anemia
      proportion of 25% and 50% in arm 1 and arm 2, respectively (5% significance level, 80% power,
      and 1:1 sample size ratio). Required sample size would be 58 school-age children per arm. We
      will recruit115 school children after considering design effect of 1.5,and drop out level of
      10% and sample size for malaria incidence

      Blood samples are drawn by pricking the finger tip of the elementary school children using
      microtainer as much as 0.25 ml. Simultaneously, the thick and thin blood smears are made for
      microscopic examination of malaria and hemoglobin level measurement. The collected blood
      samples in the tube containers are delivered to the laboratory for distribution of above
      mentioned assays.

      Malaria prevalence

      Inclusion criteria All villagers of the selected clusters ( arm 1: MST1, 2, 3 and arm 2:
      MST1, MST3), except elementary school children who participated in cohort study. Cluster
      chosen should be located in villages with endemicity of more than 8% or sub-villages of more
      than 10%.

      Sample size Sample size is calculated based on the differences of malaria prevalence before
      and after treatment in the arm 1 and arm2. The malaria prevalence used in the study is 15%,
      which is expected to decrease by 30% in arm 1 and persistent in arm 2. Sample size
      calculation is performed by WinPepi software with the assumed probability proportion of 10%
      and 15% in arm 1 and arm 2, respectively (5% significance level, 80% power, and 1:1 sample
      size ratio). Required sample size would be 686 subjects. We will recruit 1029 subject after
      considering design effect of 1.5.

      All villagers participated in both arms who have malaria-positive blood smears will be
      treated completely as previously described. The antimalaria drug will be given by direct
      observation treatment (DOT) technique or under supervision performed by health care personnel
      with the assistance of the health care volunteers to ensure that the treatment coverage would
      reach 100%.

      Blood samples are drawn by pricking the finger tip of the individuals in the community using
      microtainer as much as 0.25 ml for > 1 year-old children and adults or 0.1 ml for infants
      (the blood samples are drawn by pricking the finger tip of their toes). Simultaneously, the
      thick and thin blood smears are made for microscopic examination of malaria.

      The change of malaria antibody in population

      Inclusion criteria All villagers of the selected clusters ( arm 1: MST1 & 3 and arm 2: MST1
      &3) and children enrolled in cohort study from all arms.

      Sample size Sample size is calculated based on the proportion of altered malaria antibody
      before and after intervention in arm 1 and arm 2. The seropositive prevalence rate used in
      the study is 50% (unpublished data), which is expected to be seronegative as much as 25% in
      arm 1; while the change in the arm 2 would be 10%. Sample size calculation is performed by
      WinPepi software assuming that the proportion of seroconversion (from + to -) is 25% in arm 1
      and 10% in arm 2 (5% significance level, 80% power, and 1:1 sample size ratio). Required
      sample size would be 321 subjects. After considering design effect of 1.5, we will recruit
      482 subjects per arm and this will be randomized from community blood collected sample.

      Gametocyte carriage in the population

      Inclusion criteria All villagers of the selected clusters ( arm 1: MST1, 2, 3 and arm 2: MST
      1 &3) but not included elementary school children who participated in cohort study.

      Sample size Sample size is calculated based on the proportion of gametocyte carriages before
      and after intervention in both arm.The assumption of gametocyte proportion rate used in the
      study is 20%, which is expected to decrease by 40% in arm 1 and decrease by 10% in the arm 2.
      Sample size calculation is performed by WinPepi software by assuming that the reduced
      proportion of gametocyte carriage of 40% in arm 1 and 10% in arm 2 (5% significance level,
      80% power, and 1:1 sample size ratio). Required sample size would be 338subjects. After
      considering design effect of 1.5, we will recruit 507 subjects per arm that will be
      randomized from 1029 community participants

      Incidence based on molecular characterization

      Inclusion criteria All children in cohort study (arm 1 and 2).

      Sample size Blood samples are taken from all school-age children enrolled in cohort study or
      children per arm.

      Oocyst and sporozoite rate in vector mosquitoes Oocyst and sporozoite rate in mosquitoes will
      be determined at three points: baseline, week 6, and month 3. Mosquitoes will be collected
      within a week before nearest MST carried out. All collected mosquitoes in the period of study
      as mentioned before will be subjected to the laboratory examination.

      Parasite population genetic

      Inclusion criteria:

      Fifty samples for any malaria species (positive P. falciparum and P. vivax) at every mass
      blood survey from each arm (arm 1 and arm 2). This number is considered representative of
      local parasite genetic.
    
  