
    
      Age-associated degenerative changes cause gait impairments and a higher risk of falls in
      elderly. Falls are a leading cause for injuries, reduced mobility, independence and general
      well-being. Most of the investigator's daily life activities, including walking, are tasks
      which require not only motor but also cognitive functions. Therefore, also in fall
      prevention, there is a need for combined motor-cognitive interventions. Exergames - games
      which require physical activity and movement to play the game - are a promising option for
      motivating and engaging motor-cognitive training, especially in combination with newly
      available technologies. In an international project of the Ambient Assisted Living
      Association (AAL), a new exergame (Active@Home) was developed which ultimately aims for fall
      prevention in elderly and incorporates theoretical background from movement sciences,
      neuropsychology, cognitive sciences, and arts of game design.

      During aging, age-related changes are evident not only in sensory, motor and cognitive
      functions but also on (underlying) neuronal level: The aging brain is associated with
      neurostructural changes and functional changes in neuronal activity pattern. Especially the
      (pre)frontal lobe and medial temporal lobe (Hippocampus) are vulnerable to age-related
      degeneration. However, also in higher age, experience-based neuroplasticity can be observed;
      the adult brain possesses the ability to alter cortical functions and structures in response
      to stimulation or training. Evidence shows that experience-dependent neural plasticity can be
      enhanced by both, physical and cognitive exercise. The question arises how a combination of
      both - combined motor-cognitive training - influences neuroplasticity in the aging brain.
      Exergame training has been shown to improve motor as well as cognitive functions. To
      understand the underlying mechanisms of these training effects, the impact on the level of
      neuronal activity and brain structure has to be studied.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the effects of a home-based
      multicomponent exergame training on motor and cognitive functions of older adults compared to
      a usual care waitlist control group.

      To understand the underlying mechanisms, the secondary objective is to assess the effect of
      the exergame training on neuronal level (brain structure).

      The Active@Home exergame is a multicomponent, motor-cognitive training for fall prevention in
      elderly adults. It mainly consists of three components; strength training, balance training
      and cognitive training. For strength training, Tai Chi-based movements are included as Tai
      Chi is mainly performed in a semi-squat posture that places a large load on the muscles of
      the lower extremities. For balance training, dancing is included in the Active@Home exergame
      as the execution of rapid and well-directed steps has been shown to be effective in
      preventing falls. Both, Tai Chi and dancing, are 'holistic' physical activities requiring
      motor functions, cognition and mental involvement. Moreover, the Active@Home exergame
      explicitly targets specific attentional and executive functions (selective attention, divided
      attention, inhibition/interference control, mental flexibility, working memory) which are
      important for walking and safe gait. To maximize benefits for participants, the Active@Home
      exergame implements some basic general training principles; providing feedback, optimal load
      of task demands, progression of difficulty and high variability. The Active@Home system set
      up is easy and consists of an HDMI dongle (to run the application) which must be plugged into
      the TV and four wearable sensors (to measure the movements).

      All interested participants will be screened for eligibility for the study (cognitive
      screening with MMSE, health screening with questionnaire). Then the eligible participants are
      randomly allocated to either the intervention group or the waitlist control group. At the
      first appointment (T1), pre-measurements are conducted (motor and cognitive functions, MRI
      scans) with all participants. The participants of the intervention group will be equipped
      with the Active@Home exergame kit and instructed how to set up and use the system at home.
      The intervention period lasts for 16-18 weeks (no longer than two weeks of break/holiday
      allowed) with three training sessions per week each lasting about 40 minutes. All
      participants have to fill in an activity protocol during the whole intervention period. After
      completing all training sessions (in the intervention group), post-measurements are conducted
      at T2 with all participants. Measurements will take place at the CERENEO (Swiss clinic and
      research institute at Vitznau, Lucerne). Participants of the waitlist control group are
      instructed to continue their usual daily business and activities during the study period.
      After the post-measurements, they will get the Active@Home exergame for their personal use at
      home (for several months).
    
  