
    
      Background

      Diabetes is a long-term condition which affects the way the body regulates blood sugar in
      around 4.7 million people in the United Kingdom (Diabetes UK, 2019). There are two types of
      diabetes: Type 1 is when an individual is unable to produce any insulin, which is a hormone
      that allows sugar to enter the cells in our bodies, and Type 2 is when an individual no
      longer responds to insulin (Diabetes UK. 2019). Type 1 Diabetes is treated using insulin
      therapy and some people with Type 2 Diabetes will also need insulin therapy (DeWitt & Hirsch,
      2003).

      Individuals with diabetes have a greater risk of experiencing heart attacks, stroke and
      cardiovascular diseases, and complications from the condition such as amputations, sight loss
      and kidney disease (Diabetes UK, 2019). They also face many psychological challenges
      associated with managing the condition, such as depression, diabetes-related distress, and
      negative coping strategies, which can lead to poorer diabetes self-management (Rane, Wajngot,
      Wändell, & Gåfvels, 2011). According to the annual diabetes prevalence figures published in
      2019 by Diabetes UK, around 40% of people with diabetes experience psychological difficulties
      and up to 65% can experience low mood related to their diabetes. Those with mental health
      difficulties seeking physical treatment can cost the NHS up to 50% more than those without
      mental health difficulties (Diabetes UK, 2019).

      Psychological interventions and Acceptance and Commitment Therapy A range of psychological
      interventions have been used to treat individuals with diabetes, such as psychoeducation
      about diabetes self-management, problem-solving approaches and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy,
      which aims to challenge negative thoughts (Thorpe, Fahey, & Johnson, 2012). However, due to
      the realistic nature of thoughts related to chronic health conditions at times, approaches
      that challenge thoughts have limited effectiveness for some individuals (Hofmann, Sawyer, &
      Fang, 2010).

      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT; Hayes, Strosahl, & Wilson, 1999) may be a promising
      approach for use with the diabetes population. It is a therapeutic approach that is
      increasingly being used to treat psychological difficulties experienced by individuals with
      health conditions, as it moves away from attempts to alter internal experiences and promotes
      value-based living alongside our internal experiences. There is an emerging evidence base for
      the use of ACT with diabetes. Gregg, Callaghan, Hayes and Glenn-Lawson (2007) demonstrated
      that it is effective in improving coping styles, diabetes self-management and blood sugar
      control among adults with diabetes. ACT has been shown to be effective in improving
      diabetes-related outcomes in other studies as well (e.g. Shayeghian, Hassanabadi,
      Aguilar-Vafaie, Amiri, & Besharat, 2016). It has been delivered online successfully in the
      diabetes population through the use of smartphones, suggesting that it is feasible and
      effective in reducing anxiety, depression and diabetes-related distress (e.g. Nes et al.,
      2012; NHS Grampian, 2015).

      Individuals with diabetes use a range of coping strategies to manage the condition (Lazarus &
      Folkman, 1984). Karekla, Karademas and Gloster (2018) proposed links between a commonly used
      illness self-regulation model and ACT, which increases our theoretical understanding of how
      ACT can be helpfully applied to the difficulties experienced by people with diabetes,
      particularly given that it can be delivered in individual modules (Hayes et al., 1999). ACT
      promotes more active coping styles through enhancing individuals' values and goals and
      encouraging committed action (Hayes et al., 1999). ACT's mindfulness and acceptance
      components promote positive emotion-focused coping such as increased mindful awareness, and
      learning to live alongside difficult internal experiences. Therefore, learning these ACT
      skills may result in changes in coping strategies and diabetes-related outcomes.

      Due to the national lack of psychology funding in diabetes services, many services are not
      able to provide psychological interventions (Diabetes UK, 2008). There is a need for
      financially feasible and accessible interventions to support the wellbeing of patients with
      diabetes.

      Knowing which components of ACT are most effective would allow services to provide a short
      and more financially-feasible targeted intervention that is tailored to individuals with
      diabetes. The study is novel, as no research examining different components of ACT with
      people with diabetes has been published to date.

      Aims

      The present study aims to extend previous research on using ACT within the diabetes
      population, by taking a modular approach and examining the impact of two online ACT
      component-based interventions (a values-plus-goals intervention [VGI] and a mindfulness-based
      intervention [MBI]) on patients with insulin-treated diabetes. In particular, the
      investigators are interested in improving diabetes-related outcomes (i.e. wellbeing, diabetes
      self-management, coping skills and glycaemic control) by enhancing diabetes acceptance and
      values-based living.

      The research questions are:

        1. Do VGI and MBI significantly improve self-reported wellbeing, diabetes self-management,
           coping skills and glycaemic control in adults with insulin-treated diabetes? If so, are
           these improvements maintained at follow-up?

        2. Does MBI significantly increase diabetes acceptance compared to VGI?

        3. Does VGI significantly increase valued living compared to MBI?

        4. Is there an association between changes in diabetes acceptance pre-post MBI and
           wellbeing, diabetes self-management, coping skills and glycaemic control at follow-up?

        5. Is there an association between changes in valued living pre-post VGI and wellbeing,
           diabetes self-management, coping skills and glycaemic control at follow-up?

      Design

      A mixed design will be employed (between- and within-subjects). Participants will be
      randomised to take part in either the mindfulness intervention or the values-plus-goals
      intervention. They will complete self-report questionnaires on wellbeing, diabetes
      self-management, coping skills, diabetes acceptance and valued living at three different
      time-points: pre-intervention, post-intervention and at a 1-month follow-up. Glycaemic
      control will be measured pre-intervention and a 2-month follow-up.

      Sample, setting and recruitment

      The target sample will be English-speaking patients aged 18 and over, who have a diagnosis of
      insulin-treated diabetes and are currently accessing NHS diabetes services. Individuals must
      have an HbA1c value of 64 mmol/mol or higher (indicative of poor glycaemic control).

      The sample will be recruited from local NHS diabetes services in Ashford and St Peter's
      Hospitals. Consultant Endocrinologists from both services, Dr Thang Han and Dr Helen Ward,
      confirmed their interest in the project and granted permission for the investigators to use
      their services for recruitment and to collaborate on medical aspects of the project. Flyers
      and posters will be put up in the waiting area so that interested participants can discuss
      the project with a member of the care team to determine eligibility and be provided with a
      Participant Information Sheet. Clinicians and nurses will also mention the study to eligible
      patients at the end of their consultations, where possible, to raise awareness of the study
      and provide contact details of the researcher via the provision of a paper copy of the
      Participant Information Sheet and Consent Form. Once eligible participants have agreed to
      take part, they will be sent an electronic Participant Information Sheet to go through the
      informed consent process electronically. Participants will be given ample time to consider
      whether they wish to take part and will have the opportunity to have any questions answered
      by the CI prior to the consent process.

      Based on an a-priori analysis on G*Power using an effect size of 0.25, an alpha level of 0.05
      and power of 0.8 (Cohen, 1992), a sample size of 24 per group is required for a two-tailed
      between- and within-factors analysis of variance. In total, the investigators are aiming to
      recruit at least 25 participants per group to ensure that they will be able to detect effects
      related to the hypotheses.

      Procedure

      The study itself is web-based and will be accessible to patients from home, provided that
      they can access the Internet. All participants will receive a Qualtrics link to take part in
      the study. They will be presented with a Participant Information Sheet to read and asked for
      informed consent before proceeding with the study; they will also have had physical copies of
      these sheets. They will then be randomly allocated to VGI or MBI through Qualtrics. Before
      the intervention, participants will be presented with five self-report measures to complete
      electronically. They will then have access to the four-week intervention, following which
      they will be asked to complete the same set of five outcome measures. One month after
      intervention completion, participants will be contacted to complete follow-up measures.
      Glycated haemoglobin level (HbA1c), a widely-used indicator of glycaemic control, will be
      recorded before the intervention and at a 2-month post-intervention follow-up, as it is an
      average blood sugar level measure that is representative of the last 3 months.

      Participants will also have the opportunity to try the intervention that they were not
      randomly assigned to, at the end of the study. No further interventions would be available
      thereafter.

      Analysis

      The main analyses will include:

      (i) Exploring group differences in demographic and clinical factors; (ii) Mixed-design
      analyses to compare the impact of the interventions on the outcomes of interest across the
      three time-points (analysis of variance); (iii) Examination of changes in acceptance and
      valued living within each intervention group (analysis of variance); (iv) Using PROCESS
      analysis to explore (1) whether changes in well-being in the MBI condition is partially
      explained by changes in diabetes acceptance and emotion-focused coping style, and (2) whether
      changes in self-management and glycaemic control in the VGI condition are partially explained
      by changes in valued living and active coping style.

      Data collection, storage and security arrangements

      Only personal information provided by participants and their clinicians to the researcher as
      part of the research will be accessible to the researcher (i.e. the researcher will not have
      access to the participant's clinical notes). The researchers and co-investigators will have
      access to the online consent forms, demographic information and self-report questionnaires,
      as outlined in the Participant Information Sheet and agreed by participants in their consent
      form.

      All data will be anonymised therefore no one will be identifiable. Each participant will be
      allocated a unique personal identification number which will be presented on all
      questionnaires, demographic and clinical information sheets, computerised data files, and the
      study database. A separate password-protected file containing the participant's name,
      telephone number, e-mail address and study number will be kept.

      All data will be stored in accordance with the guidelines laid out in the NHS code of
      confidentiality and EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). All data will be stored on
      the sponsor's secure computer system (Royal Holloway, University of London). There will be no
      physical data stored during the study. The file containing identifiable personal information
      will be destroyed once the study data has been fully analysed and written up.

      After the study has ended, research data will be stored up until the CI's fulfillment of
      their Doctorate in Clinical Psychology and for up to 5 years following publication in a
      scientific journal for audit purposes. Dr Michelle Taylor will be in control of and act as
      the custodian for the data generated by the study.
    
  