
    
      The technique involves administration of glucose solution either orally or intravenously.
      This is metabolised and concentrated into the intracellular compartment rapidly, which can be
      detected by GlucoCEST MRI. The abnormally high glucose uptake demonstrated by certain tumours
      is therefore potential biomarkers. At present this is already being investigated in head and
      neck cancer patients using oral glucose in a separate study. In this proposal we aim to
      utilise intravenous administration of glucose, which has been shown in pre-clinical studies
      to improve GlucoCEST signal, and thus likely to increase the detectability of cancer.

      This study aims to develop and assess GlucoCEST and other exchange-sensitive MRI measurements
      (denoted 'exchange-sensitive MRI' hereafter) using intravenous glucose in tumours and
      metastases, and evaluate its use as an imaging biomarker of tumour and treatment response.
      This project will:

        1. Establish an optimised bolus and infusion protocol of intravenous glucose to maximise
           exchange-sensitive MRI signal.

        2. Assess the reproducibility of exchange-sensitive MRI and initial proof-of-concept study
           in cancer patients

        3. Apply exchange-sensitive MRI in selected cancer types to assess its diagnostic and
           prognostic power.

      The initial optimisation study involves investigating the optimal regime of intravenous
      glucose administration for obtaining the optimal exchange-sensitive MRI signal. The second
      stage will see exchange-sensitive MRI being applied to patients in different cancer groups to
      assess its ability for detecting cancer.

      For the optimisation study, 20 healthy volunteers will be recruited. For the application
      study 80 patients (20 Hodgkin's lymphoma, 20 head and neck tumour, and 40 glioma) will be
      investigated. Most of these patients will be due for an MRI as part of their standard care
      pathway; in these cases exchange-sensitive MRI will be added to the standard imaging
      sequence. For those who are not otherwise due for MRI, both standard and exchange-sensitive
      MRI will be acquired.

      It is expected that the data generated from this study will inform the design of larger
      trials and will provide the framework for an improved imaging pathway in certain cancer
      groups in the future.
    
  