
    
      The main aim of this study is to develop and clinically validate a smart-phone application to
      monitor symptoms and signs in stable bipolar patients, offering also customized embedded
      psycho-education contents and empower the self-management of their disorder to avoid relapses
      and hospitalizations. Secondary objectives will be to explore other clinical benefits among
      the smart-phone application users such as biological rhythms, manic/hypomanic and depressive
      symptoms, quality of life, suicide attempts, pharmacological treatment changes as well as
      healthcare resource consumption (outpatient and emergency room consultations) in order to
      evaluate its cost-efficiency compared to current standard interventions.

      The study will include stable bipolar patients (YMRS ≤ 8, HDRS ≤ 6 for at least one month
      prior to study entry) who have experienced at least one hypomanic, manic or depressive
      relapse during the 12 months prior to study entry. This will be carried out in three
      different but complementary phases in order to fully include patients and therapist's
      preferences. Along the process, confidential information and data handling will be tested to
      ensure privacy and confidentiality are warranted. In this regard, an anonymized user name and
      password will be given to the patients who will never have to reveal their real identity to
      access the application during the study.

        -  First phase: During the first three months a feasibility study will be conducted
           evaluating the use, reliability and satisfaction monitoring symptoms (subjective
           information) using a smart-phone with the SIMPLe 1.0 application installed. The
           intervention will be consecutively offered to 30 stable adults (>18 years) fulfilling
           inclusion criteria. The patient will have to read and agree with the terms and sign an
           informed consent in order to participate. Sociodemographic data and standardized
           clinical as well as functional assessments will be administered at baseline, at the
           first, second and third month of the study. The assessments will include present manic
           symptoms using the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), depressive symptoms using the
           Hamilton depression Rating Scale (HDRS), biological rhythms using the biological rhythms
           interview of assessment in neuropsychiatry (BRIAN), quality of life measured by World
           Health Organization quality of life assessment (WHOQOL-BREF) and treatment adherence
           using the Medication Adherence Rating Scale (MARS). A smart-phone device with the SIMPLe
           1.0 application pre-installed, will be given to the participants for free during the
           study with the mandatory condition that it has to be their main mobile-phone during the
           next 3 months. In the case the patient accepts to participate but doesn´t want to switch
           from his/her current smart-phone, he/she will be offered the possibility to download the
           SIMPLe 1.0 application from the App Store and a username and password will be given to
           use it. The SIMPLe 1.0 application will ask the user by customizable automatic reminder
           notifications to answer daily and weekly questionnaires based on DSM-5 (Diagnostic and
           Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th edition) criteria for a manic, hypomanic,
           mixed or depressive episode. The use frequency will be measured by the daily and weekly
           questionnaires answered which will be registered online. At the same time they will
           receive through the application daily customized psychoeducative messages based on the
           information collected by the application. Feasibility and satisfaction will be assessed
           with the application usage log data and an electronic survey, while the app reliability
           to correctly asses the patients mood states will be analyzed comparing the clinical
           assessments and the information collected by the application.

        -  Second phase: Individual personal interviews with each SIMPLe 1.0 user will also collect
           qualitative information about the application and suggestions. Taking into consideration
           the information collected from participants in the first phase, the application will be
           adapted and improved with the addition of objective information (signs) monitoring
           modules using mobile usage parameters and the built-in sensors. Focus groups will be
           held with participants, psychiatrists and psychologists to better fit their needs and
           incorporate suggestions.

        -  Third phase: A randomized controlled trial taking into consideration a significance
           level of 0.05, power of 0.8 and a minimal detectable difference of 0.5 and an expected
           drop-out of 15%, will be carried out with two arms of 74 patients each, as follows:

             -  Intervention group (SIMPLe 2.0 + TAU): The experimental group will use the
                application SIMPLe 2.0 and simultaneously will receive their usual treatment which
                includes pharmacological and psychological interventions. A smart-phone device with
                the SIMPLe 2.0 application pre-installed, will be given to the participants for
                free during the study with the mandatory condition that it has to be their main
                mobile-phone during the next 3 months. In the case the patient accept to
                participate but don´t want to switch from their current smart-phone, they will be
                offered the possibility to download the SIMPLe 2.0 application from the App Store
                and a username and password will be given to use it. The patient will be asked by
                customizable automatic reminder notifications to answer daily and weekly
                questionnaires based on DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
                Disorders, 5th edition) criteria for a manic, hypomanic or depressive episode.
                Additionally, the signs will be automatically recorded based on the smart-phone
                usage measured by the smart-phone screen on time, texts messages sent, telephone
                calls made and social networking apps activity, in addition to the physical
                activity monitored by the built-in actimeter. At the same time, they will receive
                through the application daily psychoeducative customized messages based on the data
                recollected by the application. Relapse risk will be fixed by means of a logarithm
                including both subjective and objective data. If the logarithm points at a moderate
                or high risk, the clinical team will be immediately contacted and the patient will
                be offered to call emergency services for assistance.

             -  Treatment as usual group (TAU): The treatment as usual (TAU) only group will be
                followed-up with their usual treatment including pharmacological and psychological
                interventions.

      An initial evaluation in both groups will be carried out recollecting sociodemographic data
      and using standardized clinical as well as functional assessments which will be administered
      again in three follow-up evaluations, at three, six and twelve months. The assessments will
      include present manic symptoms using the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), depressive symptoms
      using the Hamilton depression Rating Scale (HDRS), functional impairment using the
      Functioning assessment short test (FAST), biological rhythms using the biological rhythms
      interview of assessment in neuropsychiatry (BRIAN), quality of life measured by World Health
      Organization quality of life assessment (WHOQOL-BREF) and treatment adherence using the
      Medication Adherence Rating Scale (MARS). During the follow-up the number of relapses,
      inpatient admissions, outpatient consultations, emergency rooms consultations and suicide
      attempts will be registered. All participants in both groups must read and agree with the
      terms and sign an informed consent prior to their inclusion in the study. Psychiatrists and
      psychologists conducting the evaluations will be blinded to which participant belongs to each
      group.

      The main outcome to evaluate between both groups during this period will be number of
      relapses (Manic, Hypomanic or Depressive Episodes) during the 6-month treatment phase.
      Secondary outcomes will include the number of relapses during 6-month post-intervention
      follow-up (Manic, hypomanic and depressive episodes according to DSM-5 criteria). In addition
      differences in biological rhythms (BRIAN), differences in manic symptoms using the Young
      Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) and depressive symptoms using the Hamilton depression Rating Scale
      (HDRS) during the 6-month treatment phase and 6-month post-intervention follow-up.
      Additionally the quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF), functional Impairment (FAST) and treatment
      adherence (Medication Adherence Rating Scale (MARS)) will be assessed each follow-up
      assessment. Other outcomes include differences in healthcare resource consumption measured in
      number and duration of hospitalizations, outpatient and emergency room consultations related
      to their psychiatric disorder and pharmacological treatment changes (doses and agents
      prescribed) over the 12 month follow-up.

      In the case of positive results, the tested app will allow a user-friendly, non-costly and
      efficacious way to monitor and train stable bipolar patients avoiding recurrences, as an
      add-on to usual pharmacological care. The implementation of this technology will also improve
      associated healthcare costs.
    
  