
    
      Obesity is an independent risk factor for GERD and its complications. Bariatric surgery is
      effective in treatment of obesity and at the same time in controlling GERD, but there is
      disparity in current literature if sleeve gastrectomy could worsen it, more than gastric
      bypass. Our study aims to investigate if there is a difference in postoperative GERD between
      these two surgical procedures in obese patients with pre-existing GERD, defined by results of
      24 hours pH monitoring, expressed by an abnormal DeMeester Score (DMS). REBvSS is a
      monocentric randomized controlled trial (RCT). The investigators will study 128 obese
      patients, eligible for Bariatric Surgery (BMS), suspected for GERD, with 24-h pH monitoring
      and high-resolution manometry. DMS is calculated pre-operatively and, once GERD is confirmed,
      the patients are randomized to SG or RYGBP. The DMS is then calculated on 24 hours pH
      monitoring 24 months after the surgery and the degree of GERD is evaluated. The promoter
      centre is the Division of Minimally invasive Oncological General Surgery at Azienda Socio
      Sanitaria Territoriale Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda, Milan, Lombardy, that is an
      excellence centre for bariatric and metabolic surgery according to Società Italiana di
      Chirurgia dell'Obesità e delle malattie metaboliche (SICOB) accreditation policy, where the
      study will be carried out.

      Medical history will be collected during the first outpatient examination and assessed as
      follows:

        -  Diagnosis of Obesity, based on value of BMI ≥ 35;

        -  Investigation of obesity-related diseases

        -  Clinical, nutritional and surgical history

        -  GERDQ score If the patient is eligible for BMS and there is the suspicion of GERD the
           preoperative evaluation will be carried out. It consists of a trial specific evaluation
           (EGDS, 24-h pH monitoring, HRM, DMS), that confirms the presence of GERD, and a standard
           evaluation (Ultrasonography of abdomen, ECG, Chest X-Ray, Blood exams, anesthaesiologic
           evaluation). When all the inclusion criteria are verified, the patient will be
           randomized to RYGBP or SG group and will undergo surgery. All patients will be
           randomized centrally using an online computer controlled permuted-block randomization
           module between SG and RYGBP in a 1:1 ratio.

      The postoperative visits will be organised as follow:

        -  90 days after surgery, to evaluate the presence or the absence of medical or surgical
           complications;

        -  12 months and 24 months after surgery EGDS, 24 hours pH-monitoring and HRM will be
           performed to evaluate the degree of esophagitis and calculate the DMS; the quality of
           life and the symptoms will be assessed troughs BAROS and GERDQ score; also the trend of
           comorbidities will be examined.

      Every patient will be analysed according to the allocated treatment. The investigators hope
      that our study will finally answer this issue, thanks to its randomized nature and the
      definition of GERD based on gold standard pH monitoring. These findings might influence
      decision-making in bariatric surgery and change or confirm the success of sleeve gastrectomy,
      also for what concerns the reflux disease.
    
  