
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by repeated occurrence of apneas or reduced
      inspiratory air flow due to obstructions of the upper airways (hypopneas). These recurring
      events are accompanied by intermittent hypoxemia and sympathetic activation, leading to
      hemodynamic oscillations including relevant variations of pulse wave and blood pressure.
      Thus, OSA is associated with cardiovascular diseases and was identified as an independent
      risk factor for hypertension.

      Direct effects of obstructive respiratory events (obstructive apneas and hypopneas) include
      changes of the peripheral pulse wave. The latter can easily be measured by finger
      plethysmography, e.g. by using established pulse oximeters. Certain pulse wave
      characteristics and their reaction towards obstructive respiratory events may provide
      information on cardiovascular function and thereby help in individual cardiovascular risk
      assessment.

      Recently, Grote et al. published a concept for cardiovascular risk assessment based on pulse
      oximetry and pulse wave analysis ("ASI" - Grote et al. 2011, CHEST). The algorithm described
      herein is able to differentiate between high and low risk patients according to ESH/ESC risk
      classification (high risk = 4 and 5, low risk 1-3). To that end, oxygen saturation as
      measured by pulse oximetry, reductions in pulse wave amplitude, pulse rate accelerations,
      pulse propagation time and cardiorespiratory coupling are taken into account to calculate a
      quantitative total risk.

      A successful OSA therapy applying positive airway pressure (e.g. CPAP) normalizes
      sleep-related breathing disturbances and thus counterbalances hemodynamic oscillations. This
      presumably results in reduced cardiovascular risk and should be detectable by measurable
      changes in pulse wave. This study aims to evaluate these effects by analyzing the single
      pulse wave parameters, which are part of the ASI algorithm. At the same time, established
      risk factors as well as the objective therapy outcome will be documented from the established
      sleep medicine viewpoint.
    
  