
    
      The Policy & Research Group (PRG) is evaluating the "Plan A" video, which was designed to
      promote effective contraceptive use, use of dual methods of protection (condom use and
      prescription birth control use), and HIV/STI testing in African/American and Latina young
      women. The video is approximately 23 minutes in length and is shown immediately prior to a
      clinical appointment at a reproductive health center. By delivering the intervention prior to
      a clinic appointment, developers hope to reach high-risk teens at a teachable moment, when
      they can ask a health care provider about what they have learned. The primary focus of the
      study is to investigate the impact of the intervention on participants': 1) LARC use; 2)
      times having sex without a condom; and 3) STI testing. Secondary outcome measures include
      assessing the impact of the intervention on participants': 1) use of dual methods of
      protection during vaginal sex; and 2) use of other effective contraceptive methods. Finally,
      the evaluation will include exploratory analysis of participants': 1) perception of risk
      and/or severity for pregnancy and HIV/STI infection; (2) intention to use LARC; (3) intention
      to use other effective contraception methods; (4) provider communication self-efficacy; (5)
      condom negotiation self-efficacy; and (6) knowledge/awareness of contraception options/LARC.

      The control (counterfactual) condition consists of a 17-minute video titled "The Toxic Life
      Cycle of a Cigarette". The control video, which discusses the effects of smoking, is shown in
      the same manner as the treatment video: immediately prior to a clinic appointment at a
      reproductive health center.

      All eligible participants who provide the proper consent are randomized and enrolled into the
      study by a study coordinator who is an employee of the reproductive health clinic. Outcomes
      will be assessed using self-reported, participant-level data gathered (by way of a
      questionnaire) at three time points: baseline (enrollment, prior to watching the video);
      3-month follow-up (3 months after baseline); and 9-month follow-up (9 months after baseline).
      The study is taking place at seven clinics within the Planned Parenthood Mar Monte system in
      California, all of which serve the target population.
    
  