
    
      The last 40 years have been a period of remarkable evolution of organ transplantation from
      nothing to a well-established form of treatment with good short-term results. These findings
      were achieved mainly using the conventional triple-drug regimen with cyclosporine (CsA),
      azathioprine (or mycophenolate mofetil, MMF), and steroids. During the past 15 years,
      however, the superior immunosuppressive efficacy of CsA and the well-known toxicity of
      long-term steroid therapy have prompted trials of steroid withdrawal from renal allograft
      recipients at various intervals after transplantation, Few transplant centers have also
      adopted a steroid-free immunosuppressive regimen. Reported benefit of eliminating steroids
      from immunosuppressive regimens of CsA-treated renal transplant recipients have included
      improvement of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, glucose intolerance and, in children,
      acceleration of growth. Avoiding these steroid-related side effects would contribute to
      improve long-term outcome of the grafts. These and other benefits of steroid withdrawal or
      avoidance must be balanced against the associated risk of precipitating acute allograft
      rejection. Moreover, with the current immunosuppressive regimens, by 10 years approximately
      50% of grafts will have been lost due mainly to chronic rejection or the side-effects of
      immunosuppressive therapy. Thus, the quest for therapies that might induce specific immune
      tolerance - ideally via short-term interventions that would target only the pathogenic immune
      response and leave the protective host immune response unimpaired - has provided a "holy
      grail" for transplant immunologists. We now have a number of extremely powerful
      immunosuppressive drugs and antibodies with different mechanisms of action and the stage is
      set for a move from current continuous high dose immunosuppressive maintenance therapy to low
      dose or no maintenance immunosuppression. Indeed, true tolerance can occur in man, examples
      being successful bone marrow transplantation and patients with liver grafts who have stopped
      immunosuppression after years of good function.

      The humanized IgG monoclonal antibody Campath-1H with a unique target CD52 on T, B
      lymphocytes and monocytes has been used to eliminate lymphocytes from the blood for more than
      a month in kidney transplant recipients. Given its potent but safe effect of depleting T and
      B cells, Campath-1H has been hypothesized to provide enough immunosuppression that would
      allow maintenance therapy with low-dose CsA, and possibly reprogramming the immune system so
      to encourage tolerance processes. This has been formally tested in 31 patients undergoing
      first cadaver renal allograft. The results with a mean two year follow-up have been
      encouraging, 29 patients having good graft function without receiving maintenance steroids.
      Similar results have been achieved recently combining Campath-1H and full dose sirolimus in
      renal transplant recipients. Twenty-three out of 24 patients had good graft function 1 year
      post transplant. However, most patients were on a lipid-lowering agent to counteract the
      hyperlipidemic effect of sirolimus. It should be also considered that in both clinical trials
      acute rejection episodes early post transplant occurred in 20-25% of the patients. Thus, to
      reduce the risk of hyperlipidemia associated with the current full-dose of sirolimus, while
      minimizing the risk of rejection, a combination regimen of low dose sirolimus and low dose
      MMF is worth investigating.

      Despite Campath-1H immunosuppressive regimens have been claimed to induce a condition of
      "almost tolerance", this has not been proved nor evidence of development of persistent
      regulatory immune responses long-term post transplant has been provided. Thus, characterizing
      phenotypically and functionally distinct subsets of T-regulatory cells possibly generated
      selectively in non-rejecting transplant recipients in Campath-1H-based immunosuppressive
      regimens may help to find new noninvasive markers of immune system activation to tailor
      immunosuppressive protocols.

      Aims of the study

      This prospective study in adult kidney transplant recipients is designed with the following
      aims:

      Primary To compare the effect of Campath-1H, low dose sirolimus versus Campath-1H, low dose
      CsA, both in addition to low dose MMF on phenotypic and functional profiles of peripheral
      blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in kidney transplant recipients in a steroid-free regimen.

      Secondary

      To compare in the two groups of kidney transplant recipients at 6 and 12 months post-Tx:

        -  Incidence of acute allograft rejection

        -  Time course of graft function (as serum creatinine concentration)

        -  Time course of glomerular filtration rate (GFR)

        -  Systolic and diastolic blood pressure

        -  Need for antihypertensive therapy

        -  Lipid profile (cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL)

        -  Need for statins

        -  Fasting blood glucose and need of antidiabetic agents

        -  24 h urinary protein excretion rate

        -  Patient and graft survival

        -  Incidence of major adverse events (post-transplant anuria, major infections, cancer,
           abnormal liver function tests, and abnormal hematological blood cell count)

      As an extension of the project, patients still on the study at month 12 post-transplant, with
      no biopsy evidence of acute or chronic rejection, persistent donor specific unresponsiveness
      and intact 3rd party response in MLR, presence of immune regulatory cells in the peripheral
      blood will undergo a program of sequential withdrawal of the maintenance low dose
      immunosuppressive drugs.

      Randomization Group 1 (n=11): Campath-1H, low dose sirolimus, low dose MMF These patients
      will receive Campath-1H at day 0 of transplant. Low dose sirolimus (target to trough
      concentration of 5-10 ng/ml) and low dose MMF (750 mg twice a day) will be given orally
      starting on the day of transplant (the first few days through nasogastric tube).

      Methylprednisolone (500 mg) will be administered intravenously on day 0, 1, and 2
      posttransplant.

      The first treatment will be performed 30 min before the dose of Campath-1H, to minimize
      reactions to cytokine release. Group 2 (n=10): Campath-1H, low dose CsA, low dose MMF The
      patients will receive Campath-1H at day 0 of transplant. Low dose CsA (target blood C2 level:
      450-750 ng/ml) and low dose MMF (750 mg twice a day) will be given orally starting on the day
      of transplant (the first few days through nasogastric tube). Methylprednisolone will be
      administered intravenously on day 0 (500 mg), 1 (250 mg), and 2 (125 mg) post-transplant.

      The first treatment will be performed 30 min before the dose of Campath-1H, to minimize
      reactions to cytokine release.

      Randomization will be performed at the Clinical Research Center for Rare Disease Aldo eCele
      Daccò of the Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research.

      Study design All patients entering the study will be managed according to standard protocols
      already in use at the participating Centers.A tissue sample will be taken from the kidney
      just after harvesting from the donor and, by percutaneous renal biopsy, at the end of the 12
      month follow-up for morphological evaluation. Beside conventional histological examination.
      immunostaining for cytokines, and possible mediators of chronic renal injury (ET-1, TGF-β,
      RANTES) will be performed. Clinical parameters will be monitored at least every month.
      Functional parameter will be evaluated at month 6 and 12 post-transplant. Moreover,blood CsA
      C2, blood sirolimus trough levels, and plasma MMF trough levels will be monitored.

      All patients will undergo immunophenotyping of circulating peripheral blood leukocytes at
      different time points post-transplant. All patients will also undergo lymphocyte function
      assays at different time points posttransplant.

      These assays will be performed pre-transplant, at day 15 and 30 post-transplant (or at the
      time of acute rejection and after recovery of graft function), at month 6, 12 post-transplant
      or at the time of any biopsy due to chronic deterioration of graft function and at the time
      of graft loss.

      At the same time points cytokine detection in antigen-activated T cells will be measured by
      ELISPOT assay.
    
  