
    
      Background:

      Language processing is a complex brain function supported by a large network, including
      domain-specific language areas as well as domain-general cognitive-control networks
      (Friederici & Gierhan, 2013). Noninvasive brain stimulation, such as transcranial direct
      current stimulation (tDCS), is increasingly being used as a promising therapeutic tool for
      psychiatric and neurological diseases (Tortella et al., 2015; Flöel, 2014). In the language
      domain, several studies revealed that tDCS over languagespecific areas induces changes in
      cortical function that enhances the recovery of language abilities in patients with
      post-stroke aphasia (Torres, Drebing & Hamilton, 2013; Monti et al., 2013). Beneficial
      effects of tDCS have also been found for stimulation over more domain-general cognitive
      control regions. Although research on non-invasive brain stimulation and aphasia reveals
      promising results, studies investigating the modulation of cognitive control-networks on
      lexical access are rare. Given the importance of a successful interplay between prefrontal
      and domain-specific language areas, possible therapeutic effects of tDCS over the prefrontal
      cortex (PFC) in aphasia can be of high value for rehabilitation and basic research.

      Procedure:

      A planned total of 30 patients will be included. In a first visit, the severity of aphasia,
      the medical history as well as inclusion/exclusion criteria will be evaluated. After this
      visit, patients will undergo two tDCS sessions (one tDCS and one S-tDCS session) with a one
      week interval between the sessions. Each session consists of an online (during stimulation)
      and an offline assessment (within 30 minutes after stimulation). Three language tasks and a
      nonverbal executive function task will be conducted online as well as offline in each of the
      two sessions (tDCS and S-tDCS).
    
  