
    
      The primary objective is to detect the treatment effect of Yinzhihuang Oral Liquid on
      indirect bilirubin in neonates with G-6-PD enzyme deficiency and neonatal hyperbilirubinemia.
      Try to provide scientific theories for Yinzhihuang Oral Liquid to treat neonates with G-6-PD
      enzyme deficiency and neonatal hyperbilirubinemia.

      Study subjects includes neonates with hyperbilirubinemia from five hospitals, who are willing
      to take Yinzhihuang oral liquid.

      Five hospitals are South Hospital of Southern Medical University (primary institute), The
      Third Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou medical university, Shenzhen maternal and child health
      hospital, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, The maternal and child
      health hospital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Inclusion criteria：

        1. Full-term newborns with jaundice after 3-7 days of birth, total bilirubin in serum or
           transcutaneous bilirubin is between 100umol/L and 257umol/L, and start taking
           Yinzhihuang oral liquid, dose: 3ml per each time, 3 times per each day, during the
           period, measuring bilirubin from skin one time every 24 hours;

        2. Gestational age≥37 weeks, birth weight≥2.5Kg, Apgar scores≥8;

        3. lineal consanguinity are all the native residents from Guangdong or Guangxi;

        4. The enzyme activity of G-6-PD will be detected and collected from all the neonates
           subjects;

        5. Informed consents of all the neonates subjects are needed. Exclusion Criteria： (1)
           Neonates with inherited metabolic diseases; (2) Neonates with congenital malformation of
           liver and gallbladder; (3) Neonates with asphyxia, hypoxia, acidosis, sepsis, high
           fever, low temperature, low protein, low blood sugar, etc. which may lead to bilirubin
           encephalopathy; (4)History of oxidation drug exposure(e.g. honeysuckle bath) Study
           procedures： Outpatient and inpatient neonates (mainly for cesarean section newborns),
           with jaundice after 3-7 days of birth, total bilirubin in serum or measuring bilirubin
           from skin is between 100umol/L and 257umol/L, will be selected. On the first day of
           jaundice, the G-6-PD enzyme activity will be detected by checking arterial blood, and
           then start taking Yinzhihuang oral liquid, dose: 3ml each time, 3 times every day,
           during the period, measuring bilirubin from skin one time every 24 hours.

      When the transcutaneous bilirubin is below 100umol/L, stop taking the medication. When
      bilirubin increases to match the phototherapy indications, the neonates will be transferred
      to the neonatal department, and continue the Yinzhihuang oral liquid treatment until
      bilirubin decreasing to normal level.

      after the transfer to the ICU still needs to continue to use until the jaundice decreased to
      normal level.

      The neonates 's families have to sign the informed consents before entering the study.

      G-6-PD <10.37U /g.H b was diagnosed as a lack of G-6-PD activity. Subgroup: according to the
      severity of the lack of the activity of the enzyme, it will be divided into 3 groups: mild
      deficiency: 6.93-10.37U/g.H b; moderate deficiency: 3.47-6.92U/g. Hb; severe deficiency:
      0-3.46U/g.H b.

      Note: the above criteria can be modified according to the test methods of those five
      hospitals, and will be uniformed by same final standards.

      The normal value of G-6-PD enzyme activity is 2.5-5.8KU/L in our hospital, <2.5KU/L can be
      diagnosed as lack of G-6-PD enzyme activity. However, there is no certain standards for the
      definition of mild deficiency, moderate deficiency and severe deficiency in our hospital. It
      was reported that activity is less than 10% of normal is severe deficiency, less than 10%-60%
      of normal is moderate deficiency, less than 60% of normal is mild deficiency.
    
  