
    
      Vulvar neoplasia - incidence, symptoms and disease's management Although being a rare cancer
      disease, the incidence of vulvar neoplasia is increasing with a current incidence rate of 3.6
      / 100.000 for women with vulvar cancer (Buttmann-Schweiger et al., 2015) and 7 / 100.000 for
      women with VIN (Anders, Riethdorf, & Löning, 2001). Due to the disease itself and treatment
      side effects women suffer from a high number of postsurgical symptoms and related distress,
      such as pain, swelling, or uncertainty (Jefferies & Clifford, 2012; Philp, Mellon, Barnett,
      D'Abrew, & White, 2017; Senn et al., 2011). Results from literature suggest that women have
      unmet support needs as talking to healthcare professionals is perceived as difficult and
      information given by healthcare professionals is described as conflicting and inadequate
      (Philp et al., 2017). The high symptom prevalence and related distress reported uncertainty
      as well as the perceived lack of supportive care can lead to hospital readmissions and
      consequently to the generation of high healthcare costs.

      To overcome this lack of supportive care, guidelines focusing on vulvar neoplasia recommend
      an integrative approach including skilled nursing as a key factor for patient management
      (Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, 2014). Specialist nurses, i.e. Advanced
      Practice Nurses (APN) can, therefore, play an important role in caring for women with vulvar
      neoplasia, as shown in the study of Raphaelis et al. (2018) where women received written
      information and counselling sessions from APNs. However, gaps remain especially in women's
      disease management beyond the walls of the clinic. Therefore, supportive care interventions
      are requested to promote women's self-management, especially at home. One possibility might
      be the use of e-health.

      E-health - the changing nature of self-help: E-health has come to be an important avenue for
      supporting self-management. One integral part of the subject area of e-health is m-health.
      Within the healthcare system the aim of m-health is to provide electronic solutions on mobile
      devices, which is also described in the WHO definition of m-health: "M-health covers medical
      and public health practice supported by mobile devices, such as mobile phones, patient
      monitoring devices, personal digital assistants (PDAs), and other wireless devices" (World
      Health Organization, 2011). It is expected to contribute to patients' empowerment as they
      could take a more active role (European Commission, without date). Especially in chronic
      disease management, m-health interventions could play an important role in providing
      information and enabling communication without spatial and temporal restrictions.

      Significance: This research will contribute significantly to the knowledge about effects of
      mobile app interventions in gynaecologic oncology, especially with regard to a reduction of
      symptom induced distress and improvement of uncertainty in a stigmatized disease like vulvar
      neoplasia.

      Objectives: Primary Objective The study seeks primarily to examine the effectiveness of a
      multidimensional mobile app intervention, which consists of the use of the mobile app
      whenever women want for a period of six months and three counselling sessions with a
      gynaecology-oncology nurse ("WOMAN-PRO III") on symptom induced distress, uncertainty and
      cost-effectiveness in women with vulvar neoplasia after surgical treatment across time
      compared to three counselling sessions with a gynaecology-oncology nurse and written
      information. The secondary objective is to explore women's perceived uncertainty as well as
      the mobile app's acceptability, usability, strengths and weaknesses by assessing
      participants' and gynaecology-oncology nurses' experiences.

      Methods: We use an explanatory-sequential design (Creswell & Plano Clark, 2017) to examine
      the effectiveness of the mobile-app intervention ("WOMAN-PRO III"). Thus, quantitative
      findings can be explained by means of qualitative results (Creswell & Plano Clark, 2017).
      Therefore, Phase 1 of this project will consist of a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with
      an intervention and control arm. Phase 2 is a subsequent qualitative study aiming to explore
      (1) women's meaning of uncertainty and (2) the mobile app intervention's ("WOMAN PRO III")
      acceptability, usability, strengths and weaknesses from patients' and gynaecology-oncology
      nurses' perspective.

      Sample and setting: 100 Patients, with an estimated rate of 20% loss to follow-up and
      drop-out will be recruited continuously in four Swiss hospitals (Bern, Lucerne, Lugano,
      St.Gallen) to have in the end a total sample of 80 patients for analysis.

      Recruitment: From May 1st, 2019 until January31st, 2021 patients will be consecutively
      invited by a gynaecologist or a nurse to participate in the study after initial diagnosis at
      the hospital.

      Data collection: Will be conducted in the control group via paper-based questionnaires and in
      the intervention group via paper-based questionnaires and additionally via app. Patients will
      be asked to complete questionnaires at three points in time:

        -  Diagnosis / before surgical intervention (t0),

        -  day seven after surgery (t1),

        -  and month six after surgery (t2). Sample size: Statistical significance is defined as α
           = 0.05, power is defined as 80%. Assuming a 20% rate of loss to follow-up and drop-out,
           with a sampling ratio of 1 a total of 100 female patients with surgically treated VIN/VC
           will be necessary to start the randomized control trial to gain a total sample of 80
           patients for analysis.

      Planned analyses: Patients will be analyzed within their assigned groups (intention to treat)
      based on frequencies and descriptive statistics. Changes in symptom induced distress
      (frequency of symptoms, items and subscores) will be analyzed using mixed linear regression
      analysis, taking into account the longitudinal nature of the data (t0, t1, t2), and data
      clustering within centers. Fixed variables will be study group, point of time, and their
      interaction. The variables 'patient', nested under the respective 'center', will be entered
      as a random effect. To find out time-specific differences between the patient groups post-hoc
      tests will be performed. Uncertainty, our secondary outcome, will be analyzed similarly.
      Statistical analysis will be provided by a professional statistician, using IBM SPSS Version
      24.

      Qualitative study: After 6 months of collecting data for the RCT, a qualitative study will be
      started aiming to explore (1) women's perceived meaning and interaction concerning
      uncertainty and (2) the mobile app intervention's ("WOMAN PRO III") acceptability, usability,
      strengths and weaknesses from patients' and gynaecology-oncology nurses' perspective.
      Therefore, interviews will be conducted with women participating in the RCT and women who
      agreed to only participate in the qualitative study. Further, a focus group will be conducted
      with gynaecology-oncology nurses involved in the intervention tested.

      Sample and setting: Women who have participated in Phase one of the mixed methods study will
      be considered as suitable to give insights about their meaning of uncertainty. As well, women
      who were not interested in participating in the RCT, but declared interest in participating
      in the qualitative study, are found to be eligible. Participants of the intervention and
      gynaecology-oncology nurses involved in the mobile app intervention (6 - 8 nurses) are
      considered eligible to deliver information about the mobile app intervention's ("WOMAN PRO
      III") acceptability, usability, strengths and weaknesses. It can be assumed, that with
      interviewing about 15 patients and involving 6 - 8 gynaecology-oncology nurses a first data
      saturation can be achieved.

      Recruitment: Six months after surgery (t2) patients will be asked by a nurse not involved in
      the patients' treatment to indicate their willingness to participate in an individual
      interview. All gynaecology-oncology nurses involved in the mobile app intervention will be
      asked to participate in the focus group interview.

      Data collection: The patient interviews and the focus group with the gynaecology-oncology
      nurses will be conducted by using interview guides consisting of open-ended questions. The
      interviews and the focus group will last about an hour. Patients' interviews will take place
      at the participant's home or in the clinical setting according to patient's preferences. The
      focus group interview will be held at a research institute. ¨ Data analysis: Data of the
      patient interviews and the focus group will be recorded, anonymized and transcribed verbatim
      (Dresing & Pehl, 2011) and analyzed using open, axial and selective coding as proposed by
      Corbin & Strauss (2015). The data analysis process will be conducted by researchers with
      extended experience in qualitative research and assisted by MAXQDA 2018 (VERBI GmbH, Berlin).
    
  