
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the tolerability of 2 different doses of lenalidomide when administered with
           melphalan in patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not planning to
           undergo future autologous stem cell transplantation.

      Secondary

        -  Characterize the toxicity profile of lenalidomide in combination with melphalan.

        -  Determine tumor response in these patients after 2 and 12 courses of induction therapy
           with lenalidomide and melphalan and after 6 months of maintenance therapy with
           dexamethasone.

        -  Determine progression-free and overall survival of these patients.

        -  Determine time to dose modification and time to dose discontinuation in these patients.

      Tertiary

        -  Examine wnt pathway inhibition in response to lenalidomide on pre- and post-treatment
           bone marrow and blood samples using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), gene
           expression profiling, drosophila-based chemical genetics, and surface-enhanced laser
           desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (SELDI MS) proteomics.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, dose-finding study of lenalidomide.

      Prior to randomization, 6 patients receive oral lenalidomide at a lower dose (same dose to be
      used in arm I) once daily on days 1-21 and oral melphalan once daily on days 1-4. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for 3 courses. If no unacceptable toxicity occurs, the trial will
      proceed and randomization will occur.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 dose levels of lenalidomide.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1-21 and oral
                melphalan once daily on days 1-4.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral lenalidomide as in arm I, but at a lower dose, and
                melphalan as in arm I, but at a higher dose.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 12 courses of induction therapy, patients in both
      arms without progressive disease proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral dexamethasone once daily on days 1-4. Courses
           repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 2 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 92 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  