
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of death and long-term disability worldwide, especially in the
      elderly population. Hypertension is a major risk factor for stroke. Previous clinical trials
      have documented that blood pressure (BP) reduction lowers the risk of incident and recurrent
      stroke. The Secondary Prevention of Small Subcortical Strokes (SPS3) trial reported that a
      systolic BP target of <130 mmHg was associated with a non-significant (p=0.08) 19% reduction
      in recurrent stroke compared to a systolic BP target of 130-149 mmHg among 3,020 patients
      with recent lacunar stroke. The Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT) showed
      that a systolic BP target of <120 mmHg was associated with a 25% reduction in cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) and 27% reduction in all-cause mortality compared to a systolic BP target of
      <140 mmHg. In the SPRINT trial, patients with a history of stroke were excluded. Therefore,
      the optimal BP targets for the secondary prevention of stroke remain uncertain.

      The investigators propose to conduct a multicenter randomized controlled trial to test the
      following hypotheses:

      Primary Hypothesis: In patients with a recent ischemic stroke and a systolic BP ≥140 mmHg (or
      systolic BP ≥135 mmHg if on ≥1 antihypertensive medication), an intensive treatment strategy
      (a systolic BP target of <120 mmHg) will reduce the risk of total recurrent stroke (ischemic
      and hemorrhagic) events compared to a standard treatment strategy (a systolic BP target of
      <140 mmHg) over a follow-up period of up to four years. The targeted mean systolic BP
      difference between the two randomized groups will be ≥15 mmHg.

      Subgroup Hypotheses: The effect of the intensive treatment strategy compared to the standard
      treatment strategy for the primary study outcome (total recurrent stroke) will be consistent
      in the following subgroups:

        -  Men and women

        -  Age <65 and ≥65 years at baseline

        -  Systolic BP levels at baseline (tertiles)

        -  Subtypes of ischemic stroke

        -  Diabetes and non-diabetes

        -  American College of Cardiology/America Heart Association atherosclerotic CVD risk scores
           (tertiles)

      Secondary Hypotheses: The intensive treatment strategy will reduce the risk of the following
      secondary outcomes compared to the standard treatment strategy:

        -  Major CVD events - a composite outcome including myocardial infarction (MI), non-MI
           acute coronary syndrome, stroke, hospitalized or treated heart failure, and CVD deaths;

        -  Individual CVD events, i.e., myocardial infarction; acute coronary syndrome;
           hospitalized or treated heart failure; or CVD mortality;

        -  All-cause mortality;

        -  Cognitive decline and all-cause dementia; and

        -  Health-related quality of life. Adverse Events: The intensive treatment strategy does
           not increase the risk of adverse events, such as hypotension, syncope, bradycardia,
           electrolyte abnormalities, acute kidney injury, incident chronic kidney disease (CKD,
           defined as eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73m2 and ≥30% decrease from baseline eGFR), injurious
           falls, or hospitalization compared to the standard treatment strategy.

      The proposed trial will recruit 13,396 patients with a history of ischemic stroke from
      approximately 140 hospitals within the US-China Collaborative Stroke Clinical Trial Network.
      Eligible patients will be aged ≥40 years; have a mean systolic BP ≥140 mmHg or systolic BP
      ≥135 mmHg on one or more antihypertensive medications; and have had a recent (more than 3
      months and less than 1 year since last acute onset) symptomatic ischemic stroke confirmed by
      computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Principal exclusion criteria
      will include intracranial and extracranial stenosis (symptomatic stenosis ≥50% or
      asymptomatic stenosis ≥70%); severe heart failure (NY Heart Association class III and IV);
      disabling stroke (modified Rankin score of ≥4); or previous intracranial hemorrhage from
      non-traumatic causes. The proposed trial has 90% statistical power to detect a 20% reduction
      (hazard ratio of 0.80) in total stroke (ischemic and hemorrhagic) between the intensive and
      standard treatment groups at a 2-sided significance level of 0.05. We further assume an event
      rate of recurrent stroke of 2.5% per year in the control group, a two-year uniform
      recruitment period, total study length of four years, and a 2% per year loss to follow-up
      rate. Based on data from prospective cohort studies and two-year follow-up of the China
      Antihypertensive Trial in Acute Ischemic Stroke (CATIS), the annual event rate of recurrent
      total stroke was greater than 3% after the first 3 months following stroke onset in Chinese
      patients.

      Impact: Optimal BP levels for the secondary prevention of ischemic stroke have not been well
      defined. The results from the proposed trial will provide evidence as to whether intensive BP
      treatment to achieve a systolic BP target of <120 mmHg has additional benefits over standard
      treatment of systolic BP <140 mmHg on recurrent stroke. These findings will help in the
      development of clinical guidelines for BP management among patients with ischemic stroke and
      will have an important clinical impact globally.
    
  