
    
      SCIO-469 is being developed for the treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis, a disease that
      occurs mostly in women; therefore, female patients with active rheumatoid arthritis are
      selected as the study population. This study is the first detailed pharmacokinetic evaluation
      (study of a drug in the body to watch how the drug is absorbed, distributed, metabolized and
      eliminated over a period of time) of SCIO-469 in a new capsule formulation. Methotrexate is
      frequently prescribed as treatment for patients with rheumatoid arthritis; thus, SCIO-469
      could potentially be used along with methotrexate. It is not known how methotrexate affects
      the pharmacokinetics of SCIO-469; therefore, the study is designed to include patients who
      are taking stable doses of methotrexate and patients who are not taking methotrexate. This is
      a Phase II, randomized (study medication assigned by chance), double-blind (neither the
      patient or the physician knows which study treatment the patient is receiving),
      parallel-group study designed to assess the pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of
      SCIO-469 in female patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. Sixteen patients will be
      enrolled in the study, with eight receiving stable doses of methotrexate and eight not
      receiving methotrexate. No other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are allowed.
      Pharmacokinetics will be evaluated for SCIO-469 and its metabolites, testing for significant
      differences by occasion (Day 1 or Day 12), treatment (30 mg three times a day or 90 mg once a
      day), and stratum (methotrexate or non methotrexate). Safety assessments for this study
      include clinical adverse events, concomitant medications, and clinical assessments (medical
      history, physical examination, vital and orthostatic vital signs, 12-lead electrocardiogram
      (ECG), and clinical laboratory evaluations [serum chemistry, urinalysis, hematology, liver
      function and other tests, and pregnancy test]). Patients receiving stable doses of
      methotrexate (taken once a week, either orally or by injection) and those not receiving
      methotrexate will be randomized into one of two oral capsule SCIO-469 dosing regimens: 30 mg
      three times a day and 90 mg once a day. Patients will take study drug for 11 of 12 days, with
      no study drug taken on Day 2. On Day 19, seven days after the end of treatment, patients will
      undergo a follow-up assessment of safety variables.
    
  