
    
      Although knee pain is prevalent among community-dwelling older adults and frequently leads to
      consultation in primary care, little is known about how people in general manage their knee
      pain.

      Treatments of knee osteoarthritis include a variety of non-pharmaceutical, medical, and
      surgical interventions with highly individual and inconsistent results and with the possible
      exception of a longer lasting weight reduction, none of the non-surgical treatments have been
      able to demonstrate long-lasting effect on pain or disability.

      It is well recognised that patient participation in handling of disease creates better
      compliance and satisfaction with pharmacological treatment.

      Another option for taking active part in self-management is the use of complementary and
      alternative medicine (CAM). despite their popularity and effect, there is currently no
      overview of the actual extent of CAMs used for knee pain and disability at a population
      level, and most CAMs remain to be studied scientifically for efficacy.

      The incidence of knee OA shows a steep increase at age above 60 years. Furthermore, after
      this age an increasing prevalence of disablement to knee trouble is encountered. To prevent
      this development, measures must be sought to alter the course of knee OA.

      By asking people about how knee pain affects their life, which treatments or self-management
      strategies they have chosen (or are being offered), and how these interact for the reduction
      of pain and maintenance of function, new knowledge will be gained about the preferences and
      perceived effectiveness of treatments at large. The information gained will enable the
      prioritising of research on interventions to be tested and will align this with the primary
      concerns and interests of the population. This will subsequently lead to better guidance of
      patients by the health care providers, and will aid decision makers in choosing feasible
      health care policies and strategies.
    
  