
    
      Inhibitors of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5), such as sildenafil, relax blood vessels. In
      the penis this facilitates erection and sildenafil has proved a very effective treatment for
      male erectile dysfunction.

      To date, most work on the effects of sildenafil on blood pressure have mainly been
      investigated in single dose studies. These have shown that sildenafil causes a modest
      reduction in blood pressure, even when taken with other blood pressure-lowering drugs,
      providing reassurance on safety when taken as a single dose for erectile dysfunction.
      However, these studies do not offer any insight into the potential of PDE5 inhibition in the
      long-term treatment of hypertension. We will address this question by investigating the
      effects of regular administration of sildenafil on blood pressure. It may also be postulated
      that, because of its mechanism of action, sildenafil will also improve the function of the
      endothelium, the single layer of cells that lines all blood vessels. Therefore, the effect of
      regular sildenafil on endothelial function in hypertension will also be investigated in the
      study.

      The study will be performed in a randomised, placebo-controlled, double blind, 2-way
      crossover manner. Sildenafil and matched placebo will each will taken three times daily for 2
      weeks, with a washout of at least 6 days between treatments. Measurements will be made
      acutely (before and 1 hour after oral sildenafil) of heart rate, blood pressure, pulse wave
      analysis (a measure of wave reflection in arteries), pulse wave velocity (a measure of
      arterial stiffness) and flow-mediated dilatation (a measure of endothelial function). These
      measurements will be repeated 2 weeks later (again just before and 1 hour after oral
      sildenafil). In addition, ambulatory blood pressure will be recorded after 2 weeks of
      treatment (baseline ambulatory BP will be taken as the recording made at diagnosis).
    
  