
    
      Purpose: While psychology research and the suicide literature have not provided this evidence
      in a manner relevant to lethal means counseling, research across various disciplines has
      clearly demonstrated that providing individuals with gun locks and knowledgeable information
      about their proper use will significantly increase the likelihood that individuals will
      engage in firearm safety behaviors. The present study seeks to examine if the provision of
      gun locks, in addition to the current best standard interventions for suicide risk according
      to research, will significantly increase engagement in these behavioral outcomes.

      Research Design/Method: The present study will utilize an experimental design with two
      groups, an experimental intervention group and a comparison intervention group. The
      experimental intervention group will receive the highest standard interventions (i.e.,
      standardized full suicide risk assessment, safety planning, and lethal means counseling) in
      addition to a gun lock and instructional video. The comparison intervention group will
      receive the highest standard interventions, but will not be provided gun locks until after
      the study is complete.

      The gun locks will be 15-inch cable locks. Locks will be mailed via USPS in envelopes upon
      completion of screener, if eligible for the study, but before they are scheduled to complete
      the first portion of the study. this will be arranged by making scheduling calls for initial
      sessions the day of/day after (depending on time) screeners are completed, scheduling initial
      sessions at least a week and a half after scheduling calls, and mailing the locks the day of
      scheduling calls.

      Gun locks will be mailed to participants in the experimental intervention group. Data will be
      collected over three sessions. The first will be when baseline measures (e.g., demographics,
      outcomes) will be administered online, the intervention will be provided for all individuals
      by phone and online(only for the video instructions for lock), and post-intervention measures
      of outcome variables will assessed online. The 2-week follow-up interval and the 1-month
      interval will involve only assessment of the outcomes online. Participants in comparison
      intervention group will be provided gun locks after participation in the study is complete.

      Research Question: Will the experimental intervention group outperform the comparison
      intervention group, regarding effectiveness in increasing engagement in firearm safety
      behaviors?

      Hypothesis: The intervention for the experimental intervention group will be significantly
      more effective at increasing engagement in firearm safety behavior than that which will be
      provided for the comparison intervention group.

      Data Analysis: Repeated Measures Analysis of Variance (RM-ANOVA) will be conducted, with a
      focus on measuring the interaction effects of Group and Time to assess whether experimental
      intervention group was significantly more effective than the comparison intervention group.
    
  