
    
      Study Design The study is designed as a prospective cohort study. A randomized trial design
      was considered but rejected after deciding that there was insufficient equipoise on the part
      of the investigator group to randomize eyes with DME and vitreal traction to surgery or no
      surgery (thus eyes which potentially may benefit most from vitrectomy would not be included),
      and there was insufficient information available on the natural course or surgical outcomes
      of eyes with DME but without significant traction.

      A cohort study provides the opportunity to collect data prospectively using a standardized
      protocol to assess the potential benefits and risks of vitrectomy. The results can be used to
      determine whether proceeding with a randomized trial has merit and what the design of the
      trial should be. If a randomized trial is to be conducted, the results plus the cohort study
      experience can be used to help design the protocol.

      Study Objectives

        1. To provide information on the following outcomes in eyes with Diabetic Macular Edema
           (DME) that undergo vitrectomy: visual acuity, retinal thickening, resolution of traction
           (if present), surgical complications.

        2. To identify subgroups in which there appears to be a benefit of vitrectomy and subgroups
           in which vitrectomy does not appear to be beneficial.

        3. To obtain data that can be used to plan a randomized trial.

      B. Intervention Vitrectomy performed by the investigator's usual routine.

      C. Duration of Follow-Up: Two years

      D. Follow-up Visit Schedule Study visits for data collection at 3 and 6 months then 1, and 2
      years. Additional visits follow investigator's usual routine.

      E. Rationale:

      There are at least two avenues of investigation that support the theoretical value of
      vitrectomy for the treatment of DME, based on (1) vitrectomy for the relief of traction on
      the macula and (2) vitrectomy to improve oxygenation of the macula leading to decreased
      permeability with subsequent resolution or decrease in DME.

      Vitrectomy to relieve biomechanical traction on the macula has been reported widely. Schepens
      and coworkers discussed the role of the vitreous and vitreomacular traction in cystoid
      macular edema in 1984. Nasrallah et al observed in 1988 the resolution of diabetic macular
      edema in individuals with spontaneous separation of the vitreous gel from the retina. In
      1992, Lewis and coworkers reported success with vitrectomy and peeling of a "thickened
      hyaloid membrane" in eyes with DME that had this anatomical feature. Since this report of a
      nonrandomized retrospective case series, other authors have prospectively analyzed their
      series and supported the concept that relief of clear-cut anteroposterior traction, usually
      in the setting of an epiretinal membrane complex and associated vitreous adherence, may
      ameliorate macular thickening and edema in DME. Evaluation of these individuals and
      documentation of pre and postoperative characteristics have been rendered vastly more
      objective by ocular coherence tomography and the Retina Thickness Analyzer. Series using
      optical coherence tomography (OCT) to image cases where vitreomacular traction is observed
      and in some cases treated, has confirmed the clinical impression of mechanical forces at work
      on the posterior retina and has documented the anatomic improvement with surgery. How and in
      which cases OCT could refine our ability to diagnose and define clinically important
      anatomical features or relationships has not been investigated. As Kaiser and coworkers have
      documented, the OCT findings in the cases that have thus far come to vitrectomy in these
      situations support a conclusion that the disease process has progressed very far and in many
      cases the individuals have actual traction retinal detachments in their maculae. These severe
      cases are the exception in the spectrum of DME: most cases of macular edema have no obvious
      vitreomacular traction, but this factor has not been investigated adequately with our newer
      and more sophisticated imaging techniques. It is possible that subclinical traction on the
      macula exists in a large number of individuals with diabetes, whose internal limiting
      membranes at the vitreomacular interface often have a thickened, hypercellular appearance and
      whose vitreous gels, gradually contracting over many years, may exert subclinical but
      significant traction on the compromised diabetic macular vascular bed.

      The other line of reasoning and prior research that supports the possibility that vitrectomy
      would help DME is that articulated by Steffanson and others indicating that posterior segment
      oxygenation improves after vitrectomy. Using oxygen sensors on the retinal surface, these
      investigators have shown that retinal oxygen tensions increase after the vitreous gel is
      removed and the posterior segment becomes perfused by relatively oxygen-rich aqueous humor.
      Supporting this conclusion is the additional observation that retinal vessels decrease in
      caliber after vitrectomy, presumably in response to the improvement in hypoxia, although
      confounding factors that could contribute to this decrease, such as the addition of endolaser
      retinal photocoagulation, have not been ruled out. Numerous lines of investigation have
      elucidated factors producing permeability in retinal blood vessels. One of the most central
      of these factors is Vascular Endothelial Growth factor (VEGF), formerly known as Vascular
      Permeability Factor (VPF). VEGF is known to be upregulated by hypoxia, and downregulated by
      increased oxygenation. The speculated sequence of events in which vitrectomy produces
      improved oxygenation of the posterior segment, leading to downregulation of VEGF, leading to
      decreased vasopermeability, resulting in reduced macular thickening, is a plausible one. More
      rapid clearing of growth factors in the vitrectomized eye has also been postulated as a
      potential mechanism for this response.

      See full protocol at drcr.net for list of references
    
  