
    
      The Chronic Heart Failure (CHF) is a frequent pathology burdened with mortality and
      significant morbidity. Chronic HF provides almost 2% of health expenditure in developed
      countries, it is the largest expenditure item in the USA (34.8 billion dollars). In most
      developed countries, including France, mortality 1 year after diagnosis of chronic HF is 40%,
      it is 50% at 2 years, and over 70% at 4.5 years.

      Sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) is frequently associated with HF in 20% to 75% of cases. The
      presence of an apnea syndrome is associated with a greater morbidity and mortality. Treatment
      of SAS is however inconsistently associated with a decline in the morbidity and mortality. To
      date, the CHF medical treatments have been reported to be inconsistently efficient in the
      treatment of SAS : 6 studies corresponding to a total of 67 patients and 5 types of molecules
      reported an incomplete effect on the central component of the Apnea Hypopnea Index (AHI) for
      these patients.

      SACUBITRIL - VALSARTAN (ENTRESTO®) is a new treatment of HF recently indicated class I, level
      B in the recent ESC guidelines 2016 on HF. It combines inhibitory prodrug neprilysin and
      valsartan. After initial failures with neprilysin inhibition alone or dual
      neprilysin-angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition, the PARADIGM-HF trial demonstrated
      that morbidity and mortality can be improved with the SACUBITRIL - VALSARTAN combination
      (formerly LCZ696). In comparison to the ACE inhibitor enalapril, sacubitril/valsartan reduced
      the occurrence of the primary end point (cardiovascular death or hospitalisation for HF) by
      20% with a 16% reduction in all-cause mortality. These findings suggest that
      sacubitril/valsartan should replace an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker as the
      foundation of treatment of symptomatic patients (NYHA II-IV) with HF and a reduced ejection
      fraction.

      The purpose of the research is the evaluation of SACUBITRIL-VALSARTAN in CHF patients
      presenting sleep apnea syndrome. We speculate that synchronously of a beneficial effect on
      heart failure, the SACUBITRIL-VALSARTAN combination could improve an associated SAS and in
      particular the central component of the AHI index.

      After an exhaustive initial pre-therapeutic evaluation, the SACUBITRIL-VALSARTAN combination
      treatment is initiated for 3 months.

      The pre-therapeutic evaluation includes cardiological and biological exams, quality of life
      questionaries and nocturnal ventilatory polygraphy.

      Considering the results of the polygraphy, three groups of patients are identified:

        -  group 1 patients, characterized by a central AHI ≥5 / h and an obstructive AHI <15 / h,

        -  group 2 patients, characterized by an obstructive AHI ≥15 / h whatever is the central
           component. In this group of patient, a ventilator treatment with constant positive
           airway pressure or auto-servoventilation is started.

        -  group 3 patients, characterized by a central AHI < 5 / h and an obstructive AHI <15 / h.

      After three months of treatment, the final evaluation includes cardiological and biological
      exams, quality of life questionaries for all the patient included in the trial. A nocturnal
      polygraphy is performed only in group 1 and 2 patients. For group 2 patients treated with a
      device, the observance to the device, the residual AHI device and the pressure device is
      measured.
    
  