
    
      Background:

        -  Adult T-cell leukemia is a lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the presence of
           CD4/CD25 expressing T cells (IL-2R alpha expressing) in the peripheral blood, in
           lymphoid and other tissues.

        -  In smoldering and chronic ATL the HTLV-1 encoded protein, Tax constitutively activates
           interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-9 and IL-15 autocrine/paracrine systems that in turn activate
           the Janus kinase (JAK)-1/3/STAT5 pathways.

        -  Ruxolitinib a therapeutic agent inhibits cytokine mediated JAK1/2 activation and ex vivo
           proliferation of malignant T cells from patients with ATL.

        -  Ruxolitinib is a potent orally bioavailable JAK1/2 inhibitor not licensed for the
           treatment of ATL.

      Primary Objective:

      - To determine the maximum tolerated dose and clinical response rate for ruxolitinib given at
      doses of 30, 40 or 50 mg orally twice daily in patients with smoldering, chronic and
      biologically indolent acute or lymphomatous subtype of ATL

      Eligibility

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years old with pathologically confirmed adult
           T-cell leukemia: smoldering or chronic or previously treated lymphomatous or acute
           subtypes with clinically indolent behavior indicated by lack of significant symptoms and
           treatment free interval of greater than 6 months.

        -  Patients must have measurable or evaluable disease. Patients with > 10% of their PBMCs
           having the characteristic abnormal (i.e., CD3dim, CD4 plus CD25 plus expressing) FACS
           profile for circulating ATL cells will be considered to have measurable disease.

        -  Patients with symptomatic leukemic meningitis, bony or GI tract involvement, serum
           calcium or LDH > 1.5 times the upper limit of normal will be excluded. However patients
           that have both ATL and another HTLV-1 associated disease such as tropical spastic
           paraparesis (HAM/TSP) will be included.

        -  No prior treatment with another JAK inhibitor; patients previously treated in this
           protocol at the lower dose are eligible to restart treatment at the higher dose levels.

      Design

      - This is a pilot open-label, trial with off label-use of oral ruxolitinib that will enroll
      27 to 33 patients with smoldering or chronic or clinically indolent ATL. Groups of 3 to 6
      newly enrolled or reenrolled patients will begin treatment at a dose of 30 mg orally given
      twice daily. If this dose is tolerated without exceeding the criteria for dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT) during the first cycle of treatment, the tolerability of treatment at 40 mg
      and then 50 mg twice daily will be evaluated.
    
  