
    
      Hepatitis B (HBV) reactivation and hepatitis flare induced by cytotoxic chemotherapy is
      common in cancer patients who have chronic HBV infection. It is best characterized in
      patients with hematological malignancies such as non-Hodgkin's lymphoma but also can occur in
      patients with solid tumors. Reactivation during the initiation of chemotherapy may cause
      delay in cancer treatment and decrease in overall survival. The direct mortality caused by
      HBV reactivation, predominantly acute liver failure, ranges from 4% to 60%. Based on
      currently available information, it is well documented that HBV carriers should receive
      antiviral agents to prevent hepatitis B flare before receiving immunosuppressive agents and
      chemotherapy. However, development of hepatitis, acute liver failure, and mortality can occur
      among patients who are HBsAg negative but anti-HBc positive at the time of chemotherapy.
      Therefore, before the initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy in cases of non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma, it is unknown whether patients previous infected by HBV but negative HBsAg should
      routinely receive antiviral agents for prevention of HBV flare. In addition, the major
      concern of long-term lamivudine use is the selection of drug-resistant mutations. Based on
      these, we designed this current study to address the above important issues. Eligible
      patients are newly diagnosed, histologically proven anti-CD20-positive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
      at our hospital. Patients should be negative of HBsAg but positive of serum anti-HBc. After
      signing the patient consent form, serum samples will be stored for further genotyping and
      quantitative HBV DNA testing. Patients will be randomized into two groups. In the
      prophylactic use group, participants will initiate entecavir 0.5 mg/day orally on day 1 of
      the first course of chemotherapy. Entecavir treatment will be continued until 3 months after
      the completion of chemotherapy and achieving the remission of the hepatitis (ALT
      normalization and undetectable HBV DNA). In the therapeutic use group, patients will start
      entecavir therapy, 0.5 mg/day orally, only when elevation of ALT (>100 U/L) and HBV DNA
      (>2000 IU/ml) developed during follow-up, or in the situation of HBsAg reverse
      seroconversion, and continued entecavir treatment until hepatitis resolved. The primary
      endpoint is the incidence of HBV reactivation during and within 12 months after completing
      chemotherapy in diffuse large B cell or follicular lymphoma patients who receive R-CHOP
      regimen. The secondary endpoint is the incidence of HBsAg reverse seroconversion during and
      within 12 months after completing chemotherapy.
    
  