
    
      Approximately fifty percent of the population has evidence of degenerative changes in their
      cervical spine by the age of fifty. As part of the aging process, the intervertebral discs
      wear out. They lose their flexibility and elasticity and begin to collapse or even herniate.
      This process may result in a pathological condition called cervical Degenerative Disc
      Diseases (cDDD). cDDD can either be asymptomatic or symptomatic, showing different symptoms
      such as neck, shoulder, head, arm or leg pain, possibly associated with numbness, tingling or
      weakness in the upper extremity. In most cases symptomatic cDDD is initially treated
      conservatively with rest, immobilization, physical therapy, chiropractic manipulation and
      pain medication. For those cases not responding to conservative therapy, anterior cervical
      discectomy and fusion (ACDF) is a standard technique. The primary purpose of ACDF is to
      excise any disc material (discectomy), which compresses the spinal nerve or cord causing
      pain, sensory disturbance or weakness at the affected level, followed by interbody fusion of
      the adjacent vertebrae using grafts or intersomatic devices to compensate the instability and
      the loss of disc height resulting from discectomy. Despite the success of this common
      procedure, some disadvantages are to be mentioned including donor site morbidity when
      autografts are used, graft or device subsidence or pseudarthrosis of the segment to be fused.
      Besides this, physiological motion of successfully fused segments is no longer possible. This
      alters the loading and kinematics of adjacent spine segments which is believed by some
      authors to lead to adjacent segment overload as reported by several clinical and
      biomechanical studies. To address the disadvantages of ACDF, cervical total disc replacement
      (cTDR) has been developed in the 1990s, with the aim to carry the load and restore the normal
      disc height while preserving almost physiological segmental motion.

      Today, several different cTRD designs are on the market, some of them with mid- to long-term
      results. A number of randomized controlled trials indicate clinical equivalence or even
      superiority of cTDR in some aspects compared to ACDF.

      The Dymicron Triadyme-C cTDR is a two-piece articulating artificial disc prosthesis. Its
      patented tri-lobe articulation mechanism consists of three spherical lobes mating to three
      non-congruent, spherical pockets. The motion of these three lobes within their associated
      pockets emulates and controls natural motion of the cervical spine motion segment in all
      degrees of freedom.Triadyme-C is a self-centering device. This is achieved by the implant
      growing in height as it moves away from its center. The further away from center, the tighter
      the ligaments will be stretched. Each half of the Triadyme-C is a sintered monobloc,
      consisting of a polycrystalline diamond (PCD) bearing surface with a base of
      titanium-titanium carbide (Ti-TiC) composite. PCD is a sintered material composed of fused
      diamond crystals (typically more than 90%) and a small amount of catalyst sintering metal.
      The polycrystalline structure of diamond, together with the small amount of residual metal
      alloy, contributes significantly to the extraordinary toughness and abrasion-resistance of
      the material. PCD retains many of the phenomenal properties of natural diamond, including
      hardness, but in an isotropic form that is far more resistant to fracture.

      This Post Market Clinical Follow-up (PMCF) is conducted to collect clinical and radiographic
      outcome information on patients suffering from intractable symptomatic cervical disc disease
      requiring 1- or 2-level reconstruction of the disc from C3-C7, after being treated with the
      Triadyme-C polycrystalline diamond compact cervical disc replacement.
    
  