
    
      Childhood leukemia is the most common type of childhood cancer and its etiology is largely
      unknown. Most case-control studies of childhood leukemia have reported elevated risks among
      children whose parents were occupationally exposed to pesticides or who used pesticides in
      the home or garden. Investigators at the University of California at Berkeley (UCB) conducted
      a case-control study of childhood leukemia in 35 counties in the San Francisco Bay area and
      the agricultural Central Valley of California. A major focus of the UCB study was to evaluate
      whether household or occupational exposure to pesticides increases the risk of childhood
      leukemia. Our collaboration provided additional funding to collect carpet dust samples for
      the measurement of pesticides and other chemicals. For 470 participants, we attempted to
      collect carpet dust using a special high volume small surface sampler (HVS3) vacuum and by
      taking dust from participants vacuum cleaner. As of July 2006, dust samples were collected
      only from participant's vacuum cleaner. Samples were collected at a home visit approximately
      3-6 months after the first in-person interview. We also provided support for mapping of the
      crops (i.e., determining crop field boundaries and crop species) within 1200 meters (3/4
      mile) of residences so that the residential proximity to agricultural fields treated with
      pesticides can be determined. We will conduct the epidemiologic analysis of pesticide and
      other chemical levels in carpet dust and risk of childhood leukemia. We will also evaluate
      whether residential proximity to agricultural pesticide use is associated with risk of
      leukemia. Further, we will conduct an Exposure Pilot Study that will include a subset of the
      study population. Two components of the Pilot Study will evaluate how well a used vacuum bag
      and a window sill wipe predict pesticide and other chemical concentrations in carpet dust
      samples collected with the more complicated HVS3 vacuum method. The third component will
      compare pesticides detected in carpet dust with pesticides predicted by geographic proximity
      to agriculture.
    
  