
    
      Background: Alcohol dependence is one of the leading causes of disability worldwide. Despite
      the availability of efficacious treatments less than 20% of individuals with alcohol
      dependence are actively engaged in treatment. Within the VA system systematic screening was
      implemented to increase the identification of patients with both abuse and dependence.
      However, there continues to be a marked discrepancy in the care offered or accessed among
      those identified with alcohol dependence. Existing treatment guidelines suggest that all
      persons with dependence receive care in specialty addiction treatment. Data from our center
      indicate that among those individuals screened in primary care who have AUDIT - C scores of
      >7, only 30% are formally evaluated with 50% receiving only brief advice and 20% having no
      evidence of assessment or referral. Of those assessed and referred to specialty care only 60%
      attend an initial visit and only 33% meet the EPRP performance measure of 2 visits per month
      for 90 days. This disparity in treatment access exists even though Veterans self report a
      desire to cut down and readiness to change drinking behaviors. (VA ACQUIP) and a willingness
      to consider pharmacotherapy.

      Aims: Available evidence suggests that primary care may be a key component in the
      identification of alcohol dependent patients, delivery of initial interventions, and to the
      success of addiction treatment. Indeed, the vast majority of screening and new case
      identification occurs within primary care. The primary aims of this proposal are to test the
      effectiveness of a primary care based Alcohol Care Management (ACM) program and to evaluate
      the barriers and facilitators to accessing and engaging individuals into treatment. The ACM
      program uses a Behavioral Health Specialist to deliver care focused on the use of
      pharmacotherapy in combination with psychosocial support (Medication Management). This model
      may overcome barriers to care such as frequent intensive visit schedules often required in
      specialty settings, stigma associated with specialty care or group therapy approaches, access
      to specialty care in remote areas, and the current focus on a 12 step model of treatment.
      Secondary aims are to establish the acceptability of primary care based treatments and
      defining treatment modifiers such as age, barriers, co-occurring depression, and
      pharmacogenetic response.
    
  