
    
      Growth hormone (GH) is an effective height-enhancing treatment for short stature. One
      underlying disorder is intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). Increased growth enhances
      quality of life as well as improving body composition, metabolism, and lipid distribution.
      However, both GH therapy and IUGR can cause insulin resistance. Scientists have recently
      linked insulin resistance to the accumulation of fat inside muscle cells (intramyocellular
      lipids or IMCL). Although GH generally reduces overall body fat, its effect on IMCL has not
      yet been examined. This association can be examined in children with IUGR initiating GH
      treatment for short stature.

      Hypothesis: Children with IUGR will have increased IMCL linked to insulin resistance, but GH
      treatment may paradoxically reverse this association.

      Objectives: To assess changes in IMCL during GH therapy and to increase our knowledge of GH
      action.

      Study design: Prepubertal children initiating a course of GH therapy indicated by persistent
      short stature as a result of IUGR will be recruited to participate in a crossover study.

        -  IMCL (soleus and tibialis anterior) will be measured non-invasively by proton magnetic
           resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS)

        -  Body composition will be measured by DEXA and morphometry

        -  Whole body insulin sensitivity (IS) will be assessed by oral glucose tolerance

        -  Levels of plasma lipids and hormones will be measured

      Endpoints: The primary endpoint will be to define the effect of GH on IMCL content in IUGR
      children. Secondary endpoints will be (i) to compare the relationships between IMCL and IS
      before and after GH therapy, and (ii) to identify the correlative changes in plasma hormones
      and metabolites that may underlie the IMCL changes.

      Significance: IMCL is anticipated to be a valuable probe for understanding GH effects on
      glucose homeostasis. This study is intended to reveal strategies for enhancing GH efficacy
      without compromising IS. New pharmacological approaches to manage GH-induced glucose
      intolerance would be important in counteracting this limiting factor in GH dosing.
    
  