
    
      Socioeconomic disadvantage permeates multiple levels of environmental contexts in which
      children are raised, including the family environment and schools. Disparities in life
      outcomes can be observed in early childhood and developmental gaps widen over time. Continued
      exposure to adverse conditions propagates the developing child on an increasingly risky
      trajectory. This study aims to mitigate the adverse effect of socioeconomic disadvantage on
      children and their families.

      This is a clustered randomised controlled study recruiting 32 kindergartens in two
      underprivileged districts (16 in each district) in Hong Kong. District is a blocking factor.
      Within each district, 8 kindergartens will be randomised in comprehensive intervention group
      while the remaining 8 will be in health support group. The families in the comprehensive
      intervention will receive a holistic package of interventions, including child interactive
      intervention, family empowerment, and health support. The families in the health support
      group will only receive health support intervention.

      In addition, a stepped wedge cluster randomised control trial design will be used to deliver
      and evaluate the health intervention package (health seminars/workshops, dental
      check-up/treatment, visual check-up/treatment). The schematic diagram of the design is shown
      in the figure below.

      Another randomisation will be conducted to determine the sequence in which the health
      intervention takes place. 4 KGs will be provided with the health intervention in each month
      sequentially from Nov 2018 to Jun 2019 (totally 8 months). The randomisation should ideally
      be stratified by district (SSP/TSW) and the original group allocation (Comprehensive/Health).
      In other words, in each month, 1 KG from SSP Comprehensive, 1 from SSP Health, 1 from TSW
      Comprehensive, 1 from TSW Health will receive the health intervention package.

      In analysis, the time exposed to intervention (e.g. Gp1 exposed to 8 months at Jun 2018) will
      be used to evaluate the effect of the intervention. Since the time exposed to intervention
      (i.e. the starting time of the intervention) is randomised, internal validity should be
      ensured. In addition, the stratification of district and the original group allocation should
      eliminate the influence of these factors.
    
  