
    
      Fecal calprotectin is a non invasive marker of intestinal inflammation. It is highly
      sensitive for the detection of active Crohn's disease (13) and mucosal healing (14). Levels
      higher than 250 mg/L are associated with relapse, and levels < 50 usually with remission.
      Mucosal healing was noted in patients with calprotectin levels less < 130 mg/L, and a mean
      level < 30 mg/L (13,14) .It is therefore an excellent candidate for a simple clinically
      available surrogate marker for endoscopic recurrence after intestinal resection in Crohn's
      disease. In the current study, our primary objective is to correlate fecal calprotectin with
      currently used Crohn's disease endoscopic disease activity scores used for predicting
      endoscopic recurrence. Our secondary objectives will be to determine a cutoff for early
      macroscopic recurrence of disease based on surveillance colonoscopies , and to compare this
      with other surrogate markers .

      Methods This will be a prospective non-interventional observational study, performed at the
      Sourasky Medical center in Tel Aviv, over two years.

      Patients with confirmed Crohn's disease undergoing intestinal resection for complicated
      Crohn's disease - will be followed for one year, and undergo a follow- up colonoscopy between
      6-9 months after surgery. Patients will be seen at enrollment and follow-up visits, 3,6,9& 12
      months after surgery. At enrollment, sites of disease, age of onset, smoking history and
      previous medication use will be registered, as well as presence of strictures and fistula, or
      previous surgery. At all visits, patients will be questioned regarding disease symptoms,
      smoking, and medication use. During each of the follow-up visits, patients will be examined,
      weighed, and have a disease activity index recorded. At all follow-up visits, they will
      undergo the following tests; CBC, ESR, CRP, and fecal calprotectin. Sera will be stored for
      antibodies such as ASCA or anti glycan antibodies.

      During colonoscopy, disease recurrence will be evaluated by two scores, the Rutgeerts score
      and the CDEIS score, both containing 4 grades. Recurrence will be assessed by histological
      findings as well.

      End points For the primary outcome, we will check if calprotecin levels are correlated with
      endoscopic scores. We will also evaluate cutoffs of calprotectin that are correlated with
      grade 3 or 4 Rutgeerts or CDEIS.

      Other secondary endpoints will include:

      Correlation between calprotectin and early clinical relapse (within one year) Correlation
      between calprotectin and histologic relapse (within one year) Correlation between anti glycan
      antibodies and early clinical relapse (within one year) Correlation between CDEIS and
      antiglycan antibodies
    
  