
    
      Critically ill patients admitted to intensive care units (ICU) often need more invasive
      operations (e.g.mechanical ventilation and hemodialysis), due to the needs from their
      condition, which can also lead to acute pain, discomfort, sleep deprivation, agitation and
      delirium. Agitation, for example, can propel patients to resist the ventilator, thus
      increasing the oxygen consumption, causing them to accidentally remove various devices and
      catheters on them and even posing life-threatening risks. Therefore, the main reason for the
      use of physical restraints (PR) around ICU is to prevent patients from accidentally removing
      the catheters or devices needed to protect their safety.

      Although PR was used to prevent Unplanned extubation (UE), there were many studies proved
      that PR is one of the risk factors that account for UE and can not protect patient safety.
      Indeed, its use has been proven to cause pressure injuries, worsen agitation, delirium and
      neurovascular complications. But PR is widely used in ICU around the world.

      Many institutions have suggested that the use of PR should be reduced, for example, the
      Government of Ontario released the Patient Restraints Minimization Act in 2001 to "minimize
      the use of restraints on patients and to encourage hospitals and facilities to use
      alternative methods, whenever possible, when it is necessary to prevent serious bodily harm
      by a patient to himself or herself or to others. Registered Nurses Association of Ontario
      (RNAO) issued clinical practice guidelines on the alternatives to PR in February 2012, aimed
      to help nurses reduce the use of PR, or use it in a more reasonable and standardized way, and
      to provide effective alternatives of PR.

      Clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) are a convenient way of packaging evidence and presenting
      recommendations to healthcare decision makers. But the development and updating of
      high-quality CPGs require substantial time, expertise and resources. Guideline adaptation is
      the systematic approach to the endorsement and/or modification of a guideline(s) produced in
      one cultural and organisational setting for application in a different context. Where high
      quality guidelines are already available, adaptation may be used as an alternative to de novo
      guideline development to customise the existing guideline to the needs of local users. There
      are currently no CPGs on PR in China, while other countries had, so we hope to be able to
      adapt existing guidelines to apply in Chinese context. We use the CAN-IMPLEMENT approach to
      adapt and implement the guidelines.
    
  