
    
      This is a project to determine whether certain measures of nutritional status and immune
      functioning can be useful in the identification of women who would most benefit from omega-3
      supplements as treatment for depression during pregnancy.

      Pregnancy does not reduce the risk of recurrence among women who have previously experienced
      depressive illness and the advent of new episodes during pregnancy raises particular
      problems. Concerns over the possible teratogenicity of medications in general leave many
      women reluctant to continue preexisting antidepressant prophylaxis or to accept new trials of
      conventional antidepressant treatment and there is accumulating evidence that the SSRIs have
      short-term adverse effects on the newborn. The antidepressant effects of omega-3
      polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) supplementation may offer a particularly appropriate
      alternative to conventional therapy for depressive episodes that occur during pregnancy. The
      nutritional needs of the fetus increase the likelihood of omega-3 PUFA deficits in the mother
      but access to adequate omega-3 PUFAs but fish intake is limited due to concerns over mercury
      levels. Antidepressant trials of omega-3 supplementation that have described significant
      benefits over placebo include one that targeted pregnant women and yielded a large effect
      size. Other trials, however, have failed to show clear antidepressant effects and
      meta-analyses have yielded no explanations for these inconsistencies. A clear possibility is
      that the studies with positive results involved subjects who more likely to benefit from
      omega-3 supplementation but the characteristics of such individuals are entirely unknown.
      Numerous case-control studies have associated depressive illness with lower tissue
      concentration of omega-3 PUFAs and with higher ratios of omega-6 to omega-3. Such measures
      may well identify individuals likely show antidepressant effects from supplementation. The
      likelihood that omega-3 PUFAs exert antidepressant effects via modulation of the inflammatory
      cascade, and the extensive evidence that high levels of cytokines characterize individuals
      with depressive disorders, indicate that these measures too may help to select those most
      likely to benefit from treatment with omega-3 PUFAs. A group of 60 women who begin pregnancy
      in depressive episodes or who develop episodes in their first two trimesters but who choose
      not to take conventional antidepressant therapy would be used to test PUFA tissue
      concentration and inflammatory measures as predictors of response to omega-3 supplementation
      monotherapy. Aim #1: To determine, among women with first- or second-trimester major
      depressive episodes, relationships between subsequent response to omega-3 PUFA
      supplementation and baseline measures of PUFA erythrocyte concentrations and cytokine
      activity.

      Hypothesis #1: Among women who experience major depressive episodes during their first two
      trimesters of pregnancy, baseline measures of cytokine activity and erythrocyte PUFA
      concentrations will be associated, in an additive or interactive fashion, with subsequent
      improvement in depressive symptoms among women taking omega-3 PUFA supplementation. Aim #1
      will test whether measures of PUFA tissue concentrations and cytokine activity have potential
      value in treatment selection for women who experience depressive disorder during pregnancy.
      The strength with which measures correlate with symptom outcome will be used to select those
      for use in a definitive placebo-controlled trial that will target a sample enriched for those
      likely to respond to EPA supplementation.The measures that emerge most strongly as risk
      factors for new episodes would then be used to select subjects for participation in a
      placebo-controlled trial of EPA supplementation as prophylaxis against depressive disorder
      recurrence. The results would be integrated into the design of both acute treatment and
      prophylaxis trials.
    
  