
    
      Adult patients attending one of four outpatient primary care clinics were recruited in two
      distinct cities (Shreveport, Louisiana; Chicago, Illinois). One clinic in each city was a
      general medicine academic practice; a second clinic was a safety net community health center.
      Subject recruitment took place between June and August 2007. Patients were considered
      eligible for the study if they were 18 years of age or older, and ineligible if the clinic
      nurse or study research assistant identified a patient as having one or more of the following
      conditions: (1) severely impaired vision; (2) hearing problems; (3) too ill to participate in
      the survey; 4) non-English speaking. Institutional Review Boards for all locations approved
      the study. A total of 562 patients were approached in the order they arrived at the clinics
      and prior to the medical encounter; 530 consented to the study. Thirteen patients were
      excluded based on self-reported impairments with hearing (n=3) or vision (n=10). Ten patients
      were excluded due to limited English proficiency, and seven others were excluded based on
      incomplete information. In all, 500 patients participated in the study; the sample was evenly
      split across the two study locations (n=250 per city) and practice setting (academic,
      community; n=125 within each study location). A response rate was determined following the
      American Association for Public Opinion Research standards, estimating 92.8 percent of
      approached eligible patients participated in the study.13 Intervention The intervention was
      the use of 'enhanced' auxiliary prescription drug warning labels, with or without
      patient-centered icons to support comprehension. Previously, nine of the most commonly-used
      drug warnings and/or precautions placed directly on prescription medication bottles were
      revised with patient feedback and pilot tested.12 Specifically, text was rewritten using more
      clear, concise, and explicit language. The icons supporting comprehension of the text message
      were altered to more accurately reflect the mental representations patients identified with
      each warning (see Table 1). Guidelines established by the International Organization for
      Standardization for the development and testing of universal icons were followed.14 Other
      design elements were also implemented, including removal of the use of color and optimizing
      font size for clarity.

      Structured Interview A structured "cognitive" interview protocol was developed to assess
      patient understanding of the drug labels; a process previously used by our research
      team.1-4,15 After patients consented to the study, a trained research assistant administered
      the structured interview that included self-report of sociodemographic information (age,
      gender, race/ethnicity, education, number of prescription medications currently taken daily).
      Actual prescription pill bottle containers with drug warning labels attached were then shown
      to all of the patients for review. Once the patient provided their interpretations, the
      research assistant administered the Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine (REALM), a
      reading recognition test comprised of 66 health-related words. The REALM is the most commonly
      used test of patient literacy in medical settings.16 It is highly correlated with
      standardized reading tests and the Test of Functional Health Literacy in Adults.17, 18
      Assignment Nine drug warnings were used in this study. Each warning had three versions
      (standard, enhanced text, enhanced text + icon) for a combined total of 27 labels under
      evaluation. Within each label version, warnings were randomly organized into groups of three
      labels and then placed on the back of prescription bottles. We viewed three warnings on a
      bottle to be a realistic portrayal of the number of warnings commonly found on pill bottles;
      many pharmacies allot space for as many as five per bottle (see Figure). In total, nine
      bottles were created (three bottles per label version).

      The initial order of the warnings on the back of the bottle (e.g. first, second, or third
      position) was also randomly assigned and replicated across all label versions (see Figure).
      The bottles were then randomly grouped into three sets; every set containing one bottle from
      each label version and all of the nine warnings (Table 1). Patients thereby were exposed to
      all of the drug warnings and each label type, only seeing one version of each warning
      message. Consecutive patients scheduled for medical appointments at each of the clinics that
      consented to the study were subsequently assigned, in a systematic rotating order, to one of
      the three regimens to review.

      Outcomes Patient attendance to and correct interpretation of the nine prescription drug
      warnings placed on container vials were evaluated. A trained research assistant at each
      location would direct patients to the back of one of three prescription vials, and ask "In
      your own words, what do these mean to you?" The patient's verbatim responses were documented
      on a separate form. All patient responses to each of nine drug warnings were then
      independently rated as either correct or incorrect by three general internal medicine
      attending physicians from three different academic medical centers. If subjects did not
      attempt to interpret one of the warning labels in their responses, this was coded as
      'non-attendance'.

      Blinding and Coding Each physician rater was blinded to all patient information and was
      trained to follow stringent coding guidelines agreed upon previously by the research team.
      Specifically, correct scores were to be given only if the patient's response included all
      aspects of the label's message. Responses were given an incorrect score if they were
      inaccurate, or if they did not contain all aspects of the warning.

      Inter-rater reliability between the three physicians coding the patient responses was high
      (Kappa = 0.87). The 380 responses (8.4%) that received discordant ratings between the three
      reviewers were sent to an expert panel that included a primary care physician and clinical
      psychologist and health services researcher with expertise in health literacy for further
      review. Each panel member, also blinded to patient information, independently reviewed and
      coded the responses as correct or incorrect. For 86.1 percent (n=327) of the 380 responses, a
      consensus ruling was achieved among the expert panel for a final ruling on the coding of
      those responses. For the remaining 53 patient responses, a majority rule was imposed and the
      rating by a minimum of two panel members was used to determine the scores.
    
  