
    
      Tetralogy of Fallot (ToF) is the single commonest complex cardiac condition. It consists of
      ventricular septal defect (VSD), overriding of the aorta in association with the VSD,
      pulmonary stenosis and right ventricular (RV) hypertrophy. Surgical repair is indicated as it
      significantly improves life-expectancy. The results of surgical repair have improved steadily
      over the last 40 years resulting in a significant population surviving into young adulthood.
      However, standard repair techniques induce regurgitation of the pulmonary valve due to relief
      of the right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Over time this regurgitation induces
      right ventricular dilatation and dysfunction. RV dilatation and dysfunction correlate with
      reduced exercise tolerance, arrhythmias, and sudden death following repair.

      Replacement of the pulmonary valve, late after primary repair of ToF, has generally been
      shown to improve symptoms as measured by NYHA classification as it improves haemodynamics,
      exercise tolerance and dysrhythmia. Though generally safe, surgical replacement of the
      pulmonary valve exposes the patient to cardio-pulmonary by-pass, which may have detrimental
      effects on both the myocardium and the brain. Furthermore transplanted valves of various
      types have a limited life span and thus early repair of the pulmonary valve may instigate a
      series of re-operations, which will recur throughout the patient's life exposing them to a
      cumulative risk of morbidity and mortality. Unfortunately there is evidence in the literature
      that symptomatic improvement is reduced if pulmonary valve replacement is delayed for too
      long. This is probably due to irreversible myocardial damage with little remodeling of the RV
      despite a competent pulmonary valve.

      In the light of these two opposing factors; potential for failure to recover and avoiding
      multiple operations there is a need to establish preoperative markers which will allow
      identification of the failing ventricle before it passes the point of recovery. This will
      allow close follow-up with intervention timed to minimize loss of function whilst taking into
      account the likely need for re-operation.

      However, it is still unclear, which criteria give the best indication for the need of
      re-interventions. Two other studies of the Competence Network for Congenital Heart Defects
      ("Follow up of Post-Repair Tetralogy of Fallot (HP 4.1)" and "Early re-intervention in
      infants and small children after correction of Tetralogy of Fallot: Prospective analysis of
      myocardial benefit using cardiac MRI and echocardiography (HP 4.2)" analyze the benefit of
      such re-interventions and will hopefully provide substantive information on timing of PVR.

      There are however references in literature that cardiac imaging procedure under stress
      possibly results in more sensitive predictive parameters of right ventricular insufficiency
      than conducted under rest. Dobutamine stress testing has a long history of safe and
      clinically useful application in ischemic cardiomyopathy and recent studies have demonstrated
      it's useful predictive value in various outcomes for non-ischemic cardiomyopathy.

      Accurate post-operative characterization will allow identification of pre-operative
      predictive markers. The investigators believe that dobutamine stress testing may in fact be
      an excellent predictive marker. Dobutamine increases intrinsic contractability as well as
      reducing after load. It is thought that the failing heart is not able to positively respond
      to the dobutamine stimulus, and dobutamine stress will thus demonstrate evidence of
      irreversible damage. Identification of predictive markers of the point at which irreversible
      myocardial damage occurs will allow better timing of pulmonary valve replacement and will
      have significant ramifications for the management of this patient group.

      In this study imaging procedures (MRI and echocardiography) under rest and stress
      (dobutamine) are compared before and after pulmonary valve replacement at severe pulmonary
      insufficiency after repair of Tetralogy of Fallot, whereas the imaging procedure of
      echocardiography under stress is optional. The data obtained are supposed to determine new
      parameters of the early right ventricular insufficiency. The investigators will correlate the
      above objective data with subjective data of change in symptoms and exercise capacity pre-
      and post-repair. Fallot patients with a good result of repair and good right ventricular
      function will serve as a comparison group.
    
  