
    
      Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD or AMD) is the leading cause of blindness in North
      America. There are two types of ARMD: dry and wet. Both forms of ARMD cause a progressive
      loss of central vision, the part of your vision that allows you to read, drive and see images
      in sharp detail directly in front of you. The wet form is typically more severe and is
      characterized by the growth and leakage of small blood vessels into the choroid layer of the
      eye, or the back of the eye. These leaking blood vessels disrupt the structure and function
      of the eye, causing loss of vision, particularly the sharp vision created by the macula area
      of the eye.

      Upon being accepted to the study, participants will be randomly divided into two groups. One
      group will receive both ranibizumab and OZURDEX injections and the other group will receive
      ranibizumab injections and a placebo treatment. To participants in this group, there will be
      the appearance of a second injection but no actual injection will take place. An individual
      not connected to the study will assign participants to a group based on a computer-generated
      system, giving participants at 50% chance of being placed in either group. During the study,
      participants will not know which group they are in, but will be able to know once the study
      is finished.

      Participants will be asked to come in for an initial assessment to determine their starting
      visual abilities and medical history. On the next appointment, participants will receive the
      first treatment injections. They will be asked to come into the clinic every month for six
      (6) months total for treatment injections and testing. At each appointment, study
      investigators will take 3-D images of the retina (the back of the eye) using an Optical
      Coherence Tomography (OCT) imaging device, test eye pressure and determine if there are any
      signs of infection or inflammation from the injections. On months 1, 3 and 6 investigators
      will also test vision using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity
      charts, contrast sensitivity using a standard contrast sensitivity chart (The Pelli-Robson
      chart) and take images of the blood vessel growth using a coloured dye (fluorescein) to help
      see blood vessels. Before every treatment, anesthetic eye drops (proparacaine) will be
      applied to the eye so participants will not feel the injections. Participants will be given
      antibiotic eye drops (Zymar®) and will be asked to apply the drops 4 times a day for a few
      days after the injection to prevent infection.
    
  