
    
      Sixteen subjects with a probable MSA diagnosis will be recruited for this study. A probable
      MSA diagnosis will be based on the following criteria:

        -  Autonomic failure involving urinary incontinence (inability to control the release of
           urine form the bladder, with erectile dysfunction in males) or an orthostatic decrease
           of blood pressure within 3 min of standing by at least 30 mmHg systolic or 15 mm Hg
           diastolic and

        -  Poorly levodopa-responsive Parkinsonism (bradykinesia with rigidity, tremor, or postural
           instability) or

        -  A cerebellar syndrome (gait ataxia with cerebellar dysarthria, limb ataxia, or
           cerebellar oculomotor dysfunction)

      Summary:

      Subjects will be recruited during routine clinical appointments by their physician or one of
      the other co-investigators listed on the protocol at the Movement Disorders Clinic, 60
      Fenwood Road, Boston, MA. Once the subject gives the informed consent, investigators will be
      administering standardized questionnaires for assessment of disease severity, comorbidities
      and/or presence of symptoms, as applicable to a given cohort. In addition, a blood sample
      will be drawn for genotype testing to identify high affinity, medium affinity, and low
      affinity binders. Any subjects identified as low affinity binders will be excluded from the
      study.

      Subjects will undergo two PET scans with [F-18]PBR06 at BWH PET scanning facility at 75
      Francis Street, Boston, MA. For PET scanning, an intravenous (IV) catheter will be inserted
      for injection of tracer. In addition, prior to the tracer injection, a second IV catheter may
      be inserted into the other arm or hand vein on the contralateral side for blood sampling. To
      increase the usefulness of blood sampling for radiotracer analysis, the hand or arm used for
      blood sampling may be wrapped in an electrical warmer with the thermostat set at 44°C for
      approximately 5-10 minutes.The whole PET session will last approximately 120 min. At the time
      of imaging, the subjects will be positioned in the gantry of a PET camera. A head support
      will be used to minimize head motion.

      Side Effects Monitoring:

      No side effects from the radiopharmaceutical are expected. The dose of radiopharmaceutical
      being administered in this study is below that at which investigators would expect any
      effect, including physical dependence and addiction. There will be a follow up phone call
      within 24-72 hours after the PET scans, and again 2 weeks after the PET scans to ensure the
      subject has not suffered from any side effects. Subjects will be exposed to a small amount of
      radiation. The radiotracer will be prepared in such a way as to ensure that it is sterile and
      pyrogen free, and its radiochemical purity (RCP) will be determined using Silica Gel-Instant
      Thin Layer Chromatography and/or high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). In addition,
      because [F-18]PBR06 is a non-FDA approved radioligand, it's use for this study will be
      reviewed by Radioactive Drugs Research Committee.

      Subject Safety:

      Subject monitoring during PET scans will be performed using a 2-way intercom system between
      the scanner operator and subject and by visual monitoring of the subject through the window
      into the scan room (the subject is visible to the operator at all times).

      Subjects will need to lie still in the PET camera for period of 120 min, and subjects may
      find it uncomfortable to remain still over this time. Therefore, as mentioned above, subjects
      will be given the opportunity to take a break for up to 15 minutes after 45 minutes of PET
      scanning, following which the last 60 minutes of scanning will be completed. A standard
      head-support device will be used to make the subjects comfortable during the scanning.

      If subjects find an intravenous catheter or duration of scanning too uncomfortable, they are
      free to withdraw from the study at any time.

      Recruitment Procedures:

      Physicians at Movement Disorders clinic may present the study to a subject during a regular
      scheduled clinic visit. If the subject is interested in the study, a copy of the consent form
      will be given. Established Movement Disorders clinic patients may be sent a recruitment
      letter describing the study and a copy of the consent document. Interested subjects are
      directed to contact research staff via a telephone number provided in the letter for
      participation in the study. At the time of the subject's initial screening visit, a licensed
      physician investigator will answer any questions the subject may have regarding the study and
      subsequently obtain informed consent. In accordance with NIH guidelines, efforts will be made
      to attain a mix of study participants, in terms of gender and racial/ethnic representation.

      Consent Procedures:

      Informed consent will be obtained from the subjects by a licensed physician investigator on
      the study protocol. Existing Movement Disorders clinic subjects may be sent a letter
      describing the study and a copy of the consent document. Patients of the clinic may be
      introduced to the study through fliers posted throughout the clinic. For the PI's own
      patients, the recruitment letter will be sent several weeks before inquiring about their
      interest in the study and/or a clinic nurse or a colleague listed on the IRB will introduce
      the study using the IRB-approved flier in order to avoid the potential for coercion.
      Interested subjects are directed to contact research staff via a telephone number provided in
      the letter and on the fliers inviting participation in the study to set up a screening visit.
      They will have the opportunity to discuss the study with research study staff prior to giving
      consent as outlined above. Subjects approached for participation in the study during a
      routine clinical visit will have the opportunity to participate in the study at that time or
      they may choose to return for participation at another time in the future. All subjects will
      be informed that they are free to withdraw consent from the study at any time without
      affecting the quality or type of care that they receive at BWH. Subjects will be informed
      that they may not qualify for the study if their genetic analysis reveals that they are low
      affinity binders for TSPO.

      Monitoring and Quality Assurance:

      During the study period, subjects will be followed by their clinical neurologists for adverse
      events and disease progression. If problems are reported to their physicians, they will
      receive care as is normally performed. In addition, the PI will review all laboratory results
      of tests undergone by the subjects during the study period and help co-ordinate any necessary
      care with patient's primary providers.
    
  