
    
      In order to evaluate the interest of the RV3466F lotion in the remission of ET, which occurs
      naturally when the triggering cause is stopped, ,a comparative controlled group is necessary.

      Moreover, due to the type of product (lotion) and the area of application ( scalp), the
      parallel groups design is adapted to the study purpose.

      To increase the adherence to the study protocol and to limit the negative psychological
      impact of hair shedding without treatment, the control group receive a neutral shampoo (extra
      mild shampoo).

      In order to avoid a bias between groups regarding the associated products, the same shampoo
      is given for the two groups. It should be used at the usual frequency. The allocation of the
      study product is randomized.

      Only women are included in the study as specified in the claim of the study product.

      The study area is the whole scalp. For evaluations the scalp is divided into 4 parts:
      centroparietal, parietal (right/left), frontal, and occipital areas The concerned part of the
      scalp which is evaluated can change according to the outcome measure.

      The Phototrichogram (PTG) is a painless, non-invasive and objective method, used done in 2
      steps 48 hours apart to provide an accurate chronological following of hair growth on a
      specific scalp area . All data and images are computerized, which enables a semi-automatic
      quantification of hair growth variables (density, growth…). A preliminary dyeing of the hair
      is performed, in order to enhance the contrast between hair and scalp.

      The hair pull test is a semi quantitative method usually used to diagnose ongoing hair
      shedding and it helps to assess severity and location of hair loss.

      Global photographs help to illustrate the scalp hair coverage and the overall course of hair
      volume. For a better standardization of the shooting conditions, a stereotactic device is
      used, allowing their comparison from time to time, which is done ideally by trained people,
      the photographs being subsequently time blinded.

      The 60 seconds hair count test is a non-invasive and painless test performed by the subject
      itself, on the whole scalp in order to count the total number of hairs shed during a 60
      seconds combing.

      The clinical study includes 9 visits:

        -  Visit 1 - Selection (D1)

        -  Visit 2 - Inclusion - 48 hours (±2h) after V1

        -  Visit 3 - Intermediate - 4 weeks (D29 ± 4 days)

        -  Visit 4 -Intermediate - 48 hours (±2h) after V3

        -  Visit 5 - Intermediate - 8 weeks (D57 ± 4 days)

        -  Visit 6 - Intermediate - 48 hours (±2h) after V5

        -  Visit 7- Intermediate - 12 weeks (D85 ± 4 days)

        -  Visit 8 - Intermediate - 16 weeks (D113± 4 days)

        -  Visit 9 - Study end: 48 hours (±2h) after V8

      The maximal duration of participation for a subject is 119 days.
    
  