
    
      Methodology

      Patients will be screened in clinic and, if deemed appropriate for the study, will be
      approached by the research coordinator who will review the study and provide the opportunity
      for consenting to participate. The surgical procedure will be performed using standard
      arthroscopic technique and patients will be randomized intra-operatively via computer
      randomization when a biceps tendon lesion is confirmed. The type of anchor for the tenodesis,
      whether bioabsorbable or metal, and the manufacture of the anchor used is at the discretion
      of the surgeon. Duration of the surgery will be between 60-120 minutes.

      Surgical Technique

      The technique can be done using a biceps groove or a subpectoral level of fixation depending
      on surgeon preference. Shoulder arthroscopy is conducted in the lateral decubitus or beach
      chair position. Diagnostic arthroscopy is performed using a standard posterior portal and the
      biceps tendon is assessed with an arthroscopic probe using a standard anterior interval
      portal. Once study eligibility was confirmed via identification of tearing or degeneration of
      the long head of biceps, the patient was randomized to undergo either tenodesis or tenotomy.

      For patients who undergo biceps tenotomy the long head of biceps tendon is detached from its
      proximal anchor to the superior labrum using an arthroscopic biter, an electrothermal device,
      or a scalpel based on individual surgeon preference.

      For those patients undergoing biceps tenodesis, the tendon is tagged with a monofilament
      suture prior to detaching it from its superior labral attachment. The long head of biceps is
      then mobilized arthroscopically, and retrieved through an incision either in the groove
      (which is opened arthroscopically in the subacromial space) or at the inferior border of the
      pectoralis major tendon. A No. 2 non-absorbable suture is whip-stitched at the appropriate
      length. The remainder of the biceps tendon is excised and the anterior cortex of the proximal
      humerus is prepared using a cannulated reamer inserted into the bicipital groove. One suture
      limb is then passed through an appropriate size interference screw and the tendon is placed
      within the reamed tunnel. The screw is then advanced until it is flush with bone..

      Once the long head of biceps tendon pathology had been addressed, the scope is switched to a
      standard lateral portal to assess subacromial pathology and the rotator cuff. Subacromial
      decompression is performed using a cutting block technique if required, and the rotator cuff
      is repaired if necessary using standard anterolateral and posterolateral accessory portals
      based on tear configuration.

      Post-operative Care and Physiotherapy

      Postoperative care and immobilization are identical for the two groups and consist of the use
      of an immobilizer for 4-6 weeks. Patients are allowed to remove the immobilizer for
      activities of daily living in which the arm is not abducted and does not externally rotate
      beyond neutral. Active range of motion is started at 4-6 weeks and resistance exercises are
      begun when maximal range of motion has been achieved. No at-risk work activities or sports
      are allowed for six months.

      Data Analysis

      The primary analysis involves a comparison of the mean ASES scores between the two surgical
      treatment groups on an intention to treat basis. This analysis is a two sample independent
      t-test to assess whether there is a statistically significant difference between groups for
      the mean ASES scores at baseline and each follow-up appointment up to two years. Repeated
      measures ANOVAs will be used to determine the effect of surgery from baseline to two years
      post-surgery (i.e. pre-operatively, 3, 6, and 12, and 24 month follow-ups) on ASES scores for
      each group. The 5% significance level is employed. The underlying assumption for the ASES
      score data is that there is a normal distribution. If the sample distribution is determined
      to depart from normal, then a Wilcoxon rank sum test with Bonferroni correction will be
      performed. The secondary analysis involves a comparison of the secondary outcome measures
      between the two surgical treatment groups. The elbow strength findings will be analyzed for
      differences between the two groups at each time point up to 2 years. Repeated measures ANOVAs
      will be used to determine the effect of surgery from baseline to two years post-surgery (i.e.
      pre-operatively, 3, 6, and 12, and 24 month follow-ups) on ASES and elbow strength for each
      group. Nominal demographic data will be compared using the chi-squared test, while ordinal
      data will be compared using a t-test.

      Significance of the Proposed Research

      Arthroscopic treatment of lesions of the long head of the biceps tendon, whether tenodesis or
      tenotomy, has shown consistently favourable results. This trial is necessary both to provide
      optimal care of our patients, and to do so in a fiscally responsible fashion as the biceps
      tenodesis procedure has potential cost implications related to additional surgical time and
      anchor requirements. The results of the trial will provide valuable information regarding the
      management of lesions of the long head of the biceps tendon. The data obtained from quality
      of life measurements and physical exam will enable the authors to make recommendations that
      will lead to maximizing shoulder function and quality of life in patients.
    
  