
    
      The development of industrialization with increased food consumption and sedentarity has
      given rise to an obesity pandemic, which affects up to 30% of the population in countries
      like US, these populations being at greater risk for cardiovascular diseases, and diabetes.
      More than obesity per se, visceral obesity is associated with metabolic diseases that cluster
      together and clinically defined metabolic syndrome. MetS comprises individuals with at least
      three of the 5 of the following factors: abdominal obesity, high blood triglycerides, low HDL
      ("good cholesterol"), high blood pressure and elevated fasting glucose. Metabolic syndrome is
      associated with a low-grade inflammation characterized by an infiltration of immune cells
      particularly in the adipose tissue, the liver and the pancreas that is thought to be
      responsible for the induction of insulin resistance. It is thought that obesity predisposes
      to other diseases such as cancer, asthma but only little attention has been given to
      infectious diseases. Studies have shown that obesity increases the risk of severe influenza
      infection and associated death and reduces the efficacy of influenza vaccine in the obese
      population but yet, the molecular mechanisms have not been described. Immune dysfunctions
      associated with obesity are suspected to play a major role but obesity is often associated
      with respiratory disorders that could directly explain the increased susceptibility to
      influenza infection. Also, metabolically healthy obesity is less associated with
      inflammation. Therefore, the investigators would like to focus particularly on metabolic
      syndrome, and determine how it influences immune response to viruses.

      The investigators are thus hypothesizing that differences in the innate immune responses
      between individual with or without metabolic syndrome impact viral infection and vaccine
      outcome. Recent studies involving complex biological analysis and computational modeling have
      shown that the ability of an individual to positively respond to influenza vaccine can be
      molecularly predicted by looking at markers in the blood cells. The investigators will
      perform seasonal influenza vaccination in people with or without metabolic syndrome to
      determine if the late adaptive response assessed by antibodies titers is different between
      the two groups and correlates with the early immune response assessed by gene expression
      profile in whole blood cells.

      Healthy nutritional habits along with increased physical activities should be best at
      preventing the development of metabolic syndrome but socio-economical issues are slowing the
      implementation of these changes. Therefore, as metabolic syndrome is raising public health
      concerns, it is important to understand why the metabolic syndrome affects susceptibility to
      diseases.
    
  