
    
      Military Veterans suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) have been shown to
      exhibit increases in aggressive urges, difficulties managing anger, and difficulties
      controlling violent behavior. Dysregulated anger and aggression can create fear and distress
      in spouses, family members, and friends resulting in strained and deteriorated relationships,
      and can have a detrimental impact on Veterans' social, occupational and other important areas
      of functioning. In addition, more severe forms of aggression and violent behavior (i.e.,
      homicide) in the community have been observed among Veterans with PTSD, as recently reported
      in several news media outlets. The seriousness of this problem is underscored by the high
      rates of alcohol use observed among Veterans with PTSD which further increases anger and the
      risk of aggressive behavior.

      Current therapeutic interventions may not be effective in reducing anger and aggressive
      behavior among Veterans with PTSD due to the lack of techniques that directly target symptoms
      most strongly associated with aggression, particularly hyperarousal and physiological
      reactivity. Furthermore, existing interventions may not be effective in assisting individuals
      achieve awareness and insight into their anger states, necessary for the effective management
      of anger and aggression. Mindfulness is rooted in Eastern meditation practices and has been
      successfully used to decrease stress, pain, anxiety, and depression. In civilian samples,
      mindfulness interventions have been found to be effective in reducing anger and aggression.
      To date, mindfulness for anger and aggression has not been examined in Veterans with PTSD.

      The primary objective of the proposed investigation is to conduct a pilot randomized control
      trial to examine the initial efficacy of an established mindfulness intervention, Mindfulness
      Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) in decreasing anger and aggression in Veterans with PTSD. The
      proposed investigation also seeks to examine potential mechanisms of action that account for
      its effects. Sixty Veterans with PTSD experiencing problems with anger and aggression will be
      recruited. These individuals will complete a baseline assessment to assess self-reported
      levels of anger and aggression. They will then be randomly assigned to participate in an
      online (i.e., virtual) PTSD psychoeducational course or MBSR. After completing treatment, all
      participants will complete a post-treatment assessment to assess changes in anger and
      aggression.

      At a later date and time, participants will also be asked to attend an in-person laboratory
      session where they will engage in a trauma-imagery procedure followed by a task designed to
      assess provoked aggression. In addition to examining whether participation in MBSR decreases
      self-reported levels of anger and aggression, this study will examine whether MBSR decreases
      aggression in participants after being exposed to trauma reminders in vivo. Potential
      mechanisms of action of MBSR and its effects on additional outcomes also will be explored.
    
  