
    
      Suicide attempts and non-suicidal self-harm, highly prevalent in adolescents, are behaviours
      strongly associated with severe emotion dysregulation, mental health problems and increased
      suicide risk. The original study, on which the present study is building, used a randomized
      controlled design, with a stratified block randomization procedure, and blinded
      pre-treatment, post-treatment and follow-up evaluations comparing 19weeks of DBT-A with EUC
      of equal length.

      Of special interest to this follow-up study is to gain more knowledge on their capacity to
      regulate emotions, since failures in emotion regulation is an underlying mechanism of
      repetitive self-harm behaviours and several other difficulties, and since a main aim of DBT-A
      is to enhance adolescents capacity to use healthy emotion regulation strategies. The study is
      designed to carefully include user and family perspectives on the definition of specific
      outcomes and how to measure them, we will collect detailed data on important outcomes
      employing a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods, innovative approaches such
      as ecological momentary assessment and register data. Adding new data to the existing rich
      data will give us a basis to study the dynamic interplay between symptoms, emotions, and
      functional and dysfunctional behaviours and make new discoveries of mechanisms of therapeutic
      change, knowledge to further increase treatment response rates and individualize treatments
      and to inform further development of this treatment and its implementation in Norway and
      other countries.

      The proposed study will investigate:

        1. the 10-year post-randomization treatment outcomes of DBT-A compared with EUC with
           respect to: a) frequency of subsequent episodes of self-harm, b) severity of suicidal
           ideation, c) level of depressive symptoms and d) frequency of subsequent emergency room
           visits, hospitalizations and use of additional treatments due to risk of self-harm
           behaviour.

        2. the 10-year post-randomization clinical course and stability of a diagnosis of BPD, its
           diagnostic criteria and borderline symptoms.

        3. participants' adult mental health, social, family and occupational functioning and
           quality of life.

        4. participants' adult strategies for and capacity to cope with stressful life-events and
           situations in their daily lives and effectively regulate emotions.

        5. the association between participants' adult life use of skills and functional coping
           strategies and self-harm behaviour and other problem behaviours, and whether any
           substitution from onedysfunctional coping behaviour to another has occurred.

        6. participants' evaluation of what components of the treatment was most helpful and led to
           the strongest and most persistent change in important functions and aspects of life.

        7. the economic cost of treatments consumed and functional impairment and occupational
           disability over the 10-year post-randomization period and the long-term
           cost-effectiveness of DBT-A.
    
  