
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine recruitment rates to the proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT).

      II. Determine the rate of intervention adherence. III. Determine the feasibility of training
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) clinical research
      staff to successfully deliver the Brief Behavioral Therapy (BBT) intervention.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Obtain preliminary estimates for the effect of the intervention (compared with control) on
      insomnia as measured by the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI).

      II. Obtain preliminary estimates for the effect of the intervention (compared with control)
      on sleep quality as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI).

      III. Obtain preliminary estimates for the effect of the intervention (compared with control)
      on circadian rhythm as measured by the two-oscillator cosinor parameter estimates based on
      actigraphy data.

      IV. Obtain preliminary estimates for the effect of the intervention (compared with control)
      on heart rate variability (HRV) as measured by the Firstbeat® ambulatory heart-rate monitor
      (i.e., 1. respiratory sinus arrhythmia-RSA, 2. standard deviation of all normal R-wave to
      R-wave intervals--SDNN, 3. root mean square of successive differences between adjacent normal
      R-wave to R-wave intervals--RMSSD, 4. The ratio of low frequency total spectrum power of all
      NN intervals between .04 to .15 Hertz to high frequency total spectrum power of all NN
      intervals between .15 to .40 Hertz--LF/HF ratio, and 5. natural log of low frequency total
      spectrum power of all NN intervals between 0.04 to 0.15Hz.).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Obtain preliminary estimates for the effect of the intervention (compared with control) on
      quality of life as measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)
      total score and subscales.

      II. Obtain preliminary estimates for the effect of the intervention (compared with control)
      on general mood as measured by the Profile of Mood States (POMS) total score and subscales.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo BBT intervention, comprising insomnia education, stimulus control,
      discouragement of napping and encouragement of exercise, and sleep compression over two 60
      minute face-to-face sessions in weeks 1 and 3 or 4, and four 15 minute telephone sessions in
      weeks 2, 3, 5, and 6 or 2, 4, 5, and 6.

      ARM II: Patients undergo Healthy Eating Education (HEAL) comprising nutritional education and
      suggestions for symptom management over two 60 minute face-to-face sessions in weeks 1 and 2
      or 3, and four 15 minute telephone sessions in weeks 2, 3, 5, and 6 or 2, 4, 5, and 6.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1 month.
    
  