
    
      DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY This is a randomized, controlled, single center feasibility and
      preliminary safety study to determine the clinical efficacy of Activase administered locally,
      IA, in the course of an angiogram, as compared with Activase systemic IV infusion, in
      subjects with a ischemic stroke due to major vessel occlusion (M1, M2, terminal ICA, basilar
      or vertebral) detected by CT angiography, within 3 hours of symptoms onset. IV Activase (0.9
      mg kg-1, maximum 90 mg) will be administered as per the NINDS protocol and IA Activase (2 mg
      bolus, followed by 10 mg hr-1 for 2 hours or TIMI 3 recanalization, whichever is earlier,
      maximum total dose 22 mg) will be administered as per the protocol used in the IMS-2 study
      with administration initiated within 4 hours from symptom onset and completed within 6 hours
      from symptom onset. The subject will be randomized following CT angiography after the
      demonstration of complete occlusion or minimal perfusion of symptom-related M1 segment and/or
      M2, distal ICA, vertebral artery or basilar artery. The primary analysis will be focused on
      feasibility of such a trial in terms of time-frame, preliminary safety analysis (the
      proportion of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhages) and preliminary risk-benefit ratio of IA
      Activase when compared with IV Activase. Secondary analyses will include the proportion of
      subjects exhibiting significant neurological improvement, reduction in disability and
      recanalization on a MRA or CTA. The sample size for this feasibility trial was estimated
      taking into account that it will be done in a single center, involve a major investment in
      time, personnel, and equipment required. IA thrombolysis as compared to IV thrombolysis,
      should be justified only with evidence of a superior clinical efficacy. A larger multicenter
      feasibility trial will need to be planned to determine safety and estimate sample size for an
      efficacy trial. An outside, independent safety monitor will assess the safety of the
      treatment arms.

      A majority of clinical trials involving AIS conducted since the NINDS Activase stroke study
      have yielded negative results, emphasizing the point that recanalization and not
      neuroprotection can lead to clinical improvement. A recent randomized clinical trial (PROACT)
      showed the efficacy (recanalization and clinical improvement) of IA thrombolysis with
      Prourokinase for acute ischemic stroke <6 h from symptom onset, due to occlusion of proximal
      MCA. Although not FDA approved, IA thrombolysis with Activase, used in AIS is attractive
      because of higher rates of recanalization, potential extension of the time window out to 6
      hours from symptom onset, and lower doses of thrombolytic agent used compared with systemic
      or IV Activase and a possible lower rate of symptomatic ICH (5-7%) compared with IA Pro-UK
      (10.9%). Support for use of IV Activase comes mainly from the NINDS study, whereas that for
      IA Activase comes from the PROACT study and a metanalysis of several anecdotal series.
      However, these two therapeutic approaches have never been compared in a randomized controlled
      trial. IA Activase may be used in AIS due to major vessel occlusion, whereas IV Activase may
      be used independent of the presence or absence of major vessel occlusion. CT angiography can
      rapidly detect major vessel occlusion and hence candidacy for IA thrombolysis. An ongoing
      pilot (IMS-2 trial) assessing the use of combination of IV and IA thrombolysis and comparing
      it with historical control has one draw-back in that the subjects are being subjected to a
      dual risk of hemorrhage by IV (6%) + IA (5-7%) Activase.

      The rationale for the study design is as follows:

        -  Random assignment: to reduce treatment assignment bias.

        -  Controlled: the appropriate control group being the FDA approved IV Activase
           administration.

        -  Open label: as intra-arterial and intravenous administration is difficult to blind
           observers because of the difference in route of administration that is obvious to the
           observer and the subject. Sham intra-arterial stick that can be used to camouflage the
           information, may be extremely dangerous in the intra-venous group.

        -  Blinded 90-day assessment: to remove assessment bias.

      Method of Treatment Assignment Block randomization (1:1) will be used to assign equal numbers
      of subjects to the IV and IA arms. In the preliminary feasibility study twelve subjects will
      be randomly assigned to receive IV (N=6) and IA (N=6) Activase. The treatment will remain
      open label to the treating physician. A physician blinded to the treatment arm will assess
      the 90-day outcomes.

      Study Treatment Activase will be administered IV or IA based on random assignment. The IV
      administration will be in accordance to the FDA approved guidelines based on the NINDS rt-PA
      stroke study. The IA administration is considered investigational and will be in accordance
      to the ongoing IMS-2 study.

      Cathetrization and Intra-arterial Alteplase protocol: A sheath will be placed in the femoral
      artery by a 1-wall puncture and arteriography performed by standard technique. If the
      suspected distribution of ischemia is the carotid artery, injection of the common carotid
      artery for examination of the carotid bifurcation as well as for intracranial examination
      will be performed. If the suspected arterial distribution is vertebral or basilar artery,
      selective injection of both vertebral arteries will be performed. Arteriographic examination
      of the remainder cerebral vessels will be performed if examination of collateral flow to the
      brain is deemed essential for determining treatment strategies. Five thousand units of
      heparin will be administered IV as a bolus at the beginning of the procedure. No post bolus
      IV heparin will be administered. Per standard neurointerventional procedure, a heparin flush
      solution (eg, 1000 U in 500 mL) normal saline at ~2 U of heparin/min) will be used through
      the access sheath and continued till the sheath is removed.

      After performing diagnostic cerebral arteriogram, a 3F, tapered, variable-stiffness, end-hole
      microcatheter will be passed over a micro-guide wire to the level of occlusion. One milligram
      of Activase will be injected beyond the thrombus and the catheter retracted into the proximal
      thrombus where an additional one milligram of Activase will be injected. A maximum of 22 mg
      of Activase will be administered in pulse spray fashion at a rate of 1mg every 6 minutes up
      to 10 mg/hr for 2 hrs till the maximum dose is reached or a TIMI 3 flow is noted on
      arteriographic examination. Repeat arteriography will be performed every 15 minutes using
      isosmolar contrast during the intra-arterial administration to assess recanalization. If the
      vessel is not patent the intra-arterial administration is continued. If the vessel is
      partially recanalized, the infusion catheter is introduced further into the vessel for
      thrombus access. If the arterial catheter cannot be introduced into the thrombus, the
      Activase will be administered proximal to the thrombus as described above. The subject's
      neurological function will be evaluated every 15 minutes during the IA procedure, including
      level of consciousness, speech examination, cranial nerve examination, and upper extremity
      motor and sensory function.

      If the subject did not have an occlusion on the initial arteriogram in the vascular territory
      appropriate for the subject's symptoms, no Activase will be administered, and the procedure
      terminated (these subjects will be included in the overall analysis). If the subject has a
      significant stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid, vertebral or basilar arteries, the
      stenosis/occlusion is traversed with the microcatheter to approach a distal occlusive
      thrombus. The use of Activase(IV) in an acute ischemic stroke is standard of care. IA
      Activase is being performed clinically, but is not standard of care. Intravenous Activase
      protocol: is essentially identical to the NINDS rt-PA stroke study. In accordance with the
      protocol, AIS subjects will be treated with IV Activase within 180 minutes from symptom
      onset. Symptom onset is defined in the usual manner as the last time at which the subject was
      known to be asymptomatic. A total dose of 0.9 mg/kg body weight (max 90 mg) will be
      administered, 10% of it given as IV push over 1 minute and the remainder 90% as an IV
      infusion over 1 hour.

      One week, one month, and three months after receiving Activase IV or IA the subject will
      spend 10 to 20 minutes talking to a doctor and being examined to check recovery from the
      stroke. In addition, 60 days after receiving the study drug, the study coordinator will
      contact the subject by phone to ask questions about overall feeling of health. This telephone
      contact is expected to take about five minutes. One follow-up visit after the subject has
      left the hospital is standard care for someone who has had a stroke. Other visits and the
      telephone call are for research purposes only.

      Outcome Measures

      Primary Efficacy Outcome Measures

      The following primary efficacy outcome measures will be evaluated:

        -  Feasibility of enrolling 12 subjects with major vessel occlusion within 1 year and
           random 1:1 assignment to treatment with IV (N=6) and IA (N=6) IA Activase using the
           following criteria: - Time to clinical and radiological assessments

             -  Time to IA Activase treatment

             -  Proportion of subjects receiving timely assessments and treatment

        -  Preliminary safety assessment: 24 hour symptomatic ICH

        -  Resources utilized and risk-benefit of IA Activase treatment.

      Secondary Outcome Measures

      The following secondary efficacy outcome measures will be evaluated:

        -  90-day efficacy outcome including NIHSS, modified Rankin Scale and Barthel's Index.

        -  24-h recanalization (TIMI 2/3) on MRA or CTA

        -  Major extracranial bleed (defined under section 3.3.3) and asymptomatic intracranial
           hemorrhage
    
  