
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) has recently declared pandemic the coronavirus disease
      2019 (COVID-19) due to the causative severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus
      (CoV) 2 (SARS-CoV-2). People infected with SARS-CoV-2 vary in severity from being
      asymptomatic to having severe pneumonia and ARDS. Predictive markers of clinical worsening
      after admission are lacking. Clinical deterioration often coincides with the development of
      host antiviral immune responses, suggesting that the inflammatory response to SARS-CoV-2
      infection may underpin COVID-19 pathogenesis leading to aberrant and excessive immune
      responses causing lung functional disability. Relevant therapeutic strategies are still under
      investigation. Based on a better understanding of COVID-19 immunopathogenesis, the
      identification of predictive biomarkers early in the disease process would be of outstanding
      interest to tailor prompt therapeutic interventions.

      On this basis, the project aims to create a prospective cohort of biological samples
      collected from COVID-19 patients followed at the Toulouse University Hospital.

      This cohort will collect and cryopreserve biological samples (33 mL), including plasma and
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), on admission (day 0) and longitudinally (day 4, 8
      12 and in discharge) and will allow us to investigate our primary and secondary objectives.
      This cohort will be bridged with a clinical cohort in order to have a very well-defined
      population of COVID-19 patients with the following outcomes:

        -  Patients with severe disease requiring on admission intensive care unit (ICU) management
           for ARDS,

        -  Non-severe hospitalized patients with secondary clinical worsening requiring ICU
           management,

        -  Non-severe hospitalized patients without clinical worsening requiring ICU management.

      In addition, mildly symptomatic patients among healthcare workers attending outpatient
      dedicated clinics will be recruited and blood samples will be collected on their first
      consultation and 10 to 14 days later in the frame of a medical surveillance program.
    
  