
    
      The HTPN Registry is website based. Only users inside of Canada will be able to access the
      website. All data is held in Ontario, Canada and is governed by Ontario and Canadian privacy
      and security laws. The entry point into the registry will be through a website
      www.htpnregistry.ca, using a specific HTPN program password for data entry. A code and date
      of birth will be used to identify each patient. Patient data will be kept confidential and be
      entered by a member of the TPN team from each participating program. Participating programs
      will have access to their own database and will be able to compare their patient population
      to the one of the entire registry. Data entered into the registry will include: 1) Patient
      demography 2) Nutritional assessment 3) Medications 4) Indications for HTPN 5)
      Gastrointestinal anatomy following surgeries 6) HTPN regimen 7) Current blood work 8)
      Vascular access 9) Hospitalizations 10) Survival, 11) Liver complications 12) Metabolic bone
      disease 13) quality of life. In addition, information regarding each HTPN program will be
      captured: organization of the TPN team, number of patients under the program, diagnosis and
      reasons for HTPN, source of funding, geographical coverage, home care utilization, providers.
      Data will be entered every two years by the one or more HTPN staff monitoring the patients.
      The data can be entered directly into the website or case report forms can be used to collect
      the data from the patient charts and facilitate data input into the website.

      All patients will be followed prospectively until discontinuation of TPN or death.
      Descriptive statistics will be performed.

      For the entire HTPN population, probability of survival, chronic cholestasis, complicated
      home parenteral nutrition related liver disease, line infection and metabolic bone disease
      will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. As of February 2014, 433 patients (85 from
      UHN) have been entered into the Canadian HTPN registry. The recruitment and data collection
      is expected to continue for at least 5 more years (until 2019). Participating HTPN programs
      are: Toronto (Toronto General Hospital, St. Michael's Hospital), Hamilton (Hamilton Health
      Sciences),Winnipeg (St. Boniface General Hospital), Edmonton (Capital Health/University Of
      Alberta), Calgary (Foothills Medical Centre), British Columbia (BC Home Parenteral Nutrition
      Program) and Montreal (McGill University).
    
  