
    
      Rationale Patients with advanced penile cancer have a poor prognosis (21% 2-year overall
      survival from moment of diagnosis) and high morbidity due to progressive locoregional
      disease.

      Translational studies show high rates of infiltrating immune cells and PD-L1 positivity,
      suggesting that immunotherapy may be beneficial in this disease. Atezolizumab, targeting
      PD-L1, is active in several cancer types and is generally well-tolerated. This study will
      investigate whether atezolizumab can be combined with radiotherapy to control locoregional
      lymph node disease. Furthermore, the activity of atezolizumab in advanced penile cancer
      patients will be investigated.

      Objectives:

        1. Efficacy of atezolizumab in advanced penile cancer patients.

        2. Feasibility of a protracted schedule of radiotherapy on locoregional disease in
           combination with immunotherapy for advanced penile cancer

      Study design:

      Single-center, nonrandomized, Phase 2 study with 2 treatment arms.

      Study population:

      Men, ≥18 years of age, with advanced inoperable penile cancer, N=32.

      Intervention:

      All patients will receive atezolizumab, 1200 mg, every 3 weeks, by IV infusion. Patients in
      group A will additionally receive 33 fractions of 1.5 (locoregional affected lymph nodes) and
      1.8 Gy (tumor+margin) irradiation, concurrently with atezolizumab treatment.

      Primary endpoint:

      Progression-free survival at 1 year.

      Main secondary endpoint:

      2-year overall survival rate of the complete study population. Percentage of patients who
      complete the full course of radiotherapy in the radiotherapy/atezolizumab arm.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Patients will be treated every 3 weeks with atezolizumab for one year or until
      loss of clinical benefit. Atezolizumab is generally well tolerated although immune-related
      toxicity does occur.

      Toxicity of combining atezolizumab with a long course of radiotherapy is unknown and may
      result in increased toxicity. It is unknown whether atezolizumab will induce responses in
      patients with advanced penile cancer.
    
  