
    
      This study will be an exploratory, proof of concept, randomised, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind, multiple crossover study, with an open-label active run-in phase, in patients
      with multiple system atrophy (MSA) or Parkinson's disease (PD) who can concomitantly be
      treated with fludrocortisone and antiparkinsonian medication. Three sites in France and one
      site in Portugal will participate in this study.

      During the open-label active run-in phase, a tolerated dose-escalation regimen (either
      escalating from 30 to 90 or 60 mg tid, or no escalation but fixed dose of 30 mg tid) will be
      established for each patient. Once the tolerated treatment regimen has been established,
      patients will then be randomised to the double-blind crossover treatment. Fipamezole and
      matched placebo tablets are compared in 3 crossover blocks, each block consisting of a total
      of 28 days: 12 days fipamezole and 12 days placebo in random order, separated by two days of
      washout. The patients will be randomly assigned to one of the two possible treatment
      sequences (fipamezole first followed by placebo or placebo first followed by fipamezole).

      For efficacy assessments, the patient blood pressure and heart rate is assessed repeatedly
      when laying still or standing. Impact of orthostatic hypotension on clinical symptoms is
      assessed with a subjective scale and questionnaire. To explore potential positive or negative
      impact of fipamezole on disease characteristics, the MSA and PD patients are assessed with
      UMSARS and UPDRS scales, respectively. Finally, the study includes investigator and patients
      assessments of CGI-I and PGI-I scales for clinical condition in general.

      Fipamezole

      Fipamezole is a new antagonist of the pre-synaptic adrenergic alpha-2 receptors and is being
      investigated for potential use as an adjunctive therapy for PD. Adrenergic alpha-2 receptors
      inhibit noradrenaline and some other neurotransmitter release from nerve terminals in a tonic
      manner, and therefore antagonism of this receptor leads in enhanced neurotransmitter release.
      Alpha-2 receptors are located widely in the body, both in the central nervous system (CNS)
      and periphery. Pharmacological studies have suggested that either central or peripheral
      autonomic nervous system is involved in autonomic failure and orthostatic hypotension in MSA
      and in PD. Neurogenic orthostatic hypotension in these diseases results from decreased
      delivery of the sympathetic neurotransmitter noradrenaline (or hormonal adrenaline) to
      vascular adrenergic receptors, either because of blunted CNS control or impaired function of
      postganglionic sympathetic neurons. Fipamezole is expected to increase noradrenergic (or
      adrenergic) turnover in specific areas of the brain or in the periphery in MSA and PD and
      alleviate symptoms related to fall in BP during orthostatism.
    
  