
    
      Data will be collected at baseline, on study completion and at 3-month follow-up. Sequel to
      baseline data collection and ascertainment of eligibility, participants will be randomised
      into either the exercise intervention group or sham-control group. Randomisation will be
      through computer-generation of random numbers. Participants will be blinded to group
      allocation. Both groups will complete their required programme for eight months.

      For the intervention group, participants will be required to perform 10 maximal vertical
      jumps, with a 10-s rest interval between each jump, using an arm swing in countermovement
      style on three days per week. The jumps will be performed without shoes on a hard surface.
      The jumps will be preceded by a warm-up lasting approximately 3 min and consisting of
      mobilisation exercises for the legs and lower back. Jumping will be progressed over time and
      in accordance with individual needs. Initially, jumping may be undertaken with the use of a
      handheld support (such as the back of a chair or table), should participants feel unstable.
      Jumps will be progressed to include multi-directional movements (jumping to the side,
      forwards, backwards, and diagonally). Natural progression will also occur as participants
      should improve their jump height with increased muscular explosiveness. Participants will be
      asked to fill out a simple, daily training log, stipulating when they have undertaken the
      exercise, in order for adherence to be assessed.

      In the control group, participants will be required to perform balance exercises. The
      balancing exercises will be progressed and varied (to ensure adherence). Initially, the use
      of a handheld support (such as the back of the chair) can be used. Participants will be
      required to balance on one leg for up to 60 seconds (2 x 60 s is equivalent in duration to
      the 10 jumps). This exercise will initially be progressed using time, and then by doing the
      following: confounding the visual fixation (e.g., head turns), changing the centre of mass
      (e.g. arm/leg lifts); performing the stork balance (hands on hips, knee bent and supported by
      standing leg); reaching in multiple directions before regaining the initial stance; closing
      the eyes; reducing the base of support; and a combination of these activities. The starting
      level of difficulty will be prescribed by the researcher, according to each participant's
      functional ability. The balance exercises will be preceded by a warm-up lasting approximately
      3 min and consisting of mobilisation exercises for the legs and lower back. The purpose of
      the sham exercise is to foster the perception of full participation in the study, in order to
      decrease attrition rates, and to blind participants to the intervention. The balance
      exercises, although not improving bone health, could decrease the risk of fracture, making
      the sham control group more ethical, owing to potential improvements, and limited risks.

      To ensure quality control, digitised video clips of all exercises will be provided for the
      participants, who will be encouraged to perform the exercises as demonstrated on the video.
      The participants will be invited to one fully supervised group exercise session per month.
      These sessions will be used to monitor exercise quality, and to ensure progression is
      appropriate for each participant. Sessions will last 15-20 min. Attendance at these sessions
      will be monitored through registers. Apart from these supervised exercise sessions,
      participants will be given free choice to determine where and when they do the exercises. At
      the instructor-led session, training logs will be submitted. If they are unable to attend,
      participants will be asked to submit training logs electronically, or via post. To encourage
      adherence, an App will be used, which will enable weekly announcements to be posted, as well
      as emails and/or text reminders. Participants will be free to contact the researchers about
      any concerns they have during the intervention. Apart from the exercise undertaken,
      participants will be requested to maintain their usual exercise throughout the study.

      To improve adherence, Bandura's Social Cognitive Theory for changing behaviour will be drawn
      upon. Specific constructs will include the knowledge and skills to perform the prescribed
      intervention, personal regulation of goal-directed health behaviour (self-control), and
      self-confidence in engaging in the exercise despite the absence of supervision.
      Reinforcement, i.e., activities that increase the propensity for adherence during the trial
      and beyond the study's lifespan, will also be addressed.

      Participants' level of self-efficacy for engaging in lifestyle change will be assessed using
      a five-point Likert scale, from 'not at all confident' to 'very confident'. Participants will
      be asked to rate how confident they are to commit to engage in the exercise, irrespective of
      usual circumstances such as time constraints, stress, and fatigue. Assessment of
      self-efficacy will take place at the study onset, and at one-monthly intervals (via
      attendance at the supervised group sessions). With non-attendance, assessment will take place
      electronically. In the event of a low rating, modes of handling such situations without
      compromising commitment to the regime, will be given in relation to each participant's
      personal circumstances. In addition, at the study outset, participants will be asked to
      identify any circumstances that could motivate them to comply with the exercise, as well as
      any perceived barriers to adherence. Any issues will be discussed, and participants will be
      given the opportunity to design personalised adherence strategies. The aim will be to foster
      self-efficacy in both groups.

      After the eight-month intervention, all females in the trial arm, who have completed the
      study, will be invited to take part in a focus group (in groups of 8, depending on numbers
      who volunteer for this), to examine participants' perceptions of the intervention. A topic
      guide will be used, which includes: An exploration of the perceived barriers to undertaking
      the exercise intervention; issues with adherence; acceptability of the intervention; adverse
      events; enjoyment; ratings of perceived exertion; how easily the intervention could be
      incorporated into lifestyle. At the end of the focus group, the topic guide will be checked
      to ensure that all areas had been covered. Focus groups will likely last between 45 and 60
      min, although will continue until the researcher feels that data saturation has been reached.
      The focus groups will be audio-recorded and subsequently transcribed to facilitate analysis.
      Non-verbal participant behaviour will also be recorded.
    
  