
    
      Gestational diabetes is a condition where high blood glucose levels occur during pregnancy
      and the mother was not diabetic before pregnancy. Between 6-9% of pregnancies are affected by
      this disorder. Gestational diabetes is usually tested for with a glucose challenge test where
      a blood glucose level of 190mg/dL or above would be indicative of gestational diabetes. This
      test usually occurs around 24-28 weeks into pregnancy. If a patient has other risk factors
      such as obesity or family history of diabetes, the assessment may be performed earlier.

      Gestational diabetes increases risk of complications in both the mother and the baby. For the
      child, it may result in excessive weight at birth, a preterm birth, hypoglycemia, Type II
      diabetes later in life, and potential stillbirth. For the mother, it drastically increases
      the risk of high blood pressure, preeclampsia, and developing diabetes later in life.
      Gestational diabetes can also lead to further pregnancy related complications and increased
      risk of maternal morbidity and mortality events.

      Multiple genome-wide association studies have been carried out to correlate genetic variants
      to Type II diabetes, and have identified over 40 genes associated with the disease. The list
      comprises genes encoding for insulin production and processing such as CDKALI 1, FOXO1, GCKR
      and FTO, and insulin pathway genes such as MADD and PRC1[2]. These variants, along with
      demonstrated non-genetic risk factors such as obesity and high blood pressure, have
      demonstrated a clear ability to assess risk of Type II diabetes.

      However, there are currently no PRS for gestational diabetes in academic literature or
      available as a market product in any country. Additionally, the studies mentioned above do
      not wholly combine genome data with sociodemographic and lifestyle risks. Very few large
      scale GWAS studies have focused solely on female participants or pregnancy related
      complications. Further, existing literature and publications lack diversity among female
      participants in these types of studies. Oshun Medical intends to conduct a large-scale GWAS
      in conjunction with the additional socioeconomic qualifications to generate a novel PRS to
      assess the risk of gestational diabetes with focus on inclusion of diverse populations in our
      samples. With these added quantifications of qualitative data, Oshun Medical's PRS will be
      more representative of a patient's personal health and risk of developing gestational
      diabetes.
    
  