
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by
      motor neuron loss. Despite of many trials for disease-modifying, no treatment has so far
      changed natural course of disease.

      The investigators had performed the pre-clinical and clinical studies using autologous bone
      marrow-derived stem cells in ALS. In the investigators' results of clinical trial,
      intrathecal injection of autologous bone marrow-derived stem cells is safe and could slow
      down disease progression and might be used as a disease modifying strategy in patients with
      ALS.

      In the new field, like cell therapy, it is an important issue whether a bone marrow derived
      mesenchymal stem cells can be used as an allograft. Many investigators had showed that the
      immunoprivileged and immunosuppressive properties of mesenchymal stem cells result from the
      absence of major histocompatibility class II antigens and the secretion of T helper type 2
      cytokines.

      One potential advantage of allogenic bone marrow derived cells could be avoiding the need for
      procedural delay before treatment. And it is also hypothesized that the function of
      autologous bone marrow derived cells could be impaired in patients with co-morbidities or
      advanced age.

      This study is to evaluate safety of HYNR-CS-Allo inj(HLA-haplo matched Allogenic bone
      marrow-derived stem cells) in patients with ALS.

      The patients enrolled in the trial will be successively allocated into three cohorts for
      HYNR-CS-Allo inj., 0.25 X 10^6 cells/kg, 0.5 X 10^6 cells/kg, 1 X 10^6 cells/kg, according to
      the 3+3, up and down protocol design. The first treatment cohort will be 0.5 X 106 cells/kg
      dose cohort. Only a maximum of six patients will be given a particular dosage.

      The scheduled assessments and visits will be carried out over three periods: run-in period,
      treatment period, and follow-up period.

      The run-in period includes the screening visit where a written informed consent is obtained
      and the screening period where patients are assessed for eligibility. It will be completed
      within 30 days prior to enrollment. The patients meeting inclusion criteria will start the
      treatment period.

      During the treatment period, subjects will be administered HYNR-CS-Allo inj. 2 times by
      intrathecal administration with 28 days interval.

      The Follow-up period starts once subjects complete the treatment period and will continue
      until the final follow-up visit.
    
  