
    
      Post-ERCP pancreatitis is likely due to the patient's inflammatory response to duct
      instrumentation during the procedure and severity is based on the magnitude of this response.
      Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) plays a pivotal role in inflammation since it regulates many
      pro-inflammatory mediators, including prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and platelet activating
      factor. NSAIDs inhibit PLA2, and indomethacin is the most potent clinically available PLA2
      inhibitor. Our study hypothesis is that treatment with indomethacin will reduce the
      inflammatory response to ERCP, and therefore lessen the incidence and severity of post-ERCP
      pancreatitis.

      Aim: We plan to conduct a prospective, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled trial to
      determine if a single dose of 100 mg indomethacin suspension instilled into the duodenum by
      the endoscope immediately following ERCP can reduce the incidence and severity of post-ERCP
      pancreatitis.

      Patients scheduled to undergo diagnostic or therapeutic ERCP would be serially enrolled.
      Standard indications for ERCP will include the following: evaluation of obstructive jaundice,
      unexplained pancreatitis, recurrent pancreaticobiliary pain and abnormal liver tests. Those
      patients who are deemed to be at increased risk of pancreatitis (suspected sphincter of oddi
      dysfunction, age < 40 yrs, normal bilirubin, prior post ERCP pancreatitis, difficult
      cannulation, pancreatic duct injection, pancreatic duct sphincterotomy, undergoing pre-cut
      sphincterotomy and balloon dilation of the biliary sphincter) would undergo placement of a 3
      French pancreatic stent at the time of ERCP. Prospective randomized studies have demonstrated
      a marked decrease in post-ERCP pancreatitis rates in high risk patients who have undergone
      pancreatic stenting. Following ERCP and therapy (if required), they would be randomized to
      receive a dose of indomethacin or placebo instilled into the duodenum via the biopsy channel
      of the duodenoscope. Patients as well as physicians and nurses performing the procedure and
      overseeing the study will be unaware of treatment assignments.

      All of the endoscopic and clinical practices will follow the current standard of care of the
      Yale interventional endoscopy department. Participation in the study will not alter this in
      any way. The experimental intervention is limited to the administration of a single dose of
      indomethacin, injected into the endoscope channel prior to removal of the scope at the
      conclusion of the ERCP and subsequent monitoring for signs and symptoms of post-ERCP
      pancreatitis, much of which is also part of routine clinical practice.

      At the end of the procedure the details of the endoscopic maneuver are recorded, including
      ease/difficulty of cannulation, sphincterotomy (biliary and/or pancreatic) performed, number
      of cannulations, number of pancreatic duct injections, technique of sphincterotomy (Needle
      Knife/Stent vs pull-type) and duct diameters.

      All patients will be observed for 4 hours following ERCP which is part of the routine
      clinical practice following ERCP. Patients with minimal pain will be discharged after a
      4-hour period of observation. All patients will have baseline serum amylase levels which will
      be repeated 4 hours after the ERCP has been completed. Patients with significant abdominal
      pain following ERCP will be hospitalized overnight and evaluated for post-ERCP pancreatitis
      with monitoring of vital signs, urinary output and serum amylase levels the following
      morning. Patients with ongoing symptoms at 48 hours and later will undergo imaging with
      either abdominal ultrasonography or CT scanning. This also represents current standard
      clinical practice.

      Patients discharged home will be contacted by telephone the following day to assess for
      complications including post-ERCP pancreatitis.
    
  