
    
      Historically, optical and video laryngoscopes have been used as alternative airway management
      devices for the difficult airway, and as rescue devices. Their use by experienced
      laryngoscopists has not been compared in a prospective, randomized, head-to-head comparison
      for routine airway management in adult surgical patients. Video and optical laryngoscopes
      have been developed to improve the laryngeal view for tracheal intubation and to decrease
      physiological stress associated with the procedure. The objective of this study is to
      determine whether these devices offer superior intubating conditions for routine surgical
      management, over the Macintosh laryngoscope, which is the current standard. The devices to be
      compared in this study are the most commonly used video and optical laryngoscopes on the
      market and are cleared or exempt by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

      Eligible subjects include elective adult surgical patients with an ASA status between 1 and 3
      requiring general endotracheal anesthesia. Subjects with a BMI ≥ 40, or undergoing surgery in
      close proximity to the neck will be excluded. Prior to surgery, subjects will receive a
      pre-anesthesia evaluation with particular attention to the airway using the Mallampati
      classification system; atlanto-occipital joint extension; thyro-mental distance;
      temporomandibular joint function; inter-incisor distance; and dental assessment. Subjects
      will be randomized for intubation with one of the five laryngoscopes in equal proportions.
      The following data were recorded: total intubation time, maximum neck extension using an
      angle gauge, glottic view, assessed by the anesthesiologist using the Cook modification of
      the Cormack-Lehane grading system (Figure 1), and ease of tracheal intubation using a 5-point
      rating scale; 5 (excellent) to 1 (poor). Subjects were queried about soreness or painful
      swallowing in the PACU and a week later via a phone call.
    
  