
    
      Airway hyperresponsiveness, the pivotal feature of asthma, can be assessed by bronchial
      provocation tests (BPTs), which may elicit bronchoconstriction via inhalation of stimuli.
      Histamine has been a direct stimulus for inducing bronchoconstriction via vasodilation,
      eosinophil chemotaxis and tissue edema. Clinically, histamine BPT (His-BPT) has gained
      extensive application for decades owing to the assay sensitivity and feasibility, but could
      not ideally predict anti-inflammatory treatment outcomes in practice. Additionally, mild
      adverse events (flushing and hoarseness) and insufficient capacity of identifying
      exercise-induced asthma have hampered further clinical applications.

      Adenosine monophosphate (AMP) is an inflammatory mediator that serves as an indirect
      bronchial stimulus for detecting airway hyperresponsiveness in asthma. Compared with
      histamine, AMP may be pathophysiologically more relevant to airway inflammation and
      hyperresponsiveness and has been linked to presence and magnitude of atopy. However,
      differences of response to AMP-BPT and His-BPT in different asthma control levels and their
      associations with asthmatic symptom scores have not been fully elucidated.

      We hypothesized that asthmatic patients, regardless of control levels, responded
      differentially to AMP-BPT and His-BPT, and that greater reduction in airway responsiveness to
      AMP (esp. responders of AMP-BPT) was associated with significant symptom alleviation.
      Henceforth, we sought to: 1) compare diagnostic performance and safety of AMP-BPT and His-BPT
      in different asthma control levels; 2) determine the association between airway
      responsiveness and asthmatic symptom scores.

      Currently, His-BPT is recommended by the Chinese guideline and shares considerable similarity
      with methacholine (another conventional stimulus) BPT, we therefore did not perform the
      latter in this study.
    
  