
    
      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a highly prevalent, potentially debilitating
      condition afflicting many war Veterans. While efficacious treatments are available, most
      individuals with PTSD do not receive any mental health care. VA faces an ongoing challenge of
      engaging Veterans with PTSD in effective services. Recognizing the powerful influence of
      families on Veteran wellbeing, VA has called for increased involvement of family members in
      the care of Veterans with PTSD. In response, VA has created a national telephone-based
      support service called Coaching Into Care (CIC) to work with family members of Veterans with
      mental health problems who are reluctant to seek treatment. Program evaluation data show that
      CIC is highly valued by callers, but that only about 25% of callers with Veterans not already
      in care, report that their Veteran sought care over the next six months. The proposed study
      is a test of an innovative approach to improve outcomes by blending coaching calls with a
      web-based program called VA Community Reinforcement and Family Training (VA-CRAFT). VA-CRAFT
      is a translation of an empirically-validated model intended to help Veterans by training and
      supporting their family members to better care for themselves, more effectively manage their
      relationships, and have effective care-seeking conversations with their Veterans.

      Preliminary work suggests that VA-CRAFT may be a powerful adjunct for CIC services. In a
      prior HSR&D-funded pilot, the investigators' team found that family members who completed the
      relatively brief VA-CRAFT course alone (without any coaching) had greater decreases in
      caregiver burden than wait-list controls. However, qualitative interviews also suggested that
      participants often did not raise the issue of treatment with their Veteran loved one due to
      not believing such a conversation would be successful. The investigators developed
      CIC+VA-CRAFT with the goal of capitalizing on the strengths of both approaches (CIC and
      VA-CRAFT) and increasing family members' motivation, perceived ability to have
      treatment-seeking conversations with the Veteran, and success at engaging their Veterans in
      care. Initial findings from a second, NC-PTSD-funded pilot suggest that this brief, blended
      intervention is feasible, acceptable, and potentially more effective than CIC alone in
      enhancing Veteran mental health treatment initiation.

      Primary Objective: The primary objective is to investigate the effectiveness of CIC+VA-CRAFT
      in improving Veteran treatment initiation above CIC only, without compromising the high
      caller satisfaction of the CIC program. To accomplish this, the investigators will use a
      two-group randomized controlled trial. Spouse/partners who believe their Veteran needs PTSD
      treatment will be randomized to CIC+VA-CRAFT or CIC only (i.e., TAU). Assessments will occur
      at baseline, post-treatment (month 3), and follow-up (month 6). To maximize generalizability
      of findings to the intended population, recruitment will use targeted social media
      advertising and referrals from the existing CIC program. Specific aims are:

      Aim 1: Determine the effectiveness of CIC+VA-CRAFT for Veteran mental health service
      initiation. The investigators hypothesize that spouse/partners in CIC+VA-CRAFT will report
      higher rates of mental health service initiation for their Veterans than will participants in
      the CIC only condition.

      Aim 2: Investigate caller satisfaction with CIC+VA-CRAFT relative to CIC only. The
      investigators hypothesize that satisfaction with CIC+VA-CRAFT will be non-inferior to
      satisfaction with the CIC program.

      Aim 3: Conduct a process evaluation to inform potential future implementation of
      CIC+VA-CRAFT. Qualitative interviews with spouse/partners, their Veterans, and study and CIC
      coaches, will be used to inform future implementation of the CIC+VA-CRAFT intervention into
      the CIC program.

      Exploratory Aims:

        1. Explore potential within-condition improvements and between-condition changes on
           spouse/partner and family outcomes. The investigators will test for these effects on
           measures of caregiver burden, psychological distress, quality of life, and family
           conflict and cohesion.

        2. Explore potential intervention mediators and moderators of Veteran mental health
           treatment initiation. The investigators will explore if self-efficacy, outcome
           expectancy, and treatment conversations mediate the effect of the intervention on mental
           health treatment initiation. Demographic variables, perceived Veteran symptomatology,
           and partner symptomatology will be explored as moderators of the effect of the
           intervention.

      The long-term goal of this research is to establish an efficacious, efficient, scalable, and
      satisfying family outreach intervention that will significantly increase mental health
      service initiation among a high priority Veteran population while addressing the needs of
      their primary supporters, their family members. This proposal has been developed in
      collaboration with the existing VA CIC and VA-CRAFT programs and involves the leadership of
      these programs to facilitate the blended intervention's rapid dissemination should the trial
      prove successful.
    
  