
    
      Primary hypothesis:

      His-bundle pacing will lead to a better stroke volume at rest compared to biventricular
      pacing.

      Primary outcome measure:

      Stroke-volume (ml) at rest assessed by invasive hemodynamic measurements with the
      thermodilution method using a Swan-Ganz catheter.

      Recruitment:

      Patients will be recruited from the dedicated CRT outpatient clinic at Skane University
      Hospital. This outpatient clinic evaluates all CRT recipients at 6 months after device
      implant. If the patient is then a "non-responder" by subjective and objective measures, it is
      unlikely that there will be any further benefit from the CRT device. Those patients
      fulfilling the inclusion criteria but not the exclusion criteria will therefore be invited to
      participate in the study. Written information will be provided to all patients prior to
      informed consent is signed.

      Procedure:

      All patients will undergo a temporary His-bundle stimulation and hemodynamic evaluation. The
      procedure takes place at the dedicated laboratory for advanced hemodynamic evaluation at
      Skåne University Hospital in Lund. The first option for vascular access is the right external
      jugular vein. Under sterile conditions, ultrasound guided venous puncture will be performed,
      using standard Seldinger technique. A 7F catheter (Medtronic C315) will then be placed over a
      long guidewire, and used to direct a dedicated pacemaker lead (Medtronic Select Secure 3830)
      to the His bundle. In case of technical difficulties, a steerable 9F catheter will be used
      instead (Medtronic C304 deflectable). If HBP is not possible using jugular access, an
      alternate access via the right femoral vein may be used instead. If the femoral vein is used,
      only resting measurements will be performed, since it is not possible to thread on the supine
      bike with a catheter in situ via the femoral vein. In parallel, in a short 8F introducer, a
      7F multilumen Swan Ganz catheter will be placed over a long guidewire, and advanced to the
      left or right pulmonary artery. The catheter will then be wedged in a pulmonary segmental
      artery to obtain left atrial pressure curves.

      The pacing lead will be connected to an electrophysiology 12-lead ECG system with capability
      of pacing and continuous ECG registration of external and intracardiac signals. His bundle
      potential will be identified probing the correct anatomical area with the electrode, and
      subsequently the pacing properties of the electrode will be tested. If the pacing properties
      result in selective (or subsidiary non-selective) his bundle capture, the electrode will be
      secured in place by 2-3 careful rotations of the entire electrode. The goal is to achieve a
      stable position with minimal risk of damaging the conduction system by trauma. Since the
      patients are paced using the CRT device anyway, trauma to the conduction system will not be
      deleterious, but it may hamper the ability to place a permanent HBP lead at a later stage, if
      that is indicated. When stable pacing conditions are in place, the stimulation program will
      be initiated. Depending on randomization results, the intrinsic CRT system or the temporary
      His-lead will be used for pacing. Pacing and sensing in the right atrium will be achieved
      using atrial electrodes on the outside of the Swan Ganz catheter.

      The patients are randomized to wither Biventricular pacing first or HBP first. The pacing
      program involves both pacing at rest and pacing during sub maximal exercise test (supine
      bicycle test). Each pacing step is sustained at steady state for at least 2 minutes prior to
      measurement of intracardiac pressures, cardiac output and stroke volume calculations. After
      the pacing protocol is finished, the catheters are withdrawn and the site of venopuncture is
      manually compressed during 5 minutes. The patients are then observed during 2 hours, before
      discharge and completion of the study.

      A hemodynamic optimization will be performed regarding device settings for all patients.
      Patients who have a positive hemodynamic response to HBP, compared to CRT pacing, will at a
      follow-up stage be offered an upgrade to permanent HBP.
    
  