
    
      First residents will be asked to participate. After giving consent, they will complete a
      pre-study questionnaire regarding their education and experience with end of life and
      breaking bad news conversations: They will be queried on basic demographic information: Age,
      Sex, Year of Residency, Intended specialty, prior education on end of life and breaking bad
      news: (0 hrs, 1-3 hours, 4-10 hours, 10-40 hrs, > 40 hrs), prior palliative or hospice
      rotation, have you had interaction with palliative care providers during training, have you
      experienced the death of a close family member or friend?, have you experienced a personally
      life threatening diagnosis?. We also will query the number of times residents have
      participated in code discussions, breaking bad news, discussion about prognosis, discussion
      about care at the end of life and discussion about hospice. They will also rate their own
      ability and comfort with the following topics : self-assessed preparation and attitudes about
      end-of life communication. First will be asked to review "Discussing Resuscitation
      Preferences with Patients: Challenges and Rewards" There will be a didactic session during
      which we will review the article and discuss strategies for breaking bad news to family
      members. A faculty member from General OB/GYN, MFM and Gynecologic Oncology will each give a
      brief 10 min lecture on how they have difficulty conversations with patients and family
      members in their specific field (post-operative complications , pre-viable delivery, and
      hospice/end of life/withdrawal of car). The lecture will be taped for those unable to attend.
      Two sessions will be held during didactics via Zoom in two different months to encompass
      those on night shifts and vacations. Residents will be split into groups of 3 with a faculty
      member in each group. They will role-play three scenarios one specific to each of the
      subspecialties- 1) Pre-viable delivery, 2) Discussion of withdrawal of care for a patient
      with advanced gynecologic malignancy who can no longer make their own medical decisions, and
      3) Telling a family member about a surgical complication requiring an emergent return to the
      operating room. One resident will play the part of the family member receiving the phone
      call. To better mimic phone conversation, video will be turned off during this portion. The
      faculty member will score the interaction based on the following criteria and also give
      specific feedback regarding what went well and what should be improved. After receiving
      feedback from the role playing session, residents will then sign up for a recorded session
      with an actor playing a family member. They will be randomly assigned to one of the three
      topics and will then be assessed by a faculty member with the same criteria. After each of
      the three sections of teaching, residents will be asked to rate on a 1 to 5 scale their
      experience with the content and if it improved their ability to have end of life
      conversations. 3 months following the intervention, residents will be queried with the same
      questions asked previously to assess changes in their comfort with these conversations
    
  