
    
      In the United States, H1N1 influenza has been widespread, resulting in many infections,
      hospitalizations, and deaths. Due to impaired respiratory function following injury, persons
      with spinal cord injuries and disorders (SCI/D) are at extremely high risk from respiratory
      complications that occur as a result of contracting influenza.

      The overall goal is to understand approaches used to prevent/reduce influenza transmission in
      the SCI/D System of Care in response to the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, in addition to seasonal
      influenza. Due to the rapid spread of and uncertainties about the H1N1 virus, one objective
      is to evaluate patient's beliefs, behaviors, and information seeking strategies (e.g., social
      media). The other objective is to assess infection control strategies used by SCI staff (and
      perceptions of) and guidance provided by local infection control units.

      Multiple data collection efforts will be used to evaluate strategies used and their impact to
      address influenza (H1N1 and seasonal) in the VHA SCI/D population. At the facility level, the
      guidance provided by local infection control units in general and specific to SCI/D will be
      assessed via a semi-structured interview with infection control Chiefs/liaisons. An anonymous
      survey will be conducted to assess SCI health care providers' beliefs about and use of
      infection control strategies (vaccination and non-vaccine methods such as personal protective
      equipment, hand hygiene practices, appropriate work attendance practices) in addition to
      their perceptions of strength of evidence for H1N1 prevention measures, resource
      availability, and outreach by local infection control to facilitate infection prevention
      strategies. In addition, Veterans with SCI/D will be surveyed about their beliefs and
      information seeking strategies (e.g., social media) about seasonal and H1N1 influenza during
      the most recent influenza season, in addition to occurrence of influenza/ILI, receipt of
      influenza vaccination (H1N1 and/or seasonal) during the current influenza vaccination period,
      and perceived adverse effects from vaccination. Finally, the use of antiviral medications to
      treat influenza in Veterans with SCI/D, a two-group retrospective pre-posttest review of all
      visits and admissions associated with influenza (or related) diagnosis and/or antiviral
      prescription will be conducted. Charts for Veterans with SCI/D and Veterans who do not have
      SCI/D will be reviewed and compared for differences in practices in the SCI/D population
      versus the general veteran population.

      This study will provide critical information that can be used to improve compliance with and
      understanding of influenza vaccination and infection control strategies at the patient,
      provider, and facility levels. These findings will lend to the understanding of ways to
      handle emergent issues, such as the H1N1 pandemic, in special populations.
    
  