
    
      Management of sepsis bases on three components: infection control, haemodynamic stabilization
      and modulation of the septic response. Many clinical trials conducted agents to block the
      inflammatory cascade, such as corticosteroids, anti-endotoxins antibodies, tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF) antagonists, interleukin-1-receptor antagonists, and so on, but none has proven
      effective to date. A safe, effective, ready available therapy is desperately required.
      Thiamine is a key co-factor for pyruvate dehydrogenase, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase,
      and transketolase. All the three enzymes are required to complete Krebs Cycle to prevent from
      lactate production. Previous studies have found thiamine deficiency to be prevalent in septic
      shock and other critically ill conditions. One pilot study also proved patients with septic
      shock and baseline thiamine deficiency would have significant lower lactate level at 24 hours
      after administration of thiamine. HYPRESS (hydrocortisone for Prevention of Septic Shock)
      study failed to demonstrate an outcome benefit from a hydrocortisone infusion in patients
      with sepsis. Vitamin C is a potent antioxidant that directly scavenges oxygen free radicals,
      can restores other cellular antioxidants and plays a role in preserving endothelial function
      and microcirculatory flow as well. Though previous studies suggested that hydrocortisone and
      vitamin C alone have little impact on the clinical outcome of patients with sepsis. Vitamin C
      and hydrocortisone have many overlapping and synergic pathophysiologic effects in sepsis.
      Both drugs are required for the synthesis of catechlamines and increase vasopressor
      sensitivity. Both drugs can down-regulating the production of proinflammatory mediators,
      increase tight junctions between endothelial and epithelial cells, preserve endothelial
      function and microcirculatory flow. Marik et al published their study in CHEST (June 2017)
      resulting the benefits of combination of Vitamin B1, Vitamin C and hydrocortisone to severe
      sepsis and septic shock. However, small sample size and some bias due to imbalanced baseline
      and study method could confound the results. Herein, we would like to lead a randomized
      controlled trial to test the synergic modulation effect of vitamin C, thiamine and
      hydrocortisone in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock.
    
  