
    
      Introduction Incisional hernia is the most common long-term complication following abdominal
      surgery with an estimated incidence of 10.3% within 24 months. Large incisional hernias are
      associated with patient discomfort, reduced quality of life and are surgically challenging
      with increased risks of postoperative complications. Constant contraction of the lateral
      abdominal wall muscles may cause displacement of a greater proportion of the abdominal
      contents through the hernia defect, thereby reducing volume in the abdominal cavity (loss of
      domain).

      Abdominal wall reconstruction in patients with loss of domain may lead to increased abdominal
      pressure with pressures persistently being measured above 12 mm Hg. Abdominal hypertension
      results in direct compression on intraabdominal vessels, which can result in oedema, reduced
      cardiac output and hypoxia due to hypoperfusion and reduced venous return. If intraabdominal
      pressures exceeds 20 mm Hg abdominal compartment syndrome occurs, leading to multiorgan
      failure.

      Intraabdominal hypertension is additionally a known risk factor in development of acute
      kidney injury (AKI). A pooled incidence of AKI is estimated to 13.4% after major abdominal
      surgery. Development of AKI is independently recognized to be associated to increased
      mortality, length of stay and costs in hospitalized patients. Patients with AKI are at
      increased risk of developing acute coronary syndrome, heart failure and infection.
      Additionally, patients developing AKI after general surgery are estimated to have an
      eight-fold increased risk of 30-day mortality. Thus, treatment of AKI is vital, complex and
      time-consuming.

      Intraabdominal pressures above 16 mm Hg lead to pulmonary parenchymal compression, resulting
      in alveolar atelectasis, pulmonary infection, decreased oxygen transport across the pulmonary
      capillary and decreased carbon dioxide excretion. Furthermore, elevated intraabdominal
      pressure to the diaphragmatic pleura may hamper diaphragmatic movement, resulting in
      restricted respiratory compliance with reduced forced vital capacity (FVC) but retained ratio
      of the forced expiratory volume within 1 second above FVC (FEV1/FVC). This condition is
      comparable with restrictive lung disorders.

      It is possible to limit postoperative acute kidney injury and respiratory complications
      following intermittent intraabdominal hypertension using decompressive treatment and fluid
      therapy. Elevated intraabdominal pressure may ideally be limited with additional surgical
      procedures. However, there are few reports the relationship between abdominal wall
      reconstruction, intraabdominal hypertension, renal- and pulmonary function. In addition,
      predictive factors regarding patient characteristics, hernia dimensions and surgical
      procedures are still unclear. In the preoperative evaluation prior to abdominal wall
      reconstruction, it is important to know risks and consequences of elevated abdominal
      pressure. Furthermore, it is important to identify patients needing close monitoring,
      additional decompressing management or prophylactic surgical procedures in order to decrease
      costs, morbidity and mortality.

      In three reports, this study evaluates intraabdominal pressure after abdominal reconstruction
      and its relationship to renal- and pulmonary function.

      Materials and methods This is a prospective observational single-center cohort study
      scheduled to start in April 2020. In total, 100 patients diagnosed with medium to giant
      incisional hernia will be included at the surgical out-patient clinic after written and oral
      informed consent behind closed doors at Bispebjerg Hospital. Study follow-up is 30 days after
      surgery. Participants will stay admitted at the surgical department at least 3 days after
      surgery and subsequently discharged after sufficient postoperative recovery. All participants
      are invited at the out-patient clinic at postoperative day (POD) 30 for a final evaluation
      and data collection.

      Upon inclusion, following patient characteristics are collected for all participants through
      a case report form:

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Smoking status

        -  Height

        -  Weight

        -  ASA score

        -  Charlson comorbidity index

        -  Hernia age

        -  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease

        -  Chronic kidney disease

        -  Planned procedure for abdominal reconstruction

        -  Number of previous abdominal operations

        -  Use of abdominal binder

      All participants will undergo preoperative CT scans of abdomen and thorax with maximized
      inspiration as a part of the standardized hernia protocol with collection of following data:

        -  Calculated lung area in frontal plane

        -  Site of incisional hernia

        -  Maximal horizontal fascial defect

        -  Maximal vertical fascial defect

        -  Hernia volume

        -  Abdominal volume An additional postoperative CT scan of abdomen and thorax with
           maximized inspiration are performed at POD 30 to estimate changes in abdominal volume
           and lung area.

      Additionally, preoperative venous blood samples are collected and analysed for:

        -  Leucocytes

        -  C-reactive protein

        -  Creatinine

        -  Urea

        -  Potassium

        -  Sodium

        -  Estimated glomerular filtration rate

      On POD 1, 2, 3 and 30 venous blood samples are collected and monitored for above mentioned
      parameters.

      In all participants, a standardized bladder catheter will be placed prior surgery and
      maintained until POD 3. Intraabdominal pressure is indirectly measured through the bladder
      pressure by use of the UnoMeter™ Abdo-Pressure™ IAP monitoring system (ConvaTec Denmark A/S).
      This is a precise, reproducible and validated method of monitoring the intraabdominal
      pressure. In accordance with recommendations from previous studies, a zero reference point is
      marked on the patient in the midaxillary line at the iliac crest. At each measurement the
      patient is placed in neutral position. No restrictions will be set on the surgical procedure
      or postoperative treatment. The use of component separation technique or botulinum toxin A
      injections will be noted. The intraabdominal pressure is measured prior surgery, after
      extubation, on POD 1, 2 and 3. Urine output and fluid balance are monitored at POD 1, 2 and
      3.

      Pulmonary function test is performed using Spirobank II Basic Spirometer. FVC and FEV1 is
      measured upon inclusion, on POD 1, 2, 3 and 30. Severity of pulmonary restriction is graded
      according to guidelines set by The American Thoracic Society. During general anaesthesia,
      changes in the inspiratory bronchial peak pressure (IBPP) will be monitored before and after
      primary fascial closure with Primus® anaesthesia workstation (Dräger Denmark A/S).

      AKI is defined by guidelines set by the KDIGO AKI Guideline Work Group, including any of two
      following:

        -  increase in S-creatinine by ≥0.30 mg/dl (≥26.5 μmol/l) within 48 hours, or

        -  increase in S-creatinine to ≥1.5 times baseline, known or assumed to have occurred
           within 7 days

        -  decrease in urine output <0.5 ml/kg//hour for 6 hours.

      Furthermore, AKI severity is staged according to following criteria:

        1. S-creatinine 1.5 to 1.9 times baseline or ≥0.3 mg/dl (≥26.5 μmol/l) increase or urine
           output <0.5 ml/kg//hour for 6 hours to 12 hours.

        2. S-creatinine 2.0 to 2.9 times baseline or urine output <0.5 ml/kg//hour for ≥12 hours.

      3 S-creatinine 3.0 times baseline or increase to ≥4.0 mg/dl (≥353.6 μmol/l) or urine output
      <0.3 ml/kg//hour for ≥24 hours or anuria for ≥12 hours.

      An epidural catheter will be placed preoperatively and maintained until POD 3. In case of
      inability to place an epidural catheter, bilateral transversus block will be applied.
      Anaesthesia will be induced using propofol, remifentanil and suxamethonium. Due to the
      short-lived action of suxamethonium, residual relaxation when surgery starts is absent. This
      will be verified using the Train-Of-Four standard muscle stimulation-relaxation evaluation.

      At follow-up, following data is registered for each participant:

        -  Length of hospital stay

        -  Postoperative complications according to the Clavien-Dindo classification

        -  Need for intubation or treatment at the intensive care unit

        -  Occurrence of death within 30 days

      Statistical considerations A pilot study of 30 patients underwent abdominal reconstruction
      for incisional hernia with pre- and postoperative measurement of intraabdominal pressure. In
      this study, abdominal hypertension of grade 1 or higher was found in 70% of the patients. A
      statistical power calculation shows that at least 88 patients must be included at an expected
      incidence of 70%, confidence interval of 95%, spread of +/- 10% at a selected type 1 error
      level of 5%. It is known that the incidence of lung complications after surgery for
      incisional hernia is 20% and that the incidence of AKI is 1,4%. Based on the above, it is
      expected that inclusion of 100 patients will be able to show clinically significant causal
      relationships between intraabdominal hypertension, AKI, and pulmonary complications. This is
      done by univariate Chi-Square test and multivariable logistic regression analysis, adjusted
      for the relevant confounders. In addition, associations between changes in creatinine and
      urea will be correlated to intraabdominal pressure by linear regression analysis, as will the
      results of lung function tests and volume determinations by CT scan to examine correlation to
      changes in intraabdominal pressure.

      Side effects, risks and disadvantages Placement of a bladder catheter for measurement of
      intraabdominal pressure is a part of the standardized hernia protocol. The bladder catheter
      is usually removed on POD 1, but will instead be maintained until POD 3. This is considered
      to be associated with a small risk of catheter-associated urinary tract infection, which will
      be treated according to national guidelines. Measurement of intraabdominal pressure is safe
      and not associated with any additional risk. On POD 1-3, venous blood samples will be drawn
      from each participant. This is associated with little to no pain and a considerable small
      risk of a small haematoma. Study participants undergo one additional CT scans within the
      study period. The participants are thus subjected to extra ionizing radiation. The effective
      participant dose is approximately 2.6 mSv per scan. By this, participants are subjected to
      radiation at a level which is estimated to increase the life-time risk of radiation-induced
      cancer by less than 0.01%. This is not considered clinically relevant. There are no other
      side effects, risks and disadvantages associated with participation in the study.

      Respect for physical and mental integrity as well privacy This is a public research study
      which is reported through the regional joint notification to the Danish Data Protection
      agency. Information about participants is protected via the law on handling of personal
      information and the Danish health Act. Information about previous surgery, concurrent
      diseases and contact information is passed from the participants' medical charts. This
      information will be used to identify possible study participants. After study completion, no
      more information is gathered from the patient's medical chart. In case of need for further
      information, Sinor Soltanizadeh can contact the participant after the study is finalized.
      This study has been reported to the Danish National Data Protection Agency.

      Economy Study initiator and primary investigator Sinor Soltanizadeh does not receive any
      other financial support than the salary paid by departments of which he is working full-time.
      The study is not company sponsored. Sinor Soltanizadeh is not associated with private sources
      of funding with interests in the study. No financial support is expected for this study, as
      the study will be departmentally funded. If support is given, the Ethical Committee of the
      Capital Region (RegionH) will be notified and study material including patient information
      will be updated.

      Remuneration and other services Remuneration and other services are not paid to study
      participants.

      Information accessibility Further information about the study is available to participants by
      direct inquiry to Sinor Soltanizadeh by telephone or e-mail.

      Publication of results Results - positive, negative or inconclusive - will be published in
      relevant scientific peer-review journals, as well as presented to relevant scientific
      conferences. In case publication in a journal is not achieved, results will be publicly
      available via http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/.

      Research ethics outline The overall aim of this study is to estimate the incidence of AKI and
      pulmonary impairment, and investigate consequences thereof in patients undergoing abdominal
      reconstruction. Additionally, to determine prognostic factors of developing AKI and pulmonary
      impairment. The participants will contribute to understanding the development AKI and
      pulmonary impairment. It is clinically relevant to minimize the risk of AKI, and knowledge
      gained from present study will help to understand preventive measures in certain patients.
      Participants are expected to gain from this study by a more thorough monitoring of their
      renal function and pulmonary function and gain access to earlier necessary treatment.

      Participation in this study is considered to be associated to minimal risks and side effects.
      The autonomy as well as the integrity of the participant is not compromised in any way by
      participating in the study.

      In conclusion, this study is considered to be in concordance with ethical standards, as the
      possible gain from participation exceeds the risks associated.

      Recruitment of participants Patients are recruited at the out-patient clinic of Bispebjerg
      Hospital at the time of first contact. In case a patient fulfils in- and exclusion criteria,
      they are informed about the study and given oral and written participant information.
      Patients will be informed of their right to have an assessor present at the time of
      information. The information will be given in a private room where the door is closed in
      order to avoid disturbance. Patients are offered one week of consideration time before
      deciding whether or not to participate in the study, and will be offered a new interview for
      after the consideration time. In case patients themselves declare they need no time to
      reflect, oral and written consent can be given immediately after the first information is
      given.
    
  