
    
      Primary Objective(s):

      Establish the performance characteristics of the miR Sentinel™ BCa Test as an aid in
      diagnosing bladder cancer in men and women presenting with hematuria.

      Secondary Objective(s) Establish the performance characteristics of the miR Sentinel™ BCR
      Test in identifying bladder cancer patients with recurrent disease.

      Study Design:

      Participants who present with evidence of hematuria (micro- or macro-hematuria) and are
      scheduled to have cystoscopy will be enrolled. All participants will provide a urine sample
      for the miR Sentinel™ BCa Test prior to cystoscopy for bladder cancer. The presence or
      absence of cancer will be determined by cystoscopy. Diagnosis of bladder cancer will be
      confirmed by histopathology. The performance of the miR Sentinel™ BCa Test for classifying
      future patients as either bladder cancer or no bladder cancer will be established. The
      sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value determined for the miR
      Sentinel™ BCa Test and will be compared to cystoscopy.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Definitions. The general notation P(A | B) means the probability (prevalence) of the event A
      among the subgroup of patients in a population all of whom have the event B.

        1. Sensitivity = P(screening test + | disease).

        2. Specificity = P(screening test - | no disease).

        3. PPV = P(disease | screening test + ).

        4. NPV = P(no disease | screening test -).

      Estimate of Sample Size. This study is targeted to enroll 3000 participants, 1500 males and
      1500 females, who present with hematuria. Approximately 15% of participants with hematuria
      have bladder cancer; men have a higher incidence of bladder cancer than women. Therefore, the
      investigators anticipate that 225 males (15% of all males enrolled) and 175 females
      (approximately 12% of all women enrolled) will have bladder cancer confirmed by
      histopathology.

      Overview. As outlined below, this clinical study will enroll male and female participants
      that have been identified as having (micro- or macro-) hematuria and are therefore at risk
      for bladder cancer and meet clear eligibility criteria. The study will evaluate the miR
      Sentinel™ BCa Test for classification of participants as cancer or no cancer, to be used as
      an aid in diagnosing bladder cancer. For participants diagnosed with bladder cancer who
      undergo TURBT will be eligible to continue in the study of miR Sentinel™ BCR Test to monitor
      for recurrent disease in conjunction with the cystoscopy associated with the standard of care
      recommended by the AUA.

      The miR Sentinel™ BCa Test functions by controlling sensitivity at or above a pre-specified
      level, denoted 1-α; where α is the false-negative rate of the test (a patient who truly has
      bladder cancer has a negative test result), For example, the value that has been assumed in
      this design is α≤0.05 so that sensitivity is at least 95%. To describe how the cutoff for the
      miR Sentinel™ BCa Test is calculated to control sensitivity, for each participant determined
      to have bladder cancer by histopathology, the miR Sentinel™ BCa Score will be calculated
      using an approach that blinds each participant's true cancer status, mimicking the setting
      for classification of a future patient. The cutoff value for the Sentinel™ Score is then
      chosen so that the empirical sensitivity, calculated over all patients in the training
      dataset, yields a 95% upper confidence interval with lower limit 1-α.

      To provide some detail on the calculation of the error rates of the test, the method to be
      used for estimation is cross-validation. Cross-validation produces unbiased estimators of
      error rates for classification of a future patient, with unknown true disease status, as the
      number of patients in the training dataset grows large. If there are 3000 participants with
      hematuria divided equally from male and female population in the study and 225 males and 175
      females with bladder cancer, then, for males, the upper 95% confidence interval based on an
      observed empirical sensitivity of 97% (218/225) will have a lower bound of 0.95, and for
      females, the upper 95% confidence interval based on an observed empirical sensitivity of 98%
      (171/175) will have a lower bound of 0.95.

      Validation of the miR Sentinel™ BCR for identifying patients with recurrent disease uses
      essentially the same statistical methodology. However, the classification is based on the
      comparison of the miR Sentinel™ BCR signature for patients with stable (non-recurrent
      disease) and patients with evidence of progressive (recurrent) disease. The longitudinal
      monitoring of participants diagnosed with bladder cancer by cystoscopy may provide additional
      information related to anticipatory changes in the Sentinel™ signature indicative of
      recurrence.
    
  