
    
      Study Design

      The investigators will use a type 2 hybrid effectiveness-implementation study design. CTM
      participants who choose to enrol in CTM-NS will be randomly assigned to one of two CTM-NS
      booster intervention arms: high dose (monthly meetings) or low dose (quarterly meetings).

      Participants and Recruitment

      There are 4 participant groups in this study:

        1. Provincial partners. These are individuals who make strategic and policy decisions for
           their organization. Provincial partners will be invited to participate in the study
           through written invitation and consent form delivered via email from a member of the
           research team. These individuals will be asked to respond to the invite and confirm or
           decline participation.

        2. Provincial coordinators. These individuals coordinate and oversee delivery of programs
           within delivery partner organizations. Provincial coordinators will be invited to
           participate in the study through written invitation and consent form delivered via email
           from a member of the research team. They will be asked to respond to the invite and
           confirm or decline participation.

        3. Activity Coaches. Activity Coaches are hired and contracted by delivery partners to
           deliver CTM-NS. They will be informed of the evaluation and invited to participate
           during hiring and training.

        4. Older adults. CTM evaluation participants who have recently completed CTM will be
           invited to participate in CTM-NS.

      Intervention and Randomization

      Participants will be randomized (along with any other participants from the same CTM group)
      by a member of the research team to one of two CTM-NS study arms. The sustainability portion
      of the intervention will be 24 months and consist of monthly (study arm 1; high dose) or
      quarterly (study arm 2; low dose) group meetings delivered remotely via the Zoom or
      GoToMeeting platform (password protected; access through phone or internet). Group meetings
      (1-hr each) of 6-11 older adults will be facilitated by a trained Activity Coach. Older
      adults will have the option to sign up for a bi-weekly CTM electronic newsletter containing
      health information and ideas and resources for older adults to be physically active and
      socially connected at home (and elsewhere as local restrictions permit). Within each group,
      Activity Coaches will also facilitate social connections between participants to encourage
      contact (by phone or online) outside of group sessions (for interested participants only).
      Groups will be combined as needed to achieve and maintain targeted group sizes. The CTM-NS
      intervention is only open to older adults who participated in the CTM evaluation.

      Timeline

      CTM will be delivered in 2 cycles:

        1. CTM Fall 2020 cycle with program start dates approximately Sept-Oct 2020;

        2. CTM Winter 2021 cycle with program start dates approximately Jan-Feb 2021.

      Corresponding CTM-NS program start dates are approximately Jan-Feb 2021 (for Fall 2020 CTM
      programs) and April-May 2021 (for Winter 2021 CTM programs).

      CTM-NS Evaluation

      The investigators will use a type 2 hybrid effectiveness-implementation study design and
      mixed (qualitative and quantitative) methods to address the research objectives.

      Participant groups will be evaluated as follows:

        1. Provincial partners will be interviewed at 12 and 24 months after the start of the first
           CTM-NS program. In this group the investigators assess: adaptation; innovation
           characteristics; community context (facilitators and barriers to implementation;
           sustainability of delivery).

        2. Provincial coordinators will be interviewed at 12 and 24 months after the start of the
           first CTM-NS program. In this group the investigators assess: reach; adaptation;
           community context (facilitators and barriers to implementation, sustainability of
           delivery); innovation characteristics; prevention support system; economic evaluation
           (costs associated with delivering CTM-NS).

        3. Activity Coaches will provide survey data at 3, 12, and 24 months of each CTM-NS program
           they deliver. A subset of Activity Coaches (n=20) will be interviewed at 3, 12, and 24
           months. In this group the investigators assess: dose delivered; quality; participant
           responsiveness; adaptation; provider characteristics; innovation characteristics;
           community context (facilitators and barriers to implementation); prevention support
           system.

        4. Older adults will provide survey data at 0, 3, 12, and 24 months of their CTM-NS
           program. A subset of older adults (n=20) will be interviewed at 3, 12, and 24 months. In
           this group the investigators assess: reach (participant characteristics); dose received;
           participant responsiveness (satisfaction, engagement, enjoyment); quality; impact of
           CTM-NS on participant-level outcomes; how contextual factors influence program
           engagement and participant-level outcomes. Thus, participants will provide data at 4
           time points in total: 0 (baseline for CTM-NS), 3, 12 and 24 months. Participants'
           baseline data from the main CTM study will be used in combination with these data to
           assess sustainability of outcomes (post-CTM is equivalent to baseline CTM-NS).
    
  