
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia encountered in clinical practice; its
      incidence and prevalence increase exponentially with increasing age and it is associated with
      increased mortality, more frequent hospitalization, and decreased quality of life.

      An initial approach to the cure of patients suffering from AF was surgical intervention with
      the Maze procedure, which involved the creation of linear lesions in the atria to break the
      re-entrant wavefronts responsible for maintenance of AF. Subsequently, less invasive
      procedures have been developed to achieve the same results. One of them is catheter based
      radio frequency ablation, in which a catheter is placed in the heart percutaneously, followed
      by application of electrical energy to the target regions, thereby creating a permanent
      lesion.

      The origin of AF is often localized in the pulmonary veins (PVs); therefore one common
      approach is to ablate them in order to electrically isolate them from the left atrium (LA).
      Several strategies have been developed, such as linear, segmental, circumferential, and
      double-lasso.

      Additionally, other anatomical regions such as the right atrium (RA), superior vena cava
      (SVC), and coronary sinus (CS) can be ablated in order to eliminate non-PV drivers of AF.

      Heart failure (HF) is frequently a chronic and lethal condition, causing substantial
      morbidity and, after initial diagnosis, results in mortality rates which come close to or
      exceed those of many malignancies.

      Both AF and HF have a significant impact on the health care expenditures. The two diseases
      often coexist, there is a complex interaction between them: many of the processes that
      predispose to HF, such as hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease, and valvular heart
      disease, are also risk factors for the development of AF. Similarly, many of the
      echocardiographic findings that are common in patients with HF, including LA enlargement,
      increased left ventricular (LV) wall thickness, and reduced LV fractional shortening,
      predispose patients in the development of AF.

      In small groups of patients suffering from HF and AF, radio frequency ablation has been
      performed; the restoration of sinus rhythm resulted in the improvement of quality of life,
      exercise performance, and cardiac parameters like ejection fraction and fractional
      shortening. It is still unknown if such therapy is also effective in reducing mortality and
      morbidity.

      CASTLE-AF is a prospective, unblinded, randomized, multicenter study whose aim is to compare
      the effect of radio frequency catheter-based ablation on mortality and morbidity with that of
      conventional treatment in HF subjects with AF. About 420 patients with LV dysfunction
      (ejection fraction ≤ 35%) and New York Heart Association (NYHA) class ≥ II, already implanted
      with a dual chamber implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) with Home Monitoring®
      capabilities, will be enrolled and randomized 1:1 to undergo either AF ablation or standard
      treatment as indicated in the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association
      (AHA)/European Society of Cardiology (ESC) 2006 guidelines for the management of patients
      with AF. In addition to planned and unplanned visits, the ablated patients will be constantly
      monitored remotely via Home Monitoring®, in order to detect any recurrences of AF episodes,
      even if non-symptomatic or short in duration, during an observational period of minimum 3
      years for each patient.
    
  