
    
      Influenza infection in solid organ transplant recipients is associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality compared to non-transplanted controls, due in part to the effects of
      immunosuppression which is necessary to prevent rejection of the transplanted organ. Annual
      influenza vaccination is the best way to prevent influenza infection and current CDC, AST
      Infectious Diseases Community of Practice and American Society for Blood and Marrow
      Transplantation guidelines recommend annual influenza vaccination to all transplant
      recipients. However, transplant patients are less likely to produce antibodies when
      vaccinated and when they do, the peak and duration of antibody responses are reduced compared
      to healthy controls. There are considerable differences in the magnitude of these responses,
      reflecting variability in individual responses to the influenza vaccine and to the
      immunosuppression regimen.

      Over the past several years, the investigators have conducted a Phase 2 clinical trial of
      combined kidney and stem cell transplantation that has been successful in achieving
      transplantation tolerance in a significant number of recipients. A central tenant for
      transplantation tolerance is a selective loss of immune reactivity to the allograft while
      preserving immune responses to all other antigens. The investigators hypothesize that
      chimeric kidney transplant recipients off of immunosuppression will have post vaccine immune
      responses that are comparable to age and gender matched healthy controls. The proposed
      studies aim to assess the immune competence in these fully chimeric tolerant recipients, by
      quantifying their T and B cell responses to the 2015-2016 inactivated influenza vaccine,
      quadrivalent (IIV4), standard dose and by testing whether the responding T and B cells arise
      from memory cells of recipient origin.

      These studies will allow the investigators to quantify the influenza -specific cellular,
      humoral, and molecular responses to IIV4 in tolerant vs. matched controls. On days 0 and 30
      days post -IIV4, the flu-specific B cell and neutralizing antibody responses, and the
      flu-specific IFN-gamma T cell response will be quantified. Additionally, the investigators
      will perform genome-wide gene expression profiling on isolated PBMC on days 0 and 30
      post-IIV4 to characterize the blood response at the transcriptome level.
    
  