
    
      Introduction Background information

      Below, you will find an overview the publications on DCE-CT, in the context of the evaluation
      of treatment effect in cancer patients:

      Strauch L et al (Diagnostics 2016: 21;6(3) - doi: 10.3390/diagnostics6030028) provide an
      overview of the literature available on DCE-CT as a tool to evaluate treatment response in
      patients with lung cancer. In studies where patients were treated with systemic chemotherapy
      with or without anti-angiogenic drugs, four out of the seven studies found a significant
      decrease in permeability after treatment. Four out of five studies that measured blood flow
      post anti-angiogenic treatments found that blood flow was significantly decreased. This
      review concluded that DCE-CT may be a useful tool in assessing treatment response in patients
      with lung cancer. It seemed that particularly permeability and blood flow are important
      perfusion values for predicting treatment outcome. However, the heterogeneity in scan
      protocols, scan parameters, and time between scans makes it difficult to compare the reviewed
      papers.

      The research group of van Elmpt W and Lambin P (Radiother Oncol 2017: 125(3):379-384)
      identified tumor subregions with characteristic phenotypes based on pre-treatment
      multi-parametric functional imaging and correlated these subregions to treatment outcome. The
      subregions were created using imaging of metabolic activity (FDG- Positron Emission
      Tomography (PET)/CT), hypoxia (HX4-PET/CT) and tumor vasculature (DCE-CT). Thirty-six
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients underwent functional imaging prior to radical
      radiotherapy. Kinetic analysis was performed on DCE-CT scans to acquire blood flow (BF) and
      volume (BV) maps. HX4-PET/CT and DCE-CT scans were non-rigidly co-registered to the planning
      FDG-PET/CT. Two clustering steps were performed on multi-parametric images: first to segment
      each tumor into homogeneous subregions (i.e. supervoxels) and second to group the supervoxels
      of all tumors into phenotypic clusters. Patients were split based on the absolute or relative
      volume of supervoxels in each cluster; overall survival was compared using a log-rank test.
      Unsupervised clustering of supervoxels yielded four independent clusters. One cluster (high
      hypoxia, high FDG, intermediate BF/BV) related to a high-risk tumor type: patients assigned
      to this cluster had significantly worse survival compared to patients not in this cluster (p
      = 0.035). It was concluded that subregional analysis for multi-parametric imaging in NSCLC
      has the potential as a biomarker for prognosis. This methodology allows for a comprehensive
      data-driven analysis of multi-parametric functional images.

      Qiao P et al (Clin Transl Oncol 2016: 18(1):47-57) have studied the feasibility and clinical
      value of DCE-CT for early evaluation of targeted therapy efficacy in non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC). They measured tumor diameter, peak height (PH), time to peak (TP), tumor
      mass-aortic peak height ratio (M/A), and blood perfusion (BP) in 20 patients with advanced
      NSCLC using DCE-CT before and 7 days after treatment. Therapy efficacy was assessed with
      conventional CT 4-6 weeks post-treatment. Patients were grouped into those with partial
      response (PR), stable disease (SD), and progressive disease (PD) according to the therapy
      efficacy assessment at 4-6 weeks post-treatment. The PR group primary tumor diameter (P =
      0.0007) and BP (P = 0.0225) were reduced at 7 days post-treatment; the SD group DCE-CT value
      changes were not significant. The PD group M/A (P = 0.0443) and BP (P = 0.0268) were
      increased 7 days post-treatment. The BP decrease group had significantly longer
      progression-free survival than the BP increase group (median, 54 vs. 6 weeks). This study
      concluded that DCE-CT can evaluate targeted therapy efficacy at 7 days post-treatment.
      Decreased primary tumor diameter and BP indicate tumor sensitivity to therapy; increased BP
      with unchanged tumor diameter suggests the tumor is not sensitive to therapy. Reduced BP
      suggests treatment effectiveness.

      Hwang et al (Eur Radiol 2013: 23(6):1573-81) compared tumor enhancement patterns measured
      using DCE-CT with tumor metabolism measured using PET-CT in patients with non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC) and stable disease after chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. After treatment,
      75 NSCLC tumors in 65 patients who had stable disease on DCE-CT according to Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST) were evaluated using PET-CT. On DCE-CT, relative
      enhancement ratios (RER) of tumor at 30, 60, 90, 120 s and 5 min after injection of contrast
      material were measured. Metabolic responses of tumors were classified into two groups
      according to the maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) by PET-CT: complete metabolic
      response (CR) with an SUVmax of less than 2.5, and non-complete metabolic response (NR) with
      an SUVmax of at least 2.5. Using the optimal RER₆₀ cutoff value of 43.7 % to predict NR of
      the tumor gave 95.7 % sensitivity, 64.2 % specificity, and 82.1 % positive and 95.0 %
      negative predictive values. After adjusting for tumor size, the odds ratio for NR in the
      tumor with an RER60 of at least 43.7 % was 70.85 (95 % CI = 7.95-630.91; P < 0.05). Even when
      disease was stable according to RECIST, DCE-CT predicted hypermetabolic status of residual
      tumor in patients with NSCLC after treatment.

      Rationale of the clinical investigation

      For the evaluation of response to anti-tumoral therapy in thoracic tumors, merely morphologic
      information is often not sufficient for early response evaluation as dimensions of the
      oncologic lesions are not changing during the first weeks of treatment. To be able to measure
      functional changes, dynamic contrast-enhanced CT (DCE-CT) seems promising as a biomarker for
      early therapy monitoring.

      Having an early biomarker for treatment monitoring will allow to increase patients' prognosis
      if a non-responder is earlier detected, will optimize the use of expensive treatments, is
      expected to shorten hospitalization and shorten absence at work, and to decrease side-effects
      of (adjuvant) medication.

      Objective of the study

      Primary objectives The primary objective is to investigate the potential of functional
      imaging (i.e. DCE-CT), as analyzed by the Hyperfusion analytic software, as an early
      biomarker for the evaluation of therapy response in primary thoracic malignancy.

      Secondary objectives

      There are two secondary objectives:

      To define internal system parameters and perfusion parameter thresholds that maximize the
      accuracy of the outcomes and to define the correct category (PD, SD, PR, CR); and To compare
      the predicted categorization to the assessed RECIST1.1 categorization.

      Endpoints Primary Endpoint The primary endpoint is to directly compare the biomarker of the
      HF analysis software at week 3 (+- 1 week) and week 8 (+- 3 weeks) with the eventually
      reported Progression-Free Survival (PFS) intervals and Overall Survival (OS) in this study.
      The prediction of the four classes (PD, SD, PR and CR) is based on "significant changes" (see
      7.2) in HF biomarker. PFS intervals are determined by the clinician and are based on
      RECIST1.1 and additional clinical and biochemical progression markers. The focus will be on
      evaluating the accuracy of the prediction as well as how early the prediction was correct.

      Secondary Endpoints There are two secondary endpoints corresponding to the two secondary
      objectives.

      The internal parameters for the HF biomarker, e.g. magnitude of the Ktrans decrease, and the
      change in volume of unhealthy tissue, need to be determined to define the classification (PD,
      SD, PR and CR) by the HF analysis software. These parameters are optimized to optimally
      predict the classification according to PFS and OS. This will be done by splitting the data
      into a train and test set to ensure generalization.

      The classification of the HF analysis software will be compared to the purely morphological
      classification by RECIST1.1 to identify correlation. Furthermore, some cases will be
      investigated where the HF analysis performs noticeably better or worse than RECIST1.1 in
      predicting PFS and OS. Finally, the difference in time to the first correct prediction is
      compared between HF and RECIST1.1.

      Study Design

      This prospective, monocentric (currently, however we do foresee to collaborate with other
      centres to include patients with colorectal liver metastases; also other types of solid
      tumors could be included; see ) study is part of the clinical β-phase. We aim to test
      pre-release versions of the Hyperfusion.ai software under real-world working conditions in a
      hospital (clinical) setting. It is important to note, though, that the results of the
      software analysis will not be used by interpreting physicians to alter clinical judgement
      during the course of the clinical trial.

      A prospective study including 100 inoperable patients in UZ Gent suffering from primary
      thoracic malignancy (≥15mm diameter) will be conducted. For this study, in total 3 CT scan
      examinations of the thorax will be performed (a venous CT examination of the thorax in
      combination with a DCE-CT scan of the tumoral region).

      All patients will be recruited from the pulmonology department. Oncologic patients are
      clinically referred with certain intervals for a clinically indicated CT scan (being part of
      standard care). In the study, two clinical CT examinations that are performed standard of
      care (baseline CT examination and CT examination at week 8 (+- 3 weeks) after start of
      systemic therapy) will be executed by also adding a DCE-image of the primary thoracic
      malignancy to this examination. This DCE-image is performed during the waiting time before
      the venous/morphologic phase. Consequently, from a clinical point-of-view, the time to scan
      remains exactly the same. With regard to the contrast agent, an identical amount is injected
      as is the case in standard of care, but the contrast bolus is split in two parts - see also
      addendum with DCE protocol.

      In this study there is one additional CT-examination (DCE-scan of the thoracic malignancy in
      combination with venous CT scan of the thorax) at week 3 (± 1 week).

      Population Number of subjects At least one hundred patients will be included in this study.
      Inclusion criteria Inoperable patients suffering from primary thoracic malignancy or second
      line patients having had a therapy pause of at least 6 weeks; at least one tumoral
      lesion/component should be at least 15mm in diameter.

      Exclusion criteria All patients less than 18-years-old. Documented allergy for iodine.
      Neutropenia (absolute White Blood Cell count ≤ 1.5 × 109/l). Thrombopenia (absolute platelet
      count ≤ 100 × 109/l). Renal insufficiency: serum creatinine ≥ 1.5× the upper limit of normal
      (ULN); 24-hours creatinine clearance ≤ 50ml/min).

      Serum bilirubine ≥ 1,5 x ULN, AST ≥ 2,5 x ULN, ALT ≥ 2,5x ULN. Brain metastases. Withdrawal
      and replacement of subjects

      Criteria for withdrawal

      Subjects may prematurely discontinue from the clinical investigation at any time. Premature
      discontinuation from the study is to be understood when the subject did not undergo end of
      study examination.

      Subjects can be withdrawn under the following circumstances:

      at their own request; if the investigator feels it would not be in the best interest of the
      subject to continue; if the subject violates conditions laid out in the informed consent form
      or disregards instructions by the clinical investigation personal; in case of significant
      study intervention non-compliance;

      In all cases, the reason why subjects are withdrawn will be recorded in detail in the CRF and
      in the subject's medical records.

      A subject will be considered lost to follow-up if he or she fails to return for the scheduled
      visits and is unable to be contacted by the study site staff. The following actions must be
      taken if a subject fails to return to the clinic for a required study visit:

      The site will attempt to contact the subject and reschedule the missed visit. Before a
      subject is deemed lost to follow-up, the investigator or designee will make every effort to
      regain contact with the subject (where possible, 3 telephone calls and, if necessary, a
      certified letter to the subject's last known mailing address or local equivalent methods).
      These contact attempts should be documented in the subject's medical record or study file.

      Should the subject continue to be unreachable, he or she will be considered to have withdrawn
      from the study with a primary reason of being lost to follow-up.

      Should the clinical investigation be discontinued prematurely, all clinical investigation
      materials will be retained and the sponsor will notify the relevant regulatory authorities
      and ethical committees.

      Replacement policy

      Drop-outs will be replaced.

      Restrictions and prohibitions for the subjects

      All patients must refrain from any food and drinks at least 4 hours before the CT-examination
      (standard of care).

      Possible advantages and risks for the subjects

      At this stage there are no advantages for the patients studied. As a result of this study, we
      anticipate that DCE-CT and the concurring Hyperfusion.ai analysis will function as an early
      biomarker for treatment monitoring, thereby optimizing tumor treatments. So, for future
      patients it is hoped that this study will prolong the PFS (progression-free survival).

      There are no other risks than those associated with an intravenous injection of iodine-based
      contrast-agent (fully comparable with standard of care IV injections of iodine). In this
      patient population, there is no risk associated with the increased x-ray dose applied.

      Methodology

      Medical device description

      Intended use and instructions for use Intended use

      Hyperfusion.ai's software as a medical device is intended to be used by physicians in order
      to perform a post-processing analysis of DCE-imaging, with the intention of accurately
      calculating perfusion parameters.

      Hyperfusion.ai's software is a radiological computer-assisted therapy monitoring software
      device intended to be used concurrently by interpreting physicians while analysing DCE-images
      that stem from medical imaging types and modalities, such as compatible computed tomography
      scanners (CT), magnetic resonance imaging scanners, and others. The system computes perfusion
      parameters within one scanning session and calculates the relative difference between
      different scanning sessions. These findings assist interpreting physicians in evaluating
      tumor response rate that may be confirmed or dismissed by the interpreting physician.

      Consequently, this software is perceived as Class IIb, according to (Rule 11) of the MDR
      2017/745, in the idea that Hyperfusion's software is 'intended to provide information which
      is used to take decisions with diagnosis or therapeutic purposes.'

      Delivery of the medical device The medical device software will not be accessible at the site
      during the course of the clinical trial. Hyperfusion's software analysis is cloud-based and
      can currently only be accessible by personnel of the manufacturer.

      During the course of the clinical trial, the site (Department of Radiology) will be asked to
      send the DICOM-data to Hyperfusion.ai via a highly-secure DNS-server that will be provided by
      Hyperfusion.ai.

      The processing result will be made available to the physician for download at an agreed cloud
      location.

      Storage of the medical device

      The output of Hyperfusion.ai software analysis, will be stored at the highly-secure cloud
      storage servers Hyperfusion uses.

      Packaging and labeling of the medical device

      The results will be provided to the physician in a digital form including the perfusion
      parameter maps and the generated PDF-report. There will be a supporting document
      (Instructions for use) to aid physicians in accurately interpreting the report. The following
      information will be mentioned as 'label' on the PDF report:

      The Medical Device Regulation 2017/745 requires for each investigational device to be
      specifically labelled. As this concerns a software analysis (without user interface) which
      generates a PDF-report for the user, the first page of this (unique) report contains the
      following information:

      Identification of the investigational device Hyperfusion.ai Kleemburg 1, 9050 Gentbrugge
      Belgium info@hyperfusion.ai

      The information in this report can only be used in the context of clinical investigation. If
      interpreting physicians intend to use this report to alter their clinical judgement,
      Hyperfusion.ai will not be held accountable.

      UDI: 'HF-61fcda38 Report identificator: 'HF-8901

      Known reactions/side effects of the medical device

      Since the medical device functions in the form of a pipeline of software-algorithms, no side
      effects can occur.

      Study Specific Procedures

      Screening visit This step is standard of care. At time of the first referral consultation
      within the framework of the patient's oncologic rehabilitation, the pneumonologist will
      determine whether the patient is eligible for systemic treatment, and fits the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.

      Informed consent will be explained to the patient at first by the study coordinator. If the
      patient is willing to participate more detailed information is communicated by the physician.
      Final informed consent is obtained by the physician and 3 CT examinations (baseline, week 3
      and week 8) will be planned.

      Baseline CT examination A baseline CT-examination is standard of care. Maximally 28 days
      before the start of systemic treatment the baseline CT examination is performed. This
      includes a standard of care CT in combination with a study specific DCE-CT scan. Detailed
      information on how to perform the study specific DCE-CT scan can be found in addendum with
      DCE-CT protocol. The patient receives an identical dose of intravenous iodine based contrast
      agent as in standard of care (venous phase) CT examination (contrast agent bolus is split in
      2 parts - see explanation earlier/above).

      Follow-up visit 1 The follow-up visit 1 is standard of care. 3 weeks (+/- 1 week) after the
      start of the systemic treatment, a study specific DCE-CT scan will be scheduled at this visit
      in combination with a venous phase CT. Detailed information on how to perform the study
      specific DCE scan can be found in addendum with DCE-CT protocol. The patient receives an
      identical amount of contrast agent during this CT examination when compared to standard of
      care (venous) CT.

      Follow-up visit 2 The follow-up visit 2 is standard of care. 8 weeks (+/- 3 weeks) after the
      start of the systemic treatment follow-up visit 2 is planned. This visit is identical as
      follow-up visit 1.

      Follow-up until PFS. After follow-up visit 2, no study specific assessments will be performed
      anymore. Data on the morphologically (standard of care) CT examinations based RECIST 1.1 will
      be collected until PFS (and potentially Overall Survival). All patients will be in follow-up
      at least until PFS (even after closing the clinical trial when the last patient has been
      included). A maximum term for follow-up is however set at 1 year after the initiation of
      therapy in all patients.

      All patients are followed-up in standard care until PFS. For this clinical trial we aim at
      following-up the patient until PFS but a maximum term for follow-up is set at 1 year after
      the initiation of therapy for the patient. Data on adverse events will not be collected
      anymore during follow-up until PFS. Only 'Death' will be reported to the sponsor.

      During the clinical trial, data on tumor-type, applied systemic treatment, medical history,
      gender and age will be collected.

      Flowchart

      Screening Baseline (T0 -28d) start systemic treatment (T0) FU visit 1 (T0 + 3 weeks (+/- 1
      week)) FU visit 2 (T0 +8 weeks (+/- 3 weeks)) FU until PFS (max 1 year) Informed consent x

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria check x

      medical history x

      demographic data x

      morphologic scan, including RECIST

      x x x x x documentation of applied treatment

      x

      DCE- CT scan

      x

      x x

      Adverse event check

      x x x x

      reporting of death

      x x x x x FU = Follow-up End of study

      The end of study intervention is reached when the last subject (inclusion of patient 100),
      has completed follow-up visit 2.

      Overall, the end of the study is reached when PFS is reached in all included patients or 1
      year after the last patient has started treatment. Between the end of study intervention and
      PFS, data of standard of care CT examinations based on RECIST 1.1 will be collected.

      Blinding

      Blinding of patients or study personnel is not applicable in this trial.

      Study analysis

      Sample size calculation

      One hundred patients will be used as a sample size. A preliminary power analysis for
      determining the sample size was performed. Preliminary results have shown that a Ktrans
      reduction of 40% would be indicative for differentiating between treatment responders and
      non-responders. A preliminary power analysis under these assumptions shows that for a
      statistically significant difference in mean value of 0.6 results in a power of 0.8439 for
      100 patients.

      Statistical analysis

      The statistical analysis would be performed in-house by Ir. Verhack, PhD
      (ruben@hyperfusion.ai) and Ir. Van den Abeele, PhD (floris@hyperfusion.ai).

      In the following, two analyses will be proposed that support the primary endpoint and the
      second secondary endpoint. Both analyses will be performed twice, once using the HF
      prediction at week 3 (+- 1 week) and once using the prediction of week 8 (+- 3 weeks).

      Two interim analyses will be performed over the course of the clinical study. The first will
      be after 10 patients have been followed up for 6 months, and the second will be when 50
      patients have been followed up for a year. The final analysis will be performed at the end of
      the year 2 follow-up.

        1. Analysis of correlation between HF biomarker and PFS and OS

           First, the goal is to investigate if the HF biomarker based on Ktrans is indeed a viable
           early biomarker to indicate treatment response or not. Therefore, a to-be-defined
           descriptive statistic of the evolution of Ktrans (i.e. HF biomarker) will be compared to
           the binary dependent variable responder/non-responder. The dependent variable is
           determined from PFS and, in parallel, from OS. If there has been no event (progression
           or death) before the last follow-up, then the patient is considered to be a "responder".

           Two hypotheses will be tested. The first hypothesis states that the HF biomarker does
           not significantly decrease for the responders group. The second hypothesis states that
           for the non-responder group, there is no significant decrease in the HF biomarker. In
           order to assess statistical significance for testing the null hypotheses, a paired
           t-test is used with a p-value of 0.05 is considered. Note that the above sample size
           calculation is based on this analysis.

           Second, an analysis will be performed in which the survival curves of each prediction
           class (CR, PR, SD, PD) is compared. As such, the duration until progression is taken
           into account as well. Alternatively, these categories can be grouped into responders
           (CR, PR) and non-responders (SD, PD). The survival curves are estimated using
           Kaplan-Meier estimates [Friedman2010], keeping in mind the common pitfalls in working
           with censored data using PFS [Korn2013].

        2. Analysis of the correlation between the HF classification and RECIST1.1

      Both prediction strategies result in the same classification which involves ordinal data with
      four choices (CR, PR, SD, PD). The statistical analysis will investigate the correlation
      between the two ordinal variables. The null hypothesis is that there is no linear relation
      between the two variables. A p-value of 0.05 will be used to determine statistical
      significance. The two ordinal variables will be compared using cross tabulation, Pearson and
      Spearman's correlation coefficient. Alternatively, if there are issues with this statistical
      analysis, e.g. it might be difficult for the HF software to distinguish between SD and PD,
      then these two categories will be merged accompanied by an explanation.

      [Korn2013] Korn, R. L., & Crowley, J. J. (2013). Overview: Progression-Free Survival as an
      Endpoint in Clinical Trials with Solid Tumors. Clinical Cancer Research, 19(10), 2607-2612.
      https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-12-2934

      [Friedman2010] Friedman, L. M., Furberg, C. D., & DeMets, D. L. (2010). Fundamentals of
      Clinical Trials. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-1586-3

      Indemnity insurance

      During their participation in the clinical investigation the patients will be insured as
      defined by legal requirements. An insurance with no fault responsibility has been foreseen by
      the sponsor in accordance with the Belgian law concerning experiments on humans, 7 May 2004.

      Final Report

      Within one year after the final completion of the study, a full final report will be written
      by the sponsor and submitted to the central ethical committee and competent authority. The
      Sponsor will pass this report to all local Principal Investigators for submission to their
      local EC if defined by their institution's procedure.

      Publication policy

      This study will be registered at Clinicaltrials.gov prior to inclusion of the first subject.
      Results information from this study will be submitted to Clinicaltrials.gov. Furthermore, the
      sponsor & cooperating departments aim to publish in the following journals:

      The New England Journal of Medicine British Medical Journal The Lancet Oncology Journal of
      Clinical Oncology

      Data Handling Case Report Form (CRF)

      The source documents are to be completed at the time of the subject's visit. The CRFs are to
      be completed within reasonable time after the subject's visit. For this study a digital CRF,
      Smart-Trial software will be used. The following data might be collected in the CRFs over the
      course of the clinical trial:

      Demographic info Age Gender Medical history Other relevant demographic parameters

      Diagnostic info:

      Clinical diagnosis files Medication Specific to tumoral pathology Chemotherapy:
      Platinum-based doublets, carboplatin/nab-P regimen, … Targeted therapy (biologicals:
      Pembrolizumab, anti-PD-(L1) inhibitors, Nivolumab plus ipilimumab,...) Immunotherapy General
      medication Blood analysis Complet (red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets) Liver
      enzymes (transaminases, bilirubin, gGT) Renal function (creatinine, ureum, Glomerular
      Filtration Rate) Bone biochemistry (calcium, calcitonin) Tumor markers: CEA
      PET/CT-examinations: DICOM-images of other examinations that will be performed over the
      course of this clinical trial.

      For each subject enrolled the CRF will be signed by the principal investigator or
      co-investigator. This also applies to those subjects who fail to complete the study. If a
      subject withdraws from the study, the reason must be noted on the CRF. CRF entries and
      corrections will only be performed by study site staff, authorized by the investigator and in
      accordance with ISO 14155.

      Errors will be logged by the software and corrections will be initiated and dated by the
      study member that made the correction.

      Entries will be checked by trained personnel (Monitor) and any errors or inconsistencies will
      be changed immediately.

      The original completed and signed CRFs will be collected at the end of the study by the
      sponsor.

      The Principal investigator must verify that all data entries in the CRFs are accurate and
      correct. If certain information is Not Done, Not Available or Not Applicable, "N.D." or
      "N.AV." or "N.AP", should be entered in the appropriate space.

      Data directly collected in the CRF (no source available)

      The DCE-images (in DICOM-format) can be regarded as sources-files and will, consequently, be
      collected in the CRF directly. They will be pseudonymized before being sent to the sponsor.

      Pseudonymized data will be sent to the cloud where it can be downloaded by Hyperfusion.ai.
      Hyperfusion.ai analysis will be performed in a pseudonymised way. A PDF-report will be shared
      after each CT examination to the study coordinator.

      Direct access to source data / documents

      The investigator will permit trial-related monitoring, audits, IRB/IEC review, and regulatory
      inspection(s), providing direct access to source data/documents.

      Archiving

      The investigator and sponsor specific essential documents will be retained for at least 20
      years. At that moment, it will be judged whether it is necessary to retain them for a longer
      period, according to applicable regulatory or other requirement(s).

      Quality assurance and periodic monitoring

      The investigator will maintain adequate and accurate records to enable the conduct of the
      study to be fully documented and the study data to be subsequently verified. These documents
      will be classified into two different categories: investigator's file, and subject clinical
      source documents.

      The investigator's file will contain the documents as per EUROPEAN Standard of EN ISO 14155
      (incl. GCP) and local regulations.

      Regular monitoring will be performed by Hiruz CTU according to ICH GCP and ISO 14155. Data
      will be evaluated for compliance with the protocol and accuracy in relation to source
      documents. Following written standard operating procedures, the monitors will verify that the
      clinical trial is conducted and data are generated, documented and reported in compliance
      with the protocol, ISO 14155 and the applicable regulatory requirements. To be ISO 14155
      compliant at least 3 monitoring visits are scheduled. An initiation visit, one routine visit
      and a final visit after the last patient had finished the study. The monitor will be working
      according to SOPs and will provide a monitoring report after each visit for the sponsor and a
      follow-up letter to the investigator. Depending on the quality of the data, additional
      monitoring visits will be necessary according to the sponsor's discretion.

      More detailed information regarding the monitoring can be found in the monitoring plan which
      will be the responsibility of the HIRUZ.

      14 Designation

      I certify that I will conduct the study in compliance with the protocol, any amendments,
      GCP/ISO 14155, the declaration of Helsinki, and all applicable regulatory requirements.

      Principal Investigator:

      Name: Professor Veerle Surmont

      Title: Prof. dr.

      Date: 18/07/2020
    
  