
    
      Although the interaction between chronic pain and physical functioning is a well-accepted
      paradigm, objective data on how pain affects individuals' daily life is scanty. Most data are
      based on patient questionnaires. The purpose of this study is to objectively assess the
      activity of daily living in chronic pain patients treated with spinal cord stimulation (SCS).

      Indication: Chronic pain in the low-back and/or leg(s) due to failed back surgery syndrome

      Study Design: Prospective, open-label, multi-center, observational, study.

      Sample Size: 50 patients receiving an Intellis neurostimulator for treatment with SCS.

      Study Centers: Up to 10 sites in Europe

      Objectives:

        1. Utilize an existing neurostimulator-based data diary to measure gross daily activity in
           patients with chronic pain

        2. Test the usefulness of this data diary as a tool for objective evaluation of SCS
           efficacy on chronic pain.

        3. Investigate how the collected objective data relates to the subjective experience of the
           patient when evaluating the effects of SCS.

      Materials/Methods:

      Patients diagnosed with failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS) with chronic back and leg pain
      that have been evaluated as candidates for SCS will be included.

      Gross daily activity is recorded using the Intellis neurostimulator (Medtronic Inc.) which
      contains a diary (AdaptiveStim™ Diary) that continuously stores data of seven different body
      positions: upright, upright mobile, recline and 4 lying positions. Recordings are performed
      for 4 weeks before the SCS trial (baseline) using an external Intellis device adhered to the
      skin of the abdomen and thereafter, in patients who responded to SCS during the SCS-trial
      period, utilizing the permanent Intellis implanted subcutaneously at the same site. Data will
      be extracted from the data diary at 3, 6 and 12 months after implantation of the SCS system
      and compared with changes in pain, quality of life and sleep as assessed by patient
      self-report questionnaires using validated tools.

      Study Duration:

      The estimated duration of the study from first enrolment to final report is 24 months,
      including a 10 months enrolment period. The estimated duration of a subject's participation
      in the study is approximately 12 months. Interim analyses will be performed after 3 and 6
      months follow up.

      BACKGROUND The use of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) for pain control has already a history of
      more than 50 years. During the last decades many articles have been published, indicating the
      effectiveness and safety of SCS in the pain management of chronic neuropathic pain, and in
      particular in patients with chronic back and leg pain due to persisting, new or recurrent
      pain after spinal surgery, so called failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS).1 In this patient
      group the interaction between chronic pain and physical functioning is a well-accepted
      paradigm, although objective data that shows how pain affects individuals' daily life is
      scanty. Correlation between reduction in pain intensity and sustained improvement in physical
      activity has previously been demonstrated using kinematical sensors.2.3 In SCS, most outcome
      data are based on patient questionnaires. The lack of tools for objective evaluation of the
      effects of SCS on chronic pain has posed a barrier for providing solid proof of the therapy.
      Currently, however, SCS-devices with an accelerator included are available on the market. The
      position orientation data provided by the neurostimulator therefore gives new possibilities
      for objective measurement of gross activity in daily life.

      In an earlier single center pilot study with the first implantable neurostimulator with an
      accelerometer the potential of objective outcome measurements was explored in six patients
      with FBSS.4 A positive correlation between decrease in pain and increase in time spent in
      upright position has been demonstrated by the preliminary pilot study utilizing this
      neurostimulator in which position and upright/upright mobile changes were recorded based on
      24-hour cycles. However, not all patients that experience good pain relief showed an
      increased activity level depending on which position that is painful.

      With the new neurostimulator (Intellis), position changes and level of activity are recorded
      on an hour by hour basis, which makes it possible to differentiate between day and night
      activity. The goal of the current study is to repeat the pilot study on objective outcomes
      with the newly available neurostimulator with inbuilt accelerometer using a prospective,
      open-label, observational study design.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. Utilize an existing neurostimulator-based data diary to measure gross daily activity in
           patients with CBLP.

        2. Test the usefulness of this data diary as a tool for objective evaluation of SCS
           efficacy on CBLP.

        3. Investigate how the collected objective data relates to the subjective experience of the
           patient when evaluating the effects of SCS.
    
  