
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Recent epidemiologic evidence suggests that inflammation plays a major role in the
      development of coronary artery disease. High sensitivity C-reactive protein assays have been
      shown to be independent risk factors for the development of atherosclerosis. Measurements of
      C-reactive protein also adds to the predictive value of lipid levels in determining the risk
      of cardiovascular disease. Levels of inflammatory markers may also correlate with response to
      commonly used lipid lowering agents. The exact role of inflammation in coronary artery
      disease is not clear; however, it has been suggested that inflammation may be a marker of
      subclinical cardiovascular disease, or may indicate the presence of vulnerable plaque. In
      addition to being a possible causative agent in the development of atherogenesis, it has been
      postulated that inflammatory markers may reflect events that predict the development of
      myocardial events. The fact that agents such as aspirin and pravastatin, which are known to
      have anti-inflammatory effects, are effective agents in the prevention of atherosclerosis
      suggests the possibility that prevention of inflammation may play an important role in
      reduction of risk for cardiovascular disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study assessed inflammatory markers in 3,765 men and women of the Framingham Study. The
      markers included inflammatory (C-reactive protein, fibrinogen, soluble intercellular adhesion
      molecule-1, endothelin-1, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, tumor necrosis factor-alpha) and
      oxidative stress markers (8-epi-PGF 2alpha, thromboxane B2). The relation between CVD risk
      factors and systemic markers of vascular inflammation was determined. The relations between
      inflammatory markers, endothelial dysfunction, and subclinical disease were analyzed. Markers
      of inflammation were related to prevalent and incident cardiovascular disease events
      adjusting for standard risk factors. The central hypothesis was that inflammatory markers
      were independent risk factors for cardiovascular disease events with endothelial dysfunction
      operating in the causal pathway.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  