
    
      Historically, metastatic melanoma has been associated with a poor prognosis. Recently,
      numerous immunotherapeutic agents, particularly checkpoint inhibitors, have moved to the
      forefront of therapy. Checkpoint inhibitors such as ipilimumab, pembrolizumab, and nivolumab
      have revolutionized the treatment of melanoma. Despite this, not all patients respond to
      checkpoint inhibitors, and even patients who initially respond to checkpoint inhibitor
      therapy often later relapse (median response duration of 2 years); complete responses remain
      uncommon. Thus, more effective immunotherapies are clearly needed.

      The concept of administering dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccines to prompt an immune response
      against tumor cells has shown promise in the treatment of advanced cancers. Sipuleucel-T, now
      FDA-approved for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer, is one such vaccine that consists
      of autologous antigen-presenting cell (APC) activated ex vivo by a fusion protein consisting
      of the antigen prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating
      factor (GM-CSF). Although response rates to Sipuleucel-T are low, recent studies suggest that
      DC vaccines have the potential to improve survival by increasing the breadth and diversity of
      melanoma-specific T cells.

      It is known that the method of antigen (Ag) delivery is important for the success of DC
      vaccines, but it remains unclear which method is most effective in producing antitumor
      responses. Approaches tested clinically include pulsing with HLA-restricted defined peptide
      Ags, loading with purified proteins, transfecting with mRNA, engineering with Ag-encoding
      viral vectors, and using autologous tumor cells or allogeneic cell lines directly as sources
      of Ag. Efficacy can be measured in vivo using surrogate endpoints, such as development of
      tumor-specific delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions. Prolonged survival of
      vaccinated melanoma patients has been reported to correlate with induction of positive DTH
      tests. Antitumor activity may also be assessed by ELISpot analysis of the frequency of
      tumor-Ag specific IFNγ-producing T cells. To assess the quality of the DC vaccines, surrogate
      markers of DC function including maturation markers, co-stimulatory molecule expression, and
      IL12p70 production, a critical cytokine in antitumor response, can be measured
    
  