
    
      Teens' access to confidential services for sexually transmitted infections (STI's) has been
      assured over time by privacy protections established through statutory and policy routes.
      Yet, the STI epidemic among youth persists, in part , because many STI's are largely
      asymptomatic, remain undetected and continue to be transmitted unknowingly. Also, many teens
      are reluctant to obtain STI services due to embarrassment, fear of disclosure, lack of
      knowledge about STI diagnosis/treatment, and confidential STI services. How do we bridge the
      gap between availability and apparent lack of utilization by teens in need of confidential
      services to prevent STI's and their long term sequelae? One strategy that has been overlooked
      is the engagement of parents in a partnership with the teen and the provider to effectively
      guide the developing adolescent towards becoming a responsible and confident adult consumer
      of health services, especially regarding STI prevention and care including confidential
      services. Before developing the parental component to a broad-based effort aimed at
      decreasing the STI rate, especially C. trachomatis, it is important to examine parental
      knowledge and attitudes towards confidential STI health services for teens and how these
      might influence parental intention to facilitate their adolescent's accessing appropriate
      preventive care for STIs. We propose a multi-method research design in 2 phases. Phase 1
      comprises a qualitative format (focus groups and 1:1 semi-structured interviews) designed to
      yield data on parental knowledge and attitudes about confidential STI related health care
      services for teens. Findings from Phase 1 will then inform Phase 2, a quantitative
      cross-sectional survey of a random sample of ethnically diverse parents of 12-17 yo teens
      designed to examine the following questions. First, how does parental knowledge and attitudes
      about STI confidential care for teens vary according: (a) the adolescent's age and gender;
      and (b) the specific parental characteristics, e.g., gender, race/ethnicity, insurance
      status, education, religiosity. Secondly, how does parental knowledge and attitudes about
      confidential care for teens affect parental behavioral intentions to facilitate their teen's
      gaining knowledge and skills to be able to access STI preventive confidential services. This
      research would inform investigations how to strengthen the role of parents and encourage
      partnerships between health care providers and parents to ultimately improve the health
      outcomes for teens.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Parental knowledge of confidential care for adolescents will increase parental intention
           to facilitate confidential care

        2. Parental knowledge of STI's will be positively associated with their perceptions of
           their teen's susceptibility to/ severity of STI

        3. Parental knowledge or suspicion that their adolescent is having sex will be associated
           with perceptions that their teen is susceptibility to STIs

        4. Parental knowledge of STI's and/or knowledge/ suspicion adolescent is having sex will be
           associated with parental intention to facilitate confidential care

        5. Perceived susceptibility/severity of their teen to STI will be associated with a greater
           intention to facilitate confidential care

        6. Perceived benefits of confidential care will be associated with an greater intention to
           facilitate confidential care

        7. Perceived risks/barriers to confidential care (e.g., logistical/billing; busy practice,
           no policy/time for provider to see teen alone; perceived increase risky teen behavior
           due to such sexual health discussions) will be negatively associated with intention to
           facilitate confidential care

        8. Perceived self-efficacy will be associated with an greater intention to facilitate
           confidential care

        9. Past behavior/experiences regarding confidential care for parent and/or adolescent will
           be associated with intention to facilitate confidential care

      Specific Aims:

      i. To examine parental knowledge and attitudes of confidential health services related to STI
      care for adolescents

        1. To examine how parental knowledge and attitudes of confidentiality regarding STI and
           related health care services vary according to parent characteristics

        2. To examine how parental knowledge and attitudes of confidentiality regarding STI and
           related health care services vary according to child characteristics

      ii. To examine how parental knowledge and attitudes toward confidential STI care affects the
      parent's behavioral intentions to support their adolescent's access to confidential care

      iii. To identify key mechanisms that will form the basis of an intervention to improve
      parent-health care provider partnerships by giving parents knowledge and skills to help them
      facilitate their adolescent's access to confidential STI services as needed
    
  