
    
      Aim 1. Re-examine the Diabetes Heart Study Memory IN Diabetes (DHS MIND) cohort for
      progression of neurocognitive decline using an established cognitive battery, literacy
      testing, and adjudicated physician diagnosis of dementia.Another neurocognitive evaluation
      will be completed in European-American and African-American DHS MIND participants, providing
      longitudinal follow-up more than eight years after initial assessment. The cognitive battery
      will reassess domains of executive function, memory, and global cognition. In addition, a
      clinical exam will include a literacy evaluation to circumvent the shortcomings of
      differences in educational attainment among participants. A physician adjudicated assessment
      of cognitively normal, mild cognitive impairment, or dementia will be obtained. Cognitive
      evaluations will inform epidemiological analyses regarding cross-sectional and trajectories
      of cognition decline relative to existing and repeat measures of cardio-metabolic risk
      factors.

      Aim 2. Examine the metabolomic basis of neurocognitive measures in people with T2D. The
      presence of T2D, cardiovascular disease and reduced kidney function are significant risk
      factors for development of cognitive impairment. These risk factors are enriched in the DHS
      and lack early diagnostic tools. Untargeted metabolomic profiling offers the potential to
      identify relevant biomarkers that could impact the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of
      cognitive decline. This will be accomplished through untargeted metabolomic analysis of
      European American and African American DHS MIND participants using stored samples from
      baseline visits acquired more than 10 years prior to the current (repeat) neurocognitive
      assessment. These data will be used to A) provide information on novel mechanistic insights
      into cognition and trajectories of cognitive decline, B) develop a risk prediction model
      using the baseline exam, and C) validate extremes of neurocognitive performance using
      longitudinal assessments while examining ancestry/ethnic-specific differences.

      Aim 3. Comprehensive genetic analysis of DHS participants to examine the genetic architecture
      of metabolomic signatures associated with the trajectories of neurocognitive decline.
      Existing genome-wide data will be used to map regions of the human genome that contain loci
      contributing to measures of neurocognition and metabolomics signatures of change in these
      variables through longitudinal assessment. Causal effect modeling will validate the
      association of modifiable exposures, i.e. genetic markers and metabolites on the outcome
      (i.e. trajectories of neurocognitive decline).
    
  