
    
      Method:

      The following covariates will be reported.

      Date of diagnosis of AV-block:

      The date of diagnosis is defined as the day the physician diagnoses the AV-block. E.g. if the
      patient has a Holter monitoring performed, the date of diagnosis is the dag the monitoring is
      reviewed.

      Reported as: Day-month-year

      Comorbidity at day of first pacemaker implant:

      Registered as one or more of the following:

        1. Diabetes

        2. Hypertension

        3. Hypercholesterolemia

        4. Heart failure

        5. Atrial fibrillation or flutter

        6. Ischemic heart disease

        7. Sarcoidosis

        8. Connecting tissue disorder

        9. Other

      Smoking status at day of first pacemaker implant:

      Registered as: Current, former, never

      Device selected at first pacemaker implant:

      Registered as: DDD, CTR, etcetera

      Genetic investigation:

      Is there performed genetic investigation due to the finding of AV-block? Investigation must
      be initiated maximum 4 weeks after day of first pacemaker implant.

      Registered as: y/n.

      Date of first pacemaker implant:

      Registered as: Day-month-year

      Implant sight

      ECG 12 description:

      ECG 12 must be taken maximum one week before day of first pacemaker implant Registered as:
      Bpm., RBBB y/n, LBBB y/n, PR in msec, QRS in msec, QT in msec, QTc in msec (Frederica)

      Implant indication:

      Registered as one of following:

        1. First-degree atrioventricular block with symptoms

        2. Mobitz type 1 with symptoms

        3. Mobitz type 2

        4. Advanced second-degree atrioventricular block

        5. Third-degree atrioventricular block

        6. Unknown The most malignant is chosen and it is reported if it is intermittent or
           persistent.

      Symptoms:

      Registered as one or more of following:

        1. Dyspnoea

        2. Fatigue

        3. Malaise

        4. Dizziness

        5. Syncope

        6. Angina

        7. Cardiac arrest

        8. No symptoms

      Echocardiography:

      Performed maximum two weeks before day of first pacemaker implant The reported values are
      what the echocardiographer describes.

      Registered as:

      LVEF in % (values over 60% is reported as >60 %) Hypertrophy of LV y/n Dilatation of LV y/n
      Dilatation of LA y/n Valvular disease/artificial valve y/n

      Coronary angiography:

      At day of first pacemaker implant +/- 4 weeks

      Registered as:

      Normal y/n Significantly disease on LAD y/n Significantly disease on RCA y/n Significantly
      disease on CX y/n Significantly disease = leading to CABG, PCI or antithrombotic treatment
    
  