
    
      Melanoma is a cutaneous neoplasm known for its high aggressiveness, its early dissemination
      of metastases, and its poor prognosis once metastasized. Chemotherapy with dacarbacine (DTIC)
      is widely accepted as the standard treatment in metastatic melanoma, with reported response
      rates of about 10%. This poor outcome is assumed to be due to a high chemoresistance
      intrinsic to melanoma cells. However, other therapeutic options like polychemotherapy,
      biochemotherapy, immunotherapy as well as targeted agents did not yet prove to be superior to
      DTIC in multicenter randomized studies.

      Therefore, chemotherapy still is considered as the main therapeutic option in advanced
      metastatic melanoma, and a number of non-standard chemotherapeutics have been tested in small
      pilot studies to improve treatment efficacy. Even though complete remissions of metastatic
      lesions could only be observed in a few patients, these observations indicate a subgroup of
      patients exhibiting high sensitivity to certain anticancer drugs. An in vitro ATP-based
      chemosensitivity assay has been shown to differentiate between chemosensitive and
      chemoresistant melanoma patients. A phase-II-study testing this assay in 53 metastatic
      melanoma patients followed by a sensitivity-directed individualized chemotherapy
      demonstrated, that the chemosensitivity profile of an individual patient, reflected by the
      best individual chemosensitivity index (BICSI), correlated with therapy outcome in terms of
      therapy response and patient overall survival (Ugurel S: Clin Cancer Res 2006).
      Interestingly, a surprisingly high proportion of about 2/5 of the investigated patient cohort
      were classified as chemosensitive, the remaining 3/5 were classified as chemoresistant.
      Objective response was 36.4% in chemosensitive patients compared to 16.1% in chemoresistant
      patients (p=0.114); progression arrest (CR+PR+SD) was 59.1% versus 22.6% (p=0.01).
      Chemosensitive patients showed an increased overall survival of 14.6 months compared to 7.4
      months in chemoresistant patients (p=0.041).

      These encouraging results prompted the initiation of this randomized phase-III-trial
      investigating an individualized sensitivity-directed combination chemotherapy compared to the
      current standard treatment DTIC, as first-line treatment in metastatic melanoma. The
      therapeutics for chemosensitivity testing and treatment of patients were chosen considering
      the results of the phase-II-trial (paclitaxel+cisplatinum, treosulfan+cytarabine).
    
  