
    
      Background: Multiple Sclerosis is strongly associated with low serum 25 hydroxy-vitamin-D
      (25(OH)D) and impaired cognitive performance. In our previous research, participants with low
      serum 25OHD levels showed significant improvements in visuo-spatial memory delayed recall
      after 3 months of vitamin D3 supplementation. In addition, serum 25(OH)D was significantly
      associated with this memory function at baseline and at 3 months. Therefore, the aim of this
      proposed study is 1) to evaluate the long-term effects 6 and 12 months of high (50,000 IU
      weekly then 10,000 IU weekly) compared to low dose (800 IU daily) vitamin D3 replacement on
      cognitive function in MS, and 2) to correlate it with the MRI brain measurements of the
      hippocampus and the frontal cortex volumes, as well as brain parenchymal fraction, and
      cerebellum. The investigators will then explore these MRI measures in MS patients with
      deficient 25(OH)D levels at baseline and at 12 months, and correlate it with their cognitive
      performance.

      Methods: This is a longitudinal single blind randomized trial to test the effects of high
      compared to low dose vitamin D3 supplementation on cognitive performance at 6 and 12 months,
      and MRI measures of 12 months duration. A cognitive assessment battery, comprised of the
      Montreal Cognitive Assessment (only at baseline), Stroop, Symbol Digit Modalities Test, Brief
      Visual Memory Test, and Verbal Memory Test in Arabic, will be administered at baseline, 6 and
      12 months. Related clinical data and information on depression and anxiety, lifestyle, and
      food sources of vitamin D and sun exposure among other variables will also be collected.

      Expected results: MS patients with serum 25(OH)D deficiency who receive high dose vitamin D3
      supplementation will demonstrate decreased cognitive impairment at 6 and 12 months post
      supplementation when compared to those who received low vitamin D3 dose and to their
      pre-supplementation status. The MRI findings are expected to be associated with cognitive
      performance at baseline, and serum 25(OH)D levels at baseline, and 12 months.
    
  