
    
      This is a pilot, single arm, open label feasibility study. There will be no change in
      patient's clinical care. Physiological data will only be analysed retrospectively.

      This is a single centre trial based in a large tertiary cancer centre that treats patients
      across all solid tumour and haematological malignancies. Patients will be recruited from
      lymphoma, haematology, lung and upper gastrointestinal disease groups.

      All study procedures will be performed by a researcher who is appropriately trained and who
      has been delegated by the PI to undertake this activity (and this is clearly documented on
      the delegation log). No study specific procedures will take place prior to written informed
      consent being provided. Study Schedule (Main Study)

      The main study will consist of the following visits:

      Screening Visit 1 on day one of a cycle of planned standard of care chemotherapy. This visit
      will include application of the wearable biosensors and training in how to use the devices
      including cautions and safety advice. Participants will be provided with a diary to document
      any issues with the device or periods where the sensors are removed. This visit will include
      a standard of care review by the participant's direct care team. Visit 2 on day 1 of the next
      cycle of chemotherapy(3 weeks after Visit 1). This visit will include a review of any device
      related issues by the study team and completion of the relevant event checklist (version
      1.0). The study diary will be reviewed. Used sensors will be collected and replacement
      sensors provided. The participant will be asked to complete an interim tolerability
      questionnaire. This visit will include a standard of care review by the participant's direct
      care team. Visit 3 on day 22 of either cycle 2, 3, or 4 (3 weeks after Visit 2). This visit
      will include a review of any device related issues by the study team and completion of the
      relevant event checklist (version 1.0). The study diary will be reviewed.

      Used sensors will be collected. The participant will be asked to complete an end of study
      tolerability questionnaire.

      This visit will include a standard of care review by the participant's direct care team.

      Structured interview 1-4 weeks post Visit 3 with between 10 and 20 selected participants.
      This visit will take place either at the Christie in a private non-clinical space or via
      telephone, according to the participant's preference. The IRAS Form Reference: IRAS Version
      5.13 Date: 9 DRAFT interview is expected to take approximately 30 minutes. This is a
      semi-structured interview which will follow the interview schema (version 1.0) Sub-study:
      This study will consist of one visit where the participant will be shown the sensors and
      explained how the investigators are intending to use them. They will then be asked to
      complete a questionnaire about how they feel about the sensors.
    
  