
    
      The objective for this trial is to provide evidence that not prescribing postoperative
      antibiotics increases the number of phone calls to the physician, increases the number of
      emergency department/urgent care/clinic visits in the postoperative period, and increases
      medical diagnostic costs (ie: labwork, cultures, x-rays). Additionally, the investigators aim
      to provide evidence that a higher percentage of patients not given a prescription for
      antibiotics will ultimately obtain a prescription from another provider.

      One of the most common surgical procedures performed in the pediatric population is
      tonsillectomy. The term "tonsillectomy" refers to the surgical excision of the entire tonsil
      tissue and may or may not include excision of the adenoid tissue as well. Typical symptoms
      following surgery are pain, malaise, and fever among others. Otolaryngologists for many years
      have prescribed antibiotics postoperatively based on early randomized controlled trials that
      suggested a benefit in improved recovery. A recent poll showed that 79% of otolaryngologists
      routinely prescribe antibiotics to reduce postoperative morbidity and not for antibiotic
      prophylaxis. The American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery (AAOHNSF) recently
      published an evidenced-based Clinical Practice Guideline for tonsillectomy in children in
      which the routine use of postoperative antibiotics was evaluated. Evaluation of more recent
      literature showed that routine use of post-operative antibiotics does not show benefit in
      improving the main measures of perioperative morbidity . Multiple individual trials showed
      that antibiotic use had no impact on pain, amount of analgesic use, recovery time, or time
      required to return to a normal diet. However, routine antibiotic use for prevention of
      postoperative fever remains in controversy and has shown benefit in two trials and while
      showing no benefit in two different trials. Considering the lack of supporting evidence of
      benefit in reducing postoperative morbidity, the AAOHNSF has issued a strong recommendation
      against the routine administration of postoperative antibiotics for tonsillectomy.

      The investigators experience as a very busy pediatric surgical service is that in the 1-2
      weeks following tonsillectomy, physicians and clinics commonly receive phone calls from
      concerned parents regarding local and referred pain, bad breath, and fever. Despite patient
      education at several steps during the process, parental phone calls regarding postoperative
      fever remain common. While post-operative fever is known to occur following tonsillectomy,
      management of this issue on the phone, sometimes over the weekend, can be challenging.
      Children are often in pain, more tired than usual, and not eating well. Even though these are
      all anticipated symptoms, when they occur with fever, it is difficult to provide adequate
      reassurance to a concerned parent. Often parents think their child has an infection and are
      expecting that their provider will start an antibiotic. From the clinician perspective, it
      can be difficult to discern whether or not there is a concurrent illness that should be
      evaluated. As a result, parents often bring their children to an urgent care clinic,
      emergency department, or physician clinic for evaluation and may eventually obtain an
      antibiotic prescription for their complaints to cover a possible infection.

      While routine use of antibiotics does not show benefit in improving many of the main elements
      of morbidity, controversy remains regarding reduction of postoperative fever. When a fever
      occurs in a child who is not taking an antibiotic, parents often become concerned about an
      infection and desire an antibiotic and further evaluation. The concern of the parent in some
      cases leads to unnecessary visits to emergency departments, urgent care clinics, and
      physician clinics for evaluation. The workup performed in the evaluation of these patients
      may include complete blood count, chest x-ray, urinalysis, and urine cultures. Ultimately,
      the patient may be given an empiric antibiotic prescription. To date there has been no
      literature documenting healthcare utilization compared between patients who were given
      antibiotics and those who were not given antibiotics. The goal of this study is to evaluate
      healthcare utilization and patient/caregiver burden between these groups. If increased
      healthcare utilization and patient/caregiver burden is found in the "no antibiotic" group,
      then analysis of the type of utilization and outcome will direct future efforts to improve
      patient education regarding postoperative morbidity or possibly to continue routinely
      administering post operative empiric antibiotics. This will benefit in the effort to improve
      patient satisfaction with surgery, reduce unnecessary healthcare costs, and reduce
      unnecessary antibiotic use.
    
  