
    
      This prospective multicenter randomized comparative study will be conducted at the National
      Taiwan University Hospital(NTUH), NTUH Bei-Hu Branch, NTUH Hsin-Chu Branch, Buddhist Tzu Chi
      General Hospital, and Mennonite Christian Hospital in Hua-Lien City. Patients, aged >= 20,
      having H. pylori-positive chronic gastritis with/without peptic ulcers (duodenal or gastric
      ulcers) will be recruited. All undergo endoscopy with biopsy for rapid urease test,
      histology, and bacterial culture before treatment. If the patients did not receive anti-H.
      pylori therapy previously, these patients will be invited to enter this study for evaluating
      the efficacy of these 1st-line regimens.

      A computed generated random numbers sequence will be blocked into three subgroups, say A, B,
      and C. After giving written informed consent, each patient will be randomly allocated, to one
      of three treatment groups:

      group A - HDDT (rabeprazole 20 mg qid + amoxicillin 750 mg qid for 14 days);

      group B - Bis-HDDT (rabeprazole 20 mg qid + amoxicillin 750 mg qid + tripotassium dicitrate
      bismuthate 300 mg qid, for 14 days);

      group C - AM-BQT (rabeprazole 20 mg bid + tripotassium dicitrate bismuthate 600 mg bid +
      amoxicillin 1000 mg bid + metronidazole 500 mg tid , for 14 days);

      All patients will be asked to complete a questionnaire and to record symptoms, drug
      consumption, and diet content daily during the treatment period. Post-treatment, the patients
      will be followed up at the Outpatients Clinic to investigate patient adherence and adverse
      effects of treatment. Four to eight weeks after termination of treatment, H. pylori infection
      status will be examined by the C13-urea breath test (UBT). The CYP2C19 genotype of each
      participant will be analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment
      length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. A part of participants, at least 30 cases in each
      group, will be invited to join a follow-up program for one year for evaluating the changes or
      evolution of gut microbiota composition, metabolic product, parameters of inflammation and
      immune response.
    
  