
    
      Indication: Lung Cancer

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To determine with high precision, the diagnostic performances of DCE-CT and 18FDG-PET/CT
           in the NHS for the characterisation of solitary pulmonary nodules (SPNs).

        -  To use decision analytic modelling to assess the likely costs and health outcomes
           resulting from incorporation of DCE-CT into management strategies for patients with
           SPNs.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To assess, within an NHS setting, the incremental value of incorporating the CT
           appearances of a SPN into the interpretation of integrated PET/CT examinations.

        -  To assess whether combining DCE-CT with 18FDG-PET/CT is more accurate and/or
           cost-effective, in the characterisation of SPNs, than either test used alone or in
           series.

        -  To document the nature and incidence of incidental extra-thoracic findings on
           18FDG-PET/CT undertaken for the characterisation of SPNs and model their impact on
           cost-effectiveness.

      Rationale:

      A small proportion of patients with lung cancer present with a solitary pulmonary nodule
      (SPN) on diagnostic imaging tests. This is an important group of patients because
      presentation as a SPN represents early disease with high 5 year survival rates following
      surgical resection. However, not all SPNs are due to lung cancer and the accurate
      characterisation of SPNs for diagnosis of early stage lung cancer is a diagnostic challenge
      with significant associated health costs.

      Widely adopted clinical guidelines for the subsequent investigation of SPNs recommend serial
      CT scans to look for subsequent growth with biopsy to confirm diagnosis. UK, National
      Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines recommend 18FDG-PET for the
      assessment of SPN in cases where a biopsy is not possible or has failed.

      DCE-CT and 18FDG-PET scans give different information about the SPN. Information from either
      scan or combined information from both scans may be better in the diagnosis of early stage
      lung cancer.

      Trial Design: Prospective Observational

      Sample size: 375

      Non-CTIMP:Non interventional trial

      Concomitant Therapy: As per local practice

      Primary Trial Endpoints:

      Primary outcome measures will include diagnostic test characteristics (sensitivity,
      specificity, accuracy) for 18FDG-PET/CT and DCE-CT in relation to a subsequent clinical
      diagnosis of lung cancer. The outcome measures used in the economic model will include
      accuracy, estimated life expectancy, and quality adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs will be
      estimated from an NHS perspective. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios will compare
      management strategies with DCE-CT to strategies without DCE-CT.

      Secondary Trial Endpoints:

      Secondary outcome measures will include diagnostic test characteristics for 18FDG-PET/CT with
      incorporation of CT appearances and combined DCE-CT/18FDG-PET. The incidence of incidental
      extra-thoracic findings on 18FDG-PET/CT, subsequent investigations and costs will also be
      determined.

      Total Number of Sites: up to 14
    
  