
    
      1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE 1.1 Background Information Summary of the problem Asthma is the
           most common childhood chronic disease, affecting over 15% of children between the ages
           of 4 and 11 years. In 2004, asthma contributed to 10% and 8% of all Canadian hospital
           admissions for children aged 0 to 4 years and 5 to 14 years, respectively. In Ontario,
           the burden of illness caused by asthma is enormous, accounting for one third of
           government expenditures for the general population.

           A key element for treating children with acute asthma exacerbations is the
           administration of corticosteroids. Corticosteroids (CS) reduce the need for
           hospitalization and the risk of relapse after initial treatment, and may also facilitate
           an earlier discharge from the hospital.

           While some hospitals already use a short course of dexamethasone for the inpatient
           asthma treatment, there is no evidence to support this practice in the inpatient
           population. Most current CS treatment regimens for the treatment of children
           hospitalized with an asthma exacerbation consist of a 5-day course of prednisone or
           prednisolone. However, prednisone and prednisolone are associated with poor taste and
           significant vomiting, as well as poor compliance with the treatment course. The lifetime
           prevalence of asthma in Canadian children has been estimated at 11% to 16% and asthma
           exacerbations are the leading cause of hospitalization in children. At the Children's
           Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO), 215 children were admitted to the inpatient units
           for asthma in 2015, representing 5.4% of the yearly medical admissions.

           Current corticosteroid standard of care for inpatient treatment of asthma CS are one of
           the cornerstones of therapy for acute asthma. They should be administered as early as
           possible in the Emergency Department (ED). Treatment with CS reduces the need for
           hospitalization, decreases the risk of relapse post treatment, and leads to a shorter
           length of stay. Current corticosteroid treatment regimens for the treatment of children
           hospitalized with an asthma exacerbation typically consist of a 4-day course of
           prednisone or prednisolone in addition to the dose of oral CS received in the ED.

           Dexamethasone vs prednisone/prednisolone treatment A recent meta-analysis has shown that
           2 days of once daily dexamethasone is a least as effective as 5 days of prednisone for
           preventing relapse in outpatient pediatric asthma. In addition, patients receiving
           dexamethasone were significantly less likely to experience vomiting in the ED and even
           after returning home. Preliminary cost-estimates suggest that dexamethasone may result
           in at least a $3500 cost savings per 100 patients compared to traditional treatment with
           prednisone or prednisolone. At CHEO, this would result in over $7000 in savings per
           year.

           Compliance with corticosteroid treatment Prednisone is only available in Canada as a
           tablet or compounded suspension, which limits use due to swallowing ability and
           accessibility. When compared to dexamethasone, prednisolone is associated with poor
           palatability, significant vomiting and poor compliance. Prednisone and prednisolone are
           compounded with similar recipes, and therefore have a similar taste. Compliance with 5
           days of prednisone has been estimated in one study to be as low as 64% for pediatric
           asthma. As mentioned above, outpatient evidence shows that a 2-day course of
           dexamethasone is as effective as a longer course of prednisone and prednisolone, and
           better tolerated. However, as determined by a systematic review conducted by the
           principal investigator of this current proposal (PROSPERO 2016:CRD42016041766), studies
           in hospitalized patients are lacking. Promisingly, a retrospective cohort study in
           pediatric inpatients hospitalized with asthma has suggested that dexamethasone, when
           compared to prednisone/prednisolone, may result in a shorter length of hospital stay and
           reduced costs with no difference in number of transfers to intensive care or
           readmissions.

           Safety of dexamethasone Dexamethasone is a potent glucocorticoid with a long half-life,
           therefore concerns have been raised regarding its potential for adrenal suppression.
           However, a study of high-dose (~1.7 mg/kg) IM dexamethasone in acute asthma found no
           significant difference in adrenal function at day 14 between single-dose dexamethasone
           and 5 days of oral prednisone. The degree of adrenal suppression induced by
           dexamethasone is likely comparable to that observed with intravenous methylprednisolone
           or moderate to high doses of inhaled corticosteroids. Children in our proposed study
           will receive a cumulative dexamethasone dose of 1.2 mg/kg orally, significantly less
           than used in the aforementioned study.

           1.2 Rationale Given the importance of CS in the treatment of asthma, the significant
           decrease in relapse associated with their use, and the high prevalence of childhood
           asthma, there is a need to determine whether a better tolerated and more palatable CS
           can be used as first line therapy. Although outpatient data on this issue exists,
           extrapolating treatment regimens from the outpatient population may not be appropriate
           as hospitalized children represent a sicker group of patients than those discharged from
           the emergency department.

           In order to determine whether dexamethasone is at least as effective of
           prednisone/prednisolone in the treatment of inpatient asthma, the investigators propose
           a feasibility study, as a first step in the development of a future multi-site trial.

        2. STUDY OBJECTIVES

      The investigators plan to determine the feasibility of a non-inferiority trial, comparing 2
      days of dexamethasone to 4 days of inpatient prednisone/prednisolone for inpatient asthma
      treatment. Specifically, The investigators we will determine the feasibility of:

        1. Enrolling patients upon admission to hospital, after they receive their first dose of
           corticosteroid (CS) in the ED

        2. Asking patients and/or caregivers to complete a symptom diary weekly for 4 weeks

        3. Reassessing patients 7 days after hospital admission day

        4. Successfully completing phone follow up 4 weeks post hospital discharge

        5. Collecting health utilization data post hospital discharge.

      3 METHODOLOGY 3.1 Trial design A pragmatic randomized trial is proposed. Children presenting
      to the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) Emergency Department (ED) will receive
      CS (typically prednisone/prednisolone 2mg/kg) as per standard of care outlined in the ED
      pre-printed order and Nursing Medical Directive. . This practice differs from most other
      pediatric EDs across the country where children typically receive dexamethasone 0.3 mg/kg on
      presentation to the ED. As there is significant outpatient evidence showing that
      dexamethasone is non-inferior to prednisone for outpatient asthma treatment, it is possible
      that the CHEO ED will have switched over to administering dexamethasone 0.3 mg/kg to children
      presenting with acute asthma exacerbation by the time this study is implemented. Blinding of
      the participants and members of the health care team will not be feasible. Given that the
      investigators are aiming to test the effectiveness of their intervention across routine
      clinical practice, they elected to conduct a pragmatic trial. Since the palatability of the
      CS is likely to affect compliance, masking the taste of the CS to ensure blinding would
      decrease the ability to detect a difference in compliance due to taste. Moreover, given the
      length of therapy for prednisone/prednisolone is longer than that of dexamethasone,
      introducing placebo doses to ensure similar length of treatment would also potentially impact
      compliance and undermine the investigators' ability to detect a difference between groups.
      Investigators, data analysts, and research assistant completing patient assessment at the
      follow-up visit will be blinded to group assignment.

      A research assistant will review the list of admissions for the previous 12 hours, on a twice
      daily basis, from Monday to Friday. The research assistant will then ask a member of the
      patient's health care team (bedside nurse, charge nurse, resident, staff physician) to ask
      the family members for permission to approach them about the study. The research assistant
      will then complete an eligibility screen, and maintain a phone follow-up ledger for consented
      patients. If the patient is eligible and the family gives their informed consent, they will
      be allocated to one of the study groups. Once written, informed consent has been obtained,
      the research assistant will communicate with the health care team to ensure the patient
      continues on the CS initiated in the ED, for the appropriate number of doses as determined by
      CS group assignment. A record will be kept of all screened patients, patient eligibility,
      allocation, and follow up to allow reporting according to CONSORT guidelines. Additional
      consent will be requested to access patients' health utilization data (readmissions, ED
      visits, visits to family physicians) through linkage with ICES data.

      After enrollment, the patients will be randomly allocated to one of the two treatment groups.
      The randomization schedule will have been previously generated using a computer.
      Randomization will be blocked with randomly chosen block lengths of 4 or 6. Treatment
      assignments will be written on a piece of paper and concealed in sequentially numbered opaque
      envelopes kept in a secure locked location in the study research office. The PI and analyst
      will be blinded to the treatment intervention, but the research coordinator in charge of
      assessing eligibility and allocation and the patient's treating team (physicians and nurses)
      will not because of the nature of the pragmatic nature of the trial.

      4. ANALYSIS 4.1 Sample size The investigators sought a sample size that would allow them to
      estimate their feasibility outcomes with reasonable precision. As such, they have set out to
      achieve a 15% margin of error (i.e. half-width of 95% confidence interval=0.15) for any
      proportions to be estimated (e.g. allocation success, retention success). At a hypothesized
      proportion of 50%, they determined that 43 patients will be needed to achieve this level of
      precision. This provides a most conservative estimate since any proportions other than 50%
      will require fewer patients. Factoring in an additional 15% of patients as allowance for
      attrition or incomplete data they have set a recruitment target of n=51 in total. With
      approximately 18 asthma admissions per month, assuming 70% are eligible and 50% of eligible
      patients consent, the investigators expect to meet this sample size requirement in 9 months.

      4.2 Quantitative Data Analysis For all relevant feasibility outcomes, binary proportions
      (e.g. % success) and the associated 95% confidence interval will be estimated using the
      Wilson method. To help inform the design of main trial (i.e. expected effect sizes), the
      investigators will apply intention-to-treat principles and estimate the treatment effect (and
      95% CI) by comparing outcomes (proposed for the main trial) between intervention groups using
      statistical techniques appropriate to the type and distribution of the various outcomes (e.g.
      continuous, binary, count data).

      4.3 Qualitative Data Analysis Semi-structured interview at week 4 will be audio taped and
      transcribed verbatim. Analyses will be conducted using NVivo 9 software. Inductive analysis
      will be used to identify categories, patterns and themes.
    
  