
    
      Response evaluation criteria in metastatic renal cell carcinoma: Improved assessment of
      response and progression by Spectral CT?

      Clinical Background

      Renal cancer accounts for 2-3% of all cancers. The incidence of renal cancer in Denmark is
      approximately 900 new cases per year. Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) arises from the renal
      parenchyma and is by far the most common type. In 20-30% of all new cases, metastases exist
      at the time of diagnosis. Up to 25-50 % of patients treated with nephrectomy for localized
      RCC will eventually develop metastases. Untreated, the 5-year survival rate for metastatic
      RCC (mRCC) is 2%, and the median survival is 3 months. Within the last 10 years, an increased
      understanding of kidney cancer biology, and the immune system, has resulted in the
      development and approval of more than 12 new biological drugs. These are characterized by
      inhibiting the formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis inhibitors) or by activating the
      patient's own immune system to attack the cancer disease (check-point inhibitors). Survival
      has significantly improved for the patient group with these drugs. The treatment results in
      control of tumor growth in the majority of patients, for a certain length of time, but should
      be given continuously, has side effects, and is expensive. In case of disease progression,
      treatment is changed to another drug. Thus, treatment for mRCC comprises sequential
      alternating drugs for as long as possible. However, progression is difficult to characterize
      at the right time and approximately 50 % of the patients are 'lost' to further treatment at
      the time of progression and die. The investigators therefore need improved diagnostic tools
      for early or more accurate detection of treatment failure, resulting in appropriate change of
      therapy at the right time. Routinely, treatment efficacy is evaluated by CT scans at baseline
      and every 3 months, using the criteria laid out in RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria
      In Solid Tumors). When interpreting the CT scan, the sizes of target lesions are measured,
      and an increase in the sum of target lesions by 30%, or the appearance of a new lesion, are
      interpreted as disease progression. However, the size of the tumor does not necessarily
      represent biological and physiological changes within the tumor; Tumors treated with
      angiogenesis inhibitors may show little or no change in tumor size, or may enlarge slowly
      during therapy, in spite of clinical benefit to the patient and extended time-to-progression.
      New lesions or tumor enlargement may be seen as part of pseudo-progression in patients
      treated with check-point inhibitors.

      Therefore, the criteria from RECIST 1.1, despite being the best available at the moment, are
      far from an optimal tool for evaluating response and progression in patients with mRCC
      treated with biological therapy.

      Recent studies from the research group behind the current pH.D. project have shown that
      functional imaging with Dynamic Contrast Enhanced Computer Tomography (DCE-CT) was able to
      measure changes in blood flow over time in a single metastasis. Using DCE-CT, the best
      clinical effect of angiogenesis inhibitor therapy was seen in patients with the greatest
      decline in blood volume and blood flow, measured after 1 month of treatment compared with
      baseline. In contrast, patients with low blood volume and low blood flow at baseline had the
      worst survival, with almost no benefit from treatment, regardless of whether they were
      treated with angiogenesis inhibitors or immunotherapy.

      Based on these results, functional imaging using DCE-CT has the potential to serve as a
      predictive and prognostic tool in patients with mRCC. However, the DCE-CT technique can only
      measure functional parameters in one single metastasis and requires use of extra intravenous
      contrast, and increases radiation dose to the patient.

      A new technique, Spectral CT, can visualize and measure functional parameters in all
      metastases in the body, with use of no extra intravenous contrast, and with no extra
      radiation dose compared to conventional CT. Spectral CT can quantify parameters such as
      iodine density and iodine concentration - parameters that could be associated with blood flow
      and blood volume - and also the relative atomic number can be measured. Response evaluation
      criteria in metastatic renal cell carcinoma: Improved assessment of response and progression
      by advanced CT-techniques?

      Technical background

      Spectral-CT adds spectral resolution to traditional CT scans through a new dual-layer
      spectral detector. With an Yttrium-based scintillator, the NanoPanel prism detector
      identifies high-energy and low-energy photons simultaneously, allowing not only anatomy, but
      also color to characterize the material's content of structures. This new technique allows
      the characterization of the metastases with parameters such as: iodine density, iodine
      concentration and the relative atomic number. Spectral CT uses iodinated contrast media -in
      the same dose as conventional CT. The amount of radiation in a Spectral CT is the same as in
      a conventional CT.

      Aims and hypothesis The present study aims to evaluate functional imaging Spectral-CT as
      means to improve evaluation of response and progression in patients with mRCC.

      The aim is to examine the correlation between Spectral-CT parameters and outcome in patients
      with mRCC treated with angiogenesis inhibitors and check-point inhibitor immunotherapy.

      - Spectral-CT parameters at baseline have predictive and prognostic value, and spectral CT
      parameters during treatment are more accurate than RECIST 1.1 in determining response and
      progression.

      Materials and Methods The project is an explorative prospective study, in which the
      investigators will examine the correlation between Spectral-CT functional imaging parameters
      and outcome in patients with mRCC treated with angiogenesis inhibitors and immunotherapy. CT
      will be performed at baseline, after 1 and 3 months and then every 3 months until progression
      or death. CT will be performed using the Spectral IQON scanner from Philips, from which the
      investigators will receive routine CT images, but also Spectral CT-images. In this way the
      patients can be their own control. The investigators plan to include 60 patients.

      Endpoints and data processing In order to evaluate the accuracy of Spectral-CT imaging, the
      clinical endpoints best response, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)
      will be used.

      Patient registry

      Following patient information will be collected from the patients medical record og
      registered:

        -  Demographic data (date of birth, height, weight)

        -  Information about surgical and non-surgical treatment of renal cell carcinoma

        -  The patients list of medication

        -  Localisation of primary tumor and metastasis

        -  Histological parameters

        -  Findings on radiological examinations

        -  Blood tests: hemoglobin, white blood cell count, leucocytes, thrombocytes, creatinin,
           natrium, potassium, bilirubin, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, lactate
           dehydrogenase,calcium, albumine.

        -  Information about oncologic treatment after the patient progresses in actual study

      Ethical Considerations The "Spectral-CT" study is approved by The Central Denmark Region
      Committees on Health Research Ethics (journal no. 1-10-72-242-17) and is approved the Data
      Protection Agency (journal no. 1-16-02-791-17). No procedure in the study will be performed
      before written informed consent has been obtained from each patient.

      4. Perspectives Functional imaging using DCE and Spectral CT is considered a potential, new,
      non-invasive biomarker with the potential to serve as a predictive and prognostic tool.
      Biomarkers have traditionally been developed by analyzing blood or biopsy material.
      Core-needle tumor biopsies are, however, invasive procedures with associated discomfort and
      complications. The development of a non-invasive biomarker, obtained at the same time as
      routine CT assessment, which has potential for treatment selection (predictive tool) and
      improved prognostication, would therefore be a significant advance for patient with mRCC. To
      our knowledge no previous studies have investigated he correlation between DCE-CT parameters
      and the amount of blood vessels in tumor biopsies. Nor have Spectral CT been used as
      evaluation of response and progression in mRCC patients. The present study has the potential
      to develop an updated RECIST - integrating tumor size with functional information. This could
      give a more precise assessment of oncological treatment, thereby improving patient care.
    
  