
    
      Patients will be recruited from Dr. Matthew Lee-Wing's practice. Eligible participants
      include those requiring bilateral blepharoptosis repair requiring an anterior surgical
      approach. The patient will need to have a similar degree of ptosis in each eye (as measured
      by each eye's "Marginal Reflex Distance #1"). Patients will be given information regarding
      the outcomes of interest, and informed re: risks and benefits of participating.

      Upon agreeing to participate, the patient will be asked to sign a consent form indicating
      their wish to participate in the study (see below).

      Each patient will have blepharoptosis repair surgery on both of their eyes. One eye will act
      as a control in that the operation will proceed in a manner in-line with current practice (IE
      with subcutaneous local anesthetic alone). The other eye will receive both subcutaneous local
      anesthetic, as well as an additional injection of local anesthetic underneath the conjunctiva
      of the upper eyelid (IE on the inner surface of the eyelid). The eye/side receiving only the
      standard, subcutaneous local anesthetic will also receive a sham injection of normal saline
      in order to prevent the patient from knowing which side is receiving the additional
      anesthetic dose. Dr. Lee-Wing will perform all of the surgeries within the study, and will be
      blinded as to which patient is receiving the additional anesthetic. The blinding will be
      accomplished by the assisting treatment room nurse, who will use an algorithm to randomly
      select which eyelid will receive the subconjunctival Xylocaine and which will receive the
      subconjunctival Normal Saline.

      Following their procedure, each patient will complete a questionnaire designed to assess
      their intraoperative pain.

      Statistical analysis will be performed, and will compare the patient's intraoperative pain
      rating for the eyelid that received the sham Normal Saline injection and the eyelid that
      received the Xylocaine injection. The presence of post-operative lagophthalmos/fluorescein
      staining will be compared between the two groups, as will the post-operative Marginal Reflex
      Distance 1. The above comparisons will be made using McNemar's test.
    
  