
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the progression free survival duration of patients treated with the combination
      of pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase PH20 (PEGPH20) and pembrolizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of PEGPH20 and pembrolizumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate objective response rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) and Immune-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST) criteria,
      duration of response (DOR), disease control rate (DCR), time to progression (TTP) and
      progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST and iRECIST as assessed by M.D. Anderson
      investigators and overall survival (OS) of the combination of pembrolizumab and PEGPH20.

      II. To explore the association between PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC), shed
      PD-L1 level, hyaluronan (HA) levels, somatic gene expression profiling and antitumor efficacy
      of the combination of pembrolizumab and PEGPH20 based on RECIST 1.1 as well as OS.

      III. To explore the relationship between genomic variation and response to study treatment.

      IV. To examine the effect of pembrolizumab and PEGPH20 on immune cell infiltration into
      tumor.

      V. To explore the effect of PEGPH20 on serum HA levels, and to compare changes in serum HA
      with clinical efficacy.

      VI. To determine the impact of the combination of pembrolizumab and PEGPH20 on circulating
      immune cells.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1 and pegylated
      recombinant human hyaluronidase PH20 subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat
      every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 9 and
      12 weeks.
    
  