
    
      This trial is taking place in Los Angeles, CA among patients from primary care practices
      within the UCLA Health System, using a parallel 2-arm trial.

      Sub-optimal vaccination rates are a significant problem in the U.S., despite their
      effectiveness in preventing morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable illness. In the
      U.S., annual epidemics of influenza cause substantial morbidity in the U.S. with up to
      40,00-80,000 deaths/year and many hospitalizations, emergency and outpatient visits, and
      significant costs.

      Young children-especially those younger than 2- are at high risk of developing serious
      flu-related complications. Children ages of 6 months to 8 years getting vaccinated for the
      first time with influenza vaccine should get two doses, and those who have only previously
      gotten one dose of influenza vaccine, should get a second dose (spaced at least 4 weeks
      apart).

      Reminder/recall (R/R) messages, sent by phone, mail or other modality, can improve child
      vaccination rates. However, the majority of pediatric or adult primary care practices to not
      conduct R/R. Barriers are lack of finances, personnel, and algorithms to identify eligible
      patients. A technological breakthrough that might overcome these barriers involves patient
      portals-- secure, web-based communication systems, embedded within electronic health records
      (EHRs), for patients and providers to communicate with each other via email and the internet.
      Portals are increasingly used by healthcare systems.

      This randomized controlled trial will assess the effectiveness of reminders messages, sent to
      the proxy of pediatric patients ages 6 months to <36 months of age eligible for a second dose
      of the influenza vaccine based on data in the EHR. Patients will be randomized into one of
      two arms to receive 1) a reminder letter for a second dose of influenza vaccine, with a
      direct appointment scheduling link included in the letter or 2) a reminder letter for a
      second dose of influenza vaccine, without a direct appointment scheduling link included in
      the letter.
    
  