
    
      Junior doctors starting work in psychiatry soon encounter a number of situations in the
      workplace for which they have had little or no preparation either at medical school or from
      work in other specialities. They will encounter clinically complex situations such as rapid
      tranquillisation, crisis presentations of self-harm, suicide risk assessment, overseeing
      supervised confinement and making decisions to admit or discharge mentally ill patients.
      Furthermore, many of these situations occur out of hours when there is little direct senior
      supervision available. The traditional induction programme is delivered in a didactic format,
      which does not encourage effective learning, nor does it allow any opportunity to practise or
      acquire hands-on skills or non-technical skills such as interprofessional communication,
      leadership and situational awareness. In the interests of patient safety and improving the
      quality of care and patient's experience, there is an urgent need to identify ways of
      improving induction and quickly equipping junior doctors with the clinical skills necessary
      to practise safely in psychiatry. We propose to evaluate and compare two approached to
      improved skills training in psychiatry: 1. workplace-based observation and feedback; 2.
      simulation training.

      All new junior doctors starting work in the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust,
      London, UK, in August 2011 will be invited to take part in a randomised controlled trial of
      training in addition to the standard induction. Following a day of lectures on relevant
      clinical topics, participants will be randomly allocated to receive either observed
      workplace-based training by a more senior doctor during their on-call duties, or a two-day
      simulation-based training course. Before and after the training, assessments of participants'
      clinical skills and attitudes will be carried out by questionnaires and by observations of
      simulated clinical encounters. Changes in performance will be compared between the two
      groups. Longer term evaluation will be carried out by means of qualitative interviews and
      simulated clinical encounters once participants have been working for several months.
    
  