
    
      This was a randomized, parallel group, multi-center study. Screening Visit (visit 1)
      Subjects, parents, and the investigator signed and dated the informed consent after which
      subject eligibility was checked. Eligible subjects were entered in the baseline period.

      Baseline Period (between visits 1 and 2) Eligible subjects entered an 8-week baseline period
      during which a seizure count was done. During this period, subjects and caregivers were
      contacted on a regular basis to ensure up to date information collection.

      At the end of the baseline period, subjects who continued to be eligible were stratified
      based on previous therapy history (Early: previously treated with 2 to 5 AEDs versus
      Non-early: previously treated with >5 AEDs). Within each stratification, the investigator
      randomized each subject to receive one of the 2 treatments (VNS Therapy treatment or AED
      treatment) at the end of visit 2 using a randomization schedule provided by an independent
      third party (Synergos).

      Implantation/AED Treatment Initiation (visit 3) For subjects randomized to the AED arm, a new
      AED treatment was initiated and gradually increased to an effective dose in accordance with
      the investigator's discretion and the manufacturer's suggested guidelines.

      Subjects randomized to the VNS treatment arm were implanted with the VNS Therapy System and
      allowed adequate surgical recovery according to usual clinical practice before initiation of
      treatment. A delay of 2 weeks between the end of the baseline period and surgery was
      authorized to allow practical organization of the implantation. Extension of this period was
      approved in advance by the Study Director or his delegate.

      Treatment Ramp-up (between visits 3 and 4) This ramp-up period for both AEDs and VNS may have
      taken up to 9 weeks, ending at visit 4. Additional visits were scheduled outside of the study
      protocol to adequately accommodate Treatment Ramp-up as needed. Initiation of treatments as
      well as the ramp-up schedule was documented in the Case Report Forms.

      Study Treatment Period The Study Treatment Period was 12 months (52 weeks) following visit 3
      and including Treatment Ramp-up. Because this study was designed to compare the natural
      course of treatment, changes in the study AED dose (for the AED group) or VNS stimulation
      parameters (for the VNS Therapy group) were allowed as clinically indicated during the Study
      Treatment Period. The protocol allowed approximately a 10% increase in baseline AED to allow
      for an increase in growth of the patient in the VNS arm.

      Study End At the end of the study, subjects in the AED group who had not had significant
      improvement after all study assessments were completed were offered a VNS device
      implantation. Subjects in the VNS arm who had not had adequate improvement were evaluated for
      AED treatment.

      Number of Subjects: Approximately 400 subjects were to be randomized at a 1:1 ratio to either
      AED or VNS treatment strata. Strata were to be according the AED treatment history (Early
      subjects were previously treated and failed treatment with 2 to 5 AEDs, Non-early subjects
      were treated and failed treatment with >5 AEDs). At least 15 study sites were to enroll
      subjects. Initially, only United Kingdom (UK) sites were to be selected. During the course of
      the trial, an extension was used to add non-UK centers.

      A total of 151 subjects underwent screening prior to enrollment. Eight failed screening, and
      143 went on to be randomized. Of those randomized, 8 subjects (4 in each of the treatment
      groups) were not treated. One patient in the VNS arm was explanted prior to initiation of
      device stimulation, so they were excluded. Therefore, 134 subjects were treated (ITT
      population): 65 were implanted with the VNS system and 69 were treated with AED. Nineteen
      investigational sites in the UK, Austria, Belgium, Germany, and Sweden participated in this
      study and enrolled subjects.

      Study Duration: The maximum study follow-up was approximately 14 months from enrollment to
      study exit. The study was terminated due to insufficient enrollment prior to reaching the 400
      subjects as specified in the protocol. After 4.5 years of enrollment, the Sponsor terminated
      enrollment and followed the remaining subjects out to the 52 week follow-up visit.
    
  