
    
      This study will evaluate the efficacy of a risk avoidance program for middle school students
      and a theoretically-comparable risk reduction program relative to standard care. The study
      design is a randomized controlled trial conducted in fifteen inner-city middle schools in
      Houston, Texas. Five schools were randomly assigned to a risk avoidance intervention, five to
      a risk reduction intervention, and five to a comparison (standard care) condition.
      Approximately, 1,800 7th grade students were recruited into the study and will be followed
      over a three-year period. Based on a formative study, a pilot study, and input from community
      groups and a national panel of experts, two comparable curricula were developed. The risk
      avoidance curriculum emphasizes sexual abstinence until marriage and includes the
      requirements for abstinence education as defined in Title V, Section 510. The risk reduction
      curriculum emphasizes abstinence and addresses condom and contraceptive use. The risk
      avoidance and risk reduction interventions each consist of an age-appropriate classroom
      curriculum and a CD-ROM-based tailored intervention delivered in 7th and 8th grade. Each
      intervention was delivered by trained facilitators. The effect of the interventions will be
      evaluated by assessing sexual risk-taking behaviors of participants in each intervention
      (proportion of students initiating sexual intercourse, proportion that are sexually active,
      number of times of unprotected sex, number of sexual partners) relative to the comparison
      group. Risk assessment data from students was collected by using an audio computer-assisted
      self-interview (ACASI) approach for the collection of baseline, 6-, 18-, and 24-month data.
      Parental permission and child assent were required prior to participation. In addition, we
      will conduct a 36-month follow-up survey and a one-time urine-based test for chlamydia,
      gonorrhea, and trichomonas which will provide additional longitudinal data to assess the
      impact of each curriculum, relative to standard care.
    
  