
    
      Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) is a common vascular disorder that that affects approximately 10%
      of the general population. RP causes some areas of the body (i.e. fingers and toes) to feel
      cold and numb in response to cold exposure or emotional stress. Raynaud's phenomenon is
      characterized by reversible vasospasm of the fingers and toes. This reversible narrowing of
      the small arteries induces episodes of color changes of the fingers and toes. During an
      attack of Raynaud's, affected areas of the skin usually first turn white, then they often
      turn blue and feel cold and numb (pins and needles). As the fingers warm and circulation
      improves the affected areas may turn red, throb and tingle.

      Moreover, Raynaud's phenomenon can be associated with significant morbidity that may include
      ulceration of fingers and loss of the fingers and toes due to repeated episodes of reversible
      narrowing of arteries supplying blood to the finger and toes. It is well known that cold
      exposure leads to episodes of RP, but the mechanism for cold sensitivity is not known, and
      treatment of RP is not satisfactory to the patients and their physicians.

      Raynaud's phenomenon is classified as Primary Raynaud's phenomenon (PRP) in the absence of
      other vascular or connective tissue disease. Raynaud's phenomenon is classified as Secondary
      Raynaud's phenomenon (SRP) if it is associated with connective tissue disease, like systemic
      sclerosis (SSc, Scleroderma).

      Treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon is not satisfactory in general, as current therapy
      employing calcium channel blockers and other vasodilators are frequently ineffective or not
      well tolerated, due to significant side effects.

      Noninvasive vagus nerve stimulation (nVNS) is currently FDA approved for therapeutic uses in
      patient ages 12 and above to treat cluster and migraine headaches. Recent studies have shown
      that vagal nerve stimulation has vasodilatory and anti-inflammatory properties which has led
      to more preclinical research examining vagus nerve stimulation as treatment for a wider range
      of inflammatory and autoimmune disorders. Vagus nerve stimulation has shown promising results
      in treating chronic inflammatory disorders such as sepsis, lung injury, rheumatoid arthritis,
      and diabetes. Although there are no direct data to demonstrate vagus nerve stimulation's
      effect in Raynaud's phenomenon, the investigators believe that VNS's success in treating
      headache and migraine attacks indirectly support its use in Raynaud's phenomenon by its
      direct effect on vasospasms (narrowing of blood vessels). In fact migraine has been found as
      a risk factor for the development of Raynaud's phenomenon further supports this notion.

      GammaCore is a safe and effective non-drug treatment approved for treating cluster and
      migraine headaches. It is a patented device that activates the vagus nerve with gentle
      electrical stimulation. The vagus nerve is an important highway of communication between the
      brain and many parts of the body, it plays an important role in regulating pain. Noninvasive
      vagus nerve stimulation with GammaCore is believed to help block the pain signals that cause
      migraines and cluster headaches. Unlike traditional vagus nerve stimulation therapies,
      gammaGore stimulates the vagus nerve through the skin at the side of the neck without the
      need for surgery. This non-invasive method avoids many side effects and inconveniences
      associated with injectable, inhaled or pill-based medication.

      The investigators' goal is to test the possibility that noninvasive vagus nerve stimulation
      using gammaCore may be an effective and well tolerated therapy for Raynaud's phenomenon. The
      investigators aim to gain a fundamental understanding of the role of noninvasive vagus nerve
      stimulation as a potential therapy for Raynaud's phenomenon, a truly unmet medical need.
    
  