
    
      Cancer presents a major disease burden across the globe. The incidence and mortality of
      gynecologic cancers have increased significantly in China over the last two decades with
      breast and endometrial cancer as leading causes of death in women in China. Obesity,
      especially abdominal obesity, and unhealthy lifestyles are major risk factors for breast and
      endometrial cancer. A high risk group for obesity is mothers with dependent children as they
      have high levels of stress and family responsibilities that prevent regular engagement in a
      healthy lifestyle and early screening activities. Because reducing postmenopausal abdominal
      obesity is very difficult and because of the significant increased risk for gynecologic
      cancers in obese postmenopausal women, interventions that aim to reduce abdominal obesity and
      improve healthy lifestyle behaviors in premenopausal women with children are critical to
      reducing the growing cancer burden in China. A smartphone-based intervention provides a
      promising platform for obesity and cancer prevention. In this proposed study, the research
      team will modify the Healthy Mothers Healthy Children: Technology-Based Intervention to
      Prevent Obesity, which was developed by the principal investigator. The proposed intervention
      (titled "The Smartphone-Based Cancer and Obesity Prevention Education Program for Chinese
      Women: SCOPE-Chinese Women") is a smartphone-based, data-driven, and individually tailored
      intervention. It includes 12 weekly educational modules and six bi-weekly tailored messages
      delivered via WeChat, a popular communication app in China. The intervention will also be
      tailored to the participants' behaviors, personal needs, and preferences. The overall goal of
      this proposed study is to assess the feasibility and estimate the preliminary efficacy of the
      SCOPE-Chinese Women intervention using a randomized control study design (RCT). The following
      aims will be addressed.

      Aim 1: To assess the feasibility of the smartphone-based lifestyle intervention (i.e.,
      SCOPE-Chinese Women).

      Aim 2: To estimate the preliminary efficacy of the SCOPE-Chinese Women intervention on the
      primary outcome (waist circumference) and secondary outcomes (body mass index, self-efficacy,
      food intake, physical activity, and metabolic risk) between the intervention and control
      groups at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.

      Aim 3: To understand participants' acceptance, barriers to adherence, and recommendations for
      intervention.
    
  