
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor inhibitor represents the
      standard of care for the long-term secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in
      patients with myocardial infarction (MI). The novel P2Y12 receptor inhibitors prasugrel and
      ticagrelor are characterized by more prompt, potent, and predictable antiplatelet effects
      compared with clopidogrel and are associated with a greater reduction of ischemic events in
      acute coronary syndrome patients. However, rates of ischemic recurrences remain high, which
      may be in part due to the fact that other platelet signaling pathways, such as
      thrombin-induced platelet aggregation, continue to be activated. Vorapaxar is a novel, orally
      active, competitive and slowly reversible protease-activated receptor (PAR)-1 inhibitor,
      which exerts potent inhibition of thrombin-mediated platelet aggregation. It is approved for
      clinical use by the Food and Drug Administration for the reduction of thrombotic
      cardiovascular events in patients with a history of MI or with peripheral arterial disease. A
      large-scale clinical trial showed that the use of vorapaxar (2.5 mg once/daily) in addition
      to standard antiplatelet therapy (including aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor inhibitor) was
      effective in the secondary prevention of recurrent thrombotic events in patients with
      previous atherothrombosis, in particular in patients with prior MI, at the expense of an
      increase in major bleeding. However, to date clinical trial experience with vorapaxar has
      been almost exclusively with the P2Y12 receptor inhibitor clopidogrel and the effects of
      vorapaxar in combination with state-of-the-art antiplatelet therapy in the post-MI setting,
      including prasugrel or ticagrelor, is largely unexplored. This may indeed represent a
      limitation for the uptake of vorapaxar in modern day clinical practice where these agents are
      being more broadly utilized. Further, the role of vorapaxar as part of a dual antithrombotic
      treatment regimen, in addition to a novel P2Y12 receptor inhibitor, with withdrawal of
      aspirin, represents another important area of clinical interest as it has the potential to
      maximize ischemic protection while reducing the risk of bleeding. The proposed prospective,
      randomized, parallel-design, open label, study conducted in a real world clinical setting of
      post-MI patients will aim to assess the pharmacodynamic effects of vorapaxar in addition to
      antiplatelet therapy with a novel P2Y12 receptor inhibitor (prasugrel or ticagrelor) with and
      without aspirin. Pharmacodynamic assessments will be performed at multiple time points and
      with different assays exploring multiple pathways of platelet aggregation. Exploratory
      assessments on the safety of such approach will also be evaluated.
    
  