
    
      One of the most common problems facing the dentist in daily practice is the treatment of the
      chromatic alterations of the teeth, both of extrinsic origin and of intrinsic origin. The
      former, caused by the incorporation of chromogenic materials into enamel and dentin, either
      before or after the tooth eruption, require more complex and usually more aggressive
      treatments in order to eliminate them. On the other hand, the latter, caused by the
      deposition of pigments or detritus on the tooth surface, are usually removed more easily,
      causing little or no damage to the enamel.

      However, among the latter, black extrinsic dental stains caused by pigmented bacteria
      represent a clear exception to the rule. These deposits, which manifest in the form of points
      or lines of black color located parallel to the gingival margin of the teeth in the cervical
      third, are firmly attached to the enamel, making them very difficult to remove.

      Although the exact etiology of the formation of dental black stain due to pigmented bacteria
      is not clear, it has been suggested that it arises due to the production of a pigment with
      characteristics similar to protohemin and protoporphyrin by black-pigmented bacteria. The
      application of light to inactivate and disinfect intraoral sites is gaining interest in the
      field of dentistry. Antimicrobial photodynamic therapy is defined as the inactivation of
      cells, microorganisms or molecules induced by light. The mechanism of action of photodynamic
      therapy is defined as the process by which a photosensitizer (photoactivable substance) is
      captured by microorganisms and, after exposure to light at an appropriate wavelength, remains
      in an excited state. The photosensitizer then transfers energy from light to oxygen molecules
      to generate singlet oxygen and free radicals that are cytotoxic to the cells.

      Published studies suggest that antimicrobial photodynamic therapy can effectively reduce the
      population of microbial pathogens, also presenting the following advantages: absence of
      phototoxic effect for human cells, possible clinical, microbiological and immunological
      benefits, rapid and painless application of light, penetration of light into tissues and
      plaque and, thereby, elimination of bacteria present in gingival epithelial cells, and
      finally, selectivity towards pathogenic microorganisms.

      The main objective of this research is the application of antimicrobial photodynamic therapy
      in the control of dental black stain caused by pigmented bacteria.
    
  