
    
      Service disengagement is one of the most pervasive and challenging problems currently facing
      the mental health care system. No matter how effective mental health services are now or
      become in the future, they are of little value should persons with mental illnesses continue
      to choose not to receive them. Consumers have attributed their disengagement from care to
      having poor alliances with care providers, including experiences of not being listened to and
      not being offered the opportunity to make decisions and collaborate in their own treatment.
      In response, the mental health system is moving toward a more person-centered model, based
      upon recovery principles, to engage consumers more actively in their care. While states have
      embraced this model in theory, they are now looking for guidance as to how best to implement
      this model in practice, including how to maximize service quality and consumer outcomes given
      the limited resources available to them for workforce development.

      The proposed study tackles this pressing issue by testing the effectiveness of
      Person-Centered Care Planning (PCCP). By targeting treatment planning - a process that is
      common across clinical interventions - PCCP has the potential to enhance evidence based
      practices. PCCP is a field-tested intervention designed to maximize consumer choice and
      ownership of the treatment process.Providers collaborate with consumers to develop customized
      plans that identify life goals and potential barriers to achieving them. PCCP is implemented
      agency-wide through clinical supervisor trainings, which provide an experiential teaching
      program and tools to translate the practice to frontline clinicians.

      Our controlled trial will randomize community mental health centers from two states to
      receive either PCCP or treatment as usual. The study will conduct surveys of agency providers
      to assess the impact of PCCP on transformational leadership, recovery orientation, and
      organizational readiness. Provider PCCP competency associated with the intervention will be
      measured via provider surveys and client medical record review. Client outcomes will include
      service engagement, satisfaction with services, adherence, employment, housing, and social
      support. Client outcomes will be measured using secondary data from agency, state and federal
      datasets. Qualitative inquiry will be used to better understand the care planning and
      implementation process associated with the intervention. Focus groups will be conducted with
      providers and consumers in the experimental sites. The specific aims of the study are:

        1. Assess the effectiveness of PCCP. H1: Relative to treatment as usual, a significantly
           larger proportion of participants receiving PCCP will engage in services, have greater
           satisfaction with services, and have improved outcomes.

        2. Assess the effect of organizational factors on the implementation and effectiveness of
           PCCP

        3. Use qualitative methods to understand how care planning impacts service engagement and
           how implementation processes influence organizational and provider level behavior.

      Designed to bridge the science to services gap, this statewide study focuses on how agencies
      can bring about the wholesale transformation needed to deliver sustainable person-centered
      care. This study is the first of its kind to examine the synergy between PCCP, sophisticated
      organizational change methods, and provider level training, and to document their impact on
      consumer outcomes. This investigative team brings together experts in PCCP and recovery with
      experts in services and implementation research to generate valuable guidance for how state
      systems engaged in the transformation process can best use their limited resources during
      times of significant fiscal constraint.
    
  