
    
      The "Collaborative Problem Solving" model was developed by Greene for the treatment of youth
      with oppositional behavior, and is now called Collaborative & Proactive Solutions (CPS). The
      aim of CPS is to help caregivers and children practice and learn problem solving strategies
      in collaboration. The theoretical base of the model is that problematic behavior is mainly
      caused by lagging skills, especially regarding frustration tolerance, flexibility and problem
      solving ability. The CPS model engages both the child and the parents in training, and may
      therefore have potential to give long-term improvement of lagging skills in handling
      problematic situations and to change the mindset towards strategies of mutual problem
      solving.

      The CPS model was evaluated in a United States trial comparing CPS to Barkley's Parent
      Management Training program (PMT) in 47 children aged 4-12 years with ODD and affective
      dysregulation. Outcomes were similar between the two methods in most measures post-treatment
      and at 4 months follow-up. A recent larger randomized controlled US trial enrolled 134
      children with ODD, aged 7 - 14 years, who were randomized to three groups (CPS, PMT or
      Waitlist Control). Both treatment groups had equivalent results in treatment response and
      remission of diagnostic status (50% were much to very much improved and no longer met
      diagnostic criteria), and both were superior to the WLC condition.

      The first Swedish study of CPS, published by our research team 2012, was a small open pilot
      trial of 3 months CPS for 17 families and children aged 7-13 years, with ADHD, ODD and
      explosive behavior, showed promising results. At post-treatment 53% of the children were much
      or very much improved on global symptom and function ratings (Clinical Global
      Impression-Improvement; CGI-I rating 1-2), and after another 6 months when the children with
      severe residual ADHD symptoms also had received stimulant medication, 81% reached CGI-I
      levels of 1-2.

      Thus previous research has suggested that CPS is an effective treatment for ODD in youth, but
      effectiveness in samples of children with various neurodevelopmental disorders has not yet
      been documented. Oppositional and explosive behavior is a major problem among youth with
      neurodevelopmental disorders and the demand for treatment strategies is great.

      Experiences from treatment of children with complex neurodevelopmental disorders - ESSENCE
      (mainly including autism) have led the therapists in our team to make ESSENCE-adapted
      modifications to the CPS model, particularly regarding communication, structure,
      predictability, and focusing on the child's interests to facilitate interaction. We therefore
      designed a new model, based on our CPS-experience, that we now refer to as PR-ESSENCE
      (Problem Resolution in ESSENCE). During the early phases of this study, Dr. Greene gave
      advice and supervision to our treatment team, and the whole PR-ESSENCE model would not have
      been developed without this input.

      Research questions

        1. Can the PR-ESSENCE model reduce problematic behaviors? Outcome measures are the rating
           scales Swanson, Nolan and Pelham scale (SNAP-IV), Family Burden of Illness Module
           (FBIM), Eyberg Child Behavior Inventory (ECBI), Clinical Global Impression-Severity
           scale (CGI-S), Clinical Global Impression-Improvement scale (CGI-I) (see below).

        2. Can the PR-ESSENCE model contribute to solve specific problem situations. Outcome
           measure is a Problem Rating Scale developed for this study

        3. Can the PR-ESSENCE model improve psychiatric well-being and self-image in the
           participants? Outcome measure is the Beck Youth Inventories.

      Method The present study is designed to investigate how well PR-ESSENCE works for challenging
      behaviors in well-defined clinical samples of children with complex neurodevelopmental
      disorders. Participants are children and adolescents aged 5-18 years, with any
      neurodevelopmental diagnosis, and with intellectual level in the normal range.

      After neuropsychiatric assessment and diagnosis at our centre or at the Child Psychiatry
      Centres in Gothenburg 130 children and adolescents aged 5-18 years with complex
      neurodevelopmental disorders (i.e. autism, ADHD, learning disorders, dyslexia, tics, and
      Conduct Disorder) and problematic behaviors are invited to participate in the trial. They are
      randomized to a PR-ESSENCE treatment group and a control group. The treatment group receives
      PR-ESSENCE for 10 weeks. The control group receives 10 weeks of "treatment as usual (TAU)"
      (that is the standard psychoeducation, support and treatment given to all youth after
      neuropsychiatric assessment at our clinic), followed by 10 weeks of PR-ESSENCE. Outcome
      measures are collected pre- and post-treatment, and after 6 months and one year. During the
      PR-ESSENCE treatment period the parents and children meet the therapists at approximately 10
      visits, at which they collaborate to find problem solving strategies, which they then
      practice at home between visits.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. Children and adolescents aged 5-18 years with neurodevelopmental disorders and serious
           problematic behaviors.

        2. Intellectual function in the normal range, according to WISC-test and clinical judgment

        3. Participants taking psychoactive medication can be included if the medication has been
           unchanged for at least one month before baseline, and remains unchanged during the
           treatment period.

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Bipolar disorder, psychosis, or other unstable psychiatric or medical disorder which in
           the investigator's judgment makes participation in the trial unsuitable.

        2. Substance use.

      Outcome measures The following measures are collected at baseline (pre-treatment), after the
      treatment/TAU period (post-treatment), after 6 months (6-month follow-up) and 1 year
      (one-year follow-up). To obtain results from different perspectives ratings from four sources
      were used, i.e. ratings by independent blinded assessors, and by parents, children and
      therapists.

      Rating of independent blinded assessor CGI-I: Scale for global rating of improvement or
      deterioration of problems/symptoms (scale from 1-7; 1 very much improved, 7 very much worse)
      CGI-S: Scale for global rating of problem/symptom severity (scale from 1-7; 1 no problems, 7
      very severe problems)

      Parent ratings SNAP-IV - rating scale for ADHD symptoms FBIM - rating scale of family
      stress/burden ECBI - rating of behavior problems

      Child self-rating Beck Youth Inventories: For rating of depression, anxiety, irritability,
      externalizing behavior, and self image (child interviewed).

      Therapist ratings Problem Rating Scale (in which the severity of the problematic situations
      before and after treatment is rated)
    
  