
    
      This is a reference scaled bioequivalence study to support a generic consistency evaluation
      program, initiated by CFDA in 2016, for the evaluation of quality and efficacy of the
      products manufactured in China. The selected strength of 250 mg tablet is the approved
      strength. The primary objective is to demonstrate the bioequivalence between the 250 mg
      azithromycin tablet manufactured at Pfizer Dalian, China (the localized originator, Test) and
      the 250 mg azithromycin tablet manufactured at Pfizer Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, US (the
      originator, Reference) in healthy Chinese subjects under fasted (Group 1) and fed (Group 2)
      conditions. Approximately 33 Chinese healthy subjects will be enrolled for each group.

      The primary endpoints are azithromycin area under the serum concentration-time curve from
      time zero to 72 hours post-dose (AUC72) and Cmax.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of azithromycin
      administered as a single oral dose of 250 mg tablet manufactured at Pfizer Dalian, China and
      250 mg tablet manufactured at Pfizer Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, US in healthy Chinese subjects
      under fasted and fed conditions. And the secondary endpoint is adverse events (AEs). Other
      endpoints include Tmax of azithromycin, safety laboratory tests and vital signs.

      In each group, subjects will be randomized to one of the 3 treatment sequences. Each
      treatment sequence will consist of 3 periods, separated by a washout period of at least 14
      days between each period.

      On Day 1 of each period in both groups, each subject will be administered investigational
      product at approximately 8:00 AM (± 2 hours). Blood samples for the analysis of azithromycin
      in serum will be collected at pre-dose (within 30 minutes prior to dosing) and at 0.5, 1, 2,
      3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours post dose in each period. Vital signs, physical
      examination, laboratory tests and 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) will be performed at
      specified times. Tolerability and safety will be assessed for all treatments by monitoring
      AEs.
    
  