
    
      Therapeutic thoracentesis aims to drain fluid from the pleural space to alleviate
      breathlessness. The amount of and speed with which the fluid can be safely drained in one
      setting is unclear, and likely depends on the physiology of the pleural effusion. The
      principle concern when draining a large amount of fluid quickly from the pleural space is
      that excessively negative pleural pressure may be generated; this occurs if the lung is
      unable to freely re-expand into the space previously occupied by fluid. Excessively negative
      pleural pressure and the resulting high transpulmonary pressure gradient are thought to be
      associated with several complications, including pneumothorax ex vacuo, chest discomfort, and
      re-expansion pulmonary edema (REPE). Evidence suggests that monitoring pleural pressures
      during thoracentesis via manometry does not mitigate this problem. In fact, data shows that
      whether manometry is used or not, most patients do experience clinically significant increase
      in chest discomfort during thoracentesis. Current methods for draining the pleural fluid
      include suction- (via vacuum bottles, wall suction or the use of large syringes with a
      one-way valve tubing system) or gravity-driven thoracentesis. Pressures generated by all
      suction techniques range from -200 to -500 cmH2O, and far exceed what are considered safe
      pleural pressures. Accordingly, in case of non-expandable lung, excessively negative
      pressures may develop quickly, exposing patients to complications. Some clinicians advocate
      for gravity drainage, which generates less negative pressures in the pleural space
      (specifically defined as the vertical distance between the catheter and the drainage bag,
      generally around -50 to -100 cmH20). While this technique is considered standard of care by
      some as it is potentially more comfortable for patients, it is also likely associated with
      longer procedures, and is not generally favored by clinicians who in general prefer suction
      drainage, despite the possible higher risk of complications.The investigators propose to
      study the impact of gravity- versus suction-driven large volume therapeutic thoracentesis on
      the development of chest discomfort during the procedure, and consider as secondary
      endpoints: the duration of the procedure, the amount of pleural fluid drained, the rate of
      REPE, the rate of pneumothorax ex vacuo.
    
  