
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Tucson Epidemiology Study of Chronic Obstructive Lung Diseases had been supported by the
      Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) mechanism since 1971. The SCOR mechanism was instituted
      to advance basic knowledge and to generate the most effective techniques and methods of
      clinical management and prevention.

      In 1970, the chronic obstructive lung diseases (COLD) of bronchitis, emphysema, and asthma
      were the tenth leading cause of death in the United States. At that time United States
      mortality from emphysema had been increasing at the rate of 20-25 percent per year. In 1969
      the death rate for COLD as a whole was 15.6 per 100,000 and that rate was considered to be
      only about one-half of all those deaths in which COLD was either an underlying or an
      important contributory cause. By 1986 COLD had risen to be the fifth leading cause of death
      in the United States with a death rate of 31.3 per 100,000.

      By 1972 many prevalence surveys had been conducted in the United States and abroad on
      specific subgroups of populations. At that time, most longitudinal studies were limited in
      the scope of examinations conducted, dealt with restricted age groups, and conducted few
      studies of familial concordance of diseases. The Tucson study was designed to include a wide
      age span, family units, and a variety of features relating to reversible or irreversible
      obstructive lung disease.

      Studies have provided evidence relating acute lower respiratory tract illnesses in the first
      few years of life to the development of chronic lung disease in later life. Epidemiologic
      studies have demonstrated that geographic areas with high morbidity and mortality rates due
      to chronic obstructive lung disease among adults are also likely to show a high incidence of
      respiratory illness among children. A number of risk factors may be associated with lower
      respiratory tract illness in children. Some studies suggested that familial or genetic
      factors may predispose certain children to respiratory disorders early in life. Family size,
      viral and bacterial infections, allergic reaction, air pollution, gas stoves, formaldehyde,
      and passive smoking have all been implicated. Research was needed on the interrelationships
      of potential risk factors and lower respiratory tract infections in producing chronic
      respiratory disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The Tucson Study of Chronic Obstructive Lung Diseases was longitudinal in design. By 1986,
      nine surveys had been completed on 70 percent of the same population surveyed at baseline in
      1972. Data collected in the surveys included basic standardized questionnaires and maximum
      expiratory flow volume (MEFV) curves using the same pneumotachograph equipment. Additional
      questionnaires were included on smoking, medical and occupational history, socio-economic
      characteristics, and height and weight measurements. Blood was sampled for studies of
      alpha-1-antitrypsin level. Several surveys included allergy skin testing, blood pressure, and
      anthropometric measurements. Studies of the 504 out-migrants continued since 1982. Twelve
      surveys were planned to insure a follow-up of at least 15 years on all adults.

      Funding represented approximately 26 percent of the dollars of the Specialized Center of
      Research in Chronic Diseases of the Airways (P5OHL14136) used to support the Tucson Study.

      Childrens' Respiratory Study of Tucson was also longitudinal in design and assessed the role
      of infectious, physiologic, immunologic, allergic, genetic, environmental, and familial
      factors in the development of acute and chronic lower respiratory tract illnesses in
      childhood. Enrollment of the study population and their families occurred between May 1980
      and October 1984. Healthy infants were enrolled within a few days of birth, at which time
      baseline data were collected. Cord and 9-month bloods were evaluated for a number of
      immunologic tests. In the first few months of life, prior to any lower respiratory tract
      illnesses, a subset of the population underwent pulmonary function testing. During lower
      respiratory tract illness, specimens were obtained for viral, chlamydial, and mycoplasma
      cultures and tests. Environmental factors evaluated included passive smoking, number of
      siblings, overcrowding, and air pollution. Data collection was continued on the children and
      their family members over the years.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  