
    
      This study will explore the effectiveness of the Fall TIPS (Tailoring Interventions for
      Patient Safety) program in regard to inpatient falls and fall-related injuries in three large
      hospital systems with different Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). We will collect and
      evaluate data on the perceived effectiveness of the Fall TIPS implementation process along
      with stakeholders' views of the toolkit. We will use an interrupted time series approach for
      evaluation of pre and post-Fall TIPS data related to patient falls and injurious falls. We
      will systematically analyze the costs and benefits of the Fall TIPS program from two
      perspectives: (1) the hospital, and (2) society as a whole. The hospital perspective will
      assist other hospitals in evaluating the decision to invest in implementing and adopting the
      Fall TIPS program, while the societal perspective will be instructive from a public policy
      stance

      By the end of the study, we will produce a set of recommendations to facilitate adoption,
      implementation, and maintenance of the Fall TIPS program, along with a manuscript that will
      answer the following research questions:

        1. Does Fall TIPS reduce the incidence of falls and injurious falls?

        2. Were there differences in Fall TIPS effectiveness among different healthcare systems and
           hospitals as well as variations associated with differing patient characteristics
           (gender, age, ethnic/racial), EMRs, and degrees of adherence with the Fall TIPS
           protocol?

        3. Do the benefits associated with Fall TIPS outweigh the costs from hospital and societal
           perspectives?

        4. What Fall TIPS components were most/least useful and what recommendations will improve
           the overall utility and ease of use of the Fall TIPS Toolkit?

        5. What aspects of the implementation model were most/least helpful for promoting Fall TIPS
           adoption and use?
    
  