
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of oblimersen when given in combination with
      rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide in patients with relapsed or refractory
      aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      II. Determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the
      complete and partial response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the duration of response, overall survival, and time to progression in patients
      treated with this regimen.

      II. Determine the effect of this regimen on hematopoietic stem cell kinetics and yield from
      these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of oblimersen followed by a
      phase II study.

      Phase I: Patients receive GRICE comprising oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-5, rituximab
      IV, ifosfamide IV continuously over 24 hours, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 4, and
      etoposide IV over 30 minutes once daily on days 4-6. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 3
      courses. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily beginning on
      day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover OR one dose of pegfilgrastim SC on day 7 of
      courses 1 and 2. For course 3, all patients receive G-CSF SC twice daily beginning on day 7
      and continuing until stem cell collection is complete. Patients with responding disease who
      are not eligible for autologous SCT may receive up to 8 total courses of GRICE or 2
      additional courses beyond maximal response. Patients with responding disease to GRICE who are
      eligible for autologous SCT are removed from the study and undergo autologous SCT off study.
      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oblimersen until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Phase II: Patients receive oblimersen at the MTD determined in phase I and rituximab,
      ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide followed by G-CSF or pegfilgrastim as in phase I. In
      both phases, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicity, or the patient becomes a candidate for autologous SCT. Patients are followed for
      survival.
    
  