
    
      Acute postoperative pain needs to be alleviated quickly to avoid sensitization in the
      postoperative period, since sensitization can lead to pain chronification. Severe acute
      postoperative pain is the most important risk factor in the development of persistent
      postoperative pain.

      Unfortunately, the dose of opioids necessary to alleviate postoperative pain is highly
      variable, even between patients having been exposed to the same surgical procedure.
      Anesthesiologists usually try to prevent immediate postoperative pain by adjusting analgesic
      dosing at the end of surgery to the perceived need of analgesia. However, this approach is
      limited by the problem of respiratory depression induced by a too large dose of opiate
      analgesics. Studies have shown that despite these attempts many patients awake with moderate
      to severe pain.

      A means of predicting immediate postoperative pain after surgery and the response to opiate
      analgesics would therefore be highly desirable. Many studies have tried to reveal predictive
      factors which can be evaluated before the start of the surgery, but these can explain only
      about 50% of the observed variability in postoperative pain intensity.

      A different approach may be the evaluation of intraoperative nociception at the end of
      surgery to directly guide appropriate analgesia before the patient has regained
      consciousness. Measuring reflex pupil dilation after a standardized electrical stimulus is
      one method to measure opioid effect intra-operatively. This parameter may reflect opioid
      sensitivity, but not pain sensitivity.

      The primary objective of this study is the evaluation of measures of nociception such as the
      pupillary dilation reflex or heart rate variability on acute pain after surgery.

      In addition, pupillary dilation reflex and heart rate variability will be evaluated in their
      predictive performance of blood pressure and heart rate changes due to intubation.

      The study is designed as a single centre, observational, descriptive study.
    
  