
    
      This is a multi-center, two cohort Phase 2 clinical trial investigating the effectiveness of
      adding daratumumab to ibrutinib in WM patients. Cohort A will consist of patients who are
      ibrutinib naïve and appropriate for ibrutinib based treatment. Cohort B will consist of
      patients who have achieved a response plateau less than a complete remission (CR) on single
      agent ibrutinib. Subjects in Cohort A will be identified by their treating physician and
      eligible for enrollment if they are treatment naïve or relapsed after 1 prior therapy for WM
      and eligible for ibrutinib based treatment.

      Subjects in Cohort B will be identified by their treating physician and eligible for
      enrollment if they have had at least 6 months of exposure to single agent ibrutinib and
      demonstrate an IgM response plateau defined by two IgM measurements, at least 8 weeks apart
      that have changed <15% from the previous mark. In Cohort B response assessment will be
      measured from initial IgM level prior to ibrutinib initiation.

      Enrolled subjects will be prescribed commercial ibrutinib, 420mg PO daily. The
      investigational agent, daratumumab will be administered based on FDA approved dosing in
      multiple myeloma (16mg/kg) with 8 weekly induction treatments during Cycles 1 and 2, followed
      by every other week dosing for Cycles 3-6, then monthly dosing from Cycle 7 until Cycle 25 at
      which point subjects will continue with ibrutinib as monotherapy until Cycle 52 (4 years
      total) which is the predefined study completion for enrolled subjects at which point they
      will complete follow-up. Study visits and response assessments with IgM measurements will
      occur with each cycle for the first year then every three cycles after cycle 13. Subjects
      with measureable extramedullary disease will have CT scans every 6 cycles until radiographic
      CR. Patients will be considered evaluable for response if they completed the initial 8 weeks
      of daratumumab induction therapy and evaluable for toxicity if receiving one dose of
      daratumumab. Patients will continue on combination therapy for 2 years or until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicities at which point subjects will come off trial. Patients
      achieving a CR after two years of combination therapy will be given an option to continue
      with single agent commercial ibrutinib.
    
  