
    
      STUDY 1: EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION OF AFFECT LABELING DESIGN Study 1 is a conceptual
      replication by Lieberman et al. (2011) where the emotion-regulating effect of AL was compared
      with cognitive reappraisal and distraction. In the present study, AL is compared only with
      distraction in an experimental within-individual design with three conditions, where each
      participant is randomized in the order in which they should use a certain ER strategy before
      being exposed to emotionally provocative stimuli. Intergroup comparisons regarding the effect
      of AL between the clinical and non-clinical group will also be made. All participants will
      carry out the experimental manipulations on both measurement occasions (t1 and t2), but only
      participants who at (t2) have not completed the internet course in AL where data from t2 may
      also be included in the analyzes related to study 1.

      STIMULI FOR EMOTIONAL PROVOCATION The experimental manipulation is based on a well-proven
      experimental paradigm that aims to evoke emotional reactions using emotionally charged images
      (International Affective Picture System [IAPS]). The IAPS images are a collection of about
      700 images that have been collected and used in studies for over 10 years. The images are
      intended to be used in research, in order to evoke emotional reactions, and these specific
      patterns of reactions have been studied and validated in a number of studies. Thus, the IAPS
      images are mainly classified on the basis of two main dimensions: "valence", which varies
      between positive and negative, and "arousal", which varies between low and high activity. In
      order to ensure emotional provocation, negative valence will consist of different levels of
      negative images (e.g. accidents and crying children). Neutral valence consists of neutral
      images of everyday situations, objects and neutral faces.

      PROCEDURE T1 Information, measurement and randomization At t1, the visit begins with the
      participants receiving information about what is to happen during the visit and then filling
      in a pre-measurement regarding emotion regulation. While the participant fills in these
      forms, the research assistant randomizes the participant to immediate (after t1) or delayed
      (after t2) participation in the AL course included in Study 2. The randomization is done 1:
      1, stratified by gender, and hidden from the participant in order to reduce nocebo effect.

      Training Thereafter, each participant undergoes a training period, where they are instructed
      to follow the three instructions "Watch", AL and Distraction. The instruction for "Watch" is:
      "Look at the picture and let yourself react the way you would normally react"; for "AL" is:
      "Look at the picture and name the emotion or emotions evoked by looking at the picture"; for
      "Distraction" is: "Look at the picture and think of something other than what the picture
      shows". The participants practice on a total of 12 negative and neutral images from IAPS. The
      images they practice on will not be shown again during the experiment itself and no
      psychophysiological measurements are made during the training. After the training, the
      participants answer a short form about the expected effect that they think AL and "Watch"
      have. Then they get a break before the experiment itself starts.

      Experimental manipulation Participants are exposed to 3 blocks of 8 images and questions
      about the images ("trials") with equal numbers of negative and neutral valence in three
      conditions: instruction to "Watch", instruction to AL and instruction to Distraction. The
      instructions and pictures are given in a randomized, balanced order. Before each block, a
      3-second instruction is displayed that indicates whether the participant should use "Watch",
      "AL" or "Distraction" for all 8 images in the block. Then a trial begins where an image is
      displayed for 5 seconds. In the condition "Watch", the participant must look at the image
      without making an overt response. In the condition "Distraction", the participant must look
      at the picture but think of something completely different, and here too not make any overt
      response. In the "AL" condition, the participant must look at the image and choose one of two
      words that appear below the IAPS image itself, a word that is semantically relevant to the
      image, with a negative meaning for negative images and a neutral meaning for neutral images.
      The participant selects a word by pressing the key on the keyboard that corresponds to the
      position of the word on the computer screen for the 5 seconds that the image is displayed.

      After each picture, regardless of condition, the participant can for 4.5 s answer a question
      about "How upset did you feel when you looked at the picture?" based on a 9-point Likert
      scale, where 1 means "Not upset at all" and 9 means "Very upset". Then the participant gets a
      3 s break before the next trial begins and a new image is displayed. Time calculation is a
      total of 103 s per block, containing 8 trials, 5 minutes and 15 s in total. Participants
      receive a one-minute wash-out break between the different conditions.

      After the experiment is complete, participants are once again allowed to estimate the
      expected effect of AL and "Watch", after which they are informed that they will either return
      in two weeks for a new test, or they will be given instructions and login information for
      Study 2 and begin this immediately. In total, the visit at t1 takes about 1 hour.

      PROCEDURE T2 At t2 (and if resources are available t3), the visit begins with brief
      information, follow-up and post-measurement regarding self-assessment forms. Then a reminder
      is given of the instructions for AL, "Watch" and "Distraction" and then the participants
      perform the same experimental manipulation as they did at t1. This time too, the instructions
      are given in a balanced and randomized order. After completing testing, those participants
      who have not yet received a course in AL receive login information and information about the
      course that begins immediately.

      STUDY 2: AFFECT LABELING - DAILY EXERCISE IN PUTTING WORDS ON EMOTIONS DESIGN AND PROCEDURE
      Study 2 is a randomized, controlled intergroup design with repeated measurements.
      Participants are randomized at t1 between being directly offered a 14-day course to train AL
      and waiting until after t2 before they can begin the intervention. Participants are blind to
      this randomization and are not allowed to know that the time of the course is made up by
      chance but instead they are told that everyone receives the course at the same time as they
      do, in order to avoid nocebo effects due to disappointment over the wait. The randomization
      is done 1: 1, stratified by gender and clinical categorization (clinical and non-clinical
      participants, respectively). The participants who have been randomized to receive the course
      in AL immediately are given login information and instructions on how to start the course.
      The course is given via the same secure web platform (BASS4) in which the participant has
      made their self-assessments, and in which you log in using double authentication. Those who
      have been randomized to wait are booked in for a new visit to Emotion Lab and then start the
      course after t2. Post-measurement is done in connection with t2 for those randomized to AL
      immediately after t1. For other participants, post-measurement is done via the web estimation
      platform, or at t3 if resources are available for a third trial.

      Intervention - web course in affect labeling The intervention is given as a two-week
      internet-mediated course in using AL with the guidance of a course leader (licensed
      psychologist or psychologist assistant under supervision). The course is divided into two
      modules where module 1 contains a) Psychoeducation about different emotions and its function,
      b) Information about AL and its potential emotion-regulating effect, c) Instruction on how AL
      is used in everyday life and d) Instruction for and planning of daily short exercises in
      naming emotions. Daily registration with multiple choice answers is introduced by the use of
      AL (eg "Have you used 'to name emotions' today?"), and emotions (eg "What emotions have you
      identified?") and how they feel that it worked ("What usually happened to the feeling when
      you noticed it and named it?"). The participant can fill in this online or on paper to later
      be registered online by the course leader. The course leader contacts the participant no
      later than 2 days after he or she has been assigned the module to ensure that they have begun
      and started using it and to provide feedback on the exercise planning. The course leader
      reminds and supports with text messages every other day, if desired by the participant, and
      gives frequent feedback on the daily registrations to stimulate continued use and problem
      solving if difficulties arise. The module ends with a structured reporting in the platform of
      how the exercises went and if there were any obstacles to implementing them, for which the
      course leader gives feedback and suggestions for solutions.

      Module 2 is largely a continuation of module 1 where any obstacles and other difficulties are
      checked 2-3 days after module 2 has been activated in order to increase the chance of active
      practice in AL, continued daily registration and final reporting and feedback.
    
  