
    
      Neuropathic pain (NP) is common (population prevalence of 7-8%) and will present a rising
      health burden in the future. NP arises as a consequence of a disease or lesion in the
      somatosensory nervous system. NP results in significant morbidity, reduces quality of life
      and has a major deleterious impact on health in aging. However, not everyone with such a
      lesion develops significant neuropathic pain, and those who do develop it include a wide
      range of severity, impact and outcomes, and an unpredictable response to evidence-based
      treatment. The reason why some subjects develop neuropathic pain and others do not following
      the same injury is not known. Genetic variants are increasingly recognized as being important
      in the development of neuropathic pain. There are a number of Mendelian primary neuropathic
      pain disorders which act as exemplars of high impact gene variants which have in a number of
      cases been shown to alter primary afferent excitability. In addition genetic factors are also
      likely to be important as risk factors in more common acquired (or secondary) neuropathic
      pain disorders. So, identifying these risk factors will have a significant impact on health
      both in identifying vulnerable patients and potential for developing new treatment
      modalities. The proposed study is a part of multicenter international project under Horizons
      2020 program of the European Union. Our aim is to understand pain pathophysiology in terms of
      risk factors and protective mechanisms ranging from molecular pathways to societal impacts.
      The desired impact is to provide a firm platform to improve diagnosis and stratify patients
      according to risk profile, employ preventive strategies and ultimately develop novel
      therapeutics.

      Specific objectives for the study at large will be to: 1) Identify the influence of
      demographic, environmental/societal and clinical factors on the risk of developing and
      maintenance of NP. 2) To apply modern genomics to validate (using a targeted approach) and
      find novel (using genome wide association) genetic risk factors for NP. 3) To determine if
      patient stratification using physiological (sensory profile, endogenous analgesic mechanisms
      and nerve excitability) and psychological factors can predict NP risk and progression. 4)
      Development of a risk model/algorithm for (severe) NP, combining measurable genetic and
      environmental factors. The desired impact is to provide a firm platform to improve diagnosis
      and stratify patients according to risk profile, employ preventive strategies and ultimately
      develop novel therapeutics.
    
  