
    
      Previous research in pediatric oncology and evaluations from the Swedish Childhood
      Foundation, which focusing on parents', the ill child's, and the siblings' experiences,
      conclude that much remains to be done regarding support to families affected by childhood
      cancer. As there is no scientifically evaluated family-centered psychosocial intervention in
      pediatric oncology in Sweden intervention studies are needed. This present study, described
      below, fills a part of this knowledge gap. The overall aim is to evaluate a modified version
      of the Family Talk Intervention (FTI) among families affected by childhood cancer. The goals
      of FTI are to increase family communication, the family members' resilience, knowledge about
      the illness, and thereby reduce the family members' long-term psychosocial well-being.
      Specific aims are to assess the feasibility (Aim 1) and the possible effects of the FTI (Aim
      2).

      This is an intervention study that primarily focuses on feasibility. It will consist of an
      intervention group based on families affected by childhood cancer. One of the children in the
      family, the ill child or the sibling(s), have to be between 6-19 years old and the inclusion
      of families will be conducted approximately 2-3 months after the cancer diagnosis or relaps.
      The whole family or a part of the family can participate in the intervention. A minimum is
      that at least one adult and one child in the age 6-19 can participate. To participate, the
      family members have to understand and talk Swedish. All families that meet the inclusion
      criteria at the pediatric oncology unit at Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital will be asked
      for participation from September 2018 to May 2019. Nurses at the clinic will identify the
      families that meet the inclusion criteria's. Information about the study will be sent home to
      the families by the researchers. One to two weeks later the interventionists will contact the
      families by phone, inform them about the study, and asked them about participation. Those who
      are willing to participate will be asked for informed consent.

      FTI is a preventive method originally developed for families with a parent with an affective
      disorder who had children aged 6-18 years. The over-arching aims of the method are not
      traditional psychotherapeutic intervention. They are instead to support an open, honest and
      child-centered family communication, and increase understanding of the disease. The
      intervention also aims to promote parental awareness concerning protective factors (as well
      as identification of such), such as well-functioning school life, relationships and hobbies
      among their children. Even if the intervention was developed for families with a parent with
      depression it has also been tested among families with a severely ill parent who has young
      children, with positive results. The core elements in the intervention are to: 1) support the
      families in talking about the illness and related subjects 2) support the parents in
      understanding the needs of their children and how to support them, and, 3) support the
      families in identifying their strengths and how to use them. One of the most important
      principles is respect for the parents. It is important to emphasize the parents' expertise
      regarding their children.

      Since pediatric oncology is yet another context, the intervention has been slightly modified
      by the research group together with individuals who educate persons in FTI in Sweden. The
      modified FTI entails six meetings at 1-2 weekly intervals with five extra meetings. The
      interventionists, who work in pairs, are educated in FTI and have clinical experiences of
      working with families affected by seriously illness (e.g. as a nurse, counselor, etc.). To
      support the interventionists a supervisor/educator in FTI will be available. The FTI is
      manual-based and the interventionists are following a special protocol (here called the
      logbook). The meetings with the families are held at a place chosen by the families.

      Meetings 1-2: include only the parent(s) and focus on the parents' experiences of their
      situation as well as the consequences of the cancer diagnosis for each family member. During
      the meeting, each child's situation will be discussed including strengths, problems, worries,
      the situation in school and with friends, and their social network. The knowledge of the
      disease will also be a focus. The parent(s) will formulate the goal of the intervention. They
      can also formulate questions that the interventionist(s) will ask the children in meetings 3.

      Meeting 3: interviews will be held with each child (without the parents) concerning the
      child's life situation, feelings, understanding of the disease, questions and hobbies. The
      relationship with their parents is discussed as well as the child's social network. The
      interventionist(s) identifies protective factors from the child's narrative (e.g.
      well-functioning school life and relationships with friends) as well as risk factors (e.g.
      poor social network). The child can also formulate questions for the parents and what he/she
      wants to discuss during the family meeting.

      Meeting 4: includes the parent(s) and focuses on the planning of the family meetings. The
      child's thoughts and questions serve as a guide for the upcoming family meeting.

      Meeting 5: is preferably led by the parent(s) to facilitate ongoing and continuous
      communication within the family, and consists of questions and issues raised earlier by each
      family member. This family meeting can be seen as a starting point for communication within
      the family.

      Meeting 6: is a follow-up with all family members, held preferably within a month of meeting
      5. The meeting is guided by the family members' needs, e.g. communication and parenting.

      Various strategies will be implemented during the different meetings including conversation
      technique, books and different techniques of expression such as drawing and writing. For
      example the interventionist(s) will use mapping of the children's social network as one
      technique to assess the support that children receive.

      In case of that the intervention not can be finished due to special circumstances extra
      meetings will be available (meeting 7-11).

      Mixed methods, i.e. questionnaires, interviews and notes, will be used to evaluate the FTI.

      The primary focus for this study is on the feasibility (Aim 1). Interviews and notes from the
      logbooks will be analyzed with content analysis and the study process will be observed. As
      this is a first study in this context, the results of the potential effects (Aim 2) will
      indicate the direction for further studies. The potential effects will be explored with
      descriptive statistics (data from the questionnaires) focusing on within effects where
      descriptive trends of e.g. family communication will be explored. However, the main part of
      Aim 1 will be answered by interview data from the families, the interventionist and by
      observations. This study will also contribute to a power calculation for a larger study in
      this context.
    
  