
    
      Since most extremely preterm infants are critically ill in the immediate postnatal period,
      establishing "normal" blood pressure (BP) values is difficult. This lack of data makes
      deciding when to institute therapy for hypotension (low BP) challenging, leading to
      considerable variability in BP management in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs). Despite a
      lack of data on safety or efficacy, as many as 64% of extremely preterm infants receive
      inotropes (e.g., dopamine), and up to 12.4% of very low birthweight infants receive
      hydrocortisone for perceived hypotension. Since both untreated low BP and therapy provided
      for low BP may be harmful, the decision of whether to treat is an important issue. To date,
      no prospective randomized, controlled trial of BP management in this population has been
      performed.

      This trial tests the feasibility of enrolling up to 60 extremely preterm infants in a
      randomized, double-blinded study of blood pressure management within 12 months. It will
      enroll 60 infants between 23 0/7 and 26 6/7 weeks gestational age born at 6 participating
      NICHD Neonatal Research Network sites. Eligible infants will receive a study infusion drug
      (dopamine or a dextrose placebo) and a study syringe drug (hydrocortisone or a normal saline
      placebo). Infants will be randomized to receive one of the following drug pairs: (1) dopamine
      and hydrocortisone; (2) dopamine and a placebo (normal saline solution); (3) a placebo
      (dextrose) and hydrocortisone; or (4) placebo (dextrose) and placebo (normal saline). (NOTE:
      dopamine is normally mixed with dextrose and hydrocortisone is mixed with saline solution
      before being administered, which is why two different placebos are being used in this trial.)

      The information gathered will provide a framework for the design of a potential larger,
      multi-centered, randomized control trial.

      NOTE: The NICHD Neonatal Research Network has received a FDA exemption from the IND
      regulations for this trial.

      In addition to the interventional trial above, the NRN is conducting a 6-month time-limited
      prospective observational study of all infants born at an NRN center between 23 and 26 weeks
      gestational age. All clinical decisions made for these babies will be at the discretion of
      the attending neonatologist/infant care team according to standard practice at each
      institution. Data on blood pressure management in the first 24 postnatal hours collected for
      each infant.

      Based on slow rate of recruitment, a time-limited observational study of hypotension in ELBW
      infants has been added to the current study.
    
  