
    
      Objectives of this study The objective of the study is to evaluate a de novo CNI-free
      immunosuppressive regimen based on induction therapy with anti-CD25 monoclonal anti- body,
      mycophenolate mofetil (MMF/MPA), and delayed mTOR-inhibition. The primary endpoint is defined
      as the incidence of steroid-resistant acute rejection within the first 30 days after liver
      transplantation.

      Secondary objectives include the incidence of acute rejection(s), the number and the timing
      of acute rejections per patient within the first year after transplantation. A critical
      secondary endpoint will be the development of renal function at 1 week, 1, 3, 6 and 12 months
      after liver transplantation. This includes information on the number of patients requiring
      renal replacement therapy and its duration. During follow-up of 1 year liver allograft
      function, infectious complications, treatment failures defined as introduction of CNIs as
      well as side-effects affecting the hematopoetic system, tolerability, impaired wound-healing,
      the incidence of hepatic artery thrombosis and mortality will be explicitly documented and
      investigated.

      Trial population The collective we are aiming at are patients older than 18 years with a
      preexisting renal impairment at the time of liver transplantation. Patients will be eligible
      if the eGFR < 50 ml/min (Cockcroft-Gault) and/or their serum creatinine levels > 1.5 mg/dL.

      Follow-Up Every patient will be followed up for 1 year after transplantation. The primary
      end-point will be at 30 days after transplantation (Steroid resistant acute rejection).
      During the first 30 days after transplantation there will be 9 visits where laboratory values
      (liver, renal and metabolic function, sirolimus trough levels), adverse events and rejection
      episodes will be recorded. Additionally there will be an ultrasound on day 1 after liver
      transplantation and on day 10 prior to the initiation of sirolimus to exclude hepatic artery
      thrombosis.

      Between day 30 and 1 year after liver transplantation the patient will be followed up to
      evaluate the long time outcome and secondary objectives of the trial.
    
  