
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if vitamin D replacement in vitamin D insufficient patients with newly
      diagnosed untreated diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) can improve event free survival at
      12 months to be equivalent to that of a control population of vitamin D sufficient patients.
      (Study I) II. To assess the percentage of patients requiring treatment with conventional
      therapy at 36 in months in vitamin D insufficient patients with early stage chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) being managed with observation who undergo vitamin D replacement.
      (Study II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effect of vitamin D replacement in vitamin D insufficient patients with
      newly diagnosed untreated DLBCL on overall survival. (Study I) II. To assess the effect of
      vitamin D replacement in vitamin D insufficient patients with newly diagnosed untreated DLBCL
      on event free survival. (Study I) III. To assess the effect of vitamin D replacement in
      vitamin D insufficient patients with newly diagnosed untreated T cell lymphoma on event free
      and overall survival. (Study I) IV. To assess the effect of vitamin D replacement in vitamin
      D insufficient CLL patients on Bio-r response rate and overall response rate. (Study II) V.
      To assess time to treatment and overall survival in vitamin D insufficient CLL patients who
      received vitamin D replacement. (Study II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study immune effector cells (lymphocytes, monocytes), serum cytokines, and tumor cells
      from vitamin D deficient and sufficient patients to learn the effects of vitamin D on both
      tumor cells and the patient's immune system. (Study I-II)

      OUTLINE:

      Vitamin D sufficient patients receive no intervention. Vitamin D insufficient patients
      receive cholecalciferol orally (PO) once weekly for 12 weeks and then once monthly for a
      total of 36 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.
    
  