
    
      Epoetin alfa is an agent similar to a hormone produced in the kidney (ie, erythropoietin)
      that functions to increase the amount of red blood cells made in the bone marrow. This is a
      randomized (study drug assigned by chance), open-label (patients and their doctors will know
      the identity of study drug administered), safety study of 2 dosing regimens (doses and
      schedules) of epoetin alfa administered to patients with cancer who have chemotherapy-related
      anemia. Anemia is a lack of red blood cells that can result in symptoms of weakness,
      shortness of breath, fatigue, tiredness, and decreased activity. The primary outcome measure
      in the study is the number of patients in each treatment group with at least 1 clinically
      relevant and objectively confirmed (adjudicated) thrombovascular event (TVE) reviewed by an
      independent adjudication committee from Day 1 (baseline or the day of the first dose) through
      Week 16. An external review of relevant clinical data and medical imaging studies by an
      Adjudication Committee will be performed in a blinded fashion for confirmation of TVEs. The
      Adjudication Committee will confirm TVEs by reviewing all images (X-ray, Computed tomography
      [CT] scan, ultrasound, Magnetic Resonance Imaging [MRI] scan, etc) and other diagnostic
      procedures auch as coagulation tests or electrocardiograms in combination with a clinical
      patient profile as described for each specific type of TVE. Only TVEs that are determined by
      the Adjudication Committee to be clinically relevant and objectively confirmed will be
      counted in the analysis for the primary endpoint. Approximately 500 patients, who have
      cancer, are receiving chemotherapy, and are anemic, will take part in the study. Patients
      will participate in the study for up to 32 weeks (this includes a 2-week screening period to
      determine eligibility for the study, a 26-week treatment period, and a 4-week follow-up
      period to have end-of-study assessments [tests] performed). The length of participation in
      the study depends on the length of time the patient is receiving chemotherapy and epoetin
      alfa; patients in the study may receive up to a maximum of 26 weeks of treatment with epoetin
      alfa. Patients will be randomly assigned (assigned by chance like flipping a coin) to 1 of 2
      treatment groups (Epoetin Alfa QW or Epoetin Alfa TIW). Patients assigned to the Epoetin Alfa
      QW Group will receive epoetin alfa at an initial dosage of 450 IU/kg once a week and patients
      assigned to Epoetin Alfa TIW Group will receive epoetin alfa 150 IU/kg 3 times a week by
      subcutaneous (underneath the skin) injection. Injections will be given preferably on Monday
      for patients in the Epoetin Alfa QW Group and on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays for
      patients in the Epoetin Alfa TIW Group. During the study, patients will visit the study
      center weekly to have a blood sample collected to measure the amount of hemoglobin (red blood
      cells) in the blood. Depending on the hemoglobin level, the dose of epoetin alfa may be
      increased or decreased. Regardless of treatment group, if anemia does not improve in patients
      after 4 weeks of treatment, the dose of epoetin alfa will be increased to 300 IU/kg 3 times a
      week. If anemia does not improve after 4 weeks at the increased dose level of epoetin alfa
      (300 IU/kg 3 times a week), treatment with epoetin alfa will be stopped. In addition, during
      the study, patients may also receive treatment with iron supplements if the level of iron in
      the blood is low. During the study, safety will be monitored by evaluating adverse events and
      findings from clinical laboratory tests, 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs), blood pressure
      measurements, and physical examinations. Patients will receive epoetin alfa at an initial
      dose of 450 IU/kg once a week or 150 IU/kg 3 times a week by subcutaneous injection,
      preferably in the abdomen, for up to 4 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy for a
      maximum of 26 weeks. Injections for Epoetin Alfa QW Group will be at the study center and for
      Epoetin TIW Group, the 1st weekly injection will be at the study center and the 2nd and 3rd
      weekly injections will be at the study center or at home by self-administration.
    
  