
    
      Faecal incontinence is a devastating condition affecting daily living and quality of life. A
      new treatment Sacral Nerve Stimulation (SNS) has over the last decade given new hope to these
      patients. In Europe SNS is routinely offered to patients not archiving satisfactory
      continence result with standard non-surgical treatments. SNS is electrical stimulation of the
      sacral nerve root(s2,3 or 4). Stimulation of this nerve roots results in improved continence.
      The mechanism of action is at present not well described. Recent studies have shown that the
      effect of SNS is by means a neuromodulation in the central nervous system, whereas direct
      stimulation of efferent nerves to the anal sphincter and the pelvic floor has less
      significance.

      The aim of this study is to describe changes in regional cerebral blood flow (RCBF), with
      positron emission tomography (PET), in patients implanted bilaterally with sacral
      neuromodulators with the indication idiopathic faecal incontinence.

      RCBF in three deferent stimulations settings will be compared. PET will be performed before
      and one hour after changes in the activity status of the pacemakers. Four weeks prior to the
      first scan, patients are informed to switch both neurostimulator off. PET will be performed
      with the pacemaker settings: OFF/OFF (Stimulation status of left/right pacemaker), On/Off and
      On/On. The order of the On/OFF and On/On period will be random. Unilateral stimulation will
      be performed with the pacemaker there has the best efficacy, determined prior to study
      enrolment. The interval between these three pacemaker settings is four weeks. Four weeks
      prior to each PET scan the patients fill in bowel habit diaries, bowel habit questionnaires
      and quality of life assessments.

      The association between continence and changes in RCBF will be studied. Additional RCBF and
      quality of life will be compared.
    
  