
    
      *Please note that the information below is taken verbatim from our project's research
      summary.*

      Treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is one of the most
      well-researched areas in childhood psychopathology. ADHD is a highly prevalent (5% of
      school-aged children) and chronic disorder (ADHD will persist into adulthood for ~70% of
      children diagnosed with this disorder). ADHD has a substantial impact on daily life including
      difficulties with behavioural, academic, social and emotional functioning (DuPaul & Weyandt,
      2006).

      Although medication is the most commonly used treatment, there are a number of important
      limitations including poor long-term effects, lack of effectiveness in improving academic
      skills, and lack of acceptability by parents and children (DuPaul, 2007). Therefore, a number
      of psychosocial interventions have been developed and empirically validated (parent training,
      social skills training, school-based interventions). School-based interventions have been
      shown to be effective; however, these are significantly underutilized and when implemented in
      an uncontrolled way, are often ineffective. This intervention program is comprised of
      evidence-based treatment strategies that are presented in a manner that will provide teachers
      with knowledge of the disorder and intervention strategies. The novel delivery of this
      program, through distance treatment modalities (e-mail and internet) will allow us to
      overcome many of the known barriers to treatment so that teachers will receive the necessary
      information in a timely and efficient manner. The specific research questions that will be
      addressed are:

        1. Does the overall impairment of children with ADHD in the treatment group improve
           compared to those who are in the waitlist group?

        2. Is the school-based intervention effective in reducing ADHD symptoms, improving
           behavioral functioning, and enhancing academic performance in the active treatment group
           compared to the waitlist group?

        3. Do teachers in the treatment group develop more knowledge about ADHD and more positive
           and realistic attitudes about this disorder over the course of the intervention?

        4. Is the intervention viewed as accessible to teachers and is there evidence of fidelity
           to the program?

      The investigators expect that the program will reduce overall impairment, improve ADHD
      symptoms, behavioural, and academic functioning in the children and will enhance knowledge
      and reduce misconceptions of ADHD in teachers. If successful, this program will be
      disseminated to school boards in Nova Scotia and across Canada, and as such would have the
      potential to have a significant positive effect on the health and well-being of many
      children, teachers and parents.
    
  