
    
      This 3-year project will include two groups of participants: 1) young men accustomed to
      resistance training (study #1) and 2) young men accustomed to endurance training (study #2).
      Inclusion will be limited to healthy participants (i.e. nonsmokers, normotensive with
      systolic and diastolic values <135/85 mmHg, non-obese, non-medicated, and free of any known
      disease as assessed by medical history) (Pickering, Hall et al. 2005). Month 1-3 will focus
      on literature review and month 4 to 8 will address experimental settings preparation and
      selection of participants to include in each study. Testing and data collection will be
      scheduled for months 9-14 and 13-18 (study # 1 and 2 related testing, respectively). Data
      processing, analysis and presentation will occur from month 21 to 33. All participants will
      read and sign an informed consent document with the description of the testing procedures.
      The Faculty's ethical committee will be asked to approve this document before testing. All
      studies will follow a randomized crossover design, with measures taken before and after the
      defined IF periods and participants of each group serving as their own controls. Two groups
      of participants will be included in this project: 1) group #1: resistance trained group
      (tested for neuromuscular function, anaerobic capacity and body composition); 2) group #2:
      endurance trained group (tested for aerobic and anaerobic capacity and body composition). In
      a randomized, counterbalanced manner, all participants will be tested in two different
      conditions: control condition (pre- and post4 wks of normal diet) vs. experimental condition
      (pre- and post-4 wks of IF). A 2-wk washout period will separate both conditions.
      Measurements will be taken during the morning period (between 07:00 and 11:00 am) in the
      fasted state. Neuromuscular function and anaerobic capacity will be assessed on separate days
      (with at least a 48- hour interval) to ensure full recovery.
    
  