
    
      Music has a potential role in health care. In patients with major neurocognitive impairment
      (previously called dementia), several studies have demonstrated that musical intervention can
      improve cognition, in particular spatial and temporal orientation, episodic memory and
      working memory. It was also shown that music may improve quality of life and reduce
      depressive symptoms, and there is growing evidence for the use of music to treat pain and
      anxiety.

      When specifically looking at the geriatric population, music listening presents a
      non-pharmacological intervention which is easy to implement in inpatients with functional
      decline. It was shown to improve mood in both cognitively impaired and intact patients.

      Music has a potential role in order to improve patient's mobility. For example, it was also
      shown that the rhythmic component of music combined with physical exercise can improve gait
      variability which has been identified as a marker of gait instability and a fall predictor.
      This effect was previously shown in older community dwellers as a music-based intervention
      significantly improved gait and balance stability.

      Also, considering that music was shown to have a positive impact on communication, emotions
      and depressive symptoms, this intervention therefore has the potential to make our patients
      more conscious of their environment, leading to an improved mobility.

      Thus, the investigators hypothesize that patients who attend live music sessions (compared to
      controls) will demonstrate an improvement in their mobility measures. This effect could
      potentially be explained by the rhythmic effect of music and by the fact that live music
      sessions lead to an improved mood, communication, emotions, and an improved mobility.

        -  The primary objective of this study will be to determine if participation to live music
           sessions will be associated with an improvement in mobility which will be measured using
           the Times Up and Go (TUG) and gait speed when compared to a control group.

        -  The second objective of this study will be to determine if patients participating in
           live music sessions compared to a control group demonstrate an increase/improvement at
           the end of their music session in their mood (the Visual Analog Mood Scale (VAMS) will
           be used), in their positive emotions (the Observed Emotion Rating Scale (OERS) will be
           used) and communication behaviour (the CODEM instrument will be used).

        -  The third objective of this study will be to perform a "feasibility study". By measuring
           the variation in the different scales which will be used (see the third objective), the
           investigators will be able to determine how many participants will be necessary for an
           eventual larger scale study.

      This will be a prospective open-label randomized control trial. The patients will be randomly
      assigned to a musical intervention or to a television intervention (control group). The
      patients will only attend one session in the context of this research project. Pre and post
      measures will be done.
    
  