
    
      The incidence of urolithiasis is approximately 5% to 10% in the general population, In an
      active urologic department, 30% of the surgical working load is known to be related to
      treatment of renal and ureteral stones (1, 2). Since the original description of stone
      removal through a percutaneous nephrostomy tract by Fernstrom and Johansson in 1976,
      percutaneous stone removal has evolved into a highly developed procedure practiced by many
      urologists (3). Several new techniques and technologies recently have emerged that simplified
      the procedure, allowed to take on more challenging cases and made it safer and less painful
      for patients (4).

      Nephrolithometric scoring systems have been introduced to overcome limitations for systematic
      and quantitative assessment of the outcomes of PCNL. Moreover, preoperative patient
      counselling necessitates the development of an integrated scoring system to assess PCNL
      complexity for optimal decision-making Nephrolithometric scoring systems include the Guy's
      Stone Score (5), S.T.O.N. E. (Stone Size, Tract length, Obstruction/hydronephrosis, Number of
      involved calyces, Essence/Hounsfield units) nephrolithometry scoring system (6), The Clinical
      Research Office of the Endourology Society (CROES) nomogram (7), and the Seoul National
      University Renal Stone Complexity (S-ReSC) score (8,9). All these nephrolithometry scoring
      systems (NLSS) aim for preoperative prediction of stone-free status (SFS) and complications
      through assessment of the complexity of different cases undergoing PCNL. NLSS do not only
      consider the imaging criteria of stones and renal anatomy, but also relevant patient
      characteristics such as body mass index, previous renal surgery, and surgeon experience. The
      Guy's Stone Score, S.T.O.N.E. nephrolithometry score and CROES nomogram consist of 11
      variables, including four shared parameters (stone size, location, number, and staghorn
      status). Other variables which are considered by these three NLSS are stone density, renal
      anatomy, tract length, obstruction of renal pelvis, case load/year, prior treatment history,
      and the presence of spina bifida or spinal injury.

      The Guy's Stone score categorises PCNL cases into four grades, increasing in complexity from
      Grade 1 to Grade 4, depending on patients' past medical history and non-contrast CT (NCCT)
      (5).

      The S.T.O.N.E. nephrolithometry scoring system assesses PCNL complexity by nine different
      possible scores, ranging from 5 to 13, according to five NCCT-calculated parameters including
      stone size, tract length, obstruction/ hydronephrosis, number of involved calyces, Essence/
      Hounsfield units (6).

      the CROES nephrolithometric nomogram predicts treatment success using plain X-ray of the
      kidneys, ureters and bladder considering the stone burden, count, and location, in addition
      to case volume and prior stone treatment (7).

      The total score to predict the chance of treatment success is the sum of individual scores
      derived from each predicting variable; the higher the score, the higher the chance of
      treatment success, while a patient with a low score has a low chance of achieving a SFS (7).
      On the other hand, the S-ReSC score is calculated by counting the number of sites involved in
      the renal pelvis and calyces, regardless of stone parameters or renal anatomy. This system
      assigns a score from 1 to 9 depending mainly on the number of sites involved; the renal
      pelvis (1), superior and inferior major calyces (2-3), anterior and posterior minor calyces
      of the superior (4-5), middle (6-7), and inferior calyces (8-9).
    
  