
    
      There have been enormous improvements in outcomes for patients diagnosed with cancer in
      recent years. Patients survive longer and the number of survivors after cancer therapy
      increases 3% annually in the UK and 11% in the USA.It is estimated that there will be 4
      million cancer survivors in the UK by 2030.Patients after cancer treatments have many unmet
      needs which are often caused by the very therapies given to cure or control the cancer. Of
      all the possible chronic physical side effects of cancer treatment, gastrointestinal (GI)
      symptoms are the most common and not only have the greatest impact on daily activity but also
      frequently carry serious financial, psychological and social implications.

      During treatment for the cancer, GI symptoms are common and their causes are poorly
      researched despite their impact on patients' quality of life and the fact that when they
      occur they often require dose reduction or cessation of chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy with
      potential impact on outcome. In addition, the GI side effect may not settle once anti-cancer
      treatment is stopped. In patients receiving radiotherapy for a tumor in the pelvis, more
      severe acute reactions predispose to worse long term side effects.

      At least 17,000 British patients are treated annually with radiotherapy for pelvic cancer. Up
      to 80% of these patients are left with chronic alteration in GI function, 50% state that this
      affects their daily activity and 30% that this change in function has a moderate or severe
      effect. While progress has been made in defining optimal management of chronic changes in
      bowel function after cancer treatment and UK multi-professional guidance to aid clinicians
      has been published it would be extremely valuable to be able to predict those in advance who
      might go on to develop serious problems as a result of radiotherapy so as to have the
      opportunity to provide them with pre-treatment counseling, potentially modify the cancer
      treatment and introduce toxicity modifying therapies at the earliest opportunity.

      It is widely believed that technical advances in the delivery of radiotherapy will abolish GI
      problems however, recent compelling data demonstrate that 30% of patients treated with
      "perfect" radiotherapy - meeting every described constraint still develop significant
      un-predicted problems. While mechanisms by which gastrointestinal symptoms occur after cancer
      treatment are starting to be understood and personal parameters which change the risk profile
      for individuals are being identified (body mass index, concomitant chemotherapy, use of a
      statin or ACE inhibitor, the presence of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, connective tissue
      disorders or HIV infection) the reasons why some patients remain symptom free whilst others
      experience severe side effects remains under researched.

      It has become clear that development of GI toxicity is not solely related to the dose and way
      the radiotherapy is delivered, and a phenomenon independent of the radiation called the 'the
      consequential effect' is a second reason why some people get chronic side effects after
      radiotherapy. An important driver of the 'consequential effect' is increasingly believed to
      be the microbiota, the vast numbers of bacteria that live in our guts. The gastrointestinal
      microbiota are a complex ecosystem of up to 1,000 bacterial species in any one individual.
      The species vary greatly between individuals but within each individual, the flora
      composition remains stable for the majority of the species over time. The diversity of the
      microbiota is high in healthy people and low in people with GI side effects after pelvic
      radiotherapy, a process which very closely parallels findings in people with other much more
      intensively researched inflammatory conditions of the bowel.

      Normal gut flora produce gases from their metabolites (Volatile Organic Compounds or VOCs).
      The gold standard for analyzing volatile organic compounds is gas chromatography/mass
      spectrometry (GCMS).

      GCMS analyses gasses to identify all chemical components of that gas. However, this is very
      expensive and requires a specialized laboratory to process the samples hence is not a viable
      option in day to day clinical practice.

      Two alternative techniques can be applied to analyse those VOCs: electronic sensing (e-nose)
      or High Field Asymmetric Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS).

      Electronic sensing techniques are applied via an instrument (electronic nose) that attempts
      to replicate the biological olfactory system, by investigating samples as a whole, instead of
      identifying specific chemicals within a complex sample. The air above the sample (head space)
      is drawn into the e-nose and passed across an array of chemical sensors. The size of the
      array varies, but most are between 6 and 32 sensors. As each sensor is dissimilar, the
      interaction between the sensor and the sample is unique and an olfactory signature for this
      complex odor can be created.

      Fields Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectometry (FAIMS) is a new technology capable of
      separating gas phase ions at atmospheric pressure and at room temperature. As with the
      electronic nose, FAIMS can be used for the real time analysis of complex chemical components,
      looking at the total chemical composition of a sample. Differences in the way the ionised
      molecules move in high electric fields are used to draw a mobility signature of a complex
      sample.

      The e-nose and FAIMS techniques have been used successfully in small studies to diagnose lung
      disease, diabetes, bladder cancer, tuberculosis, cyanide poisoning, renal failure and
      schizophrenia. Focusing on gastrointestinal disorders, consistent changes in the VOCs
      produced by patients with inflammatory bowel disease, bile acid malabsorption,
      gastrointestinal cancer, coeliac disease, Clostridium difficile infection can be identified
      compared to healthy individuals.

      In a paper published in 2012 of a retrospective blinded pilot study using the e-nose in 23
      patients in whom the investigators analysed stool samples collected immediately before the
      start of radiotherapy. Of the 23 patients selected, 11 subsequently had minimal or no side
      effects from radiotherapy and 12 had severe toxicity. The e-nose analysed the samples and
      astonishingly identified with 100% accuracy two completely distinct groups of patients: those
      who would develop severe toxicity during radiotherapy and those who would not. The results of
      this study suggest that the substantial differences in the volatile gases produced by stool
      samples in the two populations, have a critical impact on toxicity and the reason that
      different fermentation products occur is either because the microbiological composition of
      stool differs between the two groups, or because bacterial function is somehow different.
      Whatever the reason, these findings suggests that the microbiota plays a critical role in the
      initiation of radiation induced inflammation are completely consistent with findings from
      other studies using very complex methodologies and with studies investigating the role of the
      microbiota in other GI conditions .
    
  