
    
      PAD has a prevalence of 15-20 % in an elderly (>50) western population. PAD can not be seen
      in isolation but represents the peripheral manifestation of a generalized artherosclerosis.
      The co-morbidity with coronary or cerebralartherosclerosis depends on the degree of severity
      of PAD, the relative risk of a death (predominantly cardiac) is increased by a factor 4. From
      af medical and a socio-economic point of view there is the need to control the PAD
      complication rate and related treatment costs as effectively as possible.

      The aim of any treatment of intermittent claudication is a clinically relevant improvement in
      the patient´s mobility and quality of life.

      There is agreement, that physical training does improve the collateralisation of vascular
      lesions, the rheologic properties of blood and lead to a shift from glycolytic to oxidative
      muscle fibers in the working musculature which increases the capillary density. The effect of
      physical training is also to modify the patients risk factor profile, even moderate training
      increase the insulin receptor sensitivity and the fibrinolytic activity and decrease the
      dLDL/HDL ratio and the diastolic blood pressure in hypertensive patients - and thereby
      decrease the overall cardiac mortality.

      This is a Phase 3, 12-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled cross-over and a
      follow-up study with 80 patients with intermittent claudication, half of which will be
      revascularized.

      The objectives of this study are to evaluate the efficacy of caffeine (6mg/kg)and the
      revascularisation procedure. The primary end-point will be maximal walking distance (MWD) in
      both groups of patients. Other efficacy measures will include claudication onset time (PWD),
      changes in Ankle Brachial Index (ABI), Quality of Life (QoL), cognitive function, plasma
      response of Vascular Endothelian Growth Factor (VEGF, FGF). Safety variables will include
      routine hematology parameters and adverse events.
    
  