
    
      The introduction of minimally invasive surgery has faced the surgeon with some difficulties
      that were not present in traditional open surgery. The foremost disadvantage of laparoscopy
      is the loss of depth perception in 2-dimensional (2D) vision while having to operate in a
      3-dimensional (3D) space.

      Minimally invasive surgery has become the standard approach for most of the abdominal
      surgical procedures. It is associated with less surgical trauma, faster recovery, shorter
      hospital stay and better cosmetic results. These advantages have led laparoscopic skills to
      become a basic competence for general surgery programs. Advanced laparoscopic surgery
      involves a long learning curve, including demanding minimally invasive skills such as
      intracorporeal suturing and knot tying.

      Video quality is critical for an accurate training. This is especially important for advanced
      laparoscopic skills training, where high-definition cameras are needed. HD imaging has been
      shown to provide subjectively improved image for visualization and to improve surgical task
      performance.

      Some authors have investigated the effect of laparoscopic 3-dimensional view, and have
      demonstrated an improvement in speed, efficiency, optics and handling as well as surgeon's
      subjective assessment. Moreover, 3D systems have been demonstrated to provide better optical
      visualization that allows simpler presentation of anatomical structures, which can decrease
      intraoperative errors and postoperative morbidity secondary to visual distortions and may
      reduce postoperative fatigue of the surgeon.

      The hypothesis of the study is that the length of surgery is reduced with the use of 3D
      laparoscopic systems compared with 2D laparoscopic systems, the reduction on the length of
      surgery will be higher on the training surgeons compared with the senior surgeons, and that
      the use of 3D laparoscopic systems reduces the postoperative fatigue of the surgeons.

      In this study a group of full-trained surgeons and of 4th and 5th year General Surgery
      Residents performing laparoscopic Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass will be randomized into the use of
      2D standard laparoscopic optics or 3D laparoscopic optics.
    
  