
    
      Potential study subjects will be recruited from the Chemical Dependency Unit by a trial
      coordinator. After obtaining written informed consent, the coordinator will take a
      sequentially numbered opaque envelope from a box on the unit. This envelope will contain a
      card indicating the treatment group to which the woman is allocated. Women participating in
      the treatment group of our study will have access to a quiet room furnished with comfortable
      reclining chairs. The acupuncturist will swab the ears with alcohol and insert sterile,
      disposable needles. Following the treatment, which is 45-minutes in length, participants will
      remove the needles themselves and place them in protective sharps boxes. A sham acupuncture
      procedure will not be used. Chinese traditional medicine does not include the concept of a
      placebo. Those who argue that auricular acupuncture stimulates the vagus nerve, which
      innervates the ear concha state that needles placed anywhere in the concha should produce the
      same effects. 58 Studies utilizing sham procedures have failed to show a difference between
      the control and active experimental conditions.

      In this unit, morphine is prescribed for the neonate by pediatricians (11 in total) if there
      is a constellation of symptoms unresponsive to environmental control including: 1)
      convulsions, 2) inconsolability or crying continuously for 3 hours, 3) persistent tremors or
      jitteriness when undisturbed, 4) continuous central nervous system irritability including
      hyperactive Moro reflex, tremors, jitteriness, increased muscle tone and unprovoked muscle
      jerks, 5) persistent vomiting or projectile vomiting over a 12 hour period; or 6) explosive
      diarrhea for 2-3 consecutive episodes. Additional clinical signs such as tachycardia,
      tachypnea, watery stools, fever, or weight loss > 10% may justify use of morphine after
      consideration of differential diagnoses. Morphine 1mg/ml is started at a rate of 0.03
      mg/kg/dose every 3 hours. The dose is reviewed daily and titrated based on daily weights and
      ongoing symptoms.
    
  