
    
      Neoadjuvant therapy has become the consensus treatment for individuals with locally advanced
      unresectable disease and borderline resectable disease. Typical regimens utilize those that
      are used in the metastatic setting for pancreatic cancer, such as FOLFIRINOX (5-FU,
      Leucovorin, Irinotecan, and Oxaliplatin) and paclitaxel protein bound plus Gemcitabine.
      Currently, the recommendation of utilizing neoadjuvant therapy for potentially resectable
      pancreatic cancer has been met with controversy. However a recent study published an analysis
      of individuals with potentially resectable pancreatic cancer and showed a median overall
      survival of 31.5 months with 44.9 months for the 60 individuals who underwent neoadjuvant
      therapy and resection compared to 8.1 months for the 9 patients who were not resected.
      Another study examined the use of nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine, capecitabine, and cisplatin
      (PAXG regimen) in individuals with unresectable or borderline resectable pancreatic cancer
      patients. A partial response was observed in 67% of the patients along with progression-free
      survival at 6 months being 96%. Furthermore, a recent study examining stage I or stage II
      pancreas cancer patients who received either neoadjuvant therapy followed by resection or
      those who received upfront resection was reported. In those receiving neoadjuvant therapy,
      overall survival was 26 months compared to 21 months. Neoadjuvant, as opposed to adjuvant
      therapy potentially increases the amount of exposure of drug to the tumor. It allows for the
      completion of therapy prior to surgery to prevent patient drop-out due to perioperative
      complication. Neoadjuvant therapy also acts as a selection tool for optimal surgical
      candidates by identifying aggressive tumor biology prior to surgery and therefore selecting
      out those who will not benefit from resection. Radiation therapy may be also employed in the
      neoadjuvant setting as a means to help with local control and survival in individuals without
      micrometastatic disease.

      The combination of nab-paclitaxel (now called paclitaxel protein bound) and gemcitabine had a
      high response and survival in the phase I and II study in advanced pancreatic cancer. In this
      phase I study with expansion at the phase II dose, 67 pts were accrued. The phase II dose was
      determined to be weekly nab-paclitaxel 125 mg/m2 with gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2. Therapy was
      well tolerated at the phase II dose. For all patients (n=67), the median time for
      progression-free survival (PFS) was 7.1 months (95%CI, 5.7 to 8.0 months), and the median
      time for overall survival (OS) was 10.3 months (95% CI, 8.4 to 13.6 months). For patients at
      the recommended dose of 125 mg/m2 nab-paclitaxel, the median PFS was 7.9 months (95% CI, 5.8
      to 11.0 months), and the median OS time was 12.2 months (95% CI, 8.9 to 17.9 months).
      Additionally, the 1-year survival is reported at 48% at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and
      the overall response rate (ORR) was 46% for all patients (n=67). The combination of
      nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine was generally well tolerated and had substantial antitumor
      activity in patients with pancreatic cancer, enough to warrant a phase III clinical trial.

      In the phase III (MPACT study, n=861) patients were randomly assigned to nab-paclitaxel plus
      gemcitabine (431 patients) or gemcitabine (430). The median overall survival was 8.5 months
      in the nab-paclitaxel-gemcitabine group as compared with 6.7 months in the gemcitabine group
      (P<0.001). The one year survival rate was 35% in the nab-paclitaxel-gemcitabine group versus
      22% in the gemcitabine group, and 9% versus 4% at 2 years. The median PFS was 5.5 months in
      the nab-paclitaxel-gemcitabine group, as compared with 3.7 months in the gemcitabine group
      (P<0.001); the response rate according to independent review was 23% versus 7% in the two
      groups (P<0.001). Adverse events were tolerable with grade > 3 events of neutropenia (38% in
      the nab-paclitaxel-gemcitabine group vs. 27% in the gemcitabine group), fatigue (17% vs. 7%),
      and neuropathy (17% vs. 1%) and febrile neutropenia (3% versus 1%). Based on the results of
      this study, nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine is a FDA approved regimen for pancreatic cancer.

      Building on the design and mechanisms of action of the nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine
      combination, a prior protocol introduced a third cytotoxic agent cisplatin, was added to this
      doublet. The rationale for adding cisplatin to nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine was that in a
      study of 1,029 patients whose pancreatic cancer tumors were sent for molecular profiling, 57%
      of these tumors were negative for ERCC1, indicating sensitivity to a platinum anti-tumor
      agent. In addition to the above, in our whole genome/transcriptome sequencing analysis, we
      found that abnormal repair pathways were a feature of all of the pancreatic cancers that were
      sequenced. Cisplatin prevents cellular DNA repair by binding to and causing crosslinking of
      DNA, triggering apoptosis. Cisplatin has been used in other combination regimens to treat
      patients with PDA. For example, the cisplatin, epirubicin, 5-fluorouracil and gemcitabine
      (PEFG) regimen had an acceptable toxicity profile and was associated with a 24% partial
      response rate, 5 month progression-free survival (PFS) and 8.3 month overall survival as
      second line therapy.

      Prior to 2015, there were no documented reports of the combination of cisplatin with
      paclitaxel protein bound and gemcitabine in the treatment of any human cancer. However,
      cisplatin had been combined with paclitaxel and gemcitabine in the treatment of patients with
      locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients and had shown
      substantial antitumor activity with an acceptable safety profile. In that phase I-II study of
      65 patients with advanced NSCLC, the overall response rate was 57%. The aforementioned
      neoadjuvant study led by Reni also utilized cisplatin with albumin bound paclitaxel along
      with gemcitabine and capecitabine.

      More recently there has been even more compelling science indicating that one should consider
      DNA repair as an Achilles heel in pancreatic cancer. A team led by Nurse Practitioner Gayle
      Jameson recently reported on the phase Ib/II trial of the combination of paclitaxel
      protein-bound plus gemcitabine plus cisplatin. In 24 evaluable patients with stage IV
      pancreatic cancer they reported a response rate of 71% (Complete Response (CR) + Partial
      Response (PR)) along with a 88% disease control rate (CR + PR+ Stable Disease (SD) at 9
      weeks). Utilizing this highly active therapy in the neoadjuvant setting may lead to further
      improvement in overall survival and progression free survival in patients with pancreatic
      cancer.

      Most recently the spectacular work of researchers has awakened the world of pancreatic cancer
      research to the possibility that Vitamin D could be a substantial player in normalizing the
      tumor microenvironment from an immunologically friendly (to the tumor) one to an
      immunologically hostile one (e.g. decreased IL6, decreased CXCL12 etc.). In addition, the
      vitamin D analog decreased production of collagen, decreased Myeloid Derived Suppressor cells
      (MDSCs) and decreased regulating T cells. In an ongoing neoadjuvant trial utilizing
      gemcitabine and paclitaxel protein bound with paricalcitol compared to gemcitabine and
      paclitaxel protein bound, a modulation of the tumor microenvironment has been seen including
      greater infiltration of CD3 positive lymphocytes. Therefore, a trial utilizing gemcitabine,
      paclitaxel protein bound, cisplatin and paricalcitol may yield promising results in the
      neoadjuvant setting.
    
  