
    
      Despite significant improvements in oncologic outcome for patients with esophageal cancer,
      with increased early detection and greater utilization of multimodal protocols,approximately
      50% and 20% patients with locally advanced and localized disease treated with curative intent
      will develop disease recurrence within 5 years. After completion of treatment, there is
      little evidence to guide surveillance strategies, and whether routine clinical, biochemical,
      radiologic or endoscopic follow-up is associated with improved oncologic outcomes, or
      health-related quality of life (HR-QL), is unknown. This is in contrast to colorectal cancer,
      where meta-analyses demonstrate a significant overall survival (OS) benefit among patients
      undergoing intensive surveillance, likely driven by a proportion of patients achieving
      long-term survival following salvage treatments for oligometastatic disease. Importantly,
      intensive surveillance in colorectal cancer did not adversely impact HR-QL in survivorship.

      In esophageal cancer, a lack of quality to indicate that aggressive treatment of recurrent
      disease provided an OS benefit had previously limited the rationale for intensive oncologic
      surveillance in this cohort. However, increasingly reports of long-term survival after
      salvage surgery for recurrent esophageal cancer among patients treated with esophagectomy as
      a component of initial treatment are emerging. For example, Depypere et al. reported that
      among the 15% of patients with isolated local recurrence or single solid organ metastasis who
      were treated surgically, 5-year survival from time of recurrence was 50% (median 55 months).
      This is in keeping with data from Schipper et al. who report 44% and 35% 3- and 5-year
      survival, respectively, in the minority of patients for whom R0 re-resection of local
      recurrence was possible. Furthermore, while meta-analysis now confirms the survival benefit
      of palliative chemotherapy (HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.71 to 0.92), and targeted therapy (HR 0.75, 95%
      CI 0.68 to 0.84), the independent impact of timing of intervention, and disease volume, on OS
      in the setting of recurrent disease is unclear.

      Indeed, no randomized controlled trial has compared oncologic outcomes among cohorts
      undergoing different surveillance protocols, and only two retrospective observational studies
      have directly addressed this question. In a study from Canada, Peixoto et al. compared
      survival outcomes among 292 patients with gastroesophageal cancers (58% esophageal and
      junctional, with 23% treated with definitive chemoradiation only), undergoing four different
      surveillance modalities (discharge to General Practitioner, or Medical Oncology follow-up
      with either clinical, clinical and biochemical, or clinical and radiologic/endoscopic
      surveillance). There was no difference in recurrence-free or OS according to surveillance
      strategy on univariable or multivariable analysis. However, recent data from Sisic et al.
      advise caution in interpretation of the former study. Among 587 patients undergoing either
      high intensity radiologic or standard clinical surveillance after potentially curative
      treatment for gastric (47%) or junctional (53%) adenocarcinoma, intensive surveillance
      independently predicted OS on multivariable analysis and was associated with an approximate
      5% increase in OS at 3 and 5 years. Notably, among patients who developed disease recurrence,
      OS was significantly greater (median 40 versus 19 months) for those with
      radiologically-detected versus clinical recurrence, and for those who underwent metastectomy
      (n = 29, 5% of total population) versus other treatments (median 66 versus 25 months),
      similar to previous series. Although this likely reflects, at least in part, inherent
      differences in disease biology and volume among those who recur symptomatically versus
      radiologically, patients undergoing high intensity surveillance were more likely to have
      treatment for recurrence, with a proportion of these achieving long-term survival (n = 11, 2%
      of total population). Though limited, these data indicate that intensive surveillance may
      provide benefit for the small proportion of patients who may be treated with curative intent
      for low volume recurrence.

      Given the limited evidence to support postoperative surveillance protocols in esophageal
      cancer, it is unsurprising that international guidelines also fail to reach consensus on this
      topic. For example, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) recommend regular
      cross-sectional imaging with computed tomography (CT) for all patients with locally advanced
      disease (cT2-4 Nany) post multimodal therapy, and consideration of regular surveillance CT
      among patients with T1b Nany treated with upfront esophagectomy, up to 3 years
      postoperatively, with endoscopic surveillance only in the case of residual Barrett's
      esophagus. In contrast, European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) guidelines highlight a
      lack of evidence to support the role of postoperative surveillance protocols to improve
      oncologic outcomes, and determine that follow-up should concentrate on symptoms, nutrition
      and psychological support, and neither routine imaging nor endoscopic surveillance is
      advocated.

      As indicated in the ESMO and ASGBI surveillance recommendations, there are potential
      additional benefits to postoperative surveillance protocols. Routine clinical surveillance
      may facilitate identification and management of late post treatment morbidity such as
      anastomotic stricture, post thoracotomy pain, malabsorption, altered appetite and dumping
      syndrome. Furthermore, data from the Netherlands indicate that patients exhibit a strong
      preference for routine imaging surveillance after esophagectomy, with 67% preferring imaging
      even if this approach would not provide a survival benefit.19 This is in keeping with UK
      colorectal cancer data demonstrating that although surveillance is associated with transient
      anxiety, negative test results provide significant reassurance for the majority.
      Interestingly, similar to the Dutch data, most patients (78%) stated that they would value
      finding out about the presence of recurrence, even if there would be no survival benefit.
      This would provide evidence to counter the concern that postoperative surveillance may
      negatively influence HR-QL, either through increased anxiety related to surveillance
      investigations, or earlier diagnosis of otherwise asymptomatic patients with recurrent
      disease.

      Examining surveillance practices internationally, there is significant variability in the
      utilization of biochemical, radiologic and endoscopic surveillance. In Japan, a nationwide
      survey found that high intensity surveillance was common, and notably endoscopic surveillance
      was frequently utilized (85%), in contrast to Australia and New Zealand where only 6% of
      surgeons opted to undertake routine endoscopic surveillance of asymptomatic patients after
      potentially curative esophagectomy. The European Registration of Cancer Care (EURECCA) Upper
      Gastrointestinal group included a brief summary of postoperative surveillance protocols for
      esophagogastric adenocarcinoma among the 10 participating Centers in a recent publication on
      clinical pathways. Importantly, this demonstrated clear differences across European Centers
      in key elements of surveillance, such as the routine use of CT (in 40%) and tumor markers (in
      40%), but did not describe endoscopic surveillance protocols or duration of surveillance,
      while oncologic outcomes according to surveillance intensity were not assessed.

      Given these major differences in surveillance intensity and modality across Europe, with
      otherwise similar population demographics and treatment pathways, we in Europe are uniquely
      poised to further study the impact of surveillance with respect to oncologic outcome, and
      HR-QL, after potentially curative surgery for esophageal cancer. Therefore, the primary aims
      of this European collaborative multicenter study are:

        1. Firstly, to characterize differences in postoperative oncologic surveillance protocols
           across European esophageal cancer centers, and

        2. To determine the independent impact of high intensity surveillance (HIS) on
           disease-specific and overall survival.
    
  