
    
      In the treatment of endometrial cancer, adjuvant vaginal brachytherapy is typically performed
      to deliver radiation dose to the apex of the vagina with a fixed diameter vaginal applicator
      which extends the full length of the vagina. The largest cylinder which fits at the apex
      provides the best dosimetry. Smaller diameter cylinders may provide sub-optimal coverage of
      potential areas of disease. Due to pain or discomfort with a large cylinder, some women may
      be treated with a smaller diameter cylinder. A novel applicator, with a tapered design and
      two-step insertion was fabricated to improve the comfort, fit, and patient compliance of this
      procedure while maintaining optimum geometry and dosimetry at the dome. Our primary aim is to
      assess patient comfort with the new applicator. Patients will be fit with different
      applicators (standard of care and novel tapered vaginal applicator) and their comfort will be
      assessed with a visual analog scale-based survey, comparing the two.

      Aim #1: Assess if the 3.0cm diameter novel tapered applicator is more comfortable than the
      standard 3.0cm diameter applicator among patients fitted with a standard 3.0cm diameter
      applicator.

      Aim #2: Determine what percentage of patients who would otherwise be treated with a standard
      2.6cm diameter vaginal cylinder can be up-sized to a 3.0cm diameter cylinder with the novel
      tapered applicator design.

      Aim #3: Assess in vivo dosimetry (optional for all patients). Patients who are prescribed
      vaginal brachytherapy undergo 3-dimensional cross-sectional imaging (i.e., MRI or CT) prior
      to treatment, as standard of care. This is done with the standard treatment applicator
      inserted to assess radiation dose distribution. In this optional aim, patients will undergo a
      slightly longer MRI, with additional MRI images performed with the novel tapered applicator
      in place to characterize and assess dosimetry, fit, contact with mucosal surfaces and
      presence of air gaps in comparison to a standard cylindrical applicator.
    
  