
    
      To reduce all-cause and cancer-specific mortality, the 2014 Surgeon General's Report
      emphasized the importance of effective tobacco use treatment (TUT) in cancer care.
      Unfortunately, up to 50% of cancer patients who smoke prior to their diagnosis continue to do
      so after diagnosis and treatment. This observation has lead the National Comprehensive Cancer
      Network, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, and the American Association for Cancer
      Research to call for implementation strategies integrating TUT directly within oncology care.
      At this time, many cancer centers and oncology practices fall short of providing consistent,
      high-quality TUT; only half of cancer centers report that they identify tobacco use among
      patients, and very few use systematic mechanisms to encourage TUT services.

      In response, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) funded the Cancer Center Cessation
      Initiative (C3I) in 2017 with support from the NCI Cancer Moonshot Program. C3I's aim is to
      help build and sustain TUT infrastructure across the nation's cancer centers, ensuring that
      cancer patients are systematically screened for tobacco use and provided with evidence-based
      smoking cessation treatment. Abramson Cancer Center's work implementing the C3I tobacco use
      treatment service (TUT Service) has significantly improved rates of TUT within oncology
      practice, however the investigators have identified a number of important social-motivational
      obstacles to reaching the target of universal TUT. For instance, it is known that simple
      changes to treatment choice architecture in the electronic health record (EHR), i.e.
      utilizing an "opt-out" rather than "opt-in" structure, increases TUT Service engagement in a
      manner similar to other contexts of cancer care. Unfortunately, there remains unacceptable
      variation in clinician engagement rates. One significant reason for this variation is the
      individual clinician's perceptions of treatment effectiveness.( A strategy used elsewhere
      involved utilizing opt-out orders aimed at maximizing the use of varenicline, i.e.
      "Varenicline Management" (VM). VM resulted in increased clinician utilization and patient
      cessation within a relatively controlled environment of hospital-based cardiac and pulmonary
      care. However, it is unknown whether this type of intervention is generalizable to the
      complex, challenging environment of outpatient oncology.

      The goal of this study is to determine if the default for a varenicline order increases
      clinician referral to TUTS and/or the treatment of tobacco use. At this point, many
      clinicians are turning the referral order off and patients are not receiving treatment for
      tobacco use. A default to prescribe treatment may help override barriers to both.

      Insights gained from this project form the basis of subsequent clinical trials assessing
      efficacy of novel implementation approaches improving uptake of evidence-based tobacco use
      treatment. This study is significant because the model for promoting physician behavior
      change is simple and pragmatic, yet has the potential to significantly impact cancer patient
      survival and morbidity. The study builds on previous observations made through NCI and
      C.U.R.E. investments, expanding the understanding of novel pharmacologic approaches to
      tobacco cessation.
    
  