
    
      The recent introduction of antivascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) agents has
      quickly progressed to become the standard of care for several ocular diseases. Between 2006
      and 2010, anti-VEGF treatment for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) was
      initiated in over 620 000 eyes of Medicare beneficiaries in the United States. This paradigm
      shift in retinal therapy stems from evidence that VEGF regulates angiogenesis and vascular
      permeability, processes which characterize the pathophysiology of diabetic retinopathy and
      AMD. Several large multicenter, randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that patients
      with neovascular AMD and clinically significant macular edema (CSME) benefit from frequent
      intravitreal anti-VEGF injections, particularly with ranibizumab . Ranibizumab is a humanized
      monoclonal antibody Fab fragment (IgG1) that inhibits all identified VEGF isoforms, including
      VEGF165, VEGF121 and VEGF110.

      Rigorous study has consistently demonstrated a good relative safety profile for anti-VEGF
      agents. While transient rise in intraocular pressure (IOP) is a known effect immediately
      following intravitreal injection (IVI), sustained IOP elevation was not initially reported in
      patients undergoing anti-VEGF therapy. It was not until post-hoc analysis of the MARINA ,
      ANCHOR AND VIEW trials that a significant long-term effect on IOP from ranibizumab was
      detected. However, there are increasing reports in the literature documenting this
      phenomenon.

      Bakri et al. reported a case series of ocular hypertension (OHT) (IOP ranging 30 - 50 mm Hg)
      after 0.05 mL intravitreal ranibizumab, which persisted and required treatment. Kahook et al.
      published a case series of six patients undergoing anti-VEGF therapy who developed persistent
      OHT, two of whom had a prior diagnosis of glaucoma/glaucoma suspect. In a larger,
      retrospective review of 215 patients being treated with IVI by Good et al., 6% of patients
      required medical or laser treatment for sustained IOP elevation. Subgroup analysis revealed
      that patients with a history of glaucoma had a substantially higher likelihood of
      experiencing sustained IOP elevation, despite a lower median number of IVI than the
      non-glaucoma group. In a retrospective study by Choi et al. , seven of 127 patients (5.5%)
      developed sustained OHT in the study eye, whereas the fellow eye demonstrated stable IOP. Two
      other large retrospective series have reported similar incidence of persistent IOP elevation,
      and review of the literature reveals an incidence of 3.45% to 11.6% in patients with
      neovascular AMD. Post-hoc analysis of a large, multi-center randomized clinical trial for
      treatment of diabetic CSME found the ranibizumab group had a 3-fold increased risk of
      sustained IOP elevation at 3 years compared to the sham-injection group. This study did not
      enroll patients with a history of glaucoma/glaucoma suspect, thus could not define their risk
      ratio. A prospective study of 217 eyes undergoing anti-VEGF IVI found that persistent IOP
      elevation was a frequent outcome, and that the IOP peak was significantly correlated with the
      number of injections. Further, patients with prior diagnosis of glaucoma/glaucoma suspect had
      an incidence of 12.9% of sustained OHT, compared with 3.2% in the non-glaucoma subgroup.

      The pathogenesis of persistent ocular hypertension has not yet been elucidated, but may be
      secondary to chemical damage to the trabecular meshwork from the anti-VEGF agents themselves,
      or mechanically by micro-particle obstruction. Some studies indicate that the number of IVI
      is an independent risk factor for the development of long-term ocular hypertension , and that
      patients with pre-existing glaucoma are particularly vulnerable.

      Transient IOP elevation following anti-VEGF injection has been noted at 30 minutes
      post-injection and rarely requires anterior chamber paracentesis for treatment . Though this
      rise in IOP elevation is expected to return to baseline by 1-hour post-IVI, the long-term
      consequences of this phenomenon are unknown. One proposed mechanism for this transient effect
      on IOP is increased volume of intraocular contents after injection . Gismondi et al found a
      significant relationship between shorter axial length and higher transient IOP following
      intravitreal ranibizumab. One group designed a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      effect of preventative treatment for this short-term rise in IOP. Brimonidine/timolol fixed
      combination (Combigan®, Allergan; Dublin, IRL) was administered twice a day on the day prior
      to injection and on the day of treatment, and reduced the rapid increase in post-injection
      IOP in a safe and effective manner. However, this study did not evaluate the incidence of
      persistent OHT.

      As IOP elevation is strongly linked with the development of glaucoma, this potential outcome
      in patients undergoing anti-VEGF therapy warrants attention. The data published on this topic
      to date is primarily comprised of retrospective chart reviews, case series, and post-hoc
      analysis of the MARINA, ANCHOR and Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network 2010 and
      VIEW trials. Many studies reveal inconsistent methodology in terms of IOP measurement and IVI
      technique. Ultimately, there is no consensus on which factors may predispose patients to the
      development of iatrogenic IOP elevation following anti-VEGF therapy. Further, prophylactic
      treatment for sustained OHT has not been prospectively studied.

      Currently, there are no guidelines for IOP monitoring in patients undergoing anti-VEGF
      therapy. Our study aims to define a treatment algorithm for the monitoring and prophylaxis of
      anti-VEGF-related iatrogenic ocular hypertension. This may also shed some light into the
      possible mechanism of post-injection IOP spike. Further, our research may help identify a
      subgroup of patients vulnerable to long-term sequelae as a result of this phenomenon.
    
  