
    
      Enuresis / Bedwetting is a common problem causing much emotional distress. Most children are
      dry by the age of 5 years, but a significant number of older children still wet their bed.
      This can be very distressing for child and family. There is also an associated cost due to
      extra laundry and impact of lost sleep.

      Programmes to help children become dry at night often include the use of a moisture alarm.
      The alarms sound when the child begins to wet the bed, waking them up to go to the toilet
      instead. Most alarms work by detecting wetness, sounding the alarm when the child starts to
      pass urine. As such, they still need to change pyjamas and bed sheets.

      The investigators aim to develop a 'dry alarm' that can help children and adolescents become
      dry at night. The alarm will sound when the bladder is full, before the child passes urine.
      This would avoid wet beds. The investigators have engineered parts for this alarm, but need
      to work on making it ready for use. This device will enable children to have dry nights
      whilst learning bladder control.

      This study has several phases. The alarm will consist of a small box worn over the abdomen.
      The aim is to test this overnight, and adjust it for comfort and ease. The device uses a mini
      ultrasound machine, which measures how much urine is in the bladder. There will be a series
      of tests to calibrate the device compared to a clinical ultrasound device. Then children with
      enuresis/ bed wetting will wear it overnight. It will be linked to an alarm which will sound
      once the bladder is full.

      This particular study will determine the feasibility of the product, to confirm the design
      and specifications, including a comfort trial, calibration and comparison with clinical
      scans, and operating process prior to a future clinical trial.

      The total number of participants is 25 - however this will be split over the different phases
      of the trial.

      Comfort Trial - 5 Calibration trial 3 month testing phase - 10
    
  