
    
      Rationale: In the EU about 4 million people yearly die from a chronic illness. Many of these
      people die in pain or distress. Care for dying patients and their close relatives is often
      suboptimal.

      Objective: To contribute to high-quality personalized care at the end of life by:

        1. Providing in-depth understanding of the concerns, expectations and preferences of
           patients in the last phase of life and their relatives

        2. Understanding the cultural, gender, age, healthcare -related and socio-economic variance
           in these concerns expectations and preferences Study design: The iLIVE project involves
           a cohort study in which patients with an estimated life expectancy of six months or less
           are followed until they die. In total, the investigators will include 2200 patients in
           11 countries, i.e. 200 per country. Participants are requested to also involve a close
           relative. Both patients and relatives are asked to fill in a questionnaire, at baseline
           and after four weeks. If patients die during the study, the relative is asked to fill in
           a post-bereavement questionnaire. Medical files are studied to assess health care use in
           the last days of life.

      Main study endpoints: The primary outcome for the cohort study is a descriptive assessment of
      patients' concerns, expectations and preferences around dying and end-of-life care, at
      baseline and after one month of follow-up.

      Potential risks and benefits associated with participation: The study population concerns
      vulnerable people who may experience fluctuating symptoms and levels of suffering across
      their disease trajectory. The investigators acknowledge the risk of overburdening or
      stigmatizing participants. If patients feel burdened by participating in the study, they are
      encouraged to indicate that. The investigators will develop a protocol for researchers and
      interviewers to address such situations.
    
  