
    
      Background Information Leishmaniases encompass diverse clinical manifestations produced by
      different species of the protozoan parasite, Leishmania, transmitted by the bites of infected
      female sand flies. Due to the diversity of epidemiological characteristics, vector and
      reservoir control are impractical, costly and usually require political environment and
      infrastructures beyond the means of the countries suffering most from this disease. It was
      the aim of WHO/TDR to develop a safe and effective vaccine, which can be locally produced and
      thereby affordable for the populations of the poorest developing countries.

      Beginning in the 1930's and 40's, Latin American scientists used killed whole parasite as a
      vaccine against leishmaniasis (1). Different forms of the vaccine, with or without adjuvant
      for prophylaxis or therapy have been studied in several countries in the past few decades
      (2), none has been efficacious for prophylaxis, but efficacy has been observed for
      immuno-chemotherapy (3). Over the past decade, we have produced and tested different
      preparations of killed L. major plus BCG. The autoclaved L. major (ALM) mixed with BCG
      (1/10th of the dose normally used as a vaccine against tuberculosis) was studied extensively
      in several clinical trials. The ALM + BCG formulation was shown to be safe and immunogenic
      (4-8). However, results from several phase III trials with a single or double-dose of this
      candidate vaccine against CL or VL did not show significant overall protection compared to
      immunization with BCG alone (6-8). Even three injections were not sufficiently protective
      against cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL).

      In order to enhance immunogenicity of ALM + BCG, ALM was adsorbed to alum (Aluminum
      hydroxide), and the resulting alum-ALM was mixed with BCG to produce a new formulation for
      this vaccine. Indeed, the addition of alum to ALM leads to enhanced immunogenicity. It was
      demonstrated that a single injection of ALM in alum plus IL-12 induced protection in Rhesus
      monkeys against CL (10). Likewise, Alum-ALM + BCG protected Langur monkeys against visceral
      leishmaniasis (11).

      The results of 2 dose escalating trials of a single intra-dermal injection of Alum-ALM (10 -
      400 ug of Leishmania proteins) mixed with 1/10th normal dose of BCG showed the highest skin
      test conversion seen in any Leishmania vaccine trials so far (12). The safety parameters of
      the volunteers were closely monitored for 90 days after vaccination for local and systemic
      side effects. Side effects were minimal and confined to the site of injection. No systemic
      side effect was recorded. In the second TDR-sponsored trial in Sudan 10, 100 and 320 ug of
      the protein plus BCG were tested with results confirming the immunogenicity of the
      alum-ALM+BCG vaccine. Thus, Alum precipitated ALM mixed with 1/10th of BCG appears to
      constitute a safe vaccine and an appropriate candidate for further development.

      Leishmanization (LZ):

      Inoculation with live virulent Leishmania to produce a lesion for the purpose of preventing
      natural infection - which usually results in multiple lesions on exposed parts of the body -
      is known as leishmanization (LZ). Generally, recovery from CL leads to protection against
      future infection (14). During the last forty years, L. major promastigotes grown in cell-free
      culture have been used for leishmanization in Israel (15) and Iran (16) as well as in a
      high-risk population in Uzbekistan (17). Massive LZ was performed on an estimated two million
      people in Iran as a preventive measure during the Iran-Iraq war in the 80's (16). However,
      this practice was discontinued after the war due to occasional long-lasting lesions and the
      difficulties of standardized production under the circumstances immediately following the
      war.

      LZ as a live challenge in efficacy trials of leishmaniasis candidate vaccines would bring
      about considerable time and cost saving by dramatically reducing the follow-up time,
      logistical demands and sample size required (thereby exposing fewer participants to potential
      risks of a new candidate vaccine). Challenge studies with LZ would also provide the
      opportunity to fully study immunological responses as the sample size is far smaller than
      that in field efficacy trials; hence one can seek protection correlates that could be used in
      subsequent vaccine evaluation and selection. Although much is known about immune mechanisms
      in experimental leishmaniasis, surrogate markers of protective immunity have not been
      established in humans as of today. It is very difficult and costly to search for such markers
      in field efficacy trials particularly if children are the target at-risk-population.

      In addition, LZ as live challenge in candidate vaccine efficacy trials performed in endemic
      foci would serve two purposes: a) to evaluate the protective efficacy of the vaccine
      candidate and b) to protect recipients against naturally occurring CL, usually multiple
      lesions on the face or other exposed parts of the body. Hence, all participants will be
      protected, either by the candidate vaccine or by LZ.

      Preliminary, safety and immunogenicity trials of LZ:

      In preliminary studies as a first step to develop a reproducible challenge system for
      evaluating various vaccine candidates against leishmaniasis prior to (or possibly instead of)
      large scale field efficacy trials, frozen live Leishmania major was produced at Razi
      Institute (5 x 105 promastigotes per inoculation) for use as a live challenge inoculums (19).
      In a clinical trial to study the safety and immunogenicity of LZ and lesion development
      resulting from artificial infection, 23 adult male Iranian volunteers were selected and
      leishmanized (19). Lesion evolution in all volunteers was checked and recorded twice a month
      and a picture was taken at each follow-up visit until complete healing. Eighty three percent
      (19/23) of volunteers developed lesions after LZ (17/23 within 60 days of LZ). The largest
      ulcer size was 17.5 mm. The longest healing period was 285 days (in one volunteer). No
      serious adverse reaction related to LZ and requiring medical attention was observed or
      reported. In a second trial, LZ was used in 20 volunteers, including 14 individuals from the
      first trial (11 had previously developed a lesion and 3 had not). The results demonstrated
      the similarity between live challenge and natural infection. Indeed, the volunteers who had
      developed a lesion after the first LZ and the one cured case from natural infection were
      totally immune and did not develop a new lesion upon live challenge. All volunteers with no
      history of CL and those who had not developed lesions in the previous trial were not immune
      and developed a lesion. The course of lesion development was similar to that observed during
      the first LZ trial. This confirms that LZ can be used effectively and reproducibly as a tool
      to evaluate the protection induced by a candidate vaccine. In addition, LZ confers immunity
      to re-infection, should the candidate vaccine fail to do so (19). Subsequent to these
      studies, a TDR-sponsored, single-blind randomized controlled trial designated LZ3, was
      performed to assess the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of four different doses of
      alum-ALM (10,100, 200 and 320 ug of ALM) plus 1/10th of BCG against CL caused by
      leishmanization. The target sample size (N = 30 in each arm) was calculated according to 80%
      power at 0.05 level of confidence, 50% protection against LZ, 60% take rate of LZ in the
      placebo control group (take rate = lesion development with ulceration) and a 10% loss to
      follow up. These assumptions were based on the results of two previous leishmanization trials
      (designated LZ1 and LZ2) in healthy volunteers using the same live parasite (stabilate),
      which was produced in 1997, standardized and kept frozen in liquid N2 until use. The trial
      was initiated in 2001 after considerable delay. The time of assessment of efficacy was set at
      days 135 and 184 (75 and 124 days after live challenge) based on two previous LZ trials using
      the same stabilate. However, due to the paucity of active lesion development, the protocol
      was amended to assess the outcome at a later date. This trial suffered from major
      difficulties. Most importantly, the problems with the live challenge virulence which lead to
      significantly less-than-expected take rate (about 45% instead of the expected 80-100%),
      rendered the decided sample size insufficient for vaccine efficacy assessment. However,
      despite inconclusive efficacy results, this trial clearly demonstrated the safety of
      different doses of alum-ALM+BCG. To evaluate the efficacy of this candidate vaccine properly,
      it was decided to repeat the trial.

      Risks and Potential Benefits:

      As observed in previous trials in Sudan and Iran, risks associated with a single injection of
      the alum-ALM+BCG are limited to local reactions ranging from induration to ulceration. These
      lesions are due to the BCG injection used as adjuvant and tend to heal within 30-40 days.
      Similarly, risks associated with LZ, observed in LZ1, LZ2 and LZ3, are local lesions which
      heal spontaneously, usually leaving a scar. As stated earlier, LZ as a method of protection
      is sought after by residents of endemic areas who would otherwise be exposed to a very high
      chance of natural infection and resulting multiple lesions on face, hands or other exposed
      parts of the body. In this clinical trial, LZ would lead to protection in individuals who
      would not be immune as a result of the injection (s) with the candidate vaccine.

      Rationale for the trial The clinical trial outlined in this protocol is proposed to evaluate
      safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of a single and double intradermal injections of 200 ug
      of Alum-precipitated autoclaved L. major (Alum-ALM) plus BCG vaccine in healthy Iranian
      volunteers, at high risk of CL due to L. major followed by leishmanization. A comparator
      group will receive saline in lieu of the candidate vaccine and this group will determine the
      take rate for the live challenge. Another comparator group will receive BCG in a double-blind
      manner.

      Trial Objectives and Purpose Primary objectives To further evaluate the safety of single- as
      well as double injections of Alum-ALM (200 ug of Leishmania protein) mixed with 1/10th dose
      of BCG vaccine within 30 days after booster injection in Iranian volunteers followed by live
      challenge with L. major for assessment of protection.

      To determine the protection induced against live challenge by double injection of Alum-ALM
      mixed with BCG 30 days after last vaccination.

      To determine if a booster injection of Alum-ALM + BCG induces higher immunological responses
      measured by skin test.

      Protection is defined as the absence of ulcerative lesion development (consistent with CL) at
      Days 180 + 15 after leishmanization at the site of LZ.

      Primary endpoints Occurrence of local and/or systemic adverse events (AEs) within 30 days
      after vaccination assessed by interview, physical examination.

      Percentage of volunteers protected against CL (absence of a lesion) compared to controls at
      day 180 + 15 after LZ.

      Dosage regimens Cohort 1. Double injections (30 days apart) of Alum-ALM 200 ug mixed with
      1/10 of the normal dose of BCG (n = 50).

      Cohort 2. Double injections (30 days apart) of 1/10 of the normal dose of BCG (n = 50).

      Cohort 3. Double injections of Comparator (= BCG diluent alone) as control (n = 50) It is
      expected that all lesions induced by vaccination will be healed before day 60 (day of LZ).
      All eligible volunteers will receive LZ with the same stabilate on day 60. Volunteers will be
      monitored for a minimum of 240 days or until the lesions induced by leishmanization are
      completely healed).
    
  