
    
      This is a retrospective case series of ten consecutive outpatients with treatment-resistant
      depression who all had a clinically meaningful response when treated with intravenous racemic
      ketamine and were then switched to intranasal esketamine for maintenance therapy. Efficacy
      and adverse effects were assessed at each treatment All patients underwent an extensive
      consenting process with a detailed discussion about the off-label use of IV racemic ketamine
      for TRD and known risks of the treatment. Other available approved therapies were offered
      including alternative medication, TMS, ECT, and VNS. All patients signed an informed consent
      form prior to treatment and a consent form allowing their data to be used for retrospective
      research reporting. All patients had baseline lab work and an electrocardiogram to determine
      medical stability. Patients were encouraged to undergo a series of six ketamine infusions
      over 14 to 21 days. If a response (>50% improvement) or partial response (25-50% improvement)
      occurred as determined by a reduction of Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS),
      Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ9), and/or a Clinical Global Impressions - Improvement
      (CGI-I) rating of 3 or more and infusions were well tolerated, patients were offered weekly
      infusions for four weeks. Patients then had the option of receiving successive maintenance
      infusions with variable frequency depending on individual patient response and preference.
      Vital sign and clinical monitoring, dosing, and frequency of IV ketamine treatment were based
      on the published available data in this area.Treatment with IV ketamine was initiated at
      subanesthetic doses of 0.5mg/kg with flexible dosing based on response and tolerability up to
      1.0mg/kg. Patient's oxygen saturation, blood pressure, and pulse were monitored continuously
      with pulse oximetry and Caretaker ® finger sensor. Patients that transitioned to IN
      esketamine received an initial dose of 28mg (n=1) or 56mg (n=9) of IN esketamine and all
      patients were eventually titrated up to a target dose of 84mg for the remainder of
      treatments. All patients were monitored as required by the REMS protocol for IN esketamine.
      Prior to treatment at the beginning of each clinic visit, MADRS and PHQ-9 were completed. CGI
      ratings were obtained by the treating physician at each treatment. All treatments were
      administered on-site at the clinic and any adverse effects related to treatment with IV
      ketamine or IN esketamine were captured through spontaneous reporting and rated as mild,
      moderate, and severe at the discretion of the treating psychiatrist.
    
  