
    
      This investigation is a joint study involving Occupational Therapist, Orthopedic surgeons and
      Anesthesiologist. Distal fracture of the radial bone is the commonest fracture, mainly in
      elder females with osteoporosis and also obesity. Normally 75% of patients are treated with
      plaster after fracture repositioning. The remaining 25% are operated upon. Routinely, the
      operation is performed under neuroaxial blockade and sedation. When the blockade rapidly
      vanish many patients experience a rebound pain much severer than the initial trauma pain. If
      long acting local anesthetics are used the blockade will be terminated during night and many
      patients will go to the Emergency room for pain treatment. Short acting local anesthetics may
      make it possible to treat patients pain in-house prior to hospital discharge and thus reduce
      severe rebound pain.

      In this study patients with radial fractures are included and operated upon by a standard
      surgical operation with plate and screws. They will receive either 1) long- (n=30) , 2)
      short-acing (n=60) local anesthetics in a supraclavicular blockade with ultra sound
      assistance, or 3) general anesthesia (n=30) to provide analgesia during the operational
      procedure. Patients given a blockade with short-acting local anesthetic (n=60) are further
      sub-divided into receiving either postoperative plaster(n=30) or an orthotic (n=30).

      Patients pain will be measured by NMR during the next-coming 7 postoperative days. Also their
      consumption of analgesic's will be noted by personal contact intermittently by telephone and
      by a pain diary. After 3 days the Occupational Therapist will control the patients followed
      by investigations at 2, 6 12 and 52 weeks. The patients will be graded the Patient rated
      Wrist Evaluation (PRWE) and Michigan Outcomes Questionaire (MHQ) Oedeam will be measured and
      strength will be measured by Jamar dynamometer, Finally, Sense of coherence will be measured
      by KASAM-13
    
  