
    
      PHASE 1 : The first phase studied the repeated measurement of the efficiency of typing text
      topics in various situations. Each subject will copy a text different in each test and in a
      random order. Similarly, if the word prediction software has a capacity for self-improvement
      the internal dictionary, it will be disabled.

      the investigators will study one setting of the configuration word prediction software. Are
      available the length of the list of proposals for which three options are selected: 1, 3 or 5
      words, according to the literature and to the results of a questionnaire.This questionnaire
      was sent to identify the use of people with spinal cord injury and professionals about word
      prediction software.

      The list of words is in the upper position of the screen based on the results of the
      questionnaire.

      Four combinations will be tested on each subject. Twelve Tetraplegics will be required in
      each group (one group using a virtual keyboard and one group using the physical keyboard)
      Each combination will be tried for 10 minutes.

      PHASE 2 :

      The second phase will evaluate the effeciency of a rehabilitation program reduced cognitive
      load generated by the software predictions words.

      The investigators propose an evaluation of the effects of 12 training sessions in a
      controlled, randomized, three parallel groups (experimental group : rehabilitation program, a
      group : a self-learning and a group : no learning).

      Text input tests will be performed before and after the training sessions for people who have
      rehabilitation program. For the other two groups, those will be reviewed one month after the
      first test.

      For this evaluation, a different text but with the same difficulty will be used. The order of
      execution will be randomized.

      At the end of the month the three groups will be evaluated according to the same procedures
      for the firts test.
    
  