
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of
           17-N-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG), in terms of frequency, severity, and
           duration of treatment-emergent adverse events, in patients with imatinib
           mesylate-resistant Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive chronic phase chronic
           myelogenous leukemia.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug and its primary metabolite
           (17-amino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin) in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the hematologic response rate, in terms of WBC count, platelet count, and
           assessment of blast cells in peripheral blood, in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the cytogenic response rate, in terms of Ph-positive progenitor cells in the
           bone marrow, in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Assess the effect of this drug on pharmacodynamic markers (i.e., CRKL phosphorylation,
           BCR-ABL kinase activity, and BCR-ABL, RAF kinase, and HSP70 expression) in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Patients receive 17-N-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG) IV over 15 minutes or 1
      hour (depending on the dose administered) once on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, and 25.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity
      or disease progression. Eligible patients may receive additional courses of 17-AAG at the
      discretion of the investigator.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 17-AAG until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Up to 10 additional patients are treated at the
      MTD.

      Patients are followed for 1 month.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  