
    
      Assessment methods will include: Mouth pressure measuring for assessment of respiratory
      muscle strength, timed up and go (TUG) and ten meter walk test (10MWT) to assess exercise
      capasity, fatigue impact scale (FIS) and fatigue severity scale (FSS) to assess fatigue and
      the international physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ) will be used to assess physical
      activity levels of participants.

      There will be two groups in this study. One of the groups will consist of 30 parkinson's
      patients aged between 40-75 years and 1-3 according to Hoehn-Yahr stage. The other group will
      consist of 30 healthy individuals between the ages of 40-75 and without any neurological
      disorders.

      Including criterias:

      For patients with Parkinson disease

        -  diagnosed with Parkinson disease

        -  Aged between 45-75 years

        -  1-3 according to Hoehn-Yahr scale For health group

        -  Aged between 45-75 years

        -  Without any neurological disorder

      Evaluation of Respiratory Muscle Strength: Maximum inspiratory (MIP) and expiratory pressures
      (MEP) are measurements of pressures against the closed airway to assess the strength of
      respiratory muscles. MIP and MEP pressures are noninvasive tests that show indirect
      respiratory muscle strength. Spirometry device (Carefusion /Micro RPM) will be used to assess
      MIP and MEP. The maximum inspiratory and expiratory valve (shutter) that closes the airway
      during the maximum oral pressure measured during the maximum breath.

      Evaluation of Exercise Capacity: Exerise capacity of participants will assess with TUG and
      10MWT tests.

      Time up and go test (TUG) assesses mobility, balance, walking ability and risk of falling.
      The test is performed by the person getting up from a chair, walking 3 meters, turning around
      himself, walking back to the chair and sitting again.

      Ten meter walk test (10MWT): In the test, the person is asked to walk at his / her normal
      speed within a pre-measured area of 10 meters. Two measurements are taken and the best value
      is recorded in meters per second (m / sec).

      Evaluation of Fatigue: Fatigue impact scale (FIS) and Fatigue severity scale (FSS) will be
      used.

      Fatigue impact scale (FIS) consists of forty questions. The first 10 items assess cognitive
      status, the second 10 items evaluate physical status, and the third 20 items evaluate
      psychological status. Each question is scored between 0 (no problem) and 4 (maximum problem).
      The highest score is 160. Higher scores show more fatigue.

      Fatigue severity scale (FSS) consists of 9 questions. Each question is evaluated with a scale
      of 1 to 7 points. 1 = Strongly disagree, 7 = Strongly agree. Minimum score 9, maximum score
      63.High scores indicate fatigue.

      Evaluation of Physical Activity Level: International Physical Activiy Questionnaire (IPAQ)
      will be used.

      The long form of the IPAQ questionnaire is used to gather information about recreational
      activities such as home and field activities, occupational transport, sedentary activities.
      The calculation of the total score for the IPAQ long form includes the sum of time (minutes)
      and frequency (days) for all types of activity in all areas. Scoring is done according to
      activity (walking, moderate activity, severe activity). From these calculations, a score in
      MET-minutes is obtained. A MET-minute is calculated by multiplying the minute of activity
      performed by the MET score. MET-min x (person's body weight kg / 60 kg).
    
  