
    
      Premenopausal women were enrolled and were allocated into two groups; operation and control
      group. Operations were performed for benign ovarian tumors, leiomyoma or adenomyosis. All
      eligible women were identified from the Samsung Medical Center. Written informed consent was
      obtained from all subjects and the study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of
      Samsung Medical Center.

      A complete medical history was taken, and physical and gynecological examinations were
      performed at baseline. Data included information on age, menstrual cycle, parity, weight,
      height, and BMI. The follow-up length was 3 months. Blood sample was taken before and in 1
      week, 1 month and 3 months after surgery for operation group or at the time of screening for
      control group, and transvaginal ultrasonography was performed with AMH sampling.

      After collection of blood, serum was stored at -70ºC until the measurement of AMH level.
      Serum levels of AMH were determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using commercial
      kit (Beckman Coulter Inc., Paris, France). The detection limit of the assay was 0.14 ng/mL,
      and the intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation were 12.3% and 14.2%, respectively.

      Ultrasonographic examination was performed using the ALOKA prosound SSD-3500 (ALOKA,
      Wallingford, CT, USA) with a 7.5-MHz vaginal probe for color Doppler ultrasonography to
      assess the ovarian artery flow at the ovarian hilum. The pulsatile index (PI) and resistance
      index (RI) values were calculated according to the formula PI=[S-D]/mean and RI=[S-D]/S,
      where S was the peak systolic flow velocity; D was diastolic velocity; and the mean was the
      mean flow velocity. All examinations were conducted by the same investigator to minimize
      interobserver bias, and parameters were measured at least 3 times and the mean value was
      recorded.

      Operations were performed by gynecologists in our center using the technique of
      laparoscopy-assisted vaginal or trans-abdominal approaches for hysterectomy and using
      oophorectomy or cystectomy method for ovarian disease.

      Statistical analyses were performed using Statistical Analysis System (SAS Institute Inc.,
      version 9.1, Enterprise Guide 3.0, Cary, NC, USA) and R (version 2.7.2) by a statistician in
      our hospital. The Fisher's exact test was used for frequency data. The variables presenting
      normal distribution were compared by t test or analysis of variance. For the variables which
      did not show normal distribution, the Kruskal-Wallis test or Wilcoxon test were used. A
      P-value <0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  