
    
      Study Groups If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly
      assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to either group.

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive paclitaxel for 4 cycles. You also will be treated
      with FAC or FEC for 4 cycles. Your treating doctor will decide whether you will receive FEC
      or FAC.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive eribulin for 4 cycles. You will also be treated with
      FAC or FEC for 4 cycles. Your treating doctor will decide whether you will receive FEC or
      FAC.

      Each cycle is 21 days.

      Study Drug Administration for Group 1 You will receive paclitaxel by vein over 1 hour on Days
      1, 8, and 15 of each 21-day study cycle.

      Before the infusion, you will be given drugs by vein, to help decrease the risk of an
      allergic reaction.

      If you have severe side effects, future treatments may be delayed, the dose may be decreased,
      or you may be taken off study.

      Once you have received 4 cycles of paclitaxel, you will receive either FEC or FAC
      chemotherapy for 4 cycles. Your treating doctor will decide whether you will receive FEC or
      FAC.

      Study Drug Administration for Group 2 You will receive eribulin by vein over 2-5 minutes on
      Days 1 and 8 of each 21-day study cycle.

      Once you have received 4 cycles of eribulin, you will receive FEC or FAC chemotherapy for 4
      cycles. Your treating doctor will decide whether you will receive FEC or FAC.

      FEC or FAC Treatment After you have received 4 cycles of either paclitaxel or eribulin, you
      will receive FEC or FAC.

      If you are given FEC chemotherapy, you will receive 5-Fluorouracil by vein over 15 minutes,
      epirubicin by vein over 30 minutes, and cyclophosphamide by vein over 30-60 minutes on Day 1
      of every 21-day cycle.

      If you are given FAC chemotherapy, you will receive 5-Fluorouracil by vein over 15 minutes,
      doxorubicin by vein over 15 minutes, and cyclophosphamide by vein over 30-60 minutes on Day 1
      of 21-day cycle.

      Before FEC or FAC chemotherapy, you will be given drugs by vein to help decrease the risk of
      allergic reaction. These drugs will include dexamethasone and zofran.

      Study Visits During Paclitaxel or Eribulin On Day 1 of each cycle: If you have had these
      tests within 10 days before Day 1 of Cycle 1, they may not need to be repeated.

      You will have a physical exam, including a measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      You will be asked about any side effects you may be having and any drugs you may be taking.

      Your performance status will be recorded. Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests.

      On Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1-4, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      At Week 12, you will have a core biopsy.

      At the end of Cycle 4:

      You will have an ultrasound of the breast to check the status of the disease. You will have
      an ECHO or MUGA scan. You will have a core biopsy and fine needle aspiration of the tumor. A
      small needle will be inserted into the tumor at the safest and easiest location to withdraw
      cancer cells. This will be used to learn which tumor markers may predict who may best respond
      to therapy.

      Study Visits During FEC or FAC Chemotherapy

      On Day 1 of every third week:

      You will have a physical exam, including a measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      You will be asked about any side effects you may be having and any drugs you may be taking.

      Your performance status will be recorded. Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests.

      After you have finished FEC or FAC treatment, you may have surgery. At the end of the
      chemotherapy treatment, you will be referred to the breast surgeon to discuss surgery. There
      is an small possibility (less than 3%) that tumor has gotten worse during treatment, and
      additional chemotherapy may be necessary.

      Length of Study You may continue taking the study drug for as long as the doctor thinks it is
      in your best interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets
      worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      This is an investigational study. Paclitaxel, doxorubicin, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide
      are FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of breast cancer. Eribulin is
      FDA approved and commercially available to treat metastatic breast cancer in patients who
      have received at least 2 chemotherapy regimens for the treatment of metastatic disease. The
      use of eribulin with the FEC/FAC regimens is investigational for neoadjuvant treatment.

      Eribulin will be provided at no cost to you while you are on this study. You and/or your
      insurance provider will be responsible for the cost of paclitaxel, doxorubicin, epirubicin,
      and cyclophosphamide.

      Up to 162 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  