
    
      Summary of the specific aims and impact on public health of the Phase II. Substance abuse
      treatment is often complicated by a client's family, employment, psychiatric, or legal
      problems. When these co-existing issues are addressed with evidence-based practices (EBPs),
      outcomes improve. The inclusion of behavioral health evidence-based practices to enhance
      Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) is the subject of a number of federal and state treatment
      initiatives. However, the integration of such evidence-based practices into clinical settings
      continues to lag, despite extensive efforts to educate clinicians through training. Since it
      is often difficult to integrate EBPs into the clinical workflow, clinicians rely on
      established (and often ineffective) patterns of care. This grant proposed to (1) use
      electronic health record data on patients with a diagnosis of opioid use disorder to create
      profiles of patient groups using latent class analysis (LCA) analysis and determine, for each
      class, which combination of services are empirically associated with positive outcomes; (2)
      develop clinical decision support (CDS) software to help counselors classify patients and
      match them to appropriate services, and (3) conduct a field trial (randomized controlled
      trial or RCT) to test the impact of the CDS software on clinical practice.

      Provide a succinct account of published and unpublished results, indicating progress toward
      achievement of the originally stated aims.

      Latent Class Analysis: The first aim (using electronic health record data on patients with a
      diagnosis of opioid use disorder to create profiles of patient groups using LCA and
      determining which combinations of services are empirically associated with positive outcomes
      for each class of opioid users) was successfully achieved, as discussed in previous progress
      reports.

      Four classes were identified: Class 1: Individuals in this class tend to have relatively high
      medical and mental health problems, be taking psychiatric medications and tend to experience
      control problems with their temper. Class 2: Individuals in this class tend to have mental
      health problems, but are not taking psychiatric medications. They do not generally snort or
      inject opiates and tend not to have serious medical problems. Class 3: Individuals in this
      class tend to have medical and mental health problems and are taking psychiatric medications.
      They have a tendency to snort or inject opiates and may have some problems controlling their
      temper. Class 4: Individuals in this class tend to have a high tendency to snort or inject
      opiates. They have medium medical problems and low mental health issues.

      Software Development: Based on the LCA results, CDS software was developed to help counselors
      classify patients and match them to appropriate services.

      Field Trial: The purpose of this field trial was to evaluate the effectiveness of this new
      CDS software when compared to clinical care as usual or treatment-as-usual (TAU), and to
      gather information about feasibility and perceived usefulness of the CDS software from the
      counselor's perspective. It was anticipated that when compared to TAU, clients in the
      experimental condition would (1) have significantly greater matched evidenced-based and
      wraparound services, (2) have greater engagement in treatment, (3) have less frequent use of
      substances, (4) have greater biopsychosocial functioning, and (5) have greater cost
      effectiveness (i.e., less cost to achieve successful outcomes).
    
  