
    
      This study is broken into 4 groups (A, B, C, and D). Enrollment closed to all groups in May
      2008.

      The first forty subjects (Group A) in this study were treated with Bevacizumab only, which is
      given through a vein over 1-2 hours every 3 weeks, for a total of approximately 12 months (17
      cycles). Each cycle consists of 3 weeks.

      The next forty subjects (Group B) were treated with Bevacizumab and metronomic CM
      chemotherapy. These subjects took cyclophosphamide (1 pill by mouth every day), methotrexate,
      (1 pill taken by mouth twice a day for the first two days of each week) and Bevacizumab (once
      every 3 weeks). The treatments with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and Bevacizumab will
      continue for approximately 6 months (8 cycles). Then for the next 6 months, they received
      Bevacizumab treatments only. The total time on this study will be about 12 months (17
      cycles).

      The next forty subjects (Group C) were treated with Bevacizumab and Capecitabine
      chemotherapy. These subjects took Capecitabine pills twice a day for 14 days, then one week
      of rest, to complete a 21-day cycle. There will be a total of 6 cycles of Capecitabine,
      meaning 18 weeks of treatment with both Capecitabine and Bevacizumab. Then received
      Bevacizumab treatments only (11 cycles) to complete 12 months of therapy. Total duration of
      your treatment will be about 12 months or 17 cycles of therapy.

      The last forty subjects (Group D) are being treated with Bevacizumab and Capecitabine
      chemotherapy on a different schedule. These subjects will take Capecitabine pills twice a day
      for 7 days, then one week of rest and repeat this for a total of 24 weeks (6 cycles). Each
      cycle will last for 4 weeks (28 days). There will be a total of 6 cycles of Capecitabine,
      meaning 24 weeks of treatment with both Capecitabine and Bevacizumab. Bevacizumab will be
      given every two weeks for a total of 24 weeks (6 cycles). Then they will receive Bevacizumab
      treatments only, every 3 weeks for additional 27 weeks (9 cycles) to complete 12 months of
      therapy. For the last 9 cycles of Bevacizumab therapy each cycle will consist of 3 weeks.
      Total duration of treatment will be about 12 months or 15 cycles of therapy.
    
  