
    
      This study is exploratory in nature and is designed to be hypothesis generating to support
      the design of future studies. A total of 200 women diagnosed with a pelvic mass (defined as a
      simple, complex or a solid ovarian cyst / pelvic mass) who are scheduled for a laparotomy or
      laparoscopy for removal of the pelvic mass will be enrolled for evaluation of the primary and
      exploratory endpoints. An initial evaluation of the data will be conducted after
      identification of 15 evaluable subjects with histopathologically confirmed ovarian cancer. It
      is estimated that 50 - 100 subjects will be required to obtain a minimum of 15 evaluable
      subjects with histopathologically confirmed ovarian cancer. The remainder of the women
      enrolled (expected to be ~100 - 150 subjects) will be used to verify the findings from the
      initial evaluation (i.e. correlation of the markers with the absence or presence of
      malignancy) and to refine the assay/algorithm.

      Within 60 days prior to surgery, each subject must have a pelvic imaging study (e.g.
      ultrasound, CT scan, MRI, etc.) conducted and read to visualize the pelvic mass according to
      the current standard of care. Results of the pelvic imaging study(ies) will be recorded.

      Within 60 days prior to, or on the day of the pelvic mass surgery, collect up to 35mL of
      peripheral blood into one 5mL SST tube, which must be drawn first, followed by three separate
      10mL EDTA tubes. Serum from SST tube will be prepared at the local study center and used for
      protein biomarker testing. The EDTA tubes will be shipped to the Medical University of
      Vienna, where the blood will be pooled and equal volumes processed using two different
      separation methods on the Parsortix™ system to capture and harvest rare cells. The harvested
      material from the EDTA tubes will be lysed, and total RNA will be extracted from the cell
      lysate for evaluation of multiple gene targets using quantitative PCR (qPCR).

      Laparotomy or laparoscopy for removal of the pelvic mass will be performed by a qualified
      individual. Tissue samples will be sent to the local pathology department for histological
      examination in accordance with standard institutional practices. Results of the
      histopathological evaluation will be recorded, including the final diagnosis along with
      histological sub-type, and if available, stage and grade of ovarian cancer where disease is
      identified.

      Subjects will be considered negative for ovarian cancer:

        -  if the subject undergoes surgery and no mass is identified, or;

        -  if the histopathological findings are negative for cancer (i.e. benign conditions).

      Subjects will be considered positive for ovarian cancer:

        -  if the histological examination of the tissue taken at the time of surgery confirms the
           presence of ovarian, primary peritoneal and/or fallopian tube cancers.

      For the purposes of enrollment, subjects diagnosed with a malignancy other than an ovarian
      cancer as well as those diagnosed with low malignant potential (LMP) / borderline tumors will
      not be counted as an ovarian cancer. However, two separate analyses of the final study data
      will be conducted: one where subjects diagnosed with other cancers are excluded from the
      analysis of the primary endpoint and the subjects diagnosed with LMP / borderline tumors are
      classified as being negative for malignancy, and a second where subjects diagnosed with other
      cancers and those diagnosed with LMP / borderline tumors are classified as being positive for
      malignancy.

      Demographical and clinical data may be summarized using descriptive statistics. Continuous
      variables may be summarized using the number of observations, mean, standard deviation,
      coefficient of variation, median, and range as appropriate. Categorical values may be
      summarized using the number of observations and percentages as appropriate.

      The association of the markers (i.e. serum protein markers and mRNA markers) with the
      histopathological diagnosis will be assessed using appropriate statistical methods (e.g.,
      logistic regression, analysis of variance [ANOVA], etc.), depending on the endpoints.
      Analyses may be performed within and between various histopathological diagnosis sub-groups.
      Other clinical covariates (such as imaging results and subject demographics) may also be
      included in the modeling.

      An initial evaluation of the correlation of the markers with the histopathological diagnosis
      will be performed after the identification of 15 subjects with histopathologically verified
      ovarian cancer. The final cohort of patients will be used to verify the findings from the
      initial evaluation (i.e. correlation of the markers with the absence or presence of
      malignancy) and to refine the assay/algorithm. Bootstrap analyses may be utilized on the
      entire set of 200 subjects to finalize an assay/algorithm for further study.
    
  