
    
      Study design:

      Study design will be a prospective case-control study at Kuopio University Hospital (KUH) in
      Finland. Study material will be collected in internal medicine emergency department at KUH.
      The study design was approved by University of Eastern Finland ethics committee (237/2017).

      Study participants will receive a written information sheet about the study and will be
      provided with an opportunity to ask questions concerning the study. A written informed
      consent will be signed by the participants, including a permission to use patient's medical
      records.

      Screening of study participants will be made in participating hospitals from admitted
      patients in January 2018 - May 2019. The inclusion criteria for study group patients was
      atrial fibrillation confirmed by a doctor-interpreted 12-lead ECG . Exclusion criteria were:
      body mass index (BMI) over 35; implanted pacemaker device; 12-lead ECG findings of left
      bundle branch block (LBBB) or right bundle branch block (RBBB); medical condition requiring
      immediate treatment that would be delayed by the study measurements; serious infectious
      disease. Control group consisted of patients with normal sinus rhythm (SR) in 12-lead ECG.

      Measurement

      Demographics of study patients, including age, gender, previous medical history (as reported
      by patient or from patient medical records), length and weight , will be recorded.

      Before measurements, the patient will be asked to rest for at least 2 minutes, and lay still
      during the measurements. First, a 12-lead ECG will taken over a period of 10 seconds for
      rhythm confirmation for study grouping. In the next step, altogether 5 wet electrodes will be
      attached to patient to record ECG with Faros 360 Holter device (Mega Elektroniikka, Kuopio,
      Finland) to be used as golden standard for rhythm monitoring. Simultaneously a heart rate
      monitoring chest strap (Suunto Movesense, Suunto, Vantaa, Finland) will applied to chest
      approximately 2 cm below the lower end of sternum, according to manufacturer's instructions.
      PPG-device (Empatica Empatica ltd, Milan, Italy) will be connected to non-dominating wrist. A
      total of 24 hous recording will be made. The data from heart rate chest strap will sent via
      Bluetooth connection to study computer; the data from Faros Holter device was recorded to
      device´s internal memory card and transferred to analyzing software. The data collected was
      anonymized and ECG data from chest strap and Holter device was analyzed using MATLAB
      software.

      The quality of the ECG-strip will be defined as good (no or only minor artefacts), average
      (artefacts but QRS complex and/or P-wave identifiable) or poor (major artefacts, no
      identifiable QRS complex and/or P-wave) by the cardiologist. The rhythm from the ECG-strips
      was divided to three categories: sinus rhythm, atrial fibrillation or other/inconclusive. The
      cardiologists also assessed the possibility to detect P-waves from the ECG-strips with SR
      (yes/no).

      The study population will consisted of total 200 patients. According to the initial 12-lead
      ECG, total 100 patients with atrial fibrillation will be collected, and control group will
      consist of 100 patients with normal sinus rhythm.
    
  