
    
      Introduction Asymptomatic bacteriuria (ABU) is defined as the presence of bacteria ( ≥105 per
      ml) in a non- contaminated urine sample collected from a patient without signs or symptoms
      related to UTI[1]. Although this is a benign condition that does not require treatment in
      most adults, ABU in pregnant women has been linked to several complications. The pregnancy
      state, with its increase in urine stasis and altered immune, can result in increased rates of
      pyelonephritis and preterm labor[2].

      The prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy has been reported in the range of
      2-15%[3]. Due to the severity of the complications related to asymptomatic bacteriuria in
      this patient population, the American College of OBGYN recommends routine screening of all
      pregnant women[4]. Asymptomatic bacteriuria in a pregnant woman should be screened only using
      a clean-catch non contaminated urine sample. Screening for ABU using urine chemistries is not
      recommended due to the lack of sensitivity and specificity of these tests[5, 6]. If ABU is
      present, appropriate antibiotic is given and post treatment urine culture is performed.
      However, a controversy does exist as to the value of treatment of ABU in the prevention of
      above noted complications [7].

      Interestingly, we have noted a contaminated urine cultures in up to 15 to 20% of our prenatal
      patients. This can be frustrating to both the patient and her physician. Repeat testing,
      delay in the diagnosis, and additional cost are just some of the problems associated with
      these contaminated urine cultures.

      Hypothesis/Clinical Question We hypothesis by improving the instructions given to patients on
      how to perform a clean catch urine, that we will decease our contaminated urine cultures.

      Material and Methods:

      All patients (16 years and older) presenting for initial routine prenatal care at one of the
      St Luke University Hospital perinatal clinics will be eligible. Patients with known urinary
      infection, symptoms of UTI, and other renal disease will be excluded. Consented patients will
      be randomized (1:1) using previously prepared sealed envelopes to either the current standard
      of verbal explanation of the clean-catch urine technique or to view the instructional video
      on the collection technique. A Spanish version video tape will also be available. These
      sample results as well as basic patient demographics will be collected (Age, Gestational age,
      BMI, gravidity, parity) will be compared.

      We will recruit 200 patients based on an improvement from 15% contaminated rate to a 5%
      contaminated rate (power 0.80; p=0.05). We will compare proportion of contaminated urine
      specimens using chi square test to those patients that watch the video to those that did not.
      In addition, we will compare demographics to determine if any difference exists between the
      groups. We will employ t-test, chi-squared and Mann-Whitney-U test as appropriate.

      Risk and cost to patients This study does not incur any additional risk to the patient. No
      additional cost will be charged to the patients since all pregnant patients receive a urine
      culture screen as part of their standard of care.

        1. Trautner, B.W., Asymptomatic bacteriuria: when the treatment is worse than the disease.
           Nat Rev Urol, 2011. 9(2): p. 85-93.

        2. Glaser, A.P. and A.J. Schaeffer, Urinary Tract Infection and Bacteriuria in Pregnancy.
           Urol Clin North Am, 2015. 42(4): p. 547-60.

        3. Schneeberger, C., B.M. Kazemier, and S.E. Geerlings, Asymptomatic bacteriuria and
           urinary tract infections in special patient groups: women with diabetes mellitus and
           pregnant women. Curr Opin Infect Dis, 2014. 27(1): p. 108-14.

        4. Patterson, T.F. and V.T. Andriole, Bacteriuria in pregnancy. Infect Dis Clin North Am,
           1987. 1(4): p. 807-22.

        5. Rogozinska, E., et al., Accuracy of Onsite Tests to Detect Asymptomatic Bacteriuria in
           Pregnancy: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. Obstet Gynecol, 2016. 128(3): p.
           495-503.

        6. Awonuga, D.O., et al., Asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy: evaluation of reagent
           strips in comparison to microbiological culture. Afr J Med Med Sci, 2011. 40(4): p.
           377-83.

        7. Angelescu, K., et al., Benefits and harms of screening for and treatment of asymptomatic
           bacteriuria in pregnancy: a systematic review. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth, 2016. 16(1): p.
           336.
    
  