
    
      Background: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia and is
      associated with significant morbidity, necessitating treatment. Radiofrequency ablation for
      atrial fibrillation/flutter has evolved significantly and is the closest we have come to a
      'cure' for these dysrhythmias. Recurrence of atrial fibrillation in those who have undergone
      radiofrequency ablation as treatment AF is up to 40% at one year and higher in those with
      persistent AF. Hypertension is a potent risk factor for AF, but recent studies have
      demonstrated that even modest increases in BP may lead to a higher incidence of AF. There is
      no clinical trial evidence to date that has investigated aggressive BP control in patients
      post radiofrequency ablation for AF to prevent recurrent AF.

      Objective: We propose to determine if aggressive BP control reduces recurrent AF post
      ablation.

      Hypothesis: Aggressive BP lowering will reduce the incidence of recurrent AF post ablation.

      Research Plan:

      Study Design. This will be a randomized open label trial in patients who are post catheter
      ablation for atrial fibrillation. Randomization to either aggressive BP lowering or standard
      BP control will occur three to six months prior to the procedure.

      Study Population. Patients will be included if they have persistent or high burden paroxysmal
      (refractory to class 1 or 3 antiarrhythmic medication) and intend to have a catheter ablation
      procedure for AF.

      Followup. Patients will be followed at 3 month intervals for the first year, then every 6
      months to a maximum of 30 months or the common study end date has been reached (1 year post
      randomization for the last patient enrolled).

      Statistical Analysis. Kaplan-Meier analysis of the primary outcome will be performed. A Cox
      proportional hazards model will be constructed to assess the effect of variables chosen a
      priori on the primary outcome.
    
  