
    
      Neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) are commonly used in critically ill patients,
      especially in adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Use of NMBAs to facilitate
      mechanical ventilation, to control patient/ventilator asynchrony and to reduce uncontrolled
      muscle tone in special conditions including tetanus, therapeutic hypothermia, and status
      epilepticus were increasingly found in current clinical practice.

      Cisatracurium, 1Rcis-1'Rcis isomer of atracurium, is benzylisoquinolium nondepolarizing NMBAs
      which is three to five folds higher potency than atracurium besylate. The degradation of
      cisatracurium by hofmann elimination and ester hydrolysis in plasma generates laudanosine and
      a monoquaternary acrylate metabolite. Clinical practice guidelines for sustained
      neuromuscular blockade in the adult critically ill patient published in year 2016 strongly
      recommended cisatracurium due to a reduction in incidence of prolonged blockade,
      cardiovascular related adverse events and anaphylactic reactions. Moreover, recent evidence
      showed that early use of cisatracurium in early severe ARDS patients led to a significant
      reduction in mortality.

      Regarding pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cisatracurium in critically ill patients,
      there were multiple factors affected cisatracurium blood concentration and neuromuscular
      blockade actions. Several reports demonstrated that pathophysiological changes, such as age,
      hypothermia/ hyperthermia, electrolyte imbalance and acid-base disturbances, had a
      significant impact on PK and PD of cisatracurium. Currently, there were an increasing data of
      slow response and less paralysis effect in critically ill patients receiving standard dose of
      cisatracurium. These may be explained by inadequate drug concentration at target organ,
      therefore, treatment failures regarding recommended dose of cisatracurium has been reported.
      Consequently, higher cisatracurium dose with higher drug concentration level might overcome a
      problem of inadequate level and therapeutic failure while receiving a standard dose of
      cisatracurium (a loading dose of 0.1-0.2 mg/kg, followed by a maintenance dose of 1-3
      mcg/kg/min)
    
  