
    
      This open label (all participants know the identity of the study drug), multicenter (more
      than one study site), first-in-human study consists of 2 parts. Part 1 is a Amivantamab
      Monotherapy and Combination Dose Escalations and Part 2 Amivantamab Monotherapy and
      Combination Dose Expansions. In Part 1, participants with evaluable NSCLC will be enrolled
      into cohorts at increasing dose levels of Amivantamab monotherapy, the RP2CD of the
      Amivantamab and lazertinib combination which will be administered in 28 day treatment cycles,
      and RP2q3W of Amivantamab in combination with standard of care carboplatin and pemetrexed
      (chemotherapy combination) which will be administered in 21 day treatment cycles. The dose
      will be escalated until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD, or maximum administered dose [MAD],
      if no MTD is found) is reached. Part 1 will follow a traditional 3+3 design. At each dose
      level, 3 participants will complete Cycle 1. If no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) occurs in
      these 3 participants, then escalation will continue in a new cohort of 3 participants. Data
      from Part 1 will be used to determine one or more RP2D regimen(s). In Part 2, participants
      with documented epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations and measurable disease,
      whose disease has progressed after previous treatment will be enrolled and receive
      Amivantamab at the RP2D determined in Part 1 as a monotherapy at the RP2D regimen(s), or in
      combination with lazertinib at the RP2CD regimen. For both parts, the study consists of
      following periods: an optional pre-Screening period; a Screening period (up to 28 days prior
      to the first dose of study drug); a Treatment period (first dose of study drug until 30(+7)
      days after the last dose of study drug or prior to starting any subsequent anti-cancer
      treatment, whichever comes first); and a Follow Up period (approximately 6 months). All
      participants will be followed for survival in the post-treatment follow-up period until the
      end of study and safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  