
    
      The aim of the current study was to compare the degree of anxiety reduction in dentally
      anxious patients attending a Dental Access Center where the dentist did or did not receive
      the patients' assessment of dental anxiety.

      METHODS Design of study A three group pre-and post-test design was adopted, a control group
      (Group1: patient completed the MDAS (Modified Dental Anxiety Scale) questionnaire and handed
      it to the receptionist) and the experimental group where the patient handed the MDAS to the
      dentist (Group 3). An additional group was included (Group 2). Patients completed the MDAS
      and handed it to the receptionist whereupon it was given to the dentist contrary to patient
      expectation. The dental staff were kept blind to the actual design of the study. The Local
      Research and Ethics Committee approved the study.

      Test the hypothesis that patients sharing assessment information about their dental anxiety
      to members of the dental team has beneficial effects on their state anxiety.

      Randomisation A block randomisation schedule was computer generated by University of
      Manchester statistician (BT). Pre-sealed opaque envelopes that contained questionnaires
      specific to the three groups were prepared by a colleague to minimise selection bias. All
      materials were pre-coded with the participant number.

      Sample

      Dental Access Centers provide: general dental services to those who are not registered with a
      NHS dentist, NHS patient charges and receipt of easily available treatment and advice
      (appointment not always necessary). The study was conducted at two Greater Manchester Dental
      Access Centers. These sites offered treatment to emergency dental patients who were more
      likely to become dentally anxious than regular attenders (Maggirias and Locker, 2002) .
      Participants were volunteers recruited, from October 2003 to April 2004.
    
  