
    
      This is a prospective randomised open label Phase III study. This study is is proposed to
      compare a rapid fractionation schedule of 1 week compared to a protracted schedule of 6-8
      weeks for palliation for locally advanced cervical cancer. The primary objective of the study
      is pain relief in the experimental arm as compared to the control arm from treatment until 12
      weeks from start of radiotherapy. Patients with locally advanced cervical cancer (Stage III
      B-IV A) deemed unsuitable for full course radical pelvic radiotherapy or chemoradiation,
      patients whose anticipated survival is less than 12 months will be included in the study.
      Patients with distant metastasis and those with retroviral disease will be excluded from the
      study. The patients will be randomised in one of the two groups:

      Arm A : Control Arm - Long Course Palliative Radiation: Week 1: All the patients will receive
      external sitting of radiation treatment, first fraction of 10 Gy. Week 4: All the patients
      will receive external sitting of radiation treatment, second fraction of 10 Gy. Week 7:
      Patients who have almost complete clinical response will be evaluated for brachytherapy will
      receive the appropriate brachytherapy procedure depending on the tumor response to a dose of
      6-8Gy x 2-3#.The patients which will be found unsuitable for brachytherapy will receive
      another sitting of external radiation, third fraction of 10 Gy. Week 12: After treatment
      completion response assessment will be done using following parameters: • Pain assessment
      using numerical pain rating scale on 0-10 • Vaginal bleeding- yes/ no • Vaginal discharge-
      yes/no • Analgesic use- WHO ladder and dosing • QOL QC30, QLQC15 Pall, QLQC Cervix 24 •
      Disease response • Acute toxicity.

      Arm B: Experimental arm- Short Course Palliative radiation. Week 1: Patients will be treated
      with short course radiotherapy (25Gy/5#). The dose fractionation of 25 Gy in 5# over a week
      will be used. Week 4: Patients who have almost complete clinical response will be evaluated
      for brachytherapy will receive the appropriate brachytherapy procedure depending on the tumor
      response to a dose of 6-8Gy x 2-3#. The patients who will be found unsuitable for
      brachytherapy will be kept under observation. Week 12: After treatment completion response
      assessment will be done using following parameters: • Pain assessment using numerical pain
      rating scale on 0-10 • Vaginal bleeding- yes/no • Vaginal discharge- yes/ no • Analgesic use-
      WHO ladder and dosing • QOL QC30, QLQC15 Pall, QLQC Cervix 24 • Disease response • Acute
      toxicity. Follow up: Patients follow up will be utilizing standard of care imaging and lab
      investigations used for the patients. Patients will be evaluated every 3 months for the study
      duration.There is no potential direct benefit to the study participants. However the aim is
      to use the available information to evolve treatment in future. The variables to be estimated
      are pain relief, disease related symptoms relief, CTCAE Toxicity, Quality of Life,overall
      survival and compliance to therapy.
    
  