
    
      Aim: To determine the incidence of catheter-related bacteremia (CRB) with three primary
      schedules of central venous catheter exchange in adult critically ill patients with major
      burn injury.

      Hypothesis: A strategy of catheter exchange according with clinical criteria will result in
      no more CRB compared with a routine catheter changes without guidewire exchange strategy or
      frequent guidewire exchange or frequent new-site replacement.

      Background: The intravenous catheter-related bacteremia (ICRB) is a nosocomial infection
      affecting patients admitted to intensive care and that leads to increased morbidity.
      Accumulative incidence rates of ICRB are 5.5 infections per 1000 catheters-day. Several
      strategies have been proposed to decrease of the rate of ICRB in critically ill patients.
      However, there is not agreement to recommend a replacement pattern of central venous
      catheters in adult critically ill patients with major burns as a strategy for the reduction
      in intravenous catheter-associated bacteremia.

      Objectives. To compare three strategies of replacement from central venous catheters for the
      prevention of ICRB. Find out the risk of mechanical complications associated with each
      strategy of central venous catheter replacement.

      Method. Randomized, multicenter clinical trial, single blind to compare three strategies for
      intravenous catheter replacement in patients with major burns: a scheduled wire-guided
      strategy every six days: second, a scheduled strategy of replacement every six days in a
      different punction and third, a re-change strategy guided by clinical criteria for suspicion
      of catheter-associated infection. Primary outcome: catheter colonization rate and rate of
      intravenous catheter-associated bacteremia. Secondarily, we calculate the incidence rate of
      colonization of central venous catheter and finally we will analyze the associated
      complications.

      This project requires enough patients to show a difference between three intervention groups.
      A significant decrease in infection rate would be from the current 20 infections per 1000
      catheter days to approximately 15 per 1000 catheter days. This would require a minimum of
      1000 catheter days per group.
    
  