
    
      Kidney transplant recipients are at increased risk of death from cardiovascular disease
      (CVD). Inflammation, oxidative stress and vascular dysfunction (impaired endothelial function
      and increased large elastic artery stiffness), are highly prevalent in kidney transplant
      recipients and contribute to the high incidence of CVD in this patient population. The most
      common cause of kidney transplant failure is interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy
      (IFTA). The incidence of IFTA is as high as 50% of kidney transplants at 1 year after
      transplantation. The pathophysiology of IFTA is not well understood. Possible mechanisms
      include chronic rejection or injury, inflammation, and drug toxicity. Kidney transplant
      recipients suffer from high rates of cognitive decline for which the investigators lack
      effective therapies. Thus, therapeutic interventions targeting inflammation, oxidative
      stress, vascular dysfunction, and cognitive impairment are a priority.

      Curcumin may have positive effects in terms of cardiovascular and nephroprotection because of
      its antibacterial, antiviral, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative effects. The aim of this
      study is to elucidate the role of curcumin as a nutritional strategy to reduce cardiovascular
      risk factors as well as inflammation and oxidative stress in kidney transplant recipients.
      The study aims to examine if curcumin will improve endothelial function by reducing markers
      of inflammation and oxidative stress. In addition, the study will evaluate the potential
      benefit of curcumin on cognitive function in kidney transplant recipients.

      Curcumin is a natural polyphenol with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant characteristics.
      Preliminary data indicate that curcumin administration improves endothelial dysfunction by
      reducing oxidative stress and inflammation and may improve cognitive function.

      The primary goal of this study is to investigate if curcumin is beneficial for kidney
      transplant recipients, a population with extensive baseline vascular dysfunction and
      cognitive impairment who have few treatment options. The possible mechanisms by which
      curcumin improves vascular function will be evaluated as well as whether curcumin improves
      cognitive function in these patients.

      Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the effects of curcumin on kidney transplant graft function

        2. Evaluate the effects of curcumin supplementation on cognitive function.

        3. Evaluate the effects of curcumin on diabetes and cardiovascular outcomes

        4. Evaluate the effects of curcumin on systemic and endothelial cell markers of
           inflammation and oxidative stress.

      Methods:

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 to receive either curcumin or placebo starting at the time of
      transplant or up to 2 weeks prior to transplant. Patients will be followed per standard of
      care for kidney transplant recipients. Additional blood (30mL) and urine samples will be
      drawn prior to transplant and at 3, 6 and 12 months post-transplant to be used for future
      analysis. There will be a total of 4 visits for this study. Additionally, two questionnaires
      will be distributed at each visit.
    
  