
    
      1. Peripheral neurological assessment was carried out using Michigan Neuropathy Screening
           Instrument (MNSI). The diabetes nurse educators assessed five parameters on both feet
           and counted the total points, ranging from 0 to10: (1) Appearance of feet
           (normal/abnormal with 0 and 1 point); if abnormal, then inspection of lower limbs for
           deformities, dry skin, fissure, calluses or infection was carried out; (2)
           Identification of foot ulceration (yes/no with 0 and 1 point); (3) Vibration perception
           of the big toe (present/decreased/absent, with 0, 0,5 and 1 points); (4) Ankle reflexes
           (present/reinforcement/absent, with 0, 0,5 and 1 points); (5) touch-pressure sensation
           test with a 10 g Semmes-Weinstein monofilament (normal/reduced/absent, with 0, 0,5 and 1
           points). When an MNSI summative score was ≥2 points with neuropathy, patients were
           referred to the teaching hospitals for further evaluation. The MNSI procedures took 6-8
           minutes for each participant.

        2. Peripheral vascular assessment: three parameters were used to assess peripheral vascular
           function by trained nurses. (a) The Cardio-Vision Model MS-2000 was used to detect Ankle
           Brachial Index (ABI), assessed by research nurses. Values of ABI were classified as ≥0.9
           normal and <0.9 abnormal. (b) Palpable pedal, posterior tibias and popliteal pulses were
           recorded as absent, weak or present. (c) Capillary refill time was done by pressing the
           tip of the toenail for two seconds, and taking the time for the blanched area to turn
           pink again. If the return time took >2 seconds, this was taken as ischemia. Assessing of
           all 3 parameters of peripheral vascular assessment took 10-15 minutes for each
           participant.

        3. Diabetic foot risk assessment was assessed by plastic surgeons: (a) King's College
           classification (KC) contained six stages of condition: not at risk, at risk, ulcer,
           cellulites, necrosis and amputation. (b) the Texas risk classification (TRC) system was
           divided into six categories in origin. We re-categorized three levels: low risk, at
           risk, and high risk.

        4. The blood glucose, total cholesterol, and low density of lipoprotein cholesterol were
           drawn from the last 1-2 month diabetes passport record for each subject. Blood pressure
           was measured according to standard procedures by the nurses during the study. Body mass
           index was calculated for each participant using the standard formula (weight in
           kilograms divided by square of the height in meters). Waist circumference in centimeter
           was used to measure central obesity, measuring the mid-abdominal distance between the
           last rib margin and the iliac crest.
    
  