
    
      Detailed description:

      Many peritoneal dialysis patients suffer from uremia due to inadequate dialysis or volume
      overload caused by failure of peritoneal membrane transport.One of the most important
      etiologies of peritoneal membrane failure are unavoidable to use high glucose-containing
      dialysate solution that induce injury to mesothelial cell.Previous data found that injured
      mesothelial cell produces Angiotensin (Ang) II to induce peritoneal inflammation and
      fibrosis. Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system by angiotensin-converting enzyme
      inhibition(ACEI) or angiotensin receptor antagonism (ARB) play a major role to slow this
      effect.

      Although many trials in animal study have proved the benefit of ACEI and ARB in peritoneal
      membrane transport but clinical evidences in human are controversy. Up to now, all previous
      trials have limitation. First,The trials have small number of population(less than 20 in
      prospective randomized controlled trial). Second, The trials have multiple confounders on the
      study population because of the study include old case (that on peritoneal dialysis for many
      years) and new case (that just start treatment less than 1 year). Third, short duration of
      study(less than 3 months) to see the significant effect of RAAS blockade on peritoneal
      membrane transport. Forth, most study use dialysate albumin loss as an index of peritoneal
      membrane transport ,that less sensitivity to predict peritoneal membrane function. Fifth,no
      previous trials are attempted to study the effect of combination between ACEI and ARB.
      Therefore,we design to study the effect of both ACEI and ARB in a larger number of
      population, only in new case which are just recently found to be on peritoneal dialysis, our
      study is taken in longer duration and use both modified peritoneal equilibrium test and
      dialysate CA125 as an index of peritoneal membrane (physiology and anatomic index).This
      research will demonstrate efficacy of Enalapril and Losartan on Peritoneal membrane
      transportation lead to improve quality of life in CAPD patients.
    
  