
    
      This is a Phase II randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinical study to evaluate
      the efficacy of LAM-002A compared to placebo treatment in adults with a confirmed SARS-CoV-2
      infection who are receiving standard supportive care in an outpatient setting.

      Study eligibility will be assessed during screening. All study participants must sign a
      written informed consent and satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study.
      Confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 infection, medical history, and current medication will be
      assessed for each consenting participant at screening.

      Study participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio, to receive study therapy (either
      LAM-002A, 125 mg [5 capsules/dose]) PO BID or placebo [5 capsules/dose] PO BID) for 10 days.
      Participants who experience an adverse event (AE) considered to be related to study therapy
      may have a decrease in study dose of LAM-002A to 100 mg [4 capsules/dose]) PO BID or placebo
      [4 capsules/dose] PO BID). After the start of treatment on Day 1, participants will be
      followed at Days 4,6,8,11,22, and 28. Days 6,8, and 22 will be phone visits. Participants can
      withdraw from the study therapy or study participation at any time.

      The study will incorporate an interim safety analysis after the first 30 participants (15 on
      LAM-002A and 15 on placebo) have completed treatment and have been followed up for 11 days
      post-first dose. Recruitment and randomization will continue while this analysis is
      conducted. Recommendations from an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be
      used for decisions of early termination or study design adaptations.

      Non-parametric and parametric statistical analysis will be conducted, as appropriate. For the
      comparison of the LAM-002A active arm and the control arm for the primary endpoint and
      secondary endpoints of drug effect, appropriate methods will be employed. Baseline subject
      characteristics, study therapy administration/compliance, safety, supportive care
      administration, and pharmacokinetics will be analyzed descriptively.
    
  