
    
      Background and Rationale* In IMU there is an increasing concentration of patients with
      serious illness, under acute exacerbation of previous diseases, elderly patients with
      co-morbidities and/or fragility, needing high intensity care. Those patients need an overall
      evaluation of the rank of severity, complexity and dependence of their pathology, together
      with an evaluation of their risk of clinical deterioration, to implement a stratification of
      optimal treatments, intensity of care, length of stay. This could allow to optimize the
      approach to the complexity of the patients while helping containing costs, not only on the
      patients who are evaluated during their stay in IMUs, but also in those patients who undergo
      protected hospital discharge or transition to subacute intensive care unit.

      Objectives*

      Some preliminary data on wireless monitoring in IMU have shown that the timely identification
      of clinical instability could led to a shorter length of stay. Monitoring on clinically
      unstable patients lets to prevent the deterioration of adverse events, thus allowing a rapid
      onset of intervention. There are some expected outcomes following the adoption of a wireless
      clinical monitoring system:

        1. Shorter length of stay and earlier discharge

        2. Lower transition rate to Intensive Care Unit (ICU)

        3. Earlier transition of patients from higher to lower intensity of care

        4. Shorter time needed by nurses for the detection of vital signs and clinical parameters,
           and possibility to dedicate to high-quality activities

      Therefore the present study aims to provide data regarding the impact of a specific and
      oriented integrated remote system for the monitoring of vital status of critically ill
      patients in the improvement of outcomes and in a more efficient prevision of length of stay
      and costs, and to verify whether the regular use of a wireless remote monitoring system could
      improve the quality of the assistance and reduce major complications vs. a traditional
      monitoring of clinical status executed by the nursing staff, in two specific settings of
      critically ill patients referring to Internal Medicine with acute conditions:

      GROUP A: Patients who undergo a transition to a subacute intensive care unit, in terms of
      reduction of re-exacerbation, re-access to emergency department or need of intervention by
      Internal Medicine unit specialists by the use of wireless monitoring vs. traditional
      monitoring.

      GROUP B: Patients who are selected for an earlier discharge from Internal Medicine Unit, in
      terms of non-inferiority in the incidence of major clinical complications.
    
  