
    
      Dupuytren's disease is a benign proliferative disorder of the palmar fascia. It results in
      progressive thickening and contracture of fibrous bands on the volar surface of the palm and
      fingers as a result of excessive myofibroblast activity. Patients develop longitudinal cords
      which may lead to progressive joint contractures. Dupuytren's disease limits hand function
      and can diminish quality of life.

      The most commonly used technique for treatment is open limited fasciectomy. The cumulative
      complication rate ranges from 14-67% and includes nerve division (2-5%), infection (4-12%),
      neurapraxia (0.4-52%), and regional pain syndrome (2-13%). The recurrence rate of Dupuytren's
      disease after fasciectomy is approximately 50% at 5 years.

      Recently, interest in needle aponeurotomy and collagenase clostridium histolyticum injection
      have increased as alternative treatment modalities for Dupuytren's disease. Both procedures
      can be performed in an outpatient clinic, have limited downtime, allow earlier return to
      work, and are associated with significantly fewer serious complications than open
      fasciectomy. Needle aponeurotomy and collagenase injection are less invasive than
      fasciectomy, however they are associated with higher rates of disease recurrence.

      Numerous studies investigating the effectiveness and safety of needle aponeurotomy and
      collagenase injection studies have been published. To date, there is no published literature
      about the use of these techniques in combination for the treatment of Dupuytren's disease.
      The investigators propose to follow the patient population of a single surgeon performing
      needle aponeurotomy in combination with collagenase injection to determine the effectiveness
      of this combination treatment. Patients treated with combination treatment will be compared
      to patients treated with a single modality- either needle aponeurotomy or collagenase
      injection.

      Patients will be assessed pre and post operatively to evaluate functional status and the
      degree of joint contracture. Patient satisfaction, adverse events, recurrence, and repeat
      treatment rates will also be determined.
    
  