
    
      The present Phase IIa study aims to confirm, in patients, the observed activity of MMV390048
      against P. falciparum in pre-clinical models and the human IBSM human challenge model, and to
      determine the activity against P. vivax malaria in patients, both over 14 and 28 days.
      Additional aims are to characterise the safety of MMV390048 in patients. Patient safety will
      be monitored for up to 35 days post-dose including pharmacokinetic assessments. The study
      will investigate descending single doses of MMV390048 in response to results obtained in the
      first cohort/dose in each malaria sub type.

      The results of this trial will identify active, well tolerated doses for investigation in
      combination with a partner drug within a Phase IIb clinical trial.

      Preclinical studies using SCID mice inoculated with P. falciparum-infected red blood cells
      link doses and exposures to the efficacy of MMV390048.38 The active dose in the SCID model
      causing maximum effect (ED90) against the parasites is 1 mg/kg/day. The MPC derived from the
      SCID data was 39 ng/ml.39 A human dose for the treatment of P. falciparum was sought that
      could maintain blood concentrations above 39 ng/ml (100 nM) for 8 days. Assuming linear
      pharmacokinetics and based on observed data from the Phase I exploratory formulation study in
      human volunteers, a dose of approximately 20 mg would be estimated to achieve the
      pharmacodynamic target drug concentration in humans based on the preclinical efficacy data
      generated in the SCID mice model. For new antimalarial drugs the translation of a predicted
      efficacious dose from the SCID mouse to the human challenge model and in turn to the
      treatment of acute, uncomplicated P. vivax or P. falciparum is unknown. To minimise the risk
      to patients and to ensure the highest probability of success, the maximum safe dose (as
      determined in healthy volunteers) that maintains a toxicokinetic safety margin to the repeat
      dose studies was selected for the first cohort in this study. This dose is expected to exceed
      the predicted MPC on Day 8 and provide significant target coverage at the site of action.
    
  