
    
      Justification: Chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP) affects more than 20% of the population,
      its prevalence is increasing, generating suffering and high health expenditure. The current
      knowledge of neurophysiology of pain shows that the painful experience in CMP is not
      necessarily associated with peripheral tissue damage and is due more to an alteration of
      central mechanisms of pain processing and to the dysfunction of endogenous pain inhibitory
      mechanisms. Physical exercise (PE) has been shown to be effective in CMP. Pain neuroscience
      education (PNE) improves the levels of pain catastrophism, Kinesiophobia, quality of life,
      disability and also modifies maladaptive cognitions that favour a painful response.

      Objectives: To evaluate the efficacy of a PNE and PE in patients with chronic back pain
      (CBP). Changes in pain intensity, pain thresholds, Catastrophism, kinesiophobia, disability,
      central sensitization and quality of are measured.

      Material and methods: Multicenter randomized clinical trial (RCT) with 170 patients.
      Intervention group receive 6 sessions of PNE and a 6 weeks PE program (18 sessions) aimed at
      improving functional capacity, neurogenesis and cerebral plasticity. Control group receive
      usual physiotherapy treatment (supported by the current protocols in Primary Care in the
      Health System of Castilla y León). The outcome variables are measured by Visual Analog Scale
      (EVA), Pressure Pain Threshold (PPT), Kinesiophobia Tampa Scale (TKS-11), Central
      Sensitization Questionnaire (CSC), Pain Catastrophism Questionnaire (CCD), disability
      (Roland-Morris), Quality of life (SF-36) and satisfaction (CSQ-8). An initial assessment,
      post-intervention (week 10), at six months and at year is performed. Patients Evaluator and
      Outcomes Assessor are masked.

      Applicability of results: The proposed intervention is simple and reproducible. It can be
      performed in the Primary Care Physiotherapy Units. It requires few resources, and it can
      produce changes in pain intensity, functionality and quality of life of patients with CBP
    
  