
    
      In the Netherlands, approximately 10.000 new patients are diagnosed with lung cancer every
      year. Of these, 80% present with non-small-cell lung cancer. Between 1995 and 2008, the
      national incidence has risen with 16% caused by an impressive increase of 53% in women
      suffering from this disease. The aggressive nature of this disease leads to a one-year
      survival rate of 45% and a 5-year survival rate of only 14%.

      It is widely accepted that surgery provides the best chance of cure in patients with operable
      NSCLC (www.oncoline.nl). In practice, only 20% of patients are amenable for tumor resection
      with curative intent. Alternatively, stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) results in
      excellent local control in localized early stage disease.

      In locally advanced, inoperable disease, combined chemotherapy and external-beam radiotherapy
      (EBRT) are increasingly being used. Evidence suggests that concurrent schedules are more
      effective than sequential treatments despite increased toxicity, although the true magnitude
      of the additional benefit remains uncertain. However, a large number of patients with locally
      advanced NSCLC is not suitable for concurrent chemoradiotherapy due to their general
      condition, age, comorbidity or tumor-related factors. Therefore, there is a need to increase
      effectiveness of treatment for all patients with advanced stage NSCLC undergoing either
      radiotherapy alone, neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy, or concurrent
      treatment.

      Apart from the addition of chemotherapy, treatment modification by intensification of the
      radiotherapy schedule or by dose escalation has been proven beneficial. Several phase I/II
      trials explored altered EBRT fractionation schedules that increased the biological effective
      dose to the primary tumor and reduced local relapse rate. Thereby, two main principles were
      pursued: reduction of the dose per fraction (≤ 1.8 Gy), giving two or three fractions per day
      (so-called hyperfractionation), aimed at sparing normal tissues while increasing the dose to
      the primary tumor; increase of the fraction dose (≥ 2 Gy), combined with a reduction in the
      total number of fractions (so-called hypofractionation) aimed at increasing the effective
      tumor dose in less radiation-sensitive primary tumors. On the one hand, hyperfractionation
      limits the treatment-related side-effects, on the other hypofractionation is attractive for
      the patient and radiation department as the number of treatment fractions can be reduced.

      Intensification of the irradiation schedule by continuous, hyperfractionated radiotherapy
      (CHART) delivered in 12 consecutive days showed an absolute improvement in two-year survival.
      With the advent of highly conformal dose planning and delivery techniques during the last
      decade (i.e., 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy, 3D-CRT; intensity-modulated
      radiation therapy, IMRT; volumetric-modulated arc therapy, VMAT/RapidArc; Tomotherapy),
      organ-sparing technology became widely available. Recently, van Baardwijk and collaborators
      published an individualized dose prescription study in 166 stage-III NSCLC patients. Already
      in 2006, Belderbos et al. reported favorable toxicity data and an encouraging failure-free
      interval in 88 inoperable NSCLC patients treated with intensified, hypofractionated 3D-CRT
      based on the MTD to the lung.

      Apart from these reported studies, there are three hypofractionation trials being conducted
      elsewhere. In the UK, two 3D-CRT based phase I/II trials have been approved investigating
      individualized dose escalation based on normal tissue dose constraints in patients with stage
      II or stage III NSCLC (ISRCTN12155469 and I-START; CRUK/10/005). In the US, the University of
      Wisconsin is conducting a helical tomotherapy-based hypofractionation study (NCT00214123)
      with pulmonary toxicity (pneumonitis grade 3 lasting for more than 2 weeks) as primary
      endpoint.

      The reported hypo- and hyperfractionation studies have a 'trial-and-error' approach for
      dose-level estimation in common. In a recent in silico trial in 26 stage III NSCLC patients,
      we have investigated the use of a dedicated software tool for individual dose escalation by
      hypofractionation. Based on an existing, clinical IMRT/VMAT treatment plan (66 Gy in 33
      fractions), radiation dose was escalated by scaling the radiation dose until the maximum
      tolerated dose constraints for the healthy lung, the esophagus, spinal cord, brachial plexus
      or heart was met. The aim of this present study is to test the feasibility and toxicity of
      individualized hypofractionated radiotherapy, and to report outcome data. In case this phase
      II trial has favorable results, a phase II/III trial on maximally tolerable, individualized,
      hypofractionated radiotherapy within a shorter overall-treatment time is aimed for.
    
  