
    
      Prospective phase II, open-label, single center study in which each experimental rifapentine
      regimen is evaluated using a two-stage design. Adults (HIV-negative, or HIV-positive with CD4
      > 200 cells/cu mm) suspected to have pulmonary tuberculosis who meet eligibility criteria
      will be randomized to receive one of three intensive phase regimens. Intensive phase regimens
      will consist of once daily isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol, plus one of the
      following: rifampin 600 mg once daily OR rifapentine 450 mg once daily OR rifapentine 600 mg
      once daily. Randomization will be stratified by presence/absence of cavitation on baseline
      chest radiograph. In Stage 1, 15 subjects will be randomized to each arm, following which
      there will be an enrollment pause for efficacy and safety assessment. Any rifapentine regimen
      for which fewer than 6 of 11 evaluable participants have week 8 culture conversion will be
      discarded.

      Stage 2 will randomize subjects into the remaining "accepted arms" with a maximum of 36
      additional subjects per arm.

      All subjects will continue TB treatment with a conventional continuation phase treatment.

      Study Site

      Study subjects will be recruited from the University of Cape Town inpatient wards and
      outpatient clinics.

      Estimated Study Duration

      It is estimated that 18 months will be required for recruitment and enrollment of study
      subjects. The estimated duration of participation for each study subject is 18 months,
      including 2 months of experimental intensive phase TB treatment, 4 months of non-experimental
      conventional continuation phase TB treatment, and an additional 12 months for follow-up for
      TB relapse.

      Study Management

      Study subjects will have study visits on days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42, 49, and 56 for sputum
      collection and adverse event assessment. Safety laboratory monitoring will be performed on
      days 14, 28, 42, and 56 and will consist of complete blood count, serum alanine
      aminotransferase, serum total bilirubin, and serum creatinine. Steady state pharmacokinetic
      analysis will be performed on approximately day 28. Subjects will have additional study
      visits at week 10 and at months 4, 6, 12, and 18.
    
  