
    
      This will be a prospective randomized controlled trial using a cross over design. Patients
      will serve as their own controls and undergo both TRUSP biopsy (standard of care) and mpMRI
      fused to cone beam CT guided biopsy of the prostate. The procedures and recovery will follow
      the identical standardized care pathway that is currently used for TRUSP biopsies. A total of
      20 patients will be recruited

      Patients will be randomized to receive either TRUSP biopsy or cone beam CT guided biopsy
      first, followed by the alternative procedure. Following the initial biopsy procedure the
      patients will fill out a short pain score. They will then recover in the radiology suite for
      a period of one hour. Following a one hour recovery period the patient will subsequently
      undergo the alternative biopsy procedure. They will then fill out a second pain score with
      two additional questions asking the patient to compare the two biopsy approaches with respect
      to comfort and preference using a 7 point Likert scale. Specimens will be sent to pathology
      separately to detect differences in diagnostic yield between the two biopsy approaches. In
      order to minimize inter-operator variability in outcomes, Dr. Menard will perform all
      biopsies regardless of approach.

      An interim analysis after 10 patients will be performed. The study will be terminated early
      if:

        1. No TRUSP biopsy detects any form of prostate cancer

        2. No cone beam CT guided biopsy detects any form of prostate cancer.

        3. Average pain scores between biopsy approaches differ by more than 4 points on the
           Universal Pain Assessment scale.

        4. 3 or more patients suffer any of:

             1. Immediate procedure related complications

             2. 30 day return to the emergency room

             3. 30 day hospital admission

      Measures

      Feasibility:

      Patients will be considered to have clinically significant prostate cancer based on their
      PI-RADS score 4 or 5. The ability of TRUSP biopsy and cone beam CT guided biopsy to detect
      any form of prostate cancer as well as clinically significant prostate cancer (defined as
      prostate cancer with a Gleason score ≥7) will serve as the primary outcome measures.

      Safety:

      Immediate procedure related complications, 30 day return to the ER and 30 day hospital
      admission rates will be recorded. Immediate procedure related complications will be
      documented at the time of the procedure. The 30 day return to the ER and hospital admission
      rates will be documented at the participant's followup appointment. Complication rates will
      reflect the total combined complication rate. This can be compared against the known Ontario
      province rates to ensure that the addition of cone beam CT guided biopsy does not provide for
      additive morbidity.

      Tolerability:

      Patients will fill out the Universal Pain Assessment Tool after each procedure. After both
      procedures are completed, patients will fill out two questions utilizing a 7 point Likert
      scale on preference and comfort between the two biopsy approaches.
    
  