
    
      Male-LUTS are prevalent, cause bother and impair quality of life (QoL). Not only does it
      adversely affect the quality of life of men, it is also closely interrelated with many
      substantial salient medical conditions. LUTS is strongly associated with ageing. The
      perpetual increase in aging population in Hong Kong and globally, will reflect and amount to
      the associated costs and relentlessly surmounting burden on the management of the condition
      in the future. In light of this, better understanding and management of male-LUTS is
      important for this major health issue.

      Stereotypically, male LUTS have long been attributed to be secondary to prostatic enlargement
      and resulting from its obstruction. However, increasingly conflicting evidences have
      suggested that LUTS are often unrelated to the prostate. In fact, more attention has been
      directed to the dysfunction of the bladder, the reservoir and pump of the voiding system,
      could also contribute a significant component of LUTS, in both male and female. Bladder
      dysfunction includes detrusor overactivity (overactive bladder), detrusor underactivity
      (underactive bladder), as well as other structural or functional abnormalities of the urinary
      tract and its surrounding tissues. Moreover, there are also many other non-urological
      conditions which can account for urinary symptoms, especially nocturia.As a result, the
      current concept of managing male LUTS, has expanded from focusing on the prostate to the
      bladder and even taking into account the perspective of the patient's medical and health
      condition as a whole.

      There are numerous postulated mechanisms to explain the relationship between these medical
      conditions and LUTS, including sympathetic overtone, release of growth factors /
      proinflammation markers to stimulate prostate growth, vascular damage to bladder, etc.
      However, most of them were reported by cross-sectional studies from which the underlying
      mechanism cannot be proven and the cause and effect relationships cannot be established.
      Hence, the time / dose relationship between the proposed mechanisms and the development or
      progression of male LUTS cannot be confirmed. As a result, the exact mechanism leading to
      development or progression of male LUTS in patients with CVD / DM / MS is still uncertain.

      From investigators' preliminary work, investigators had shown that baPWV is correlated with
      the baseline voiding function and voided volume. Investigators postulate that CVD and related
      diseases would increase CAS, which in turn could cause insult to the urinary bladder.
      Inevitably, it would lead to bladder dysfunction and LUTS. In the wake of this postulation, a
      study to investigate the relationship of CAS and the progression of male LUTS is proposed.

      The objectives of the study are: to study the effects of central arterial stiffness on the
      progression of male bladder dysfunction, nocturia, storage symptoms and voiding symptoms and
      to explore the effects of central arterial stiffness on the development of complication(s)
      and the need of surgical intervention in male patients with lower urinary tract symptoms.

      400 adult male subjects aged between 40 and 80 years old with non-neurogenic LUTS will be
      recruited for the study. Having fulfilled all inclusion and exclusion criteria, subjects will
      then undergo a series of investigation, including bladder diary and baPWV assessment. BaPWV
      will be measured by an automated machine using the oscillometric cuff technique.

      Follow-up assessment will then be arranged at first and second year following the
      recruitment. During their re-assessment, medical record will be reviewed and the same set of
      assessment, including bladder diary and baPWV, will be repeated. The changes in voiding
      function and those of treatment modalities will be correlated with the baseline baPWV and
      other parameters.
    
  