
    
      Interventions After the first visit with his surgeon, the patient will be presented at the
      multidisciplinary tumour board to validate the inclusion criteria and to schedule the number
      of cycles of pre- and postoperative chemotherapy. After this step, a second consultation with
      the surgeon will allow to verify all inclusion and exclusion criteria and perform the
      randomization. For the two groups, an initial (before chemotherapy) and final (one week
      before the surgery) evaluation will be performed. The evaluation includes cardiopulmonary
      exercise testing (VO2peak, AT and 6MWT), nutritional evaluation (albumin), bioelectric
      impedance analysis, evaluation of physical activity and ingesta, evaluation of the level of
      depressive symptoms and anxiety with the HADS questionnaire and the quality of life (5Q-FD
      questionnaire).

      Prehab group Exercise intervention: The total-body exercise will consist of up to 1 hour of
      supervised exercise for at least 3 days per week, for a total of 18 cycles, alternating
      between aerobic and resistance training. Exercise intensity will be prescribed based on the
      rate of the 6MWT, AT and VO2peak. The participant will exercise in the presence of the
      kinesiologist who will provide corrective feedback if necessary.

      Nutrition intervention: Initially, a nutritionist will perform a medical and biological
      examination of the nutritional status to provide individualized care to each patient.
      Individual protein requirements will be calculated as 1.2 g of protein per kilogram of body
      weight (adjusted body weight was used for obese patients), as per European Society for
      Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (ESPEN) guidelines, regarding surgical patients (12).
      Patients will be asked to consume the protein supplement within one hour of their exercise
      regimen to capitalize on postexercise muscle protein synthesis (13). Then, a dietician will
      assess the compliance of the nutritional support at each cycle of chemotherapy and will
      adjust it if necessary. After the preoperative chemotherapy, a second evaluation by a
      nutritionist will be performed.

      Psychologist intervention: Patients will receive up to a one hour visit with a trained
      psychologist who will provide techniques aiming to reducing anxiety, such as relaxation
      exercises based on imagery and visualization, together with breathing exercises. Each patient
      will practice these exercises with the psychologist initially and at each cycle of
      chemotherapy and at home two to three times per week. The psychologist also provides
      suggestions on how to enhance and reinforce patients' motivation to comply with the exercise
      and nutritional aspects of the intervention.

      Control group:

      The control group will be treated according to conventional care; will not receive any
      specific intervention before surgery except nutritional support and physiotherapy at the
      surgeon's discretion.
    
  