
    
      Background information

      The multichamber bag parenteral solution specially designed for preterm infant has been
      developed to provide adequate and appropriate mixture of macronutrients (amino acids,
      carbohydrates, lipids) and micronutrients (electrolytes, vitamins, trace-elements) through
      either peripheral or central veins in the range of the more recent nutritional
      recommendations for ELBW, VLBW and LBW infants requiring total or partial parenteral
      nutrition (Tsang & al 2005, Espghan-ESPEN Commentary 2005). The multichamber bag parenteral
      solution for preterm infants NumetaG13% has been evaluated in a phase III study entitled:
      "Safety use of a triple chamber bag formula, administered IV during 5 to 10 consecutive days,
      in preterm infants requiring parenteral nutrition." EudraCT Number: 2007-001378-97; PPM
      Number: 36830247 It was a prospective, multicentre, non-comparative phase III study limited
      to 5 to 10 days of parenteral nutrition. Preterm infants can be include without any
      restriction of postnatal age and according to the need of informed parental consent, only 30
      % of the patient was included during the first 3 days of life. Weight gain and nutritional
      intakes from the multichamber bag parenteral solution, from additional parenteral and oral
      supplies were collected daily during the study. Biochemical parameters recorded during the
      study were limited to BUN, glycemia, triglyceridemia, natremia, kaliemia, calcemia,
      phosphatemia and plasma bicarbonate concentration collected at inclusion, and at 5 & 10 days
      of parenteral nutrition. Performance safety was assessed through the collection of vital
      signs and adverse events whereas, information on handling and administration of the Ped3CB
      was evaluated using a visual scale parameters.

      Results of the study were summarized in a manuscript recently published in JPGN 2012 referred
      as. J. Rigo, ML. Marlowe, D. Bonnot, Th. Senterre, A. Lapillonne, E. Kermorvant-Duchemin, JM.
      Hascoet, R. Desandes, G. Malfilatre, P. Pladys, A. Beuchee, Virginie Colomb. Benefits of a
      New Pediatric Triple-Chamber Bag for Parenteral Nutrition in Preterm Infants. JPGN2012;54:
      210-217

      Numeta 13% has been registered in 18 countries in Europe via a decentralized procedure that
      ended 15th December 2010. In the NICU of the University of Liege, we decided to use Numeta
      13% as our standard of parenteral solution for preterm infants from the first day of life and
      therefore to perform a quality control evaluation of this balanced parenteral solution from
      the first day of life in preterm infants with a birth weight <1500 g. collecting nutritional
      intakes from the bags, additional intakes as well as blood and urine biochemical markers
      currently evaluated in the NICU.

      In this context, we recently reported that using a ready to use binary parenteral solution
      compounded in the pharmacy hospital it is possible to provide nutritional intakes in the
      range of the recommendations (Tsang 2005, ESPGHAN-ESPEN 2005), to abolish the cumulative
      nutritional deficit frequently observed in those preterm infants and to limit the postnatal
      growth restriction a preterm infants with a birth weight < 1250 g. (Senterre Th and Rigo J
      JPGN 2011, Acta Paediatrica 2012). In that study, we suggested that the use from birth of a
      RTU parenteral solution containing electrolytes, minerals and a high protein (AA):energy
      ratio improves clinical tolerance and reduces metabolic disturbances during the first week of
      life in this group of preterm infants (Senterre Th and Rigo J Manuscript in preparation)

      Objective of the study

      The aim of the present study is to provide further informations to our medical staff and to
      the the medical community on the adequacy of use and flexibility of Numeta 13%. to provide
      recommended nutritional intakes and to evaluate the daily biochemical tolerance, and safety
      issues when administered from the first day of life in a significant population of very low
      birth weight infants (VLBWI). The secondary objective will be to compare the clinical
      tolerance and the biochemical laboratory data obtained with Numeta 13% with those recently
      published in a similar population using a compounded solution prepared in our hospital
      pharmacy.

      Study Design

      The study will be carried out as a prospective, monocentric, open label phase IV study in
      therapeutic use.The hospital pharmacists will dispense to the clinical department the
      Paediatric 3CB for patient use.

      The recruitment will be performed on the base of the consecutive admission rate.
      Nevertheless, the recruitment will be balanced according to birth weight (<1000 g, 1000-<1250
      g and >1250 g) to ensure patient distribution in the ranges of ELBW and VLBW infants.

      In patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria, intravenous nutrition will be administered
      using Numeta 13% up to the end of parenteral support need. Prescription of Numeta 13% will
      follow the guideline for parenteral nutrition defined at the NICU of the University of Liege
      Belgium. Activation or non-activation of the lipid bag will be on the discretion of the
      neonatologist in charge of the preterm infants.

      Nutritional intakes (parenteral and oral), body weight, biochemical laboratory data, insulin
      needs, clinical data and additional treatments will be recorded every day, up to the last
      infusion day. Prescription of blood and urinary biochemical survey will be performed by the
      neonatologist in charge of the preterm infants and recorded. When several data of an
      identical parameter were requested during the same day, the maximal and the minimal data will
      be recorded and the mean value calculated.

      Safety evaluations will be conducted from birth and include daily monitoring of biochemical
      laboratory data (plasma ionogram, minerals, pH, glucose, BUN and triglycerides) according to
      biological prescription as well as the daily collection of supplementation needs, vital signs
      and adverse events.

      Treatment

      Parenteral support: Numeta 13% administration will be adapted to body weight, post¬natal age,
      and oral/enteral tolerance and intakes, according to current nutritional guidelines
      (ESPEN-ESPGHAN 2005, Tsang 2005). The protocol in use in the NICU of the University of Liege
      will be used and is gathered in table I and II according to the activation or not of the
      lipid bag Numeta 13% will be administered daily mainly through a central venous catheter.
      When peripheral supplemental parenteral nutrition is indicated, dilution of the Numeta 13%
      solution will be performed in order to limit the osmolality of the perfusion to a value < 900
      mosm/L.
    
  