
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of the administration of probiotics on
      intestinal barrier function in patients with chronic liver disease (fibrosis stage F3 or F4)
      operated for hepatocellular carcinoma.

      After hepatectomy, kinetic of endotoxemia have been studied previously and the evolution will
      be summarized by the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of
      circulating endotoxin levels measured before surgery and at 5 different times analysis after
      hepatectomy. At 12 hours, portal hypertension and its consequences on gut permeability
      (impaired barrier function, bacterial translocation) are highest with peak of circulating
      endotoxins. The decreasing of endotoxemia curve is observed between the 2nd and 3rd day (end
      of liver regeneration and early liver architectural reorganization). On the 5th day, persist
      measurable but not deleterious to liver restructured and theoretically functional rates.

      Then the main criterion to demonstrate the effectiveness of a diet enriched with probiotics
      is the AUC of circulating levels of endotoxins ((pg/ml) using the Limulus amebocyte lysate
      (LAL) assay) observed for each patient. Endotoxin levels were analysed on samples of
      peripheral blood. The two arms of equal size will be considered significantly different when
      compared to the AUC of circulating levels of endotoxin if the null hypothesis (AUC is the
      same for both arms) is rejected in favor of the alternative hypothesis (AUC differs between
      the two arms - Wilcoxon test)

      In order to estimate the sample size to distinguish between the two hypotheses with
      sufficient power, the median AUC in arm without probiotics be used to form two groups of
      patients in each arm. Thus, half of the patients without probiotics have a higher median AUC
      arms. Then, this proportion may be compared to the proportion of patients with probiotics
      have an AUC greater than the median of the group without probiotics.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  Evaluation of systemic inflammation by assay of inflammatory cytokines

        -  IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, GM-CSF, IFNa, TNFa

        -  CRP

        -  Leukocyte count

        -  The post-operative liver function monitored in the usual manner

        -  Standard Liver function tests between J1 and J5 (Bilirubin, prothrombin, ammonia)

        -  Indocyanine green clearance with measuring retention rates at 15 minutes between J1 and
           J3

        -  Monitoring of overall postoperative complications and specifically liver failure and
           infectious complications at 3 months.
    
  