
    
      This is a single-centre, superiority, double blind clinical trial, with balanced
      randomisation and parallel two groups design. The 2 groups will be:

        1. CAF combined with XCM;

        2. CAF alone.

      The objective is therefore to assess the adjunctive benefit of a xenogenic collagen matrix in
      combination with a coronal advanced flap.

      The primary endpoint is the mean recession reduction after 6 and 12 months post treatment.

      The secondary endpoints are: Percentage of complete root coverage after 6 and 12 month;
      Thickness of soft tissue over the root after 6 and 12 month; Recession width after 6 and 12
      month; KT width; Patients satisfaction.

      The following Inclusion Criteria have to be satisfied: patient (male or female) must be 18
      years or older, not pregnant, and candidate for buccal root coverage procedure in the upper
      jaw; recession defects have to be AAA or ABA (according to Rotundo et al classification),
      with at least 2 adjacent RC with ≥ 2 mm RC depth and root abrasion depth less than 1 mm;
      Patient shows sufficient plaque control (FMPS ≤ 20%) and acceptable bleeding score(FMBS ≤
      20%); Teeth intended to treat are in the region 1 - 5; patient has to be able to comply with
      the study-related procedures such as exercising good oral hygiene and attending all follow-up
      procedures; patient is able to fully understand the nature of the proposed surgery and is
      able to provide a signed informed consent.

      Randomisation: Computer-generated blocked for each centre, with allocation concealment by
      opaque sequentially numbered sealed envelopes.

      Blinding: Patients and outcome assessor blind to group assignment.

      Sample size: Based on a formula for cluster design to detect a difference between treatments
      of 1 mm in recession reduction (standard deviation of 0.93 mm - Woodyard et al. 2004) with a
      two-side 5% significance level, a power of 90%, a mean number of treated teeth per patient of
      2.92, an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.35, a sample size of 24 patients per
      treatment will be necessary.
    
  