
    
      The primary goal of this study is to obtain initial efficacy data and undertake a
      comprehensive feasibility assessment of a SCDG intervention that synchronizes with a
      Bluetooth-enabled weight scale and activity tracker to activate game rewards and feedback
      based on older adult heart failure (HF) participants' real-time weight monitoring and
      exercise behaviors.

      The SCDG will involve a narrative, the goal of which is to help an avatar in the game avoid
      rehospitalization by using game points, earned via the participant's real-time behaviors, in
      game tasks that help maintain the avatar's optimal HF health status. Real-time behaviors of
      weight-monitoring and physical activity will be tracked by an off-the-shelf sensors and app
      (Withings). The data from the Withings sensors will then be routed to our SCDG app. The
      digital game paired with sensors will enable objective tracking of real-time behaviors such
      as physical activity, and weight monitoring, and provide personalized, contextually relevant
      feedback (e.g., reduce fluid intake or call doctor for weight gain) to motivate engagement in
      and generate habit formation of heart failure related self-management behaviors. The goal of
      this proposal is to demonstrate the feasibility of the SCDG concept with an optimal number of
      sensors in a small study so as to lay a foundation for scaling this concept to include more
      relevant sensors in longer, larger studies.

      In this study, the initial efficacy of the SCDG intervention for primary outcome of rate of
      engagement in HF self-management behavior of weight-monitoring and secondary outcomes of
      physical activity engagement, HF self-management-knowledge, and self-efficacy, HF-functional
      status, hospitalization, cognitive ability, depression and quality of life will be evaluated.
      For this study, 44 older adults diagnosed with the New York Heart Association's HF
      classification I to III from out-patient HF settings in central Texas will be recruited, and
      randomized to either the SCDG intervention group that will receive sensors tracking weight
      monitoring and activity and play the SCDG on a mobile smartphone for 12 weeks or a control
      group that will receive sensors and an app tracking activity and weight monitoring, and
      standardized written HF educational modules.

      Sample size and statistical power. Based on a 1:1 randomization scheme (intervention :
      control) with 80% power (5% alpha), to detect a difference of 80% versus 50% (intervention
      and control group) of daily monitoring of weight monitoring and physical activity behaviors
      would require a sample size of 44 patients per group. 80% was chosen as the cut-off for
      adequate weight-monitoring at 12 weeks, because HF patients who completed ≥80% of weight
      diaries were found to have significantly reduced odds for HF-related hospitalizations
      compared with patients who completed <80% of weight diaries. Also, only 50% of participants
      in the remote monitoring sensor group recorded their weights >50% of the time. Allowing for
      10% attrition, 49 patients per group (N = 98) must be recruited for a fully powered clinical
      trial of the SCDG intervention for HF behavior of weight-monitoring. Although this study is
      underpowered, a sample size of 44 is sufficient for a feasibility study to provide findings
      that can inform implementation of a fully powered study with fewer problems to better test
      the effectiveness of the SCDG intervention.

      Statistical analysis. Descriptive statistics will be computed for the study variables to
      assess for out-of-range values and variable distributions and to ensure that the data meet
      statistical assumptions (normality, independence, homogeneity of variance). Baseline
      characteristics will be compared between the intervention group (IG) and the control group
      (CG) arms using t-tests for continuous variables and chi-square for categorical variables to
      determine the balance between arms. Any variable not equivalent between groups at baseline,
      despite randomization, will be controlled for statistically. The IG and CG will be analyzed
      using intention-to-treat analysis. Mixed effects models will be used to compare trends in the
      effect of the SCDG intervention on the primary outcome of days with weight monitoring, and
      secondary outcomes of days with physical activity, average daily steps, energy expenditure,
      average distance of physical activity, empathy, HF self-management habits, motivation,
      knowledge, and self-efficacy, HF-related functional status, hospitalization, and QoL over the
      multiple data collection time points. Cronbach's α coefficients will be computed for each
      scale, with α ≥ .70 denoting optimal consistency. The effects of the biological variables of
      age and sex, and, if applicable, for the effects of other covariates-education level,
      race/ethnicity, depression, empathy and NYHA HF class will be controlled. Statistical
      significance will be at α = .05 for primary and secondary analyses. Standard deviation and
      error estimates will be used to calculate effect sizes for findings.

      Missing data. Mixed models can accommodate missing data points often encountered in
      longitudinal datasets and can model nonlinear individual characteristics. If fewer than 5% of
      data are missing, the missing data will be replaced using mean substitution. For more
      extensive missing data, multiple imputation strategies for mixed models with sensitivity
      analyses to determine the effects of imputation will be utilized.
    
  