
    
      This is a prospective, multicentre, non-randomized study evaluating routine care, which
      includes all patients hospitalized in the departments participating in the study, for
      pneumonia with or without pleurisy. Patients benefiting from a daily pleural ultrasound for
      96 hours, D1 being the day of hospitalization. The therapeutic course of action will depend
      on the presence or not, and on the type of pleural effusion according to a pre-established
      algorithm. In case of pleural effusion of type 1, the type of treatment will be left to the
      appreciation of the clinician (puncture or drainage), in case of pleural effusion of type 2,
      3 or 4 the patient benefited from pleural drainage.

      Patients included in the study will benefit from a pleural ultrasound on the day of their
      hospitalization, up to 96 hours after treatment. Ultrasound will then allow us to look for
      the presence of pleural effusion. In the event of effusion corresponding to a parapneumonic
      effusion or purulent pleurisy, the conduct to be followed will be defined according to the
      ultrasound type of effusion. Types 1 will benefit from an evacuating pleural puncture or
      drainage, depending on the clinician's judgment. Types 2, 3, and 4 will benefit from weeping
      drainage.

      the target population: adult patients, hospitalized for pneumonia or confirmed pleurisy, by
      imaging and exploratory pleural puncture in the departments participating in the study over
      the period concerned The main outcome measure is the failure of medical treatment, defined as
      the need to resort to surgery, with or without peeling, or death secondary to pleurisy. The
      secondary endpoint is the presence of radiological sequelae at 3 months and 6 months defined
      by a retraction of the hemithorax concerned with pachypleuritis or an ascent of the
      diaphragmatic dome or the persistence of pleurisy
    
  