
    
      Some surgeries are known to expose patients to voice disorders (thyroidectomy,
      parathyroidectomy, carotid surgery…). However, voice disorders can be due, among other
      things, to a laryngeal nerves alteration and intubation trauma. Our team has published 2
      prospective studies on the frequency of voice troubles after thyroidectomy (Borel et al.
      Surgery 2018 and 2019).

      To limit post tracheal intubation voice troubles , it is generally recommended to practice
      intra-tracheal intubation with a curarization (Lundstrøm et al. Br J Anaesth 2018). However,
      for few years, the very vast majority of thyroid surgery is practiced with a neuromonitoring
      of laryngeal nerves (NIM). NIM ensures prosper functioning of the vocal cords intra- and
      post-operatively with an excellent negative predictive value (>98%, Mirallié et al. Surgery
      2018). However, the use of NIM requires an absence of curarization. Some centres, including
      ours, have abandoned systematic curarization before intubation for thyroidectomy; other
      centres continue to practice curarization with, sometimes, the need to antagonize
      curarization for an effective NIM utilization.

      The aim of this study is to assess the impact of intubation preparation procedures
      (curarization versus remifentanil) on the voice using Voice Handicap Index (VHI)
      questionnaire.

      The Nantes University Hospital is the sponsor of " REMICRUSH ", study on " Assessment of
      Remifentanil for Rapid Sequence Induction and Intubation in Full Stomach Patient Compared to
      Muscle Relaxant. A Non-inferiority Simple Blind Randomized Controlled Trial ", the
      coordinator of which is Dr Nicolas Grillot.

      This study began in October 2019 and authorisations are obtained. We aim to propose our study
      " VHIntubation " to patients participating in REMICRUSH in order to benefit from REMIFENTANIL
      versus CURARE randomization.
    
  