
    
      The ability of the individual to know how to adopt the perspective of the other or be able to
      interpret and correctly identify their emotions, is essential for their proper development in
      society. The term Social Cognition would be the construct that would encompass these
      cognitive processes.

      People who have suffered a moderate or severe traumatic brain injury usually show, as
      reflected in the existing literature, an alteration in the functioning of Social Cognition,
      leading to problematic or inappropriate behaviors. These deficits have devastating
      consequences, at a personal, family and economic / labor level.

      There is an important debate regarding the independence of the Social Cognition construct
      from the rest of cognitive functions and in particular with respect to executive functions,
      probably due to the overlapping of the neuroanatomical structures related to each of these
      functions.

      In the present study a clinical trial will be conducted with a sample of 30 patients admitted
      to the Guttmann Institute Neurorehabilitation Hospital who have suffered a moderate or severe
      TBI.

      Patients will be divided into two groups depending on whether they receive cognitive
      rehabilitation treatment focused on attention, memory and executive functions (Control Group)
      or if, in addition to this treatment, the computerized treatment module for the
      rehabilitation of CS is also applied. (Experimental Group). Both types of treatment would be
      carried out using the cognitive telerehabilitation platform Guttmann, NeuroPersonalTrainer®
      (GNPT).

      The purpose of this study is to analyze the altered dimensions in the Social Cognition
      construct after having suffered a traumatic brain injury and to test the effectiveness of a
      computerized rehabilitation treatment designed for neuropsychologists with the aim of
      stimulating the relearning of these skills.

      In the same way it is tried to establish and to clarify the existing relation between the
      construct of the social cognition and other cognitive functions as they can be the executive
      functions
    
  