
    
      The provision of economically viable and proper care for the growing group of home-dwelling
      people with dementia (PWD) is one of the most pressing issues in our society. While a cure
      for dementia is not yet available, professionals and policy-makers highly prioritize the
      support of caregivers who experience a vast burden. However, there is a lack of high-quality
      research investigating clinical, social and economic factors that may add beneficial effects.
      This project aims to develop, test, and implement a complex intervention for PWD, intended to
      reduce caregivers' burden, which will aid PWD to stay safely, longer and independently at
      home with dignity and cost-effectiveness. The term informal caregivers' burden may include
      different meanings for different people and be related to economic burden, depression and
      anxiety, quality of life (QoL), or simply the quality of sleep and recreation. In a stepped
      wedge, cluster randomized controlled trial, involving primary and secondary health care
      systems in Bergen, Bærum and Kristiansand the 24-month LIVE@Home.Path study will be
      undertaken in a stepped wedge design. The user-inspired and tailored intervention includes a
      designated coordinator to the PWD and caregiver for 6 months to introduce a complex
      intervention involving a) Learning b) Innovation c) Volunteers and d) Empowerment.

      Qualitative interviews will determine users' values and wishes, and promotors and barriers
      for successful implementation of the intervention. Primary and secondary outcomes on
      cognitive, emotional and social factors, cost-benefit analyses, and QoL of PWD and families
      will be assessed every 6-month over 2 years.

      Update spring 2020: The COVID-19 pandemic severely hampered the implementation of the
      intervention for the second group. We therefore had to change the design, postponing the
      intervention in Bærum and Kristiansand, and delivering the intervention in Bergen by phone.
      In addition, we initiated the PAN.DEM in the LIVE@Home.Path trial, collecting data from phone
      interviews with caregivers on change in Health services and neuropsychiatric symptoms, risk
      perception and restrictions. Changes in design approved by Ethical committee (REK: 10861).
    
  