
    
      1. RESEARCH QUESTIONS

             -  What is the prevalence of periodontitis among rthematoid arthritis patients
                attending the Mulago rheumatology clinic?

             -  Does non-surgical treatment for periodontitis improve the disease activity score in
                28 joints of rheumatoid arthritis in this local setting?

        2. Problem statement It has been shown that intervention with nonsurgical treatment of
           periodontitis improved the periodontal condition of patients with periodontitis and RA,
           with beneficial effects upon the clinical and laboratory test parameters, disease
           activity scores in 28 joints (DAS28) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). However,
           all the studies included in the reviews involved small samples sizes and follow-up
           periods of less than 6 months. And locally to our knowledge there is currently no
           published information looking at the role of periodontal disease among Ugandans with
           rheumatoid arthritis.

        3. METHODS Objective 1 will be addressed with a cross sectional study design while
           objective 2 will be a randomized control intervention on a fresh sample of patients from
           the clinic who will be randomly assigned using computer generated random numbers.

      Population : To address the objective 1 a total sample size of 146 randomly selected study
      participants.

      For objective 2 the target sample size of 304 individuals or 152 individuals per group.

      Procedures: On arrival to the dental clinic, the selected and previously consented
      participants will undergo a standardized interview. This will be followed by an oral
      examination to assess for: registration of plaque, bleeding on probing, probing depth and
      followed with the calculation of the Periodontal inflamed surface area score and clinical
      attachment loss, pick crevicular fluid using paper point for follow-up confirmatory
      polymerase chain reactions (PCR), quantification with quantitative real-time PCR (QPCR)
      experiments for P. gingivalis. At the end of the examination a peripheral blood sample will
      be obtained for: erythrocyte sedimentation rate to be factored in the determination of DAS 28
      score. The remaining blood sample will be stored in the department of Anatomy for further
      studies latter pertaining to PD and RA.

      Objective 2 RCT study Participants will be randomized into an immediate intervention arm and
      a delayed intervention arm.
    
  