
    
      With the development of society, aged population is growing. The number of the aged people
      over 60 years old now reaches to 130 million. Hip fracture is the most common disease for
      aged people. According to Britain's statistical data of hip fracture, the average age of
      males who have hip fracture is 84 years old, and female, 83 years old, and female patients
      account for 74% of all the reported cases. The disease is deadly-- when attacked almost 10%
      patients die within 1 month, about 1/3 of patients die within 12 months. When seniors are
      attacked by hip fracture, about 20%-30% die within one year, 25% recover to normal life
      before the attack, and 55% patients become disabled in different degrees. Senile fracture has
      become an important issue relating to public health, brought huge burdens to average
      families. While developing very fast, our modern society has to come up with a solution to
      this urgent scientific problem.

      The study has shown that the increasing inflammatory cytokines after senile fracture are
      independent dangerous factors of death and complications and the systemic inflammatory
      response after senile fracture causes organ damage and may explain why the seniors attacked
      by hip fracture are more likely to die than their peers. Therefore, we intend to give drug
      therapy to patients in the early stage after the attack, to reduce the inflammatory response
      of the body, thus reducing the damage of the body by the inflammatory response, and improving
      the prognosis of patients.

      By inhibiting cyclooxygenase COX, and in turn the arachidonic acid (AA)'s transformation into
      prostaglandians (PGs) and thromboxane TXA, NSAIDs produces anti-inflammatory, antipyretic,
      analgesic and anti-rheumatism actions. It has been widely applied in clinic. According to
      study, there are two cyclooxygenase insomers in human body namely COX-1 and COX-2. COX-1,
      which exists in normal tissues, with physiological stimulation, can stimulate arachidonic
      acid to produce thromboxane A, prostaglandin e (PGE2) and prostacyclin I2 (PGI2). It can
      therefore protect the gastrointestinal tract, kidney, platelets, and vascular endothelial
      cells, and is also called structural enzyme. COX-2 is a type of COX induced by cytokines and
      produced under inflammatory stimulation, COX-2 mediates arachidonic acid to produce PGE-2 and
      PGI-2. As inflammatory prostaglandin, COX-2 has inflammation-causing effects and pain-causing
      effects. Its inhibition lays the pharmacological foundation for the antipyretic, analgesic,
      and anti-inflammatory effects of NSAIDs

      Some animal experiment has showed that the inhibitor of COX-2 reduces the inflammatory
      expression of animal models after multiple severe traumas and enhances the survival rate.
      Recent reports suggest that the inhibitor of COX-2 (parecoxib) can reduce pro inflammatory
      cytokines after traumas, chemokine level and relieve acute lung injury. Clinic study shows
      that if applying the inhibitor of COX-2 into arthroplasty, the level of systemic inflammatory
      cytokines can be reduced, and a better postoperative function realized. There has been no
      report about the treatment of inflammatory response by NSAID after severe trauma.

      In clinic, pain treatment has been conventional in modern wards and become a symbol of modern
      wards. In the newly published British NICE clinical guidelines of hip fracture, pain
      treatment of patients with hip fracture is pointed out as an appropriate method. Sufficient
      pain-treating enables patients to take part in necessary activities, and undergo medical
      examination, nursing care and rehabilitation. N-acethy aminophenol (paracetamol) is
      recommended. In case that the alone application of N-acethy aminophenol cannot completely
      relieve the pain, opiate drugs should be added. The guideline does not recommend NSAIDS since
      it may induce gastrointestinal complication. However, since it overcomes the side effect of
      gastrointestinal reaction, NSAIDS as a fundamental drug in pain treatment, especially an
      inhibitor of COX-2 has been widely applied in the treatment of trauma pain. But its
      anti-inflammatory effect has not been paid enough attention. Based on the above findings and
      research foundations, we wonder that besides its analgesic effect, whether NSAIDS has a
      equally beneficial anti-inflammatory effect on the excessive inflammatory response patient
      with severe trauma, and senior patients with hip fracture and improve their prognosis.
      Therefore, based on the fundamental research, we assume that the anti-inflammatory effect of
      NSAIDs can relieve the systemic inflammatory effect of senior patients with hip fracture,
      improve their prognosis, reduce incidence of complications and deaths. Through a prospective
      clinical experiment, we plan to study the effect of NSAIDS on the changes of inflammatory
      factors of senior patients with hip fracture, and their prognosis.
    
  