
    
      If you chose to take part in this study, you will receive an exercise program, a pedometer,
      access to a social networking site, and newsletters to help you start becoming more
      physically active. A pedometer is a small device worn on the hip that counts the number of
      steps you have taken each day.

      Study Visits:

      You will come in for study visits 6 times while you are on study; 1 time at the beginning of
      the study called "screening", 1 time for an orientation visit 7 days after the screening
      visit, and for follow-up visits at 8, 26, 39, and 52 weeks after you begin the exercise
      program.

      Baseline Tests:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part on this study based on the results of the
      screening tests, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked to complete a computer-based survey. The questionnaires will ask
           questions about stress, your motivation for physical activity, any social support you
           may receive from others, the neighborhood you live in, and other physical
           activity-related topics. The questionnaires should take about 2 hours total to complete.

        -  Your blood pressure will be measured.

        -  Your height, weight, and waistline will be measured. To measure your waistline
           accurately, you may be asked to lift your shirt to expose your stomach area and to lower
           your pants to expose your mid-hip area. Waistline measurements will only take about 10
           minutes to complete and will be performed in a private area.

        -  You will complete a fitness test. To complete the fitness test, you will either walk a
           circular path at the clinic for 6 minutes or complete a step test. The study staff will
           decide which test you will complete and will discuss the test with you in more detail. A
           study staff member will monitor you during this test.

      Study Devices:

      At the baseline visit, you will be given the following study devices:

        -  You will be given a smartphone to take home with you.

        -  You will fill out a set of questions on the smartphone each time you exercise. The
           questions will ask about the kind physical activity you are participating in, the
           location of where the physical activity is taking place, and the weather conditions
           outside. These questions will take about 1-2 minutes per day. Also, the smartphone will
           "beep" at random times (3 times per day) and set times (in the morning and evening)
           throughout the day to prompt you to answer a set of questions about your thoughts and
           feelings. The device will also automatically record your location using a Global
           Positioning System (GPS) during the time you are carrying the phone. This will take
           about 7-8 minutes per day. The research staff will call you 1 time each week to remind
           you to use the smartphone and will help with any smartphone problems that may occur.
           Each reminder phone call should last about 3 minutes. You will return the smartphone
           with you at the orientation visit for the study staff to download your answers.

        -  You will be given an accelerometer. You will wear the accelerometer for 7 days and then
           return it at the orientation study visit. An accelerometer is a small device that is
           worn on your hip that measures the amount of physical activity you do.

      Orientation Study Visit:

      At the orientation study visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be given a newsletter that contains information and strategies to help you
           start your exercise program.

        -  You will be given a smartphone again to take home.

        -  You will be given a physical activity (PA) prescription. The PA prescription outlines
           your exercise program and has instructions on the proper way to walk to decrease the
           chance of getting an injury. You will be instructed to start your PA prescription and
           carry the smartphone with you for 2 weeks. After 2weeks, you will return the smartphone
           by mail in a prepaid envelope that will be provided to you by the study staff.

        -  You will be given a pedometer to wear when you are ready to start your PA prescription.

      Weeks 8, 26, 39, and 52 Study Visits:

      For each of these study visits, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will return the accelerometer at each visit for the study staff to review, and you
           will take it home at the end of each visit. The staff member will provide you with the
           device at your Week 8 visit and you will receive an envelope for return. The smartphone
           will also be given to you at Weeks 26 and 39, and you will be required to mail it back.
           For Week 52 you will receive the device 1 week before and return it at your Week 52
           visit. You should tell a research staff member right away about any problems you may
           have using the smartphone.

        -  You will complete the computer-based survey.

        -  Your blood pressure will be measured.

        -  Your height, weight, and waistline will be measured.

      You will receive phone calls between study visits to remind you to complete the questions on
      the smartphone.

      At the Weeks 26 and 52 study visits, in addition to the tests and procedures listed above,
      you will complete the fitness test again and return the smartphone.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain in the study for up to 1 year. Your participation on this study will be over
      after you complete the study visit at Week 52.

      Other Information:

      You may be contacted by phone, mail, text messaging, and/or email at any time while you are
      taking part in this study to be reminded about the study visits. You will be asked to give
      the names and contact information of family members and/or friends for the study staff to
      contact in the event they cannot reach you first.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 300 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  