
    
      Rational :

      One of the main recommendations of a committee of experts on the provision of rehabilitation
      services in Quebec is that people who have had a stroke should start rehabilitation as soon
      as possible once their medical condition has stabilized. This rehabilitation therefore begins
      in the hospital center, in acute care, but can continue if necessary in a rehabilitation
      center specialized for this purpose. At CHUS Fleurimont, one in five patients hospitalized
      for this condition needs to be transferred to an intensive functional rehabilitation unit
      (URFI) located in another establishment of the Centre intégré universitaire de santé et de
      service sociaux de l'Estrie - Centre hospitalier universitaire de Sherbrooke (CIUSSS de
      Estrie-CHUS). Patients and their relatives must therefore adapt to a new environment and a
      new care team, which can cause additional concern and uncertainty for their new condition.
      Thus, the importance of educating the patient and their family so that they understand the
      nature of the stroke, as well as the elements and stages of rehabilitation that lie ahead,
      are essentials so that they can make an informed choice about acceptance and type of
      rehabilitation. However, to date, little material is available to facilitate communication
      between the professional and the patient and his/her family. In this perspective, our
      research team has developed a video which aims to improve the knowledge of people and loved
      ones on intensive functional rehabilitation (RFI) and its care settings.

      Objective :

      Objectives of this project are :

        1. Evaluate the effect of viewing the video on post-stroke patients and their relatives on:

             -  Perceived stress

             -  Anxiety

             -  Knowledge on intensive functional rehabilitation

        2. Measure participants satisfaction regarding the video

        3. Evaluate the association between socio-demographic outcomes (age, sex, degree of
           impairment, relation with the patient, NIHSS, MRS) and perceived stress, anxiety and
           knowledge regarding rehabilitation.

      Method :

      In order to meet the objectives of the study, a pre-experimental study (pré-/post-test with a
      single group will be used. A first data collection will take place (T1) as soon as the
      consent form is signed, comprising the following variables: 1) socio-demographic data, 2)
      perceived stress, 3) level of anxiety and 4) knowledge of intensive functional
      rehabilitation. The video will then be viewed once by the participants during this same
      visit. The Intensive functional rehabilitation Knowledge Questionnaire will be
      re-administered immediately after viewing the video. Before the discharge from the stroke
      unit, between 24 and 72 hours after recruitment, a second assessment (T2) will take place.The
      assessments will then be administered a second time. In addition, a questionnaire on
      satisfaction regarding the video will be administered.

      Anticipated results :

      If the results of this study are conclusives, the video could be used with all patients
      requiring intensive functional rehabilitation following a stroke, but also with patients
      presenting other health problems such as head trauma and other polytrauma requiring intensive
      functional rehabilitation. The video could also be used and adapted for the other CIUSSS
      hospital centers of Estrie-CHUS such as the CH center hospitalier Mégantic, Granby and
      Cowansville which also treat this type of clientele.
    
  