
    
      Intermittent arm cuff inflation reduces the extent of heart muscle injury at the time of
      cardiovascular injury. The intervention is known as remote ischaemic conditioning (RIC)
      however the mechanisms by which RIC acts are incompletely understood. One mechanism that
      might explain the benefits of RIC is an improvement in coronary artery function which in turn
      might help improve blood flow to heart muscle.

      The primary aim is to determine whether intermittent inflation of a blood pressure cuff for 5
      min periods at 200 mmHg on 4 occasions separated by 5 minute intervals can improve coronary
      vascular function compared to cuff placement with no cuff inflation. A secondary aim is to
      determine whether or not RIC alters the circulating concentrations of small molecules and
      hormones in systemic blood that regulate coronary endothelial function.

      The investigators will perform a randomised controlled trial of RIC in a minimum of 60
      patients with known or suspected angina and in whom coronary angiography with angioplasty
      would be considered. A screening log will be prospectively recorded. In order to be enrolled
      prior knowledge of the coronary anatomy and disease is necessary, and this information can be
      obtained by screening referrals for invasive angiography following non-invasive CT coronary
      angiography, or staged invasive management when angioplasty is intended following initial
      invasive angiography.

      The protocol had initially involved two coronary angiograms with coronary reactivity testing
      on the same day, with the first angiogram taking place before the RIC-COR intervention and
      the second angiogram taking place immediately afterwards. However, after enrolling 10
      participants it was evident that the total procedure time and hospital stay was unduly long
      and impractical. Therefore, following consultation with the trial biostatistician, funder and
      ethics committee, the protocol was amended and the initial angiogram was removed (May 2012).
      There were no other changes to the study design. Following a change in service arrangements
      for elective referrals for coronary angioplasty in our hospital, and constraints around staff
      illness and availability, recruitment was temporarily suspended on logistical grounds
      (September 2013 to November 2014).

      Following informed consent before the invasive procedure, the patient will be randomly
      assigned to the intervention group (cuff inflation protocol) or the control group (cuff
      placement, no inflation; sham protocol). The clinical team will be blind to treatment group
      assignment.

      Clinically-indicated coronary angiography will be performed first, including administration
      of glyceryl trinitrate (200 - 400 micrograms; short acting preparation) to attenuate coronary
      artery tone. Based on the angiographic findings, the cardiologist will select a coronary
      artery with minimal or no evidence of coronary artery disease.

      Endothelial function will then be assessed in this artery by intra-coronary infusion of
      acetylcholine (ACh) in incremental doses. Non-endothelium dependent vasodilation will be
      assessed using intra-coronary administration of glyceryl trinitrate at the end of the
      infusion protocol.

      An infusion catheter will be used to selectively instrument the coronary artery of interest.
      The factors that influence the selection of a coronary artery for study include 1) minimal or
      no angiographic evidence of coronary disease, 2) practical considerations for insertion of an
      intra-coronary catheter ie. vessel tortuosity, calibre. The coronary reactivity protocol
      involves intra-coronary administration of study drug at a rate of 2 ml/min for 2 minutes in
      the following order: 1) 0.9% normal saline; 2) ACh 10-6 Molar (M), 3) ACh 10-5M, 4) ACh
      10-4M, 5) 0.9% normal saline; and finally, 6) bolus intra-coronary administration of 200-400
      micrograms of glyceryl trinitrate. The patient's clinical response will be assessed
      prospectively, including with continuous haemodynamic recording (heart rate, rhythm,
      conduction and aortic blood pressure). A 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) and cine coronary
      angiogram will be obtained synchronously at baseline, at the end of each 2 minute infusion,
      and following nitrate administration.

      Coronary diameter will be measured after the procedure using computer-assisted quantitative
      coronary analysis (QCA) with custom software (eg Medis, Leiden, Netherlands), by a trained
      observer blinded to the allocated group. The coronary segment for analysis will be located
      distal to the infusion catheter in the proximal - mid segment of the right coronary artery or
      a main branch of the left coronary artery. The segment will have minimal or no angiographic
      evidence of coronary disease. The length of the segment will be 30 mm. The same angiographic
      projection will be used for all of the analyses. The software will be calibrated on the
      catheter. Mean lumen diameter and mean coronary area will be computed.

      Epicardial spasm, defined as >90% reduction in coronary artery diameter with ischaemic
      ST-segment changes on the ECG, and microvascular spasm, defined as ischaemic ST-segment
      changes without epicardial coronary vasoconstriction >90% will be assessed.

      ECG changes, including alterations in atrio-ventricular conduction and ST-segment deviation,
      will be prospectively recorded.

      Since a neuro-hormonal response may potentially mediate RIC, a blood test will be performed
      before and after cuff placement in all patients (active and control groups) to measure
      circulating molecules known to regulate blood vessel function.

      The study data will be analysed by a biostatistician who is independent of the research team.

      If the investigators can discover the effects, if any, of RIC on coronary vascular function,
      then potentially this information would provide new insights into the mechanisms of action of
      RIC.
    
  