
    
      Cardiovascular disease and mortality is the largest comorbidity within the dialysis
      population.

      Nearly 50% of hemodialysis patients will have congestive heart failure at initiation.
      According to the most recent USRDS data, 40% of incident dialysis patients will have a
      cardiovascular event or die within the first 9 months of dialysis. The risk of sudden cardiac
      death is estimated to be 6.9% per year of dialysis. Despite this, a recent study found that
      only 8% of dialysis patients received an implantable defibrillator. Numerous studies have
      looked at the acute cardiac effects of hemodialysis. Changes in the QT interval, elevations
      in troponins, increased heart rate variability and heart have all been noted. The mechanisms
      behind these changes and potential preventative measures remain unknown. It has been
      postulated that Omega-3 fatty acids could provide beneficial cardioprotection in hemodialysis
      patients. In nonhemodialysis populations, omega-3 fatty acids (FA) have established
      anti-arrhythmic properties and have been shown to reduce the risk of sudden death and to
      reduce cardiac mortality. In a study of hemodialysis patients, a high dose of omega-3 FA (5
      grams daily) had beneficial effects on electrocardiographic (ECG) surrogate markers of sudden
      death, such as heart rate, heart rate variability, and baroreflex sensitivity. One small
      2-year study of 1.7 grams omega-3 FA in 206 hemodialysis subjects showed a significant
      reduction in myocardial infarction but was not large enough to detect an effect on cardiac or
      total mortality. While these studies are suggestive, the potential therapeutic benefit
      remains unclear and the appropriate dose of Omega-3 in dialysis patients to achieve benefit
      is unknown. Doses of Omega-3 that have shown electrocardiogram benefits were high and require
      6-8 capsules daily. Long-term adherence is likely to be suboptimal with this high pill
      burden. Studies with smaller doses have been of insufficient size to determine any
      cardiovascular benefit. We propose to evaluate two Omega-3 fatty acid doses on cardiovascular
      parameters in a hemodialysis population. Initially, this will be a pilot study. Ultimately,
      the information will be used to adequately plan for a larger intervention trial using Omega-3
      fatty acids in incident hemodialysis patients. I.5 Specify your research question(s), study
      aims or hypotheses (do not indicate "see protocol") Specific aim 1. Determine recruitment and
      medication adherence rates Recruitment will take place over 6 months and include incident
      hemodialysis patients with a 4 month follow-up. Total expected time for the pilot is one
      year. Participants will be randomized to either moderate dose Omega-3 (4 grams), or 4 tables
      of placebo. Rates of participation, medication adherence and drop out rates will be used to
      plan future trials. HawkIRB
      https://hawkirb.research.uiowa.edu/hawkirb/summary/projects.page?mode=pf&OID=5961841[1/27/201
      0 2:46:08 PM] Specific aim 2. Assess the effectiveness of two Omega-3 fatty acid doses
      compared to placebo on electrocardiographic parameters. All participants will have a
      cardiovascular evaluation at baseline and at end of study. This will include a 48-hour Holter
      monitor, vital signs and blood studies of various cardiovascular risk markers. Specifically,
      we will be assessing heart rate variability, heart rate and QT dispersion.

      Specific aim 3. Assess the side effect profiles of 3.4 g Omega-3 fatty acids to placebo.

      The success of future trials will require subject compliance with therapy. By evaluating the
      side effects of Omega-3, we will be better able to determine the tolerability for future
      studies.

      I Selection of study endpoints. Since this is a feasibility study there will be insufficient
      power to detect changes in physiologic parameters. Omega-3 FA have been shown to beneficially
      influence autonomic function parameters measured by 48-hour Holter we have selected as our
      secondary endpoints changes HRV, heart rate, and QT duration for a dose-ranging study. Blood
      samples will be obtained and properly stored for future studies.
    
  