
    
      The proposed pilot study is being conducted to obtain pilot data to support a grant
      application for a multi-site randomized controlled trial. The primary objective is to
      evaluate the relative risks and benefits of two approaches to the control of weight gain and
      other negative side effects in children and adolescents on 2nd generation antipsychotics
      (SGA). The critical question being addressed is: What can be done for the many youth who have
      gained substantial weight or developed high levels of lipids or glucose in their blood on an
      SGA; but due to their illness require continued treatment with an antipsychotic?

      At least 40 youths (and no more than 60) age 10-17 that have gained substantial weight while
      taking a frequently used SGA: ziprasidone, aripiprazole or clozapine will be randomized to
      one of two treatments for 6 months:

        -  Healthy lifestyle instruction (nutritional and physical activity surveillance and
           advice) + continuation of current SGA;

        -  Add the diabetes drug, metformin + continuation of current SGA.

        -  Subjects may also elect to be in an observational arm that involves no intervention but
           the same major assessments.

      Height, weight, body fat, and various blood tests indicative of general health will be
      collected during the 6 month trial to monitor the health benefits and safety of the
      interventions.

      SGAs are associated with concerning degrees of weight gain and metabolic consequences.
      Children and adolescents, in whom SGAs are used increasingly for a wide variety of
      conditions, are particularly vulnerable to these side effects, which adversely affect health
      and longevity. It is imperative that researchers evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      interventions designed to prevent and treat the weight gain and metabolic problems caused by
      antipsychotic treatment of children. Lifestyle interventions and adjunctive medications all
      hold some promise of efficacy. However, it is essential that these strategies be rigorously
      evaluated as soon as possible in order to prevent the ongoing health consequences of SGA
      treatment in another generation of children with serious psychiatric illnesses.
    
  