
    
      We have recently identified a novel genetic disease affecting nine known adults in whom de
      novo vascular calcifications develop in the lower extremity arteries and juxta-articular
      joint capsules of the fingers, wrists, ankles and feet. This rare disease results from
      bi-allelic mutations in the gene ecto-5-prime-nucleotidase (NT5E), encoding the CD73 protein.
      CD73, an enzyme involved in the extracellular ATP metabolic pathway, converts extracellular
      AMP to adenosine and inorganic phosphate. The clinical symptoms of this rare disease, termed
      ACDC (Arterial Calcifications due to Deficiency in CD73), include claudication of the calves,
      thighs, and buttocks, chronic ischemic pain of the feet at rest with threat of potential limb
      loss, and debilitating rheumatoid pain in the wrists and hands. Radiological and histological
      evaluations do not resemble classic atherosclerotic vascular calcification, since the
      calcification and dysplasia in ACDC occur in the medial portion of the arterial blood vessel
      wall. Data from patient-specific cell lines indicate increased activity of tissue
      non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP), a key mediator of pathological ectopic tissue
      calcification, and thus reveals a potential therapeutic target.

      To date, no effective therapy exists for ACDC patients. However, since bisphosphonates are
      potent competitive inhibitors of TNAP activity and are widely used to modulate bone
      metabolism, they may beneficially alter vascular calcification. In addition, our preliminary
      in vitro studies demonstrate the effectiveness of etidronate, a nitrogen-containing
      bisphosphonate, in lowering TNAP activity in cells isolated from ACDC patients. Etidronate,
      and bisphophonates in general, have proven safe and well tolerated by most patients.

      This protocol provides for the administration of etidronate to ACDC patients, for whom no
      alternative treatment is available. Patients will be examined at the NIH Clinical Center
      bi-annually for 3 years. The primary objective of this clinical study is to test the
      effectiveness of etidronate in attenuating the progression of lower extremity arterial
      calcification and vascular blood flow based on CT calcium score and Ankle brachial index
      (ABI).
    
  