
    
      Breast MRI with dynamic contrast-enhanced series (DCE MRI) is sensitive for breast cancer
      diagnosis (sensitivity 95-100%) with variable specificity (37-97%). Breast MRI was also used
      for pre-operative staging, and monitoring of therapeutic response of neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      (NAC). DCE MRI analysis with semi-quantitative and pharmacokinetic method can discriminate
      the responders versus non-responders during NAC. Analysis of choline peak on proton MR
      spectroscopy (MRS) can increase the MRI specificity of breast lesion diagnosis to 82-100%.
      Choline analysis was also used for monitoring treatment response of NAC. The change of
      choline integral can parallel the response status of NAC and was well correlated (r=0.91;
      P=0.01) with the change of lesion size, and the choline change can be found as early as 24
      hours after first dose of chemotherapy.

      Breast Positron Emission Tomography (PET) with 18F-FDG (2-deoxy-2-(18F)fluoro-D-glucose) was
      mainly used for staging and monitoring of treatment response of NAC, with the reduction of
      FDG uptake (P<0.001) was more evident than that of tumor size (P=0.005). However, FDG PET
      displayed a limited role in evaluation of primary breast cancer, brain and axillary lymph
      nodes metastases. There were publications regarding combined FDG PET/CT and breast MRI for
      breast cancer diagnosis and monitoring NAC response. The SUV on static PET and MRI findings
      were correlated well with molecular marker status of breast cancer (ER, PR, HER2), and were
      associated with clinical outcome. The change of choline integral on MRS was well correlated
      to the peak of SUV during NAC (r=0.84,P=0.02).The changes of dynamic PET parameters including
      rate constants for uptake, washout and FDG influx were moderately correlated with the DCE MRI
      parameters and can reflect the response status of NAC. However, PET/CT and MRI were performed
      by two machines at different time, so breast positioning is different, causing the lesion
      targeting sometimes difficult. Moreover, the selection of ROI/VOI for PET and MRS, DCE MRI is
      subjective with inter-observer bias. A new technology- PET/MR- can solve these problems.
      PET/MR has less radiation and offers more soft tissue details than PET/CT. A most recent
      PET/MR design- integrated PET/MR- is commercially available. Using the integrated PET/MR,
      patients can undergo whole body PET and MRI at the same time, followed by dedicated protocol
      for specific organ of primary tumor origin. The ROI/VOI of breast DCE MRI, MRS can be
      selected according to SUVmax site from PET, which is more objective and can ensure that the
      VOI/ROI is at same location across all techniques. PET/MR showed comparable reliability to
      PET/CT for detection of oncologic diseases, and contributed even more changes of clinical
      management than PET/CT. However, use of PET/MR for breast cancer was seldom reported.

      The investigators will use integrated PET/MR for the studies below:

        1. Use of PET-guided proton MRS and DCE MRI for patients who will receive NAC for breast
           cancer to monitor treatment response.

        2. Use of dynamic and static PET to monitor treatment response for NAC, and to investigate
           the correlation of PET results versus MRS, DCE MRI.

        3. Compare clinical staging by of PET/MR and by clinical assessment.

        4. On pre-chemotherapy studies, to investigate the association of molecular marker status
           with the dynamic and static PET, MRS and DCE MRI parameters.
    
  