
    
      This study is a prospective, comparative, non-randomized study in subjects with subarachnoid
      hemorrhage who are undergoing surveillance for vasospasm. The study will be conducted in one
      center.

      The primary objective of Phase I of this non-significant risk study is proof of principle.
      During this phase the goal is to build a library of Jan Medical NNW system recordings from
      patients with moderate and severe vasospasms. A signature for detecting vasospasms will be
      developed using the signals from a vasospasm epoch to a patient's individual baseline
      recording and confirming the presence of vasospasm by comparison of Jan Medical NNW system
      data to TCD and, when available Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA). The number of patients
      required for Phase I is estimated to be 20 patients with confirmed moderate or severe
      vasospasm with a minimum of 10 these patients having at least one severe vasospasm recording
      confirmed by TCD or DSA. Daily recordings are to be taken.

      During Phase II the Jan Medical NNW system will independently utilize the signatures
      identified in Phase I to identify the presence or absence of moderate and severe vasospasm in
      a blinded recording. This recording will be compared to TCD or DSA, when DSA is available,
      for analysis of sensitivity and specificity. Up to 50 subjects will be enrolled in Phase II.
      When possible, multiple recordings will be obtained from each subject to include recordings
      with and without vasospasm.

      Duration of each subject's enrollment in this study is limited to the period of time when Jan
      Medical NNW system recordings are performed. No additional tests or procedures will be
      performed during participation in this study and all other data collected (including TCD or
      DSA) will be based on available evaluations conducted as part of the patient's standard of
      care. Upon completing the last Jan Medical NNW system recording or when no further data
      collection is expected, the subject will be exited from the study.
    
  