
    
      Objective: This proposal was developed at the request of, and with input from, the Research
      Council of the Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA's) National Advisory Board for Nutrition
      and Food Services, in an effort to address obesity, a major health problem for VA patients.
      The prevalence of obesity in the United States has been increasing at an alarming rate. As a
      result, obesity related chronic diseases such as diabetes are also increasing in prevalence.
      While interventions that focus only on dietary changes can result in significant weight loss,
      the lost weight is often rapidly regained. Physical activity, when added to a dietary weight
      loss program, not only increases the initial weight loss but it also can play a critical role
      in preventing weight regain. The primary objective of the proposed study is to test the
      efficacy of a low-cost, innovative weight loss program targeting lifestyle physical activity
      and diet in individuals with cardiovascular risk factors or disease.

      Study Design and Methods: In this 3 year multi-site randomized controlled trial, the
      investigators will recruit overweight and obese veterans with cardiovascular disease risk
      factors or known cardiovascular disease who have been referred for nutritional counseling or
      who have responded to advertisements for the study. Research participants will be randomized
      to one of three study groups:

        -  nutritional counseling alone;

        -  nutritional counseling with simple pedometer feedback; and

        -  nutritional counseling, with both simple pedometer and enhanced pedometer (web-based)
           feedback.

      Each participant will have 5 visits with a dietitian in the course of 6 months. Participants
      randomized to receive pedometer feedback will review objectively monitored step-count data
      during their nutritional counseling sessions and will use the data to set new step-count
      goals. The primary outcome, weight loss, will be assessed at the sixth and final session at
      the end of the 6-month intervention. Enhanced pedometers that can monitor step-counts
      throughout the day and upload time stamped step count data to a central computer will be used
      to monitor adherence to a walking program.
    
  