
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) and its related disorder, atrial flutter (AFlut), are common
      abnormal heartbeats. Because they are similar and AFlut is rare compared to AF, they are
      usually treated similarly and discussed as one disorder. AF is an extremely common arrhythmia
      affecting more that 5% of the population over 65 years of age. It is an independent risk
      factor for death. AF is considered a progressive disease increasing in prevalence with age
      and converting from paroxysmal to permanent within a single individual. The projected
      lifetime risk of AF is 1 in 4 for men. AF occurs when there is an electrical short circuit in
      the top parts of the heart (atria). This causes the atria to beat at >300 times per min in an
      irregular and ineffective manor. This has two consequences. The blood tends to pool in the
      atria allowing for clotting. Second, the bottom parts of the heart (ventricles) beat too
      rapidly in response to impulses arising in the atria. The rapid ventricular contraction
      without adequate filling time results in a reduced ejection of blood. This can cause heart
      failure symptoms such as shortness of breath and reduced blood flow to organs resulting in
      lightheadedness or collapse.

      One logical therapy to correct the defects arising from AF is return the abnormal heartbeats
      back to the normal rhythm. This can be done with electrical shock therapy (cardioversion) or
      by drugs called antiarrhythmic agents. Often, they are used together. While its stands to
      reason that using these techniques to restore rhythm to normal would be beneficial, clinical
      trials show that leaving patients in AF and thinning the blood to prevent blood clots is
      equally efficacious to trying to restore normal beating (sinus rhythm). The common
      explanations for this are that AF returns rapidly despite antiarrhythmic drugs and that
      antiarrhythmic drugs can make worse abnormal heart beats, a phenomenon known as
      proarrhythmia.

      Based on the lack of efficacy of current therapies and similarities between risk factors for
      atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) and AF, we began to investigate whether oxidative
      stress, a mechanism similar to inflammation thought to be responsible for atherosclerosis,
      might be playing a role in causing AF. We studied this in pigs first and found that when we
      put pigs into AF, they had a large increase in oxidative stress markers. Then, we made a
      mouse that had too much oxidative stress in the heart, and this mouse developed AF. Based on
      this and other data in humans, we hypothesized that oxidative stress can cause AF.

      Atorvastatin is a cholesterol lowering medication that works by blocking production of
      cholesterol at an early stage. This has the effect of preventing the synthesis of molecules
      required to assemble the most common enzymatic source of oxidative stress, the NADPH oxidase.
      Therefore, atorvastatin decreases oxidative stress in addition to reducing cholesterol, and
      if our hypothesis is correct, atorvastatin should reduce the incidence of AF.

      In this study we chose to look at patients undergoing cardioversion. This is because this
      group has a high likelihood of recurrence of AF and would benefit most by an effective drug.
      Once the decision is made to have the patient undergo cardioversion, we will approach the
      patient about enrolling in this trial. The only change in their medical therapy will be the
      addition of the study drug. The study requires no other alterations to the standard of care.
      If patients agree to participate, then they will be started on the study drug and followed
      for recurrence of AF by a variety of surface electrocardiogram techniques. All of which are
      noninvasive. To insure the medicine is not causing side effects, examinations and blood tests
      will be done, and to study whether the drug actually affects oxidative stress, blood will be
      analyzed. The subjects participation ends when AF recurs or after 1 year. This will be a
      double blind, placebo controlled trial and will be analyzed on an intention to treat basis.

      The risks of this study to the patient are likely to be small compared to the potential
      benefit of reduced AF burden. Based on a previous trial using the same dose of study
      medication, the risks of all study drug related adverse events is likely to be <3%. All of
      these are expected to be reversible with discontinuation of the drug.

      The significance of this research is that currently treatments to address AF are less than
      optimal. Antiarrhythmic drugs are variably effective and are associated with potentially
      lethal proarrhythmic side effects. The common treatment to prevent strokes in subjects with
      AF is chronic warfarin administration, but warfarin therapy requires frequent monitoring and
      adjustment of dose and is associated with bleeding complications. This research may provide
      the first new therapeutic strategy in many years for AF and the most serious consequence of
      AF, stroke.
    
  