
    
      The aim of this study is to compare Scottish appendicectomy outcomes in children between
      specialised paediatric centres versus non-specialised centres.

      This is a retrospective study of all appendicectomies performed in Scotland during the period
      from 1st January 2001 - 31st December 2010, on children aged 2 - 12 years old or younger. It
      will use routinely collected administrative data from the Information Services Division (ISD)
      of NHS National Services Scotland.

      The registry which will supply the data for this study is the Scottish Morbidity Record 01
      (SMR01), the full title of which is the "General / Acute Inpatient and Day Case dataset" (see
      http://www.adls.ac.uk/nhs-scotland/general-acute-inpatient-day-case-smr01/?detail). SMR01 is
      collated and administered by ISD, and data submission is mandatory for all Scottish NHS
      providers of in-patient or day-case care. Approximately 1.4 million records are added each
      year. Diagnoses are coded according to International Classification of Disease (ICD)-10
      standards and procedures are coded according to the United Kingdom's Office of Population
      Census Statistics (OPCS) standards, of which the most current is version 4.5.

      The data quality in SMR01 is high and is assured by regular internal audits. In the 2010
      audit of accuracy, Main Condition was recorded with an accuracy of 88% and Main Procedure was
      recorded with an accuracy of 94%. Where data inconsistencies are identified in the extract
      supplied for this study, further clarification will be obtained where possible with ISD's
      data retrieval support team.

      The study period was decided on pragmatically by a desire to provide an assessment of current
      practice, fully within the era of widely practised laparoscopic surgery. A power calculation
      also suggested that this would provide an adequate sample size to demonstrate differences.

      Our power calculation- specific to length of stay- was based on Faiz O, Clark J, Brown T,
      Bottle A, Antoniou A, Farrands P, et al. Traditional and Laparoscopic Appendectomy in Adults.
      Ann Surg. 2008 Nov;248(5):800-6. In their cohort of 259,735 appendicectomies performed from
      1996-2006, the geometric mean length of stay was 3.52, with SD 1.8. We decided that a
      difference of 0.5 days would be 'clinically significant'. We specified alpha 0.05 and Power
      0.9, and an allocation ratio of 1:1. A two-sided t-test of difference between two independent
      means was performed in G*Power 3.1.7. This demonstrated that a total N of 548 was required to
      demonstrate this difference.

      In the last epidemiological study of appendicitis in Scotland (Bisset AF. Appendicectomy in
      Scotland: a 20-year epidemiological comparison. J Public Health. 1997 Jun 1;19(2):213-8),
      1522 appendicectomies in 1993 were performed in children aged 0-15 years old. This suggests
      that a 10 year cohort should be more than adequate to detect a clinically significant
      difference in length of stay.

      Data completeness is very high in SMR01. However, where significant volumes of data are
      missing or unusable, the need for data imputation will be explored.

      The study will compare risk-adjusted 30 day/in-patient mortality, 30 day re-admission rate,
      30 day re-operation rate, post-operative length of stay and negative appendicectomy rates
      between Scotland's specialist paediatric centres and general surgical centres.

      Potentially significant confounding variables such as age, gender, and co-morbidity will be
      studied for their predictive value in a univariate model and included in a multivariate model
      if they remain significant.
    
  