
    
      Patients admitted with AECOPD will be recruited for the study. AECOPD will be defined when a
      patient with background COPD has at least two of the major symptoms (increased dyspnoea,
      increased sputum purulence, increased sputum amount) or one major and one minor symptom
      (nasal discharge/congestion, wheeze, sore throat, cough) for at least two consecutive
      days.5,17 Inclusion criteria include patients who are ambulatory (no major joint problem and
      no Class III or IV angina), patients agree to join exercise programme if offered, the forced
      expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) <70% predicted normal and an age of over 40 years old.
      Patients who have had PRP within the past 1 year will not be recruited for this study.

      The subjects will be randomized to 2 groups:

        1. Usual care group (Control)

        2. PRP group

      A random number generator will be used to assign whether the patient is to be in the control
      or PRP group. The computer programme will help to randomize subjects in equal opportunity in
      either group but taking into account 5 factors: age (< 70 years or ≥ 70 years),sex, length of
      hospital admission (< 7 days or ≥ 7 days), 6 minute walk test ( < 100 metres or ≥ 100
      metres), and predicted FEV1 (< 30% or ≥ 30%). This method is adapted by the study of Man et
      al.

      After recruitment in the AECOPD admission, baseline assessment will be done 24 hours before
      discharge from hospital. Each subject will then be followed up every 3 months after discharge
      for 1 year. For the intervention group, the PRP will start within 10 days of discharge from
      the hospital. Patients in the intervention group will attend the rehabilitation unit in our
      physiotherapy department on 3 half days per week for 6 weeks. In the first visit, the patient
      will be seen by a nurse specialist and offered smoking cessation counseling and inhaler
      technique will be reinforced. The nurse will also offer psychosocial support to the patient.
      The exercise sessions will be performed by 2 dedicated physiotherapists. Supervised exercise
      training includes use of treadmill, arm cycling, and arm and leg weight training will be
      provided with intensity adjusted by the physiotherapist based on the tolerability and
      physiological variables (oxygen saturation and heart rate) of the patient. Patients will also
      be advised to perform home exercises. The physiotherapist will also teach the patient on
      proper breathing techniques and how to cope with the daily activities.

      For the control group, the patients will also be seen by the nurse specialist within 10 days
      of discharge from the hospital as in the PRP group. The patients will be offered smoking
      cessation advice and inhaler technique will be reinforced as in the PRP group. Both the
      control and PRP groups will be followed up every 3 months in our respiratory research clinic.
      The Standard medications (including inhaled corticosteroid if appropriate according to the
      GOLD guideline1) will be prescribed to the patients for management of COPD in both groups.
      Both the PRP group and control group will also be seen by nurse specialist in each visit for
      further education of the disease and counseling.

      Assessments will be performed to monitor the patient's progress in both groups:

        1. Lung function test (pre and post bronchodilator) (baseline, 3 month, 6 month, 9 month
           and 12 month)

        2. 6 min walk test (baseline, 3 month, 6 month, 9 month and 12 month)

        3. Body mass index measurement (baseline, 3 month, 6 month, 9 month and 12 month)

        4. Modified Medical Research Council dyspnoea scale (MMRC)(baseline, 3 month, 6 month, 9
           month and 12 month)

        5. St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), medical outcomes short form 36
           questionnaire (SF-36) and chronic respiratory questionnaire(baseline, 3 months, 12
           months)

      Exacerbations (that required treatment with a course of oral steroid or antibiotics), AED
      department visits and hospitalization will be counted. Patient will be phone contacted to
      check for any mortality if the patient does not return for follow up.

      Each patient will be asked to give informed consent and ethical committee approval will be
      obtained from the Joint The Chinese University of Hong Kong - New Territories East Cluster
      Clinical Research Ethics Committee.
    
  