
    
      The vascular remodeling in PAH is a state of apoptosis-resistance. As in cancer, a switch
      from the anti-apoptotic glycolytic metabolism towards the pro-apoptotic oxidative
      phosphorylation metabolism, has been shown to cause regression of vascular remodeling and PAH
      in several animal models. This has been achieved with the small molecular DCA, an inhibitor
      of the mitochondrial enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase.

      DCA has been used in humans for over 30 years, mostly in the treatment of inherited
      mitochondrial disorders and is also currently being evaluated as a potential therapy in
      cancer.

      This is a first-in-humans, Phase I, two centre study (University of Alberta and Imperial
      College) in subjects with advanced PAH, whose symptoms have been clinically stable on their
      prescribed medical treatment for 8 weeks prior to enrollment. These treatments include
      standard (eg diuretics, warfarin) or specific PAH therapies (eg endothelin or
      phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors). From the known metabolism of the drugs involved, no
      pharmacokinetic interaction is anticipated. In line with most safety and efficacy studies,
      the design is open-label with the subjects acting as their own controls.

      Patients with PAH who have been stable on their current therapy for the preceding 2 months
      will be given either DCA 3.0 mg/kg BID (group I), 6.25 mg/kg BID (group II) or 12.5 mg/kg BID
      (group III) as an additional treatment for 16 weeks. Following the baseline visit, the
      patients will be followed every week for the first month, and then at weeks 6, 8 10, 12 and
      16. In weeks 1, 3, 6 and 10, the patients' status will be assessed by telephone interview.

      At all the other visits: medical history and physical examination will be performed. With the
      exception of week 2 (unless clinically indicated), this will be combined with routine
      hematology and biochemistry and an assessment of functional capacity (6 minute walk test).
      Serum lactate and NT-pro-BNP levels will be measured and PDH activity assay will be
      performed. Urine will be obtained for DCA metabolite studies.

      At baseline and 16 weeks: A cardiac catheterization to assess change in pulmonary
      hemodynamics; a routine cardiac MR (RV mass/volumes, MR angiography); FDG-PET to examine for
      an effect on regional lung or RV glucose uptake.

      If tolerated well, the subjects will continue with their medication and return for follow-up
      assessments at Weeks 20, 24 and 28. At each follow-up visit, a physical examination will be
      performed and functional capacity will be assessed (6 minute walk test). At the Week 28 visit
      a routine cardiac MR will also be performed. Enrollment will continue until 30 evaluable
      subjects (15 in each site) are included.
    
  