
    
      The role of measuring translesional pressure gradients(TLG) in peripheral arterial disease
      lesions below the iliac artery is unclear. In a previous study the investigators demonstrated
      that a pressure wire can be effectively used to measure gradients in the femoropopliteal (FP)
      arterial bed showing good correlation between TLGs recorded with exercise ankle brachial
      index and walking impairment scores. However there is a no evidence that effectively
      modifying the gradient or having a high residual gradient after revascularization or just
      with medical therapy correlates with worse clinical outcomes.

      This is a prospective, single center, observational clinical study to evaluate whether
      measurement of mean residual TLG at the time of angiography and/or immediately after
      endovascular revascularization are associated with clinically important outcomes in patients
      with claudication symptoms.

      Prior to angiography they will be asked to complete an ankle brachial index evaluation,
      baseline six minute walk test and walking impairment questionnaire. Arterial access should be
      obtained in the contralateral common femoral artery to the symptomatic limb if feasible.
      Angiographic images are to be obtained, interpreted and clinical decisions regarding
      endovascular treatment are to be made per treating physician's discretion prior to obtaining
      translesional pressure gradients. In patients whose angiogram does not meet exclusion
      criteria and do not have a chronic total occlusion (CTO) a baseline TLG will be obtained. A
      0.014" pressure wire/catheter to measure pressure will be inserted. After baseline
      calibration in the superficial femoral artery, the wire will be inserted past the narrowest
      lesion into the popliteal vessel. Intra-arterial adenosine 100-200 mcg will be given for
      hyperemia and measurements are to be recorded. If an intervention is planned, repeat
      measurements are to be obtained at the end of the procedure. If no intervention is planned
      this will be the residual or final TLG recorded. If baseline measurement are unable to
      obtained due to a CTO then only a post intervention residual TLG will be obtained and
      included in analysis. The operator will be blinded to the pre and post TLG measurements by
      turning the display monitor away from the procedure table and towards the recorder situated
      in the procedure room when measurements are being obtained.

      Patients will follow up within two weeks post angiography for routine scheduled follow up and
      will obtain repeat ABI, WIQ, and six minute walk if they underwent revascularization.
      Treating physicians and study coordinators collecting these test measurements will be blinded
      to TLG measurements but not to angiography and treatment. Patients will again be evaluated at
      6 months follow up with repeat ABI, WIQ and six minute walk.
    
  