
    
      Rationale:

      Class III malocclusions may originate in a retrognathic maxilla, a prognathic mandible or
      both. Young patients with class III malocclusion and maxillary hypoplasia are conventionally
      treated with a protraction facemask or reverse twin block appliance in order to stimulate
      forward growth of the upper jaw. This treatment option is often inducing unwanted side
      effects including mesial migration of the teeth in the upper jaw and clockwise rotation of
      the mandible. Because skeletal effects are often difficult to achieve with this approach,
      more pronounced class III malocclusions cannot be addressed by face mask therapy. These
      children cannot be treated during childhood and end up in major orthognathic surgery at
      full-grown age.

      To be able to treat also the more pronounced class III malocclusion and to minimize
      dentoalveolar compensations new treatment methods were developed which uses skeletal
      anchorage. In maxillary deficiency cases it's common to have the deficiency anteroposteriorly
      as well as transversely. Opening of the midpalatal suture by rapid expansion can correct the
      transverse hypoplasia and may produce more anterior movement of the maxilla. The proposed
      technique enables to start skeletal anchorage treatment at an earlier age, which also has the
      potential of more growth modification during treatment.

      Objective:

      To compare a new technique of skeletal traction with incorporation of maxillary expansion to
      conventional treatment protocols.

      Study design:

      This is a RCT

      Study population:

      Healthy human volunteers (7- 14 yrs old) with class III malocclusion due to maxillary
      deficiency.

      Intervention:

      The intervention consists of the application of a mentoplate (anchored with screws to the
      bone) in the lower jaw and two screws in the upper jaw (palate). Expansion in the upper jaw
      is achieved by a classic Hyrax appliance, connected to these screws. Anterior movement of the
      maxilla is subsequently accomplished by intermaxillary elastic traction to the mentoplate.

      Control group (conventional treatment):

      Anterior movement of the maxilla accomplished by elastic traction to a face mask

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The main study parameter is the difference in the amount of forward growth of the upper jaw
      and mid-face (measured with a cone beam CT) compared to the growth that is observed with
      conventional treatment.

      A cone beam CT will be made before the start of traction therapy (baseline) and after 1 year
      of therapy to evaluate the amount of expansion and forward growth of the maxilla.

      One last cone beam CT will be produced at the end of growth, 5 years after start of the
      orthodontic traction, to evaluate the long-term stability of the obtained advancement.

      Other end-points will be patients' satisfaction and complication-rate.
    
  