
    
      RTT is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by apparently normal early development
      followed by loss of purposeful hand use, distinctive hand stereotypies, slowed brain growth,
      loss of language, respiratory irregularities, GI disturbances, gait abnormalities, seizures,
      and mental retardation. These symptoms appear between ages 6 and 18 months (stage 2 of the
      disease) following apparently normal development (stage 1). Subsequently, there is gradual
      stabilization of severe mental retardation and motor compromise (stage 3). The majority (70%
      to 80%) of patients demonstrate mutations in the methyl-CpG-binding-protein-2 (MeCP2) gene, a
      transcription repressor located on chromosome Xq28. The disorder predominantly affects
      females, but a few males with mutations in MeCP2 have been identified, even though many of
      them do not have the classic symptoms recognized in females.

      Recent studies demonstrate increased brain N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in stages 2
      and 3 of the disease. This age-specific increase in glutamate levels and their receptors
      contribute to brain damage. This first study will examine the effectiveness of
      dextromethorphan, an NMDA receptor antagonist, to ameliorate symptoms. Participants will be
      randomized to receive one of three doses of dextromethorphan. All participants will be
      admitted to the hospital for three days at the beginning of the study. During the
      hospitalization, participants will undergo physical exam, Dexascan, MRI, EEG, behavioral
      assessment, laboratory testing, and neuropsychological evaluations. Six months after baseline
      assessment, participants will be rehospitalized for 3 days for similar assessments.

      Reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity in RTT patients may also contribute to
      disturbed cortical development and psychomotor retardation in RTT. Therefore, the second part
      of the study will evaluate the effect of donepezil hydrochloride, an inhibitor of
      acetylcholine-esterase, on acetylcholine levels. This portion of the study will not begin
      until pharmacokinetic data for donepezil in children is available.
    
  