
    
      Purpose of clinical trial The purpose is to determine whether home use of day and night
      closed loop applying faster insulin aspart is not inferior to home use of closed loop
      applying standard insulin aspart.

      Study objectives The study objective is to compare day and night automated closed-loop
      glucose control using faster acting insulin aspart with closed loop control using standard
      insulin aspart.

        1. EFFICACY: The objective is to assess the efficacy of day and night automated closed-loop
           glucose control applying standard rapid-acting insulin analogue in maintaining CGM
           glucose levels within the target range from 3.9 to 10.0 mmol/l, as compared to day and
           night closed-loop using faster acting insulin aspart

        2. SAFETY: The objective is to evaluate the safety of day and night automated closed-loop
           glucose control in terms of episodes of severe hypoglycaemia, hyperglycaemia and other
           adverse events and adverse device effects.

        3. UTILITY: The objective is to determine the percentage of time when closed-loop was
           operational, and usability and acceptance of the closed-loop system.

      Study Design A double-blind, multi-centre, randomised, two-period crossover study,
      contrasting day and night automated closed-loop glucose control applying standard rapid
      acting insulin analogue with day and night closed-loop control applying faster acting insulin
      aspart.

      Study Efficacy Endpoints The primary outcome is the time spent in the target glucose range
      from 3.9 to 10.0 mmol/l based on CGM glucose levels during the free living phase.

      Secondary outcomes include time spent above and below the target glucose range, based on CGM
      levels.

      Safety Evaluation Frequency of severe hypoglycaemic episodes as defined by American Diabetes
      Association, frequency of severe hyperglycaemia (>20 mmol/l) and / or significant ketosis
      (plasma ketones >3mmol/l) and nature and severity of other adverse events.

      Utility Evaluation Percentage of time spent in closed-loop. Usability and acceptance of the
      closed-loop system will be assessed using a patient experience questionnaire at the end of
      the second intervention. Additionally, human factor questionnaires will be administered
      following recruitment and at the end of each intervention arm.

      Sample Size 24 adults completing the study. Up to 30 subjects will be recruited to allow for
      dropouts.

      Maximum duration of study for a subject 20 weeks (5 months)

      Recruitment The subjects will be recruited through the adult diabetes outpatient clinics or
      other established methods at participating centres.

      Consent Participants will be asked to provide written informed consent.

      Baseline Assessment Eligible subjects will undergo a baseline evaluation including a blood
      sample for the measurement of HbA1c, renal, liver functions, full blood count, thyroid
      functions and coeliac antibody screen (if not done in the previous 3 months). Urine pregnancy
      test will be done in females. Additional centre specific assessments will also be undertaken.
      Human factor questionnaires will be administered.

      Study Training and Run-in Period Training sessions on the use of study CGM, insulin pump and
      closed-loop system will be provided by the research team. During the 2-4 weeks run-in period,
      subjects will use study CGM and insulin pump and will have regular contact with the research
      team. At the end of the run-in period, for compliance and to assess the ability of the
      subject to use the CGM and study pump safely, before the start of the first home study phase,
      at least 7 days of CGM data need to be recorded and safe use of study insulin pump
      demonstrated. CGM and insulin pump data during the run-in period will be used to assess
      baseline glucose control and optimise treatment before the start of the first home study
      phase.

      Competency Assessment Competency on the use of study insulin pump, study CGM and closed-loop
      system will be evaluated using a competency assessment tool developed by the research team.
      Further training may be delivered as required.

      Randomisation Eligible subjects will be randomised using randomisation software to the use of
      closed-loop with faster acting aspart or to closed-loop with standard insulin aspart.

      Automated closed-loop Training on the use of closed-loop will be provided by the research
      team. Automated closed-loop control will be commenced and during the 2-3 hour training the
      participant will operate the system under the supervision of the clinical team. Competency on
      the use of closed-loop system will be evaluated. Subjects will be advised to use automated
      closed-loop system for next 8 weeks

      Cross-over Assessment At the end of the first intervention human factor questionnaires will
      be administered.

      There will be no washout period in phase 3 extension.

      End of study assessments A patient experience questionnaire will be given at the end of the
      second intervention. Additionally human factor questionnaires will be administered.

      Procedures for safety monitoring during trial Standard operating procedures for monitoring
      and reporting of all adverse events and adverse device events will be in place, including
      serious adverse events (SAE), serious adverse device effects (SADE) and specific adverse
      events (AE) such as severe hypoglycaemia.

      Subjects will be asked to test and record blood ketones if their finger-stick glucose is
      above 14 mmol/l as part of the safety assessment for hyperglycaemia.

      A data monitoring and ethics committee (DMEC) will be informed of all serious adverse events
      and any unanticipated adverse device/method effects that occur during the study and will
      review compiled adverse event data at periodic intervals.

      Criteria for withdrawal of patients on safety grounds

      A subject may terminate participation in the study at any time without necessarily giving a
      reason and without any personal disadvantage. An investigator can stop the participation of a
      subject after consideration of the benefit/risk ratio. Possible reasons are:

        -  Serious adverse events

        -  Significant protocol violation or noncompliance

        -  Failure to satisfy competency assessment

        -  Decision by the investigator, or the sponsor, that termination is in the subject's best
           medical interest

        -  Pregnancy, planned pregnancy, or breast feeding

        -  Allergic reaction to insulin

        -  Technical grounds (e.g. subject relocates)
    
  