
    
      The MyPal eHealth system coincides with the MyPal intervention. The system will be used
      primarily by the patients that participate in the intervention arm of the trial and
      secondarily by the participating healthcare professionals (HCP). Patients participating in
      the standard arm of the trial won't use the system. Access to the MyPal eHealth system will
      be granted to the patients and HCP right after their enrollment in the trial. Patients will
      have access to the system continuously for 12 months; HCP will have access to the system
      until the end of the trial.

      The main modules (software and hardware) of the system are outlined below:

        -  MyPal smartphone application (app). This is the interface of the patient to the system.
           The MyPal smartphone app is available for smartphones running on the Android and iOS
           operating systems and it is installed on the personal smartphone of the patient.

        -  Commercial smart wristband. This is a commercial activity tracking device that will be
           employed for monitoring the physical activity and the sleep quality of the patient,
           provided by the site personnel. Wearable to be worn. Ionic™ (Fitbit) will be employed by
           the trial as the smart wristband.

        -  MyPal web application (app). This is the main interface of the HCP to the system. It is
           accessible as a web portal through any modern web browser.

        -  System backend. This module resides at the backend of the system and it is not directly
           accessible by the aforementioned types of users. The system backend interfaces the MyPal
           smartphone app and the MyPal web app.

      In brief, the intervention revolves around the reporting by the patient of physical and
      psycho-emotional symptoms (via the MyPal smartphone app) and the immediate delivery of the
      reported symptom-related information to the HCP (via the MyPal web app). Of note, the
      reported symptom-related information becomes instantly available to the HCP in the MyPal web
      app; however, this does not imply that the HCP is guaranteed to review it at the same time.
      The intervention is described in more detailed below, first from the standpoint of the
      patient and then from that of the HCP.

      The patients interact with the MyPal smartphone app in 3 sequential phases. Additionally,
      during the enrollment in the study, the patients are handed the commercial smart wristband
      and they are instructed to wear it as much as possible (also while sleeping) throughout their
      participation in the study.

      Registration Phase. This phase is completed the first time the patient uses the MyPal
      smartphone app, which take place right after the patient is enrolled in the study. The
      mission of this phase is (1) to register the patient into the MyPal system, (2) to initially
      set a number of preferences, (3) to collect via self-reporting the baseline assessment of the
      patient's physical and psycho-emotional symptom, and (4) to screen for motivational targets
      and non-adherence risk. The smartphone app guides the patient throughout the entire
      registration process in a wizard-like fashion, where the user has to provide some information
      (1)-(2) and complete certain questionnaires (3)-(4). The latter is elaborated in the next
      phase.

      Main usage phase. As soon as the registration phase is completed, the MyPal smartphone app
      enters into its main usage phase. This lasts 6 months (Month 0 to Month 6 of the patient's
      participation in the study) and, during this time, the patient is given access to a number of
      user-initiated functionalities (i.e., functionalities that the user has access to at all
      times) and system-initiated ones (i.e., functionalities for which the system decides when
      they become available to the user). More specifically, the functionalities of the second
      category are initiated via notifications that are presented by the smartphone app to the
      user. We can distinguish two main types of notifications, namely the intervention
      notifications (i.e., notifications associated with functionalities that are part of the
      interventions) and the assessment notifications (i.e., notifications informing the patient
      it's time to complete the assessment questionnaires that have been foreseen by the study
      protocol). The intervention notification frequency is once every a multiple of 1 week (e.g.,
      1 week, 2 weeks, 6 weeks), depending on the specific system-initiated functionality, while
      the intervention notifications are issued once per month. Whenever possible, messages
      concerning multiple functionalities are grouped in a single notification, either intervention
      notification or mixed one.

      Follow-up usage phase. The follow-up usage phase starts immediately after the completion of
      the main usage phase and it also last 6 months (Month 7 to Month 12 of the patient's
      participation). This phase is identical to the previous phase (all the previously described
      functionalities are available) with a single exception. This is that the smartphone app does
      not issue assessment notification monthly; instead it issues only one such notification at
      the end of Month 12.

      In contrast to the case of the patients, the HCP interact with the MyPal web app (i.e., their
      interface to the MyPal system) in the same manner throughout their participation in the study
      (this is considered to be from the first to the last month of the study). The only exception
      to this (main usage) is a short procedure that registers them into the MyPal system; the
      registration takes place the first time the HCP accesses the MyPal web app.

      In brief, during the main usage of the MyPal web app, the HCP get access to the data that are
      collected by (1) the MyPal smartphone app and (2) the commercial smart wristband and stored
      in the system backend. The collected data become available to the MyPal web app as soon as
      they are stored. At individual level, the HCP is authorized to access only the data of the
      patients of the associated clinical center; however, access to aggregated and summarized data
      coming from all the patients (descriptive statistics such as min, max, average and
      percentiles) will also be provided to all the HCP. In contrast to the notification-heavy
      approach that was adopted for the patients, the HCP are not actively notified by the MyPal
      system at any point. To compensate for this, the study protocol mandates that the individual
      data of the participating patients of a given clinical center are reviewed by the associated
      HCP at least once every 72 hours. The data review and any action related to this will be
      recorded through the web interface. The absence of notifications means that all
      functionalities offered to the HCP are user-initiated.
    
  