
    
      This is a Phase II prospective clinical trial. Pre treatment evaluations include estimation
      of life expectancy, Creatinine (GFR) and MRI brain with contrast. An assessment of cognitive
      function using Montreal Cognitive Assessment questionnaire, assessment of daily living
      activities using the Modified Barthel's index and quality of life assessment using EORTC
      QLQ-PAL-15 & BN-20 questionnaires will be performed in clinic. Karnofsky Performance Status
      will also be assessed by the clinician. If all assessments are within the eligibility
      criteria then the patient can be recruited. Before treatment begins a history documenting
      baseline symptoms using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version
      4.0 and a neurological examination documenting baseline deficits must be obtained.

      If patient is randomized to standard treatment of whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) then
      subjects will have a non-contrast CT scan using a slice thickness of 2.5 mm or less to plan
      radiotherapy. If patient are randomized to single fraction radiotherapy then a contrast CT
      will be used as this aids in identifying metastatic tumours within the brain. Also for the
      single fraction arm if a contrast-enhanced diagnostic MRI was obtained ≤ 10 days before the
      CT planning scan, with a single-plane high-resolution sequence or low-resolution sequences in
      two planes, it can be used for treatment planning. If the contrast-enhanced diagnostic MRI
      was obtained > 10 days before the CT planning scan or there is no diagnostic MRI, the subject
      requires a gadolinium-enhanced, high-resolution MRI sequence for fusion in the treatment
      planning system. During treatment, patients will have daily online cone beam CT scans to
      apply setup corrections to ensure treatment accuracy. To ensure minimal movement during
      radiotherapy all subjects will be immobilized lying on their back in a plastic headshell with
      an integrated bite block.

      For subjects in the single-fraction arm that are not requiring steroids before radiotherapy,
      dexamethasone 8 mg 1 hour before the radiotherapy and for 5 days afterwards is required. For
      subjects in the single-fraction arm that are requiring corticosteroids for symptom management
      before radiotherapy, dexamethasone 8 mg before treatment and 8 mg 2 times daily for 2 days is
      required. Beginning three days after radiotherapy, a taper back to the pre-radiotherapy dose
      can be done swiftly over 4-6 days. However, for subjects who have been on dexamethasone for
      more than 2 weeks at this time point, slow tapering from the pre-radiotherapy dose using
      decrements of 0.5 - 2 mg every 3-5 days should be used to prevent a hypocortisolemia. For
      subjects in the 5-fraction arm, corticosteroids will be prescribed according to the
      preference of the treating radiation oncologist. Anti-sickness medication and steroids will
      be prescribed are required before each fraction in both arms.

      Following therapy completion, all patients will be seen at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. At
      each visit history and neurological examination will be performed. Cognitive Function,
      Karnofsky Performance Status, Quality of life and Adverse Events will all be assessed and
      recorded. Activities of Daily Living and steroid use will be assessed by telephone
      consultation every 4 weeks (monthly) for 1 year. Steroid use will be confirmed by evaluating
      the pharmacy prescription database.

      Patients will have contrast-enhanced MRI brain at every time point with a creatinine 1 week
      before each MRI to ensure safety of intravenous contrast administration. Steroid use will be
      recorded in a patient diary for first 6 weeks post treatment and monthly by telephone
      discussion.
    
  