
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the safety and feasibility of standard chemotherapy plus GCSF-mobilized
           Hematopoietic Progenitor Cell, Apheresis (HPC-A) in pediatric patients with relapsed or
           refractory hematologic malignancies.

        -  To estimate the response rates to standard chemotherapy plus GCSF-mobilized HPC-A in
           pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To describe the event-free and overall survival of patients treated with standard
           chemotherapy plus GCSF-mobilized HPC-A.

        -  To estimate the time to neutrophil and platelet recovery after treatment with standard
           chemotherapy plus GCSF-mobilized HPC-A.

        -  To determine the cumulative incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD).

      OTHER PRESPECIFIED OBJECTIVES:

        -  To characterize donor chimerism and microchimerism.

      Patients will receive standard chemotherapy followed by infusion of donor peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells 2 days after the completion of chemotherapy. Patients who have at least a
      partial response are eligible to receive a second cycle.

      Diagnostic lumbar puncture and intrathecal (IT) chemotherapy will be given prior to cycle 1.
      Patients without evidence of central nervous system (CNS) leukemia will receive no further IT
      therapy during cycle 1. Patients with CNS disease will receive weekly IT therapy
      (age-adjusted methotrexate, hydrocortisone, and cytarabine) until the cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) becomes free of leukemia (minimum of 4 doses).

      Bone marrow aspiration (BMA) and biopsy to assess response will be performed on approximately
      day 29 of therapy.

      For hematopoietic stem cell mobilization, donors will receive G-CSF (Filgrastim) (Neupogen®)
      each day for 5 days given subcutaneously (SQ) prior to HPC-A collected by leukapheresis on
      day 6.
    
  