
    
      IVR (Interactive Voice Response) is a computer-based, automated telephone system that enables
      callers to respond to a recorded voice via the telephone keypad. Using this technology,
      therapeutic IVR (TIVR) was developed as a tool for providing maintenance treatment following
      group cognitive-behavioral coping skills training (CST), a widely-used behavioral treatment
      for chronic pain. TIVR has four components:

        -  an automated daily questionnaire for self-monitoring

        -  a review of coping skills

        -  guided behavioral rehearsals of CST coping skills

        -  personalized monthly feedback messages recorded onto TIVR by the therapist

      All four components can be accessed remotely by patients via any touch-tone phone. In a small
      pilot study, people with severe, chronic musculoskeletal pain received 11 weeks of either CST
      alone or CST with TIVR access and therapist feedback. Those who used TIVR had better pain
      outcomes than those who did not. This study will compare the effectiveness of TIVR with or
      without therapist feedback to a control group not using TIVR at all.

      To be eligible for this study, participants must have just completed an 11-week course of CST
      through the University of Vermont College of Medicine's MindBody Medicine Clinic. At study
      entry, participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups. Group 1 is a control
      group that will not receive any intervention through this study. Group 2 participants will
      receive full access to TIVR and will get a minimal monthly message from their therapist, who
      will not use the participant's daily questionnaire data. Group 3 participants will receive
      full access to TIVR and will get personalized monthly messages from their therapist based on
      the participant's daily questionnaire data. Messages for participants will include any trends
      the therapist has noted in a participant's stress, sleep, mood, pain levels, coping, and
      activity, as reported through TIVR. All study participants may continue to receive treatment
      from their regular physician or take part in other pain management techniques during this
      study, but such treatment will not be provided through this study.

      Upon completing the 11 weeks of CST, all participants will be asked to complete a packet of
      questionnaires about their chronic pain. At the start of this study, participants in Groups 2
      and 3 will have a 30-minute training session on how to use and access TIVR. At Months 4, 8,
      and 12, participants from all three groups will have follow-up interviews and will complete
      additional questionnaires.
    
  