
    
      This project is an IRB-approved, single-blinded, randomized, controlled, prospective study
      that is currently taking place at two hospitals in Central Illinois. Inclusion criteria
      includes: term infants > 37 weeks gestation in the Level I nursery receiving lactation
      support and identified by lactation as having a newborn component to feeding dysfunction, who
      must be available for at least two inpatient treatment sessions and whose parent has provided
      informed consent.

      All breastfed mother-infant dyads are offered evaluation by a lactation consultant.
      Breastfeeding sessions are routinely scored by either registered nurses or lactation
      consultants using the LATCH tool, with scores entered into a flowsheet on the electronic
      medical record. LATCH is a validated tool designed by Jensen et al to evaluate five
      components of breastfeeding: latch, audible swallowing, type of nipple, comfort of mother,
      and help mother needs holding infant to breast. For the purposes of the study, the nipple
      component will be excluded, so the maximum score will be 8. Eligible infants are enrolled in
      the study by a lactation consultant, who then notifies an on-call physician. The infant's
      mother is provided with a brochure explaining OMT and outlining potential benefits in
      newborns. The on-call physician provides informed consent and performs either the OMT or sham
      protocol. Infants are enrolled Monday through Thursday, and treatments are performed Monday
      through Friday. Enrolled infants are added to a password-protected, numerical list and
      randomized into their group based upon whether they land on an even number (sham) or an odd
      number (OMT). If multiple infants are enrolled at the same time, they are added to the list
      in alphabetical order. Group assignments are blinded to the parents, nursing staff, and
      lactation consultants. A brief note acknowledging that the infant has been enrolled in the
      study is entered into the electronic medical record. The OMT/sham treatments are documented
      on paper; kept in a locked document folder in the residency teaching clinic; and scanned into
      the electronic medical record two weeks after discharge.

      The OMT treatment protocol includes the following four techniques: condylar decompression,
      cervical Still technique, thoracic inlet release and balancing of the hyoid bone. Infants in
      the control arm receive "sham" OMT during which they receive a gentle application of light
      touch but no treatment. A research team physician follows up on the day following enrollment
      to provide a second treatment. After discharge, each enrolled infant's LATCH scores are
      reviewed and documented.

      Based upon results of smaller studies, the investigators hypothesize that infants receiving
      OMT in the treatment arm of the study will have more significant improvement in their LATCH
      score compared to infants in the control arm of the study receiving lactation support alone.
    
  