
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is characterized by repetitive episodes of partial or complete
      pharyngeal obstruction during sleep. OSA is one of the most frequent chronic diseases with
      both social and multi-organ consequences making it an economic burden for society. OSA
      durably impairs the quality of life of patients and their entourage and is associated with
      co-morbidities including hypertension, arrhythmias, stroke, coronary heart disease and
      metabolic dysfunction.

      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), the first line therapy for OSA, requires high
      adherence to be effective in terms of symptom improvement and reduction of the burden of
      co-morbidities. For one third of patients, such adherence is difficult to achieve in the long
      term and mandibular advancement devices (MAD) have emerged as the leading alternative to
      CPAP. So, MADs are now a reliable alternative to CPAP treatments, which position these in
      numerous patients as a first therapy. Moreover, mild to moderate symptomatic patients who
      refuse to be diagnosed are now referring to sleep centers in order to be treated. MAD and
      CPAP are similarly effective on symptoms, quality of life and in attaining reductions in
      blood pressure and cardiovascular morbidity. Although CPAP has a greater effect on Apnea +
      hypopnea index (AHI) reduction, adherence is better with MAD explaining the comparable mean
      disease alleviation achieved by the two treatment modalities.

      Despite good tolerance and efficacy, there are still barriers limiting the widespread use of
      MAD and its acceptance in OSA routine clinical practice. Various different MAD designs
      currently exist and constantly emerge on the market without clear evidence regarding the best
      technical choice and the cost-effectiveness compromise. Titratable two-piece custom-made MADs
      are the gold standard in clinical guidelines and several brands are now on the market.
      Although these MAD has been tested in term of efficacy, no study has tested the difference
      between MADs in term of efficacy, tolerance and patient satisfaction. Such a paradigm merits
      being tested in a randomized controlled trial. The SONAR study is a multicenter,
      parallel-group randomized controlled trial to determine if the titratable MAD NARVAL TM is
      superior to the titratable MAD TALITM in OSA patients eligible for MAD. The primary outcome
      will be the treatment response at 3 months assessed by the difference of delta AHI at
      baseline and follow-up measured by polysomnography and secondary outcomes focus at global
      efficacy, tolerance and patient satisfaction.

      To our knowledge it will be the first study comparing two titrable MADs.
    
  