
    
      Aim 1: To assess the psychiatric symptom profiles in the group of obese patient candidates
      applying for bariatric surgery and to determine the associated environmental stress factors.

      Patients will be evaluated with psychosocial scales as part of their pre-surgery assessments.
      The first psychosocial evaluation of the patients will be performed by a structured clinical
      interview (SCID) by Dr. Hale Yapici Eser, Dr. Özge Kılıç and then, the participants will be
      asked to fill in the self-assessment scales and they will be applied some computer based
      cognitive tests via the assistance of Candan Yasemin Eren.

      Scales used to model environmental factors:

        1. Sociodemographic Data Form

        2. Childhood Trauma Questionnaire

        3. Chronic Stress Scale

        4. Perceived Stress Scale

        5. Distress Thermometer

        6. Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support

           Scales used to evaluate psychiatric symptom profile:

        7. Beck Depression Scale

        8. Beck Anxiety Scale

        9. Barratt Impulsivity Scale

       10. Cognitive Failures Questionnaire

       11. Mood Disorder Questionnaire

       12. Yale Food Addiction Scale

       13. Relationship Scales Questionnaire

       14. Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale

       15. Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale

      Patients will fill these measurements using Qualtrics. The findings of the structured
      interview and results of the scale scores will be analyzed by SPSS. From these scales,
      evaluations other than scales 2 and 13 will be re-administered at the 3rd month and 12th
      months after bariatric surgery. Scale scores will be used for follow-up of patients.

      Aim 2: To evaluate and monitor cognitive characteristics before and after bariatric surgery
      in obese patients.

      The cognitive functions of the patients will be assessed, pre and post operationally (3rd and
      12th months), by the Penn-CNP neuropsychological test battery and the 'Cognitive Failures
      Questionnaire' indicated as the 10th item above. 'Cognitive Failures Questionnaire' is a
      self-administered scale, which is aimed at questioning the different areas of cognition such
      as attention, memory and perception. Penn-CNP is a neuropsychological test battery developed
      by Prof. Dr. Rachel Gur at the University of Pennsylvania and already in use on large sampled
      and multi centered researches. The required tasks of this battery is translated into Turkish
      by establishing a connection between Dr. Hale Yapici Eser and these research centers.

      The Penn-CNP neuropsychological test battery can assess cognitive features such as emotion
      recognition and discrimination, working memory, visual-spatial perception and memory, motor
      praxis, impulsivity and attention. Some of these tests are aimed at evaluating the effect of
      reaction time and motor capacity on test responses, while others investigate emotion
      recognition processes with different aspects of cognition such as attention, working and
      long-term memory, executive functions and visual-spatial perception.For each test applied
      with this battery, the test results are automatically calculated by the system and the
      response time, correct and incorrect answers for each response are also presented in an
      analytical data format. The program also does unbiased arithmetic calculations on important
      data for further analysis.

      Test result tables of the battery can be reviewed in detail from the following link:

      https://penncnp.med.upenn.edu/doc.pl?section=pi&content=factsheets/penncnp_test_descriptions-
      v1.00.pdf

      Cognitive scales will be repeated at 0, 3 and 12 months post-operation. These follow-ups have
      important implications. Findings obtained for each test will be monitored in terms of changes
      between pre and post operation. Also, the effects of the variables mentioned in method 4 will
      be analyzed on the scores obtained on each cognitive test by the SPSS program. In addition,
      test results will be compared in terms of the changes made in the measurements in the control
      group mentioned in method 4.

      Aim 3: To examine the relationship between obesity, bariatric surgery and reward processing
      system.

      The cognitive functions of the patients will be assessed with the "Probabilistic Reward Task
      (PRT)" pre and 3rd and 12th months after bariatric surgery to examine the changes in the
      reward learning systems after bariatric surgery.PRT is a signal detection task used for
      measuring hedonic capacity and reward learning based on monetary reward enhancement.
      Developed by Diego Pizzagalli in 2005, PRT is an objective assessment of the participants'
      tendency to modulate their behavior in relation to the prize. At each trial, subjects are
      asked to choose between two very similar stimuli. The stimuli consist of simple cartoon faces
      presented at the center of the monitor. Subjects are instructed to press on the appropriate
      button to determine whether the stimulus is presented with long (11 mm) or short (10 mm)
      mouth. One of the stimuli (the "rich stimulus") is awarded three times more often than the
      other ("lean") but the subjects do not know about it. The reward is presented with: "True!
      You have earned 25 cents". In healthy controls, this reinforcement method leads to response
      bias, and more frequent rewarding stimuli are preferred. The response bias towards the more
      frequently rewarded stimuli will be used to operationalize reward sensitivity. Due to
      participation and validity of the test participants will be given 20 TL independently from
      their performance. Mentioned evaluations will be repeated at 0, 3 and 12 months. Findings
      obtained for each test will be monitored in terms of changes between pre and post operation.
      Also, the effects of the variables mentioned in method 4 will be analyzed on the scores
      obtained on each cognitive test by the SPSS program.

      Aim 4: Determination of the neuroanatomical and molecular components of cognitive changes
      observed after bariatric surgery.

      In this part of the study, brain imaging and biochemical measurements will be conducted.
      Patients who have completed Method 1 will be evaluated on psychiatric examination and scale
      scores to be able to be eligible for this stage. During the preliminary evaluations, people
      with conditions that might affect their cognition and cause brain damage will not be
      included. Patients who meet the criteria will be exposed to the following measurements at
      pre-operative, 3 and 12 months. A second group of healthy volunteers with normal body mass
      index, paired with age, gender, education status and psychiatric assessment scale scores,
      with normal BMI, will be formed.

      Imaging studies: Structural and functional changes in the brain will be evaluated by magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI). Thin-section T1-weighted images for evaluation of gray matter
      changes, resting functional magnetic resonance images for evaluation of functional changes
      will be obtained. For resting fMRI, patients will be asked to rest eyes closed for 6 minutes
      without thinking anything. MRI examination will be repeated both for the obese patient group
      and concurrently healthy controls before surgery (0 months) and after surgery at 3 and 12
      months. Imaging will take approximately 30 minutes.

      All brain group analyzes of the structural imaging data obtained at the pre-operative,
      baseline, time point of the obese patient group and the healthy control group will be
      performed and the brain regions in the obese patient group will be determined for the gray
      matter changes. The first stage analysis will focus on the brain areas where gray matter
      changes are observed, and these areas will be compared with the data obtained from the after
      bariatric surgery imaging sessions. For the evaluation of these changes, focus areas will be
      placed in the brain areas where obese individuals have gray matter changes, and detailed
      analysis will be made. Focused analysis and whole brain comparisons performed by placing the
      areas of interest as mentioned will be performed in comparison with longitudinal data
      (comparing baseline-3 and 12 months of obese individuals with each other) and normal healthy
      groups' 3 and 12 months data. In addition, structural changes in the brain will be analyzed
      in relation to cognitive functions, stress factors, and mood changes. For second stage
      analysis, interest areas will be placed to the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and temporal
      lobe and data of obese patient group and healthy controls will be compared at the baseline,
      3rd and 12th months. In addition, a longitudinal analysis will be performed on the obese
      patient group (comparing 0-3 and 12 months of obese individuals with each other) to assess
      the effect of bariatric surgery on these brain areas.

      In resting state fMRI, the focus now is to examine the functional connectivity changes in the
      ventral tegmental area as its activity correlates with reward learning and prefrontal cortex
      as the center for executive functions. Depending on the findings of the clinical data
      obtained from the study, different areas of interest will be identified and functional
      associations will be examined. Focused analyzes on areas of interest mentioned above will be
      performed both longitudinally (comparing 0-3 and 12 months of the obese individuals with each
      other) and 3 and 12 months comparisons between healthy controls and obese group. In addition,
      functional changes in the brain will be analyzed in relation to cognitive functions and mood
      changes.

      Biological Analysis: Blood samples obtained will also be used to analyze peripheral
      biological markers that may be risk factors. Metabolic parameters, inflammatory markers, and
      GLP levels will be measured and recorded.

        1. Serum cortisol levels

        2. Serum GLP levels

        3. Ghrelin, leptin

        4. Calculation of HbA1C, glucose, insulin levels and HOMA IR

        5. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels

        6. CRP levels

        7. Inflammatory panel (IL-1, IL-6 and TNF-a levels)

        8. B12, folic acid and ferritin levels

        9. Serum lipid profile (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglyceride)

       10. Liver function tests

      In addition to neuroanatomical and other biomarkers, investigating physicians will monitor
      the general clinical status of the patients and changes such as hypertension and sleep apnea
      will be noted. Nutritionists will also follow diet compliance of the patients. Daily mobility
      and exercise levels will also be assessed. All of these obtained markers will be used both
      longitudinally (0-3 and 12 months of obese individuals compared to each other) and comparison
      to healthy controls at the 0, 3 and 12 months. During the collection of imaging and
      biomarkers data, the control group will be monitored for 12 months as well.

      Aim 5: To determine factors of eating, emotional regulation, reward system, addiction and
      impulsivity, and other psychopathologies that cause suboptimal weight loss or weight gain
      after bariatric surgery.

      Similar to the previous methods, patients will fill in the self-assessment scales and apply
      cognitive tests on the computer via the assistance of Candan Yasemin Eren. The tests to be
      applied in this section will be the scales used to evaluate the environmental and psychiatric
      profile described in method 1, the PENN-CNP battery described in method 2, and the PRT
      batteries in method 3.
    
  