
    
      Participants will meet with the PI or clinical graduate student to discuss components of
      cognitive remediation, expectations, and client goals. Follow-up meetings will occur to
      ensure client satisfaction and determine progress on goal achievement.

      Randomization to ABCR or standard CR will be done in groups of 8 to ensure an adequate number
      of participants in each group. Twenty-four participants will be randomized to each group over
      the course of the study. Several aspects of the treatments are matched for ideal comparison.
      Both groups will meet two times per week, two hours per session, for 8 weeks. The same
      computerized drill and practice, strategic monitoring, and verbal bridging approaches will be
      used in both groups. The primary differences are the ratio of each aspect of treatment and
      the manner in which they are bridged work environment. In the standard CR group 60% of the
      sessions involve computerized drill and practice. In the ABCR group, only 20% of the group
      sessions are devoted to computer drills, whereas 40% involve the simulated work skills that
      are directly linked to those computer tasks (see Figure 1 for an example). The remaining 40%
      of both of the groups involve a didactic component that introduces concepts for that session
      (e.g., memory strategies, how to avoid distractors), review of homework, and group discussion
      of bridging. Strategic monitoring occurs during all aspects of treatment, though in ABCR the
      link between computerized drills and work is made explicit by moving back and forth from
      computer drills to the role-play tasks. Graduate students in a clinical psychology program
      who are trained and supervised by Dr. Bowie will conduct the treatment groups. These students
      will be blind to study hypotheses, though it will not be possible to blind them to the group.
      Video recordings of sessions are regularly reviewed with Dr. Bowie to ensure treatment
      fidelity.

      In both groups, participants are given the opportunity to engage in supplemental homework
      exercises outside of the scheduled treatment groups. Scientific Brain Training Pro will be
      used for computer drills in session and for homework, a program the investigators have used
      in previous studies. The company provides its software for this research at no cost, but has
      no input into the design or output of this study. Due to the online availability of the
      exercises, participants are encouraged to login to the program one or two times per day for
      20 minutes each session. Variability in homework completion is expected (and therefore
      considering it as a treatment process variable and potential mediator of longer-term
      durability and generalization), yet compliance with the sample is anticipated because they
      will be engaged standard vocational services programs four days per week, giving them access
      to an on-site computer room before or after attending their regular appointments.

      Few previous studies have examined work stress as a function of supplemental treatments in
      vocational rehabilitation and to the investigators' knowledge this project will be the first
      to measure both self-reported and psychophysiological indicators of stress.
    
  