
    
      Nowadays, the rate of multiple gestations is increasing considerably due to the prevalence of
      assisted reproductive technology. As physiologic changes from multiple gestations differ from
      singleton pregnancy, multiple gestations are considered a high risk pregnancy. A number of
      complications can occur from prenatal period such as preterm labor and increase rate of
      maternal beta agonist usage e.g. ritodrine, terbutaline and salbutamol. These drugs cause
      maternal tachycardia, hypokalemia and pulmonary edema. Multiple gestations increase rate of
      cesarean delivery and intraoperative complications such as postpartum hemorrhage and
      hysterectomy can be found 3.7 times and 2.3 times respectively higher than that of singleton
      pregnancy.

      Spinal anesthesia is the anesthetic technique of choice for parturients undergoing cesarean
      section, owing to its rapid onset of action, reliability, superior postoperative pain control
      and lower mortality rate than general anesthesia. However, the most important complication is
      maternal hypotension, especially in multiple gestations that may derive from more aortocaval
      compression comparing with singleton pregnancy. Nevertheless, some patients having
      contraindications for regional anesthesia e.g. thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy or pulmonary
      edema make anesthesiologists decide to put these patients under general anesthesia for
      cesarean section. General anesthesia for cesarean section in singleton pregnancy has been
      proved that can cause higher incidence of postpartum hemorrhage and higher rate of blood
      transfusion compared to regional anesthesia.

      Incidence of anesthesia related complications in multiple gestation patients undergoing
      cesarean delivery has not been reported in Thailand. The aim of this study is to identify
      complications that occur which may derived from different anesthetic techniques used, such as
      hypotension, uterine atony, postpartum hemorrhage, rate of hysterectomy, blood transfusion
      and fetal outcome.
    
  