
    
      The aim of the proposed project is to study the long-term impact of adjuvant systemic multi-
      agent chemotherapy (cisplatin, anthracyclines, vincristine, methotrexate, alkylating agents)
      in survivors (treated between 1992 and 2014 in UZ Leuven) of paediatric bone or soft tissue
      sarcomas on neurocognitive functioning using neuropsychological testing in combination with
      advanced Magnetic Resonance (MR) imaging techniques in a cross-sectional design. The majority
      of studies focus on either neuropsychological outcomes or structural imaging. In this project
      we want to combine both methodologies. MR will mainly focus on microstructural changes in
      white matter and differences in brain connectivity, while with our neuropsychological tests
      we will assess a broad range of cognitive functioning. From the obtained MR parameters and
      neuropsychological test results, the proposed study wants to answer the following research
      questions:

        1. Are there subtle differences in neurocognitive function and behavior related to
           chemotherapy exposure for survivors of paediatric bone or soft tissue sarcomas?

        2. Are there differences in morphological/functional MR parameters that could relate to
           subtle cognitive differences in cognitive functioning after chemotherapy exposure? Can
           we detect structural treatment-induced WM injury? Can we see differences in brain neural
           activity/connectivity during rest between the groups?

        3. Is there a correlation between the obtained morphological/functional MR parameters and
           neuropsychological test results?

        4. Is there a correlation between the possible difference in white matter microstructure
           and gender, age at diagnosis and the duration of treatment?

      To answer these questions, we will implement the following measurements:

        -  From the computerized Amsterdam Neuropsychological Tasks (ANT) system we will test
           simple motor reaction time, sustained, focused and divided attention, inhibitory control
           and cognitive flexibility and motor coordination.

        -  Specific verbal-auditory memory and nonverbal, visual-spatial memory functioning will be
           registered by the Children's Memory Scale (CMS) for subjects younger than 16 years and
           with the auditory verbal learning test and the Rey visual design learning test for the
           subjects older than 16 years. Age-adjusted standardized norms are available for each
           test.

        -  The BRIEF (Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function) explores executive
           functioning in school (5-17 years), work (+18 years) and home (5-17 years and +18 years)
           environments.

        -  The assessment of intellectual functioning consists of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale
           for Children (WISC-III) for patients between 6 and 16 years and the Wechsler Adult
           Intelligence (WAIS-III) for adolescents aged 17 years or older.

        -  Quality of life will be investigated by the PEDSQL generic version for young adults .

        -  The Achenbach questionnaires (Child Behavior Checklist, Teacher Report Form, Youth Self
           Report Form, Adult Behavior Checklist, Adult Self Report Form) items for internalizing,
           externalizing, and total problems will be filled out by the parents, teacher or
           relatives and patients themselves.

        -  All participants will complete the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the
           Beck Depression Inventory-II.

      Currently, the neurocognitive follow-up of paediatric bone and brain tumour patients
      (NKP21/22c, National Cancer Plan Onkelinx) as well as children with congenital heart disease
      (IWT-TBM, 3M110068) or treated in a paediatric intensive care unit is also based on this test
      battery. All these tests and questionnaires have been extensively described and used to
      quantify neurocognitive development and Quality of life in various paediatric populations.
      The testing will be performed at least one year after the end of treatment.

      MRI imaging to study the neural substrate of possible neurotoxic effects of
      chemotherapy-treatment Advanced MR neuroimaging techniques in combination with the detailed
      cognitive and behavioral assessment will be used. All subjects will be imaged on the same 3T
      Philips scanner with a 32-channel phased-array head coil, located in the radiology department
      at UZ Leuven. Neuroimaging consists of 3D T1-weighted FLAIR and advanced diffusion weighted-
      imaging (DWI), to examine white matter (WM) microstructure, and resting state functional MRI
      (rfMRI) to visualize neuronal activity of the brain at rest (examination with eyes closed).

        1. DWI - a technique enabling the visualization and characterization of the WM architecture
           via the self-diffusion of water molecules - allows us to study potential
           chemotherapy-induced changes in the WM microstructure. Damage to WM structures - for
           example axonal loss or demyelination - may change quantitative DWI parameters such as
           fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD) and diffusion kurtosis.

        2. rfMRI uses the vascular response nearby electrically active neurons to indirectly
           visualize brain activity and allows us to determine the connectivity between the
           different brain regions at rest.

      The duration of the proposed scan protocol is maximum 45 minutes.

      Statistical analyses Neuropsychological performance Performance on neurocognitive measures of
      the survivors will be compared with an age-matched control group using ANOVA and simple
      contrasts with controls as reference and STAI and BDI scores as covariates. Partial eta
      squared (hp2) will be computed to estimate effect sizes (weak effect: ηp²≈0.03; moderate:
      ηp²≈0.06; large: ηp²≥0.14). Cohen's d will be used for simple contrasts (small effect: 0.2 <
      d < 0.3; medium: 0.3 < d < 0.8; large: d> 0.8). Subsequent analyses are conducted only on
      those neurocognitive measures where survivors demonstrated significantly lower values than
      the age-matched control group. The independent effects of the predictors (treatment group,
      gender, age at treatment, duration of treatment and socioeconomic status) on these
      neuropsychological score will be analyzed with a repeated measures mixed effects regression
      model.

      Imaging State of the art image analysis approaches are applied to process and analyze the
      acquired brain images and to document differences in structural white matter or resting state
      brain activity between the study groups. DTI images will be processed and analyzed using
      explore DTI, in-house developed software and voxel-based statistical analysis. Furthermore,
      performance on neurocognitive measures and differences in FA and MD maps of the survivors
      will be compared with an age and sex-matched control group using ANOVA and simple contrasts
      with controls as reference and STAI and BDI scores as covariates. Seed-based analysis and
      independent component analysis (ICA) will be applied to analyze the resting state fMRI data.
      The association between the obtained MRI parameters and the performance on neurocognitive
      tests will be investigated using (voxel-based) correlation analysis. The independent effects
      of the predictors (treatment group, gender, age at treatment, duration of treatment and
      socioeconomic status) on these neuropsychological and imaging scores will be analyzed with a
      repeated measures mixed effects regression model.

      Sample size and power Study subjects are recruited from the paediatric haemato-oncology
      center in UZLeuven. We expect to recruit 30 patients within the time frame of this project. A
      healthy control group (n=30) matched for age and gender will be included. Demographic
      characteristics such as social economic, school and work status are assessed.

      It is difficult to perform a fundamental power calculation, because little is known about the
      impact of the chemotherapy in bone or soft tissue sarcomas on cognitive functioning so far.
      We expect to recruit 30 survivors of bone or soft tissue sarcoma in childhood. If we take
      these numbers into account and based on a previous studies reporting white matter FA changes
      and cognitive changes in childhood ALL patients who received chemotherapy, we would have a
      power of 98.54% to detect a difference of 1 standard deviation on cognitive tasks (1-tailed,
      α=0.05). For white matter FA changes, we would have a power of 98%.
    
  