
    
      Putting local anesthetic next to a nerve is a common way of decreasing the pain that patients
      feel after surgery. For knee surgery, the local anesthetic is placed next to the femoral
      nerve in the middle of the crease where the leg meets the body when bending at the hip joint.
      However, the local anesthetic takes away not only sensation-and therefore pain-but also motor
      control, leaving muscles weaker. It would greatly improve patient safety if the investigators
      could administer a very long-acting local anesthetic that decreased postoperative pain, but
      affected muscle strength only minimally. The purpose of this study is to define the
      dose-response curve of EXPAREL (also termed SKY0402), an investigational extended-duration
      formulation of the local anesthetic bupivacaine, on both motor and sensory block when applied
      in a fixed volume adjacent to the femoral nerve.

      This investigation will be a Phase 1, prospective, double-masked, human-subjects
      dose-response clinical trial.

      Enrollment. Subjects will be volunteers of both sexes, age 18 and older. If a volunteer meets
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and desires study participation, written, informed consent will
      be obtained. Selection for inclusion will not be based on race or socioeconomic status. The
      study population of interest includes men and women of all races and socioeconomic status.

      Subject preparation. Following written, informed consent, subjects will be admitted to the
      UCSD CTRI and have demographic/morphometric data recorded (e.g., age, weight, height), a
      medical history recorded, and a brief physical examination. Block placement itself may occur
      either in the UCSD CTRI or Hillcrest Outpatient Surgical Center Post Anesthesia Care Unit
      (PACU: this is where regional anesthetics are administered on a regular basis for surgical
      patients). If the blocks are placed in the PACU, subjects will remain there for two hours and
      then moved (accompanied by a physician) on their gurney to the UCSD CTRI where they will
      spend the remainder of the study period. Women of childbearing potential will have a urine
      pregnancy test. Prior to dosing, baseline quadriceps strength and sensory level measurements
      will also be obtained. An intravenous line will be placed in an upper extremity, followed by
      external monitors (pulse oximeter, blood pressure, and EKG), and oxygen by nasal cannula (1-6
      L/min). Sedation will be provided by a combination of one or more of the following, titrated
      to effect: oral valium (10 mg), intravenous fentanyl (50 mcg), and/or intravenous midazolam
      (1 mg). Following sterile preparation with chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl alcohol, and
      once the topical antiseptic is dry, subjects will have bilateral, single-injection,
      ultrasound-guided femoral nerve blocks placed using standard UC San Diego techniques as
      previously published by the current P.I.

      Treatment Group Assignment. The dominant side (left or right) will be randomized to one of
      two treatment groups: the higher or lower concentration of the local anesthetic SKY0402. The
      non-dominant contralateral side will receive the other possible treatment. The volume of each
      and every single-injection femoral nerve block will be 30 mL (standard for femoral nerve
      blocks is 30-40 mL). Since volume will remain constant, we will vary the dose of SKY0402 by
      varying concentration (volume x concentration = dose). Of note, SKY0402 may be mixed with
      normal saline to vary the concentration. Randomization will be based on computer-generated
      codes. Randomization will be in blocks of two.

      Dose Determination. Initial doses of SKY0402 will begin at 0 mg (low: exclusively normal
      saline as the treatment) and 2 mg (high) for the first subject; and 1 mg (low) and 3 mg
      (high) for the second subject. Since the volume of each of the bilateral blocks will be 30
      mL, the first subject's concentrations will be 0 mg / 30 mL (0%) and 2 mg / 30 mL (0.007%);
      while the second subject's concentrations will be 1 mg / 30 mL (0.003%) and 3 mg / 30 mL
      (0.010%). Unmasking of treatments will occur following data collection for each subject to
      allow determination of dosing for subsequent subjects. The subsequent doses will be between
      0-160 mg (0.534%) per side, determined prior to randomization of each subsequent subject. The
      specific subsequent doses will increase, remain the same, or decrease, determined by the P.I.
      in consultation with the manufacturer of SKY0402. Since the dose-response for SKY0402 remains
      unknown for single-injection peripheral nerve blocks, a set "tier" or dose-increase plan
      prior to experience with each subject is impossible. However, the dose will never be
      increased by more than 20 mg for each side. In addition, doses will always remain within the
      range of 0-160 mg (0% - 0.534%) per side, and never exceed a total dose of 160 mg for both
      sides combined. Dose escalation will be stopped and only lower doses will be administered
      subsequently, if either of the following occurs after study drug administration: one subject
      experiences clinically significant motor block persisting more than 7 days or four
      consecutive subjects experience clinically significant motor block persisting more than 5
      days.

      For unsuccessful local anesthetic deposition (defined as local anesthetic that could not be
      deposited immediately adjacent to the femoral nerve as viewed by real-time ultrasound) or
      subject withdrawal from the study, the subjects' data will not be included in the analysis
      and the subject dropped from the study (subjects will always receive compensation for at
      least one night in the CTRI--$400-even if they are discharged the day of block placement due
      to failed deposition). Remaining subjects will remain within the CTRI and within their bed
      until discharged home. Discharge will occur when quadriceps strength has returned to at least
      80% of its baseline value. We consider a difference of less than 20 percentage points to be
      clinically relevant because a 10% side-to-side strength difference is common, yet
      functionally unnoticeable in healthy individuals.4,5 Discharge will occur-at the very
      earliest-24 hours following initial block placement. Therefore, the amount of time subjects
      will spend in the CTRI will depend upon the duration of local anesthetic action, which will
      be variable among subjects and is currently unpredictable without a dose-response curve for
      peripheral nerve blocks using SKY0402. We anticipate the duration of study participation for
      each subject to be approximately 72 hours. Subjects may withdraw from participation at any
      time, and will receive compensation for the time they have participated up until withdrawal
      (subjects who withdraw the day of block placement will receive $400). However, if the
      research coordinator who is responsible for distributing the compensation is not available at
      the time of study withdrawal, then the subject will need to return to the CTRI the following
      day (or following Monday if withdrawal occurs over the weekend) for compensation.

      Outcome Measurements. We have selected measures that have established reliability and
      validity. Staff blinded to treatment group assignment will perform all measures and
      assessments. For all measurements, the dominant side will always be tested first, followed by
      the contralateral side. Measurements will be performed prior to local anesthetic
      administration initiation ("baseline"; Hour 0); as well as specific post-block time points:

      Hour Prior to Hour 0 0 0:10 0:20 0:30 0:40 0:50

      1 1:15 1:30 1:45 2 2:30 3 3:30 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 24 (Day #2) 27-36 48 (Day #3) 51-60 72 (Day #4)
      75-84 96 (Day #5) 99-108 120 (Day #6)

      Primary Outcome Measurement

      Quadriceps femoris muscle strength: Evaluated using a portable isometric force dynamometer to
      measure the maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) in a seated position with the knee
      flexed at 90ยบ. This variable will be presented and analyzed as post / pre x 100. For all
      measurements, subjects will be asked to take 2 sec to come to maximum effort contracting the
      target muscle(s), maintain this effort for 5 sec, and then relax.

      Secondary Outcome Measurement

      Sensory level: Evaluated using transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TES) in the same manner
      as described throughout the anesthesia literature (this is a "gold standard" for regional
      anesthesia studies). After clipping any hair, EKG pads will be positioned 2 cm medial to the
      proximal patella and quadriceps tendon and attached to a nerve stimulator. The current will
      be increased from 0 mA until the subject identifies slight discomfort, at which time the
      current is recorded as the TES value and the nerve stimulator turned off. The secondary end
      point will be the post-administration maximum current (absolute values in mA).

      Safety Assessments Safety assessments will include monitoring of AEs, SAEs, and vital signs
      (heart rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure).
    
  