
    
      Self-management is a fundamental component in arthritis care, however, it is often neglected
      as most models of arthritis care focus on early access to medical consultation and surgical
      interventions. Patient self-management refers to the active participation of patients in a
      variety of activities that contribute to lessening the physical and emotional impact of
      illnesses. There are several factors attributing to a lack of self-management practice, such
      as frustration from managing health on a trial-and-error basis, a lack of knowledge to
      effectively monitor symptoms and disease, and being unsure about how to manage physical
      activities without aggravating symptoms. The variety of risk factors highlight the need for a
      multifaceted approach that provides support in terms of knowledge, skill development and
      timely advice from health professionals, as well as motivational support for patients to be
      engaged in their care and to stay physically active.

      Our primary objective is to assess the efficacy of an e-health intervention, OPERAS, which
      integrates the Arthritis Health Journal and a Physical Activity Counselling program, to
      improve self-management ability. Our secondary objectives are to explore the effect of the
      intervention on disease status and physical activity levels and to assess barriers to
      implementation and sustainability of the e-health intervention in RA management.

      The investigators will use a mixed-methods approach, involving a RCT and in-depth interviews.
      The proof-of-concept study will employ a stepped wedge RCT design, whereby the intervention
      will be sequentially rolled out to participants over a number of time periods. The order in
      which individuals receive the intervention will be determined at random. The strength of this
      design is that it can properly address the efficacy question, while avoiding the dilemma of
      withholding the intervention to some participants, as in a parallel group design.
    
  