
    
      Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a persistent and profoundly impairing mental
      disorder characterized by interpersonal turmoil, severe emotion dysregulation, and
      impulsivity(1). BPD often first manifests in adolescence(2) and even subthreshold levels of
      symptoms are associated with significant psychosocial morbidity(3). Approximately 69% to 80%
      of persons with this condition engage in self-injurious behavior, and as many as 9% die by
      suicide(4-5). Although efficacious treatment approaches have been developed (e.g.,
      Dialectical Behavior Therapy [DBT];6), they are typically expensive, lengthy, and intensive.
      Identifying methods for optimizing BPD treatment and prevention is an urgent public health
      priority.

      Disrupted sleep is closely linked to defining characteristics of BPD such as higher
      sensitivity and reactivity to stress, behavioral impulsivity, interpersonal dysfunction, and
      poor emotion regulation(7). Studies have documented a range of sleep disturbances among BPD
      samples, and demonstrated that sleep problems are not better accounted for by concomitant
      depression or other psychiatric disorders(7-9). Importantly, sleep problems may worsen BPD
      symptom course and chronicity(10-11), heighten risk of suicide(12-13) and self-harm(14), and
      interfere with cognitive processes that are vital to behavioral intervention (e.g., memory
      consolidation, and attentional processes; 15). A greater understanding of sleep disturbance
      in BPD may help enrich treatment protocols, which currently place limited emphasis on sleep
      difficulties(11). Although approaches like Cognitive Behaviour Therapy for insomnia (CBT-I)
      and the Youth version of the Transdiagnostic Sleep and Circadian Intervention (TranS-C-Youth)
      are effective with many populations(16), it is currently unknown whether sleep-focused
      interventions can be tolerated or followed adherently by youth with BPD features (who are
      often extremely dysregulated across affective, interpersonal, and behavioral domains).

      Objectives: 1) To assess transactional relations of sleep, interpersonal stressors, affect,
      impulsive behaviors, and self-harm among youth with BPD features (N = 50); 2) To assess the
      effects of a brief sleep intervention on subsequent sleep quality (primary outcome) and BPD
      symptoms (secondary outcome). This pilot study will establish recruitment feasibility,
      determine the acceptability and efficacy of a sleep-focused intervention among adolescents
      with BPD features, and provide crucial preliminary data to support future grants.

      Methodology. The investigators will use a pre-post intervention design with 2 assessments.
      Changes in BPD symptoms, self-reported sleep quality, and ambulatory monitoring of
      electroencephalogram (EEG) during sleep, will be assessed approximately 30 days
      post-treatment. Two 10-day EMA protocols (one prospective and one post-intervention) will
      provide data for transactional analyses.

      Participants: Adolescents ages 13-18 (N=50) will participate with a parent.

      Recruitment will be conducted through physician and therapist referrals and ethics-approved
      media advertisements and fliers posted in waiting rooms where youth with BPD are likely to be
      treated (e.g., children's hospital), and common community venues (coffee shops, libraries,
      community centers). Interested participants (and a parent) will complete a brief telephone
      screen to determine initial eligibility and schedule two virtual visits.

      Research Protocol:

        1. Phone Screening/Eligibility:

             -  Parental verbal consent for phone screen and Youth verbal assent for phone screen

             -  Brief interview to determine eligibility: McLean Screening Interview

             -  Schedule virtual visit 1 via Zoom over phone, or during email follow-up

        2. Send consent/assent documents via email (forms sent for electronic signature; see
           "Parental Permission and Authorization Document" and "Assent")

           Consent forms are signed/returned electronically.

        3. Baseline Questionnaires:

           - Send parents and youth measures via email for electronic completion:

           Youth questionnaires:

             -  Demographic Questionnaire

             -  The Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale Short Form (DERS-SF)

             -  Adolescent Sleep Hygiene Scale

             -  Borderline Personality Features Scale for Children-11(BPFS-C-11)

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Disturbances SF8

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Related Impairment SF8

             -  Self-Concept and Identity Measure (SCIM)

             -  Adolescent Sleep Wake Scale - 10 item version

             -  Urgency, Premeditation (lack of), Perseverance (lack of), Sensation Seeking,
                Positive Urgency, Impulsive Behavior Scale Short form (UPPS-P)

             -  Items from the Sleep Practices and Attitudes Questionnaire

           Parent-Report (can be completed online post-visit if needed):

             -  Demographic Questionnaire

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Disturbances Parent Proxy SF8

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Practices Parent Proxy

             -  Sleep Disturbance Scale for Children

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Related Impairment Parent Proxy SF4

             -  Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL)

        4. Virtual Visit 1 via Zoom

             -  Pre-visit risk assessment with youth

             -  Interviews:

                  -  The Childhood Interview for Borderline Personality Disorder

                  -  Lifetime Suicide Attempt Self-Injury Interview (L-SASSI)

             -  Schedule Sleep Band pick-up over the phone-participants to pick up on campus or
                coordinate other arrangements, as needed (e.g., mail).

             -  Provide psychoeducation and instructions on wearing sleep band and completing EMA
                protocol

             -  End-of-visit risk assessment with youth

                  -  Participants receive/pick-up sleep band ~

        5. Ecological momentary assessment (EMA) and EEG Protocol 1 (10 days):

             -  EMA assessments will be collected 5 times per day. Upon waking, participants will
                report bed time and wake time for calibration with sleep EEG data

             -  Each daily survey will assess current mood, sleep, and BPD symptoms since the last
                prompt (e.g., perceived emotional control/dyscontrol, emotional lability,
                interpersonal conflict, impulsive behavior, dissociation, self-harm
                urges/behaviors; see attached EMA protocol).

                  -  Research staff will monitor EMA responses each morning.

                  -  When responses during the EMA protocol indicate imminent risk of suicide or
                     self-injury (see EMA protocol for specific rules), the CMHA Ontario's suicide
                     crisis number will automatically display on participants' smart phone, and
                     research staff will immediately receive an automated e-mail. Research staff
                     are able to log into the secure database to view participants' responses, and
                     Dr. Kaufman may contact the participant by telephone for risk assessment and
                     safety planning. Appropriate intervention or follow-up care will be arranged.
                     In cases of immediate safety risk, the research team will define a feasible
                     safety plan with the participant (this may include other members in the
                     participants' network and/or crisis intervention services and emergency care).
                     If child abuse or neglect is disclosed, the alleged abuse will be reported to
                     local child welfare services and provincial/territorial social service
                     ministries. During the consent process, all participants will be informed of
                     limits to confidentiality and our legal obligations to report dangerous
                     situations.

           EMA protocols of similar duration and assessment frequency have been successfully
           conducted with individuals at risk for self-harm with excellent participant compliance
           rates (21-23).

        6. Call participant to schedule sleep band drop-off (on campus)

           ~ Participant returns sleep band ~

        7. Virtual visit 2 via Zoom

             -  Pre-visit risk assessment

             -  Together, youth and parent watch a video providing psychoeducation about sleep

             -  Youth will receive a sleep-focused skills training session with their parent:

                ~A clinical psychology graduate student will complete the following handouts from
                the TranS-C Youth protocol (an established, evidence-based sleep intervention for
                adolescents) in collaboration with the participant and their parent:

                  -  "Case Conceptualization"

                  -  "Improving Your Sleep Summary"

                  -  "Rise-up checklist"

                  -  "Wind-down handout"

                  -  "Stimulus Control"

                  -  "My Sleep Goals"

             -  Participants will be asked to practice the skills they have learned for the
                following month and be provided digital copies of their worksheets to support their
                unique sleep plan.

             -  End-of-visit risk assessment

                  -  2-week period where youth implement and get accustomed to their new sleep plan
                     ~

        8. Call participant to schedule second sleep band pick-up (on campus)

           ~ Participants receive/pick-up sleep band (pick-up within 1 week of call) ~

        9. Post-EMA and EEG Protocol 2 (10 days; 3 weeks post-intervention)

           - EMA assessments will proceed as they did for protocol 1 (i.e., 5 times per day), with
           additional prompts to assess sleep plan/skill usage.

             -  Research staff will monitor EMA responses by examining data each morning.

             -  When responses during the EMA protocol indicate imminent risk of suicide or
                self-injury, the CMHA Ontario's suicide crisis number will automatically display on
                participants' smart phone, and research staff will immediately receive an automated
                e-mail. Research staff are able to log into the secure database to view
                participants' responses, and Dr. Kaufman may contact the participant by telephone
                for risk assessment and safety planning. Appropriate intervention or follow-up care
                will be arranged. In cases of immediate safety risk, the research team will define
                a feasible safety plan that includes other members in the participants' network
                and/or crisis intervention services and emergency care. If child abuse or neglect
                is disclosed, the alleged abuse will be reported to local child welfare services
                and provincial/territorial social service ministries. During the consent process,
                all participants will be informed of limits to confidentiality and our legal
                obligations to report dangerous situations.

       10. Post-test Questionnaires:

           - Send parents and youth measures via email for electronic completion:

           Youth:

             -  DERS-SF

             -  Adolescent Sleep Hygiene Scale

             -  BPFS-C-11

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Disturbances SF8

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Related Impairment SF8

             -  SCIM

             -  Adolescent Sleep Wake Scale - 10 item version

             -  UPPS-P

             -  Items from the Sleep Practices and Attitudes Questionnaire

           Parents:

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Disturbances Parent Proxy SF8

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Practices Parent Proxy

             -  Sleep Disturbance Scale for Children

             -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Related Impairment Parent Proxy SF4 ~Questionnaires need to
                be completed no later than 1 week after 2nd EMA protocol.~

       11. Call participant to schedule sleep band drop-off (on campus) Participant drops-off sleep
           band

       12. Payment given for EMA electronically (emailed) after sleep band is returned undamaged

       13. 1-Month Follow-up

             -  Participants will be emailed questionnaires 1-month following completion of their
                second EMA protocol. Those who complete these questionnaires will be entered to win
                a drawing for a $50 gift card (one for parents and one for teens)

             -  Youth emailed:

                  -  DERS-SF

                  -  Adolescent Sleep Hygiene Scale

                  -  BPFS-C-11

                  -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Disturbances SF8

                  -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Related Impairment SF8

                  -  SCIM

                  -  Adolescent Sleep Wake Scale - 10 item version

             -  Parents emailed:

                  -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Disturbances Parent Proxy SF8

                  -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Practices Parent Proxy

                  -  Sleep Disturbance Scale for Children

                  -  PROMIS Pediatric Sleep Related Impairment Parent Proxy SF4
    
  