
    
      Material and Methods

      Setting: Section of Orthodontics, Department of Dentistry and Oral Health, Aarhus University,
      Denmark and Department of Orthodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Oslo, Norway.

      Sample size: 126 participants are needed for this study.

      Randomization: After oral and written consent is obtained, allocation to groups, either
      conventional multistranded Stainless Steel fixed retainers, or CAD/CAM custom-cut Nickel
      Titanium fixed retainers, will take place at the last appointment before debonding. Subjects
      will be allocated 1:1 into one of the two groups.

      Intervention protocol: After completing a full active orthodontic treatment, at both centers.
      The achieved treatment end result has to be maintained in the long term in order to prevent
      relapse (movement of teeth to the initial malocclusion). One of either two different fixed
      retainers will be bonded (to the upper and lower anterior teeth) by one operator in each
      center.

      This study follows a standard retention protocol procedure carried at both centers and has a
      long term posttreatment follow-up of 5 years. Patients will be recalled for follow-up
      appointments after 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36 and 60 months. At follow-up visits, we will perform
      the following: at 1, and 3 months - a clinical examination. At 6, 12, 24, 36, and 60 months -
      a clinical examination, a digital impression of the teeth known as "an intraoral scan" (Trios
      3, 3Shape, Copenhagen, Denmark) and intraoral photographs. In addition, at 1, 6, and 12
      months patients will be asked to fill out a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) form regarding
      patient satisfaction Furthermore, we will investigate stability by superimposition
      (Orthoanalyzer, 3Shape, Copenhagen, Denmark) together with recording of adverse effects (i.e.
      any changes in torque and/or rotations of the teeth).
    
  