
    
      This monocentric randomized controlled study was designed to test the efficacy and safety of
      injection of CAT for treatment of complex fistula-in ano, not associated with CD . The study
      was conducted at the Second Surgical Unit of the University Hospital of Ferrara, located in
      the North East of Italy. All consecutive patients referred to our clinic with complex anal
      fistula were screened. Patients were enrolled from May 2016 through May 2019.

      Eligible patients were randomly assigned, according to a 1:1 scheme, to receive treatment
      with or without CAT (120 patients totally). The primary endpoint was defined as the
      proportion of patients whose fistula was completely healed within 4 weeks after surgery.
      Fistula healing was defined as the absence of any anal symptom, with no discharge from the
      fistula and a closed external opening confirmed on clinical evaluation. Fistula healing was
      eventually confirmed by a pelvic MRI at 3 months after surgery.Moreover, we analyzed
      postoperative pain measured by Visual Analogue Scale for 2 weeks after surgery to evaluate
      whether CAT injection could modulate pain, and recurrence at 6 months to evaluate the
      long-term efficacy of CAT injection.

      Faecal continence was assessed before surgery and at 6-months follow-up visit using the
      Cleveland Clinical Florida Fecal Incontinence (CCF-FI) questionnaire. Adipose tissue from
      periombelical or lateral abdomen was harvested from these patients by liposuction to prepare
      CAT using Coleman's technique.Complex anal fistulas were treated by conventional surgery.
      Once the seton (present in the most of patients) was removed, after identification of
      internal opening, necrotic and inflamed tissues were excised using a "cone-like" fistulectomy
      or debrided with a wire brush to remove granulation tissue by the help of fistuloscope (VAAFT
      modified, without destroying the fistulous track with monopolar electrode). Before CAT
      injection, the internal opening was treated in two ways: by simply closing it using 2-0
      Vicryl stitches on the muscular and mucosal layers or by performing a mucosal advancement
      rectal flap.

      CAT was injected into the submucosal layer surrounding the internal opening, and around the
      fistula tract wall (in case of VAAFT modified) or inside the perianal wound after
      fistulectomy, using a 1-mL syringe equipped with a 22-gauge and 30-mm length needle, dividing
      injections at all quadrants of fistula wall, or distributing the CAT inside the perianal
      wound, at different levels by using multiple passes from the internal to the external
      openings until there was firm swelling surrounded the fistula tract. The external opening was
      approximated loosely with a suture to allow drainage of the fistula, but not extrusion of the
      centrifuged adipose tissue. The amount of product injected may vary depending on the total
      amount harvested but it should be not less than 10 ml. Patients were assessed for fistula
      healing, pain (VAS) and AEs at 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, three months, and 6 months
      after treatment. Assessment consisted of clinical examination and AEs and VAS registration.
      Pelvic MRI was performed at 3 months after surgery. The Cleveland Clinical Florida Fecal
      Incontinence (CCF-FI) questionnaire was administered before surgery and at 6-months follow-up
      visit. At the final visit patients were also asked about their overall satisfaction with the
      procedure, with ratings from very satisfied to very dissatisfied.
    
  