
    
      Secondary objectives of this study include; (1) Measuring objective response in tumor size
      with treatment, (2) Establishing the safety and tolerability of short term mifepristone
      exposure in early stage breast cancer patients, and (3) Performing exploratory studies of
      expression of related targets following drug exposure.

      Anti-estrogen therapy has been a mainstay of breast cancer treatment for over three decades.
      It is highly effective and has modest toxicity, certainly in comparison to chemotherapy. The
      selective estrogen receptor modulator tamoxifen has the longest history but a number of
      aromatase inhibitors and the anti-estrogen fulvestrant are also in widespread use along with
      ovarian ablation for pre-menopausal women. Given the success of this approach, and the highly
      analogous parallel progesterone signal, it is unfortunate that anti-progesterone therapy has
      not been similarly pursued. Additionally, data from the Woman's Health Initiative trial
      reveal a potentially significant role for progesterone in breast cancer development and
      growth. Healthy postmenopausal women treated with the combination of estrogen and
      progesterone over a 5 year period were 24% more likely to develop invasive breast cancer and
      had larger tumors at diagnosis. Notably this effect was not seen in post-hysterectomy women
      treated with estrogen alone over nearly 7 years. In fact a non-statistically significant
      reduction in breast cancer incidence was observed with estrogen alone.

      The anti-progesterone mifepristone has been found to reduce proliferation in normal breast
      tissue. Even a low dose of mifepristone (50mg every other day for 3 months) demonstrated a
      statistically significant reduction in breast cell proliferation (measured by Ki-67
      immunohistochemistry).

      Higher doses of mifepristone, 200mg daily, have been used in patients with metastatic breast
      cancer for durations of almost 2 years without serious toxicity. Response rates were only 11%
      but no grade 4 or 5 toxicities occurred. Some grade 3 toxicities occurred, including
      lethargy, nausea, vomiting, and skin rash. These rashes resolved with temporary
      discontinuation of drug and did not recur when drug was resumed.

      As a whole these data strongly support research into anti-progesterone therapy for early
      stage breast cancer. To our knowledge this is the first such study.
    
  