
    
      A study to develop practical methods of accurate low radiation absorbed dose measurement in
      patients referred for nuclear medicine scans.

      There is currently very little information on and therefore understanding of the effects of
      exposure to low levels of radiation on patients or radiation workers. Assumptions are largely
      based on evidence from high radiation doses following nuclear incidents which may not be
      applicable to medical procedures. Underestimation of the radiation effects incurs greater
      risk to patients than is currently assumed, while overestimation can prevent more informative
      scans that would be obtained from higher administered activities. This research study answers
      an invitation from the Department of Health Policy research programme to improve our
      understanding of those low radiation dose risks.

      Over 600,000 patients have nuclear medicine scans in the UK each year, presenting an
      opportunity to accurately measure low radiation doses and follow up the effects on a large
      number of patients. This study will develop practical methods to measure accurately the
      radiation doses delivered to patients referred for nuclear medicine positron emission
      tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans.

      Five patients referred for each of 7 diagnostic nuclear medicine procedures will undergo up
      to 7 quantitative PET/SPECT scans and up to 10 whole body radiation retention measurements
      over the course of 1-2 days to enable the absorbed radiation doses to be calculated
      accurately. Analysis of subsets of these measurements will be performed to identify the
      timing and minimum number of measurements necessary for accurate dose estimates.

      The longer term aim is that these methods and results will subsequently be used to inform a
      national epidemiological (epidemiology is the study of factors affecting the health and
      illness of populations) study on the effects of low doses of radiation.
    
  