
    
      Introduction:

      C5 palsy (C5P) is a well-known, although rare complication of cervical spine decompression
      surgery.1,2 In severe forms, C5P causes debilitating upper extremity weakness involving the
      deltoids and/or biceps brachii muscles, ultimately diminishing these patients' quality of
      life.3 Furthermore, about half of patients with C5P present with sensory deficits and/or
      intractable pain in addition to the muscle weakness.5 Fortunately, almost all cases of C5P
      present unilaterally. The deficit is typically quantified and diagnosed using each patient's
      manual muscle test (MMT) score (rating 0-5). The American Medical Association impairment
      rating guide grades the MMT as follows: Grade 0 = no perceptible muscle contraction; Grade 1
      = muscle contraction palpable, but no motion; Grade 2 = motion of the part only with gravity
      reduced; Grade 3 = muscle can hold the part in the test position against gravity alone; Grade
      4 = patient can move the part through the full range of active motion against "some"
      resistance; Grade 5 = patient can move the part through the full active range of motion
      against "full" resistance. C5P is defined as: a reduction of at least 1 in deltoid and/or
      biceps brachii scores compared to preoperative scores, without any deterioration of
      myelopathic symptoms.5

      Although a uniform understanding of the etiology and mechanism of C5P is not yet established,
      certain hypotheses have gained recognition. One prominent hypothesis, called the tethering
      phenomenon, suggests that following decompression, posterior shift of the cord produces
      traction on the nerve root resulting in a nerve root lesion. Other, less agreed upon
      hypotheses include: inadvertent injury to the nerve root during surgery, spinal cord
      ischemia, segmental spinal cord disorder, and reperfusion injury of the spinal cord. As the
      pathogenesis of C5P is uncovered, concerted efforts to minimize the incidence of this
      unfortunate complication have been undertaken.5

      Prophylactic bilateral foraminotomy at the C5 level during cervical decompression surgery has
      been studied recently with the hope that it will minimize the risk of developing a C5 nerve
      root palsy postoperatively.6,7,8 Although the current literature provides some support for
      this claim, there are insufficient data establishing this technique as a proven measure to
      reduce the incidence of C5P. In the present study, we seek to evaluate the effect of
      bilateral foraminotomy on postoperative C5P incidence rates.

      Background:

      Komagata et al.7 performed a retrospective study to investigate preoperative risk factors
      that may cause postoperative C5P. The study included 305 cases of cervical expansive
      laminoplasty performed for spondylotic myelopathy or ossification of the posterior
      longitudinal ligament. No specific risk factors were found to be associated with higher
      incidence of C5P. However, bilateral partial foraminotomy was found to be effective in
      preventing C5P, with C5P occurring in 1 gutter (0.6%) in the foraminotomy group and in 12
      gutters (4.0%) in the non-foraminotomy group (p<0.05).

      Interestingly, preoperative anatomical measurements have been suggested to correlate with
      risk of developing C5P. Lubelski et al.9 performed a retrospective study to determine whether
      postoperative C5P can be predicted from preoperative antero-posterior diameter (APD),
      foraminal diameter (FD), and/or cord-lamina angle (CLA). 98 consecutive patients who
      underwent either anterior or posterior decompression surgery at C4-C5 for spondylotic
      myelopathy were analyzed. It was found that for every 1-mm increase in APD and FD, the odds
      of developing palsy decrease 69% (p<0.01) and decrease 98% (p<0.01), respectively. In
      contrast, for every 1-degree increase in CLA, the odds of developing palsy increase by 43%
      (p<0.01). Furthermore, Lubelski et al. used these three preoperative parameters - APD, FD,
      and CLA - to create a nomogram that predicts the probability that a patient will develop C5
      palsy. This nomogram will be investigated for validity in the current study.

      Preliminary Studies:

      In addition to the study mentioned above, several authors have demonstrated the efficacy of
      prophylactic C5 foraminotomy during laminoplasty to prevent postoperative C5P. Sasai et al.7
      performed the first prospective study using microcervical foraminotomy (MCF) during cervical
      laminoplasty as a prophylactic measure to prevent C5P. MCF was used selectively in patients
      with EMG abnormalities (Group A), and decreased the incidence of postoperative C5P compared
      to a group that did not have EMG studies or MCF performed (Group B). No patients in Group A
      and three patients in Group B experienced postoperative C5P (0% vs. 8.1%; p=0.035). No
      adverse outcomes were reported in this study. Based on these results, the authors suggested
      preexisting subclinical C5 root compression as a cause of C5P after posterior cervical
      decompression for myelopathy.

      In 2012, Katsumi et al.5 performed a prospective, non-randomized study analyzing whether
      bilateral C5 foraminotomy can prevent C5P after open-door laminoplasty. Prophylactic
      bilateral foraminotomy done on 141 consecutive patients was seen to significantly decrease
      the incidence of postoperative C5P compared to a control group (1.4% and 6.4%, respectively;
      p<0.05). These results support the hypothesis that preoperative C5 foraminal stenosis is
      associated with a higher risk of C5P. Furthermore, these findings are consistent with the
      tethering phenomenon hypothesis regarding the pathomechanism of C5P. The only two patients in
      this study who developed C5P after undergoing prophylactic foraminotomy did not receive
      meticulous decompression of the C5 nerve root, leaving residual superior articular process.
      No patients in either group experienced postoperative infection or durotomy. Although the
      average operative time was longer in the foraminotomy group (102 minutes and 129 minutes,
      p<0.01), there was no significant difference in intraoperative blood loss between the two
      groups. In order to better elucidate the true effect of bilateral C5 foraminotomy, the
      procedure must be performed uniformly and randomized to all patients included.

      With the current literature providing some evidence to suggest the efficacy of prophylactic
      bilateral C5 foraminotomies to reduce the incidence of postoperative C5P, there remains a
      need for a randomized, prospective study to investigate foraminotomy as a potentially
      beneficial procedure to all patients undergoing cervical decompression.

      Significance of Proposed Study Bilateral foraminotomy has been correlated with a reduced risk
      of developing C5P following cervical decompression surgery, but an identical foraminotomy
      procedure has never been applied in a randomized manner to all qualifying patients in a
      study.5,6,7 Additionally, prophylactic foraminotomy has only been prospectively studied
      during laminoplasty. In the proposed study, bilateral foraminotomy will be randomized to
      patients receiving cervical decompression surgery (laminoplasty, laminectomy, fusion).
      Subsequently, incidence of C5P as well as other surgical complications will be monitored to
      determine efficacy of prophylactic C5 bilateral foraminotomy during cervical decompression.

      Research Procedures:

      This is a multicenter randomized trial, including the following sites: Cleveland Clinic,
      Columbia University Medical Center, and University of Southern California Spine Center.
      Patients undergoing cervical decompression surgery will be consented and enrolled if they
      meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria detailed above. The EPIC Electronic Medical Record
      database will be queried to retrieve medical records consistent with the study sample and to
      determine all cervical decompression surgeries. Patients' sex, race, date of birth, BMI,
      medical comorbidities, medications, history of spinal trauma or surgical intervention,
      smoking status/ history, spinal levels involved, type of surgery, operating surgeon, length
      of hospital stay, operative time, blood loss, in-hospital complications noted and patient
      complications following surgery will be obtained. Additionally, preoperative anteroposterior
      diameter of the spinal canal at C4-C5, ipsilateral foraminal diameter at C4-C5, and the
      morphological relationship between the spinal cord and the ipsilateral lamina (cord-lamina
      angle) will be obtained. Clinical outcome measures will be analyzed using standard
      statistical methods.

      Intervention:

      In addition to the decompression technique indicated directly for treatment of cervical
      myelopathy, bilateral keyhole foraminotomies will be done prophylactically in an attempt to
      minimize postoperative complications, specifically C5 Palsy. Under microscopic or loop
      magnification, a high-speed burr is used to perform the foraminotomy. The keyhole
      foraminotomy begins at the lamina-facet junction, with careful consideration of the amount of
      facet resection. Typically, only the medial one third is drilled. Then a 1- or 2-mm Kerrison
      punch can be carefully placed over the nerve root and then used to undercut the facet,
      ensuring that the spine is not destabilized by the foraminotomy. The amount of facet
      resection must not exceed 50% in order to preserve spine stability.

      Consent:

      All patients will be enrolled after completion of the attached informed consent form. All
      patients' information in this prospective study will be treated as confidential. This study
      involves no risk to the physician, or OR staff. A cervical foraminotomy is a common, short
      procedure (e.g. 5 minutes) that involves making more room for a cervical nerve root as it
      exits the spinal column. It is a procedure that all surgeons perform routinely, and in no way
      put the patient at risk for spine structural problems. Similarly, it does not impart
      additional measurable risk to the patient of neurological injury or infection over that risk
      already being incurred by the patient for the index procedure. Patients who are under the age
      of 18 will be excluded for previously mentioned scientific reasons. Women and minorities are
      expected to participate proportionally to their numbers diagnosed with cervical myelopathy.
    
  