
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of capecitabine when
           given in combination with pelvic external beam radiotherapy and intracavitary
           brachytherapy in patients with primary or recurrent locally advanced cervical cancer or
           other pelvic malignancy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the clinical anti-tumor response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine adverse clinical sequelae in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of capecitabine.

      Patients undergo external beam radiotherapy to the whole pelvis once daily 5 days a week in
      weeks 1-5 and receive 1 or 2 applications of low-dose rate intracavitary brachytherapy in
      weeks 7-8 OR 5 applications of high-dose rate (HDR)* intracavitary brachytherapy once weekly
      in weeks 4-8. Patients also receive oral capecitabine twice daily 7 days a week in weeks 1-5
      and 7-8. Courses repeat every 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      NOTE: *No external beam radiotherapy is administered on the day of HDR brachytherapy. If the
      majority of external beam radiotherapy has been administered, HDR brachytherapy may be
      administered in 2 applications per week (separated by at least 72 hours) in order to complete
      all treatment by week 8.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of capecitabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. A minimum of 6 patients are treated at the
      MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month, every 3 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 4-24 patients will be accrued for this study within 2-12
      months.
    
  