
    
      According to the findings of epidemiological studies in different countries, osteoporosis
      affects 25-35% of women and 15-20% of men aged 50 and over. In terms of our country in the
      recent nation-epidemiological research on rheumatic diseases in the general adult population,
      ie persons aged 19 and over, organized and conducted by the Greek Institute of Rheumatology
      Research, became a separate study on frequency of osteoporosis in women aged 50 years and
      above. These women was measured BMD at the lumbar spine and at the upper end of the femur and
      found that 28.4% of Greek women aged 50 and over have osteoporosis. It is indeed very
      interesting finding in this study that women who have osteoporosis, the vast majority, ie
      about 75%, I do not know. This is of particular importance and highlights the need to educate
      and inform systematically the public, especially women regarding both the modern
      possibilities for early diagnosis of osteoporosis, and for the implementation of primary and
      secondary prevention.

      Osteoporosis is a major public health problem for two reasons: First, because it is common,
      and secondly because it has significant impact on patients and their families, the health
      system and the national economy.

      The main clinical manifestation of osteoporosis is fractures low energy, ie fractures
      occurring after mild degree injury, eg fall from a standing position. Approximately 40% of
      cases osteoporotic fractures on the vertebrae, 20% in the femoral neck, 20% to 20% radius and
      several other bones. While osteoporosis is generally regarded as a disease of women, however,
      as already mentioned above, osteoporosis affects and men. It has even been found that 30% of
      osteoporotic fractures of the femoral neck and 20% of osteoporotic vertebral fractures occur
      in men.

      The risk of fractures of the hip, vertebrae and radius increases with advancing age in both
      women and men. It has even been estimated that the risk of osteoporotic fracture in women
      aged 50 and over is 40-50% and 15-20% in men.

      The adverse effects of osteoporosis patients and their families, the health system and the
      national economy due to fractures. Indicative only some of these effects:

        -  The mortality in patients with hip fractures and clinically symptomatic vertebral
           fractures is significantly higher than that observed in individuals of the same sex and
           similar age in the general population. For example, within the first year after the
           fracture approximately 20% of patients with hip fracture and 25% of patients with
           vertebral fracture die.

        -  One year after a hip fracture, only 50% of patients can execute without help ordinary
           activities of everyday life.

        -  On an annual basis the number of days of hospitalization for patients with osteoporotic
           fractures is significantly greater than the number of days of hospitalization required
           for patients with stroke or diabetes mellitus or myocardial infarction or breast cancer.

      Moreover, in 2000 the European Union the then 15 Member States (total population of
      379,000,000 people) is estimated to have occurred 3.79 million osteoporotic fractures and
      that the direct costs of these fractures (costs of hospitalization, surgery and medical care)
      was approximately 32 billion Euros.
    
  