
    
      Study design Open-label study Inclusion criteria Elective, adult aortic reconstruction
      involving a hemi-arch replacement at Duke University Medical Center (DUMC).

      Exclusion criteria Concomitant procedures such as Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG) ,
      stents (within the last 3 years), refusal of blood transfusion, recent Myocardial Infarction
      (MI) (within the last 3 months), pregnancy, INR > 1.1, platelet inhibitor drugs within 5 days
      of surgery (aspirin 325 mg within 48 hours of surgery), platelet count < 150,000, age <18
      years, inability to obtain written informed consent, known coagulopathy including a history
      of recent coumadin therapy.

      Primary outcome variable Fibrinogen level Secondary outcome variables Total blood product
      units administered during post op day (POD) 0, 1, 2, 12 and 24 hour chest tube drainage,
      ventilator time, duration of oxygen dependency, renal dysfunction. Adverse events will be
      recorded.

      Study procedure The administration of RiaSTAP is detailed in the flowchart below.

      Projected milestones Based on recent surgical volume and assuming a conservative recruitment
      in the 60-70% range we will plan to complete the study of 22 patients as determined by
      budgetary constraints in a projected 12-month study period.

      We plan to evaluate the protocol after 11 (half of the) patients. Reevaluation and
      modification may include broadening the inclusion criteria and/or altering our transfusion
      protocol depending on the results of the first 11 patients and the projected recruitment
      rate.

      Safety monitoring Adverse events as recorded in the aortic database of historical controls
      will form the basis of the clinical research form (CRF) and are specifically outlined and
      defined below.

      The conduct of anesthesia and surgery will be at the discretion of the attending surgeon and
      anesthesiologist. Following heparin reversal with protamine sulphate and administration of
      30mcg/kg DDAVP and 5g aminocaproic acid as per standard practice for these cases, surgical
      hemorrhage will be excluded by the attending surgeon. The dose of fibrinogen concentrate will
      be administered as described in the Figure. RiaSTAP will only be administered if
      coagulopathic bleeding is observed by the surgeon such that it will be used for the
      treatment, not the prevention of bleeding.

      It is standard practice for the surgeon to report coagulopathic bleeding (as defined by lack
      of visible clot in the wound, soaking of swabs with blood and/or continued aspiration of
      blood into the cell-saver device) before we administer blood products and/or rFVIIa after
      separation from bypass and following administration of protamine to reverse heparin,
      aminocaproic acid to inhibit fibrinolysis and DDAVP to augment platelet function.

      The Food and Drug (FDA) approved dose of 70mg/kg will be used. Following the dosage of
      fibrinogen concentrate subsequent care of the patient will not be governed by the study
      protocol. Specifically, transfusion of blood products are suggested in the flow diagram above
      and transfusion guidelines have been developed by Dr Ian Welsby and Dr Chad Hughes in August
      2009 in response to difficulties managing such cases and both of these will be available for
      use, BUT will only be applied at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist and
      surgeon.

      Proposed laboratory tests in addition to standard of care Time points

        1. Baseline Anesthesia induction

        2. Pre RiaSTAP After separation from cardio pulmonary bypass (CPB), after desired protamine
           given

        3. Post RiaSTAP Ten minutes after RiaSTAP administered

        4. Post op On admission to intensive care unit (ICU)

        5. Post op 24 hours after surgery Plasma Heparin level (to avoid misinterpretation of clot
           based factor assays) Thrombin clot time (as above) Fibrinogen (Clauss method) Clotting
           Factor Levels Endogenous thrombin potential Whole blood Rotational Thromboelastometry
           (ROTEM) including Fibrinogen Test (FIBTEM) but not Lysis Test (APTEM) MEA platelet
           aggregometry (to be provided by CSL Behring)

      20ml of blood will be drawn at each timepoint, total 100ml.
    
  