
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess whether Omr-IgG-am™, an intravenous immunoglobulin
      (IVIg) containing antibodies specific for West Nile virus (WNV), is safe and well-tolerated
      in patients with suspected or laboratory diagnosed WNV disease. An initial estimation of
      efficacy will also be made. This Phase I/II study will enroll hospitalized adults with a
      presumptive diagnosis of West Nile encephalitis and/or myelitis or those with a positive
      laboratory test for diagnosis of WNV infection who are at high risk for progressing to severe
      neurologic disease based on age or immunosuppression. Patients will be randomized in blocks
      of five to receive either Omr-IgGam ™, Polygam® S/D (IVIG containing minimal anti-WNV
      antibodies) or normal saline in a ratio of 3:1:1. Patients and investigators will be blinded
      to treatment assignments. Patients will receive a single intravenous dose of study medication
      or one of two placebos. The study participants will receive 0.5 grams/kg of Omr-IgG-am™ or
      Polygam® S/D or a comparable volume of normal saline. All patients will be followed for
      safety, natural history endpoints, and efficacy. A subset of patients will have
      pharmacokinetic measurements of specific anti-WNV antibodies assessed following treatment.
      The primary endpoints are safety and tolerability following Omr-IgG-am™ administration.
      Secondary endpoints include pharmacokinetics of specific anti-WNV antibodies, mortality in
      confirmed WNV positive patients, and the combination of mortality and functional status at
      three months in both confirmed WNV-infected patients and all patients by intention to treat.
      This combined endpoint will be measured using four standardized measures of cognitive and
      functional status: the Barthel Index; the Modified Rankin Scale; the Glasgow Outcome Score;
      and the Modified Mini-Mental Status Examination. A comparison of outcomes will be made for
      the group receiving Omr-IgG-am™ versus those receiving either placebo, and between the two
      placebo groups. Other secondary endpoints include the proportion of patients in each group
      returning to pre-morbid baseline and each subject's improvement at 3 months as compared to
      that subject's worst (of any previous) evaluation. Natural history endpoints will also be
      assessed. They will include the duration of intensive care unit and hospital stay,
      development and persistence of WNV-specific IgG and IgM antibodies, combined functional score
      and mortality at 3 months between the group with encephalitis and/or myelitis at baseline
      versus the group with a positive WNV test only, outcomes in patients treated late in coma and
      correlation of outcome with time-to-treatment following symptom onset.
    
  