
    
      To identify determinants of recovery from ICUAW and to discover the effects of ICUAW on
      physical function and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after critical illness. This
      phenomenon has become more evident over recent years and still requires extensive research.

      ICUAW is an umbrella term for more specifically polyneuropathy and myopathy. Recent research
      has found that 50% of patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery lose significant muscle
      mass (9.6% in the wasters group) within the first seven days. These patients are receiving
      relatively uncomplicated surgery yet still suffering from muscle breakdown, which cannot be
      described by inactivity alone. The investigators wish to observe ICUAW in a real-life
      context, however, where cases are always severe. ICUAW can lead to a significant increase in
      mortality and morbidity. Risk factors for ICUAW include neuromuscular blocking agents,
      hyperglycaemia, inactivity and sepsis. The correlation between a patient group with severe
      cardiorespiratory failure and patient-centred outcomes during recovery such as functional
      ability and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has been little studied.

      Severe cardiac and respiratory failure can both be supported by a mechanical
      cardio-respiratory support (MCS) including extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO);
      therefore referral for this intervention can be used as a marker of the severest form of
      cardiorespiratory failure. Both conditions are associated with a high incidence of collateral
      multi-organ dysfunction and mortality; as well as long-term morbidity, loss of independence
      and reduced quality of life. Patients with acute cardiac and respiratory failure referred to
      St Bartholomew's hospital for consideration of MCS will be recruited by advice/guidance from
      a personal and professional consultee.

      Rectus femoris cross-sectional area (RFcsa) will be measured by ultrasound during the first
      week of admission and at pre-determined time points. The RFcsa will be correlated with
      indices of muscle strength, physical function and HRQoL. The investigators will also take
      blood and urine samples on arrival and at pre-defined intervals during the patients'
      admission for circulating and respiratory markers of sepsis, oxidative stress and organ
      injury. A muscle biopsy will be taken from the operation field if the patient is centrally
      cannulated when initiating ECMO.

      The primary Objective is to identify determinants of recovery from ICUAW and to discover the
      effects of ICUAW on physical function and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after severe
      cardiorespiratory failure. Specifically, to observe the cross-sectional area of the Rectus
      Femoris (RFcsa) and correlate this with muscle strength and HRQoL during recovery. RFcsa,
      hand-held dynamometry, knee straightening dynamometry, Free Fat Mass Index, standing and
      lying vital capacity, MRC-SS sum score and short physical performance battery (SPPB) will be
      observed. Also, HRQoL will be measured using the reintegration to normal living index (RNLI),
      hospital and anxiety depression score (HADS)and the EQ-5D-5L (EuroQol research foundation).
      Additionally, we have composed a 10 item questionnaire to assess pre-morbid functional
      status. The primary endpoint will be once all these data are gathered and analysed.

      The secondary aim is to understand the molecular and genomic profile of blood samples and the
      histology of the muscle biopsies. The objective will be supported with additional data from
      urine analysis (albumin-creatinine ratio) and vascular endothelial cells. The secondary
      endpoint will be once these data are collected and analysed.
    
  