
    
      This is a randomized, prospective study which will include a total of 200 patients who are
      scheduled to undergo major elective surgery with an anticipated blood loss of ≥ 500 ml. The
      research participants will be randomly assigned to a control group (n=100) that will receive
      the standard of care for intraoperative management by the anesthesia. Minimal resuscitation
      standards include a mean arterial pressure > 65 mm Hg, SpO2 > 90% and evidence of end-organ
      perfusion (i.e. mentation prior to induction of anesthesia, urine output > 20 ml/hr) and
      absence of tachycardia (HR < 100/min). The protocol group (n=100) will, in addition, receive
      further resuscitation to achieve an increased oxygen delivery (DO2) to a targeted of 600
      ml/min/m2. This approach is called goal-directed therapy. This target DO2 will be achieved
      via a treatment algorithm that includes intraoperative volume expansion and/or dobutamine
      infusion, guided by the LiDCO cardiovascular monitoring of stroke volume and cardiac output.
      All patients will also have non-invasive tissue O2 saturation (StO2) monitoring using the
      InSpectra probe on their hand. Patients in the protocol group will be subdivided to 2
      subgroups. Group one subjects will be those patients that are directly admitted to the ICU
      following surgery and group two subjects will be those patients discharged to the PAR and
      then a regular hospital ward. All subjects will continue to receive goal directed therapy for
      as long as they are in the PAR or ICU or until 8 hours of post-operative time has elapsed.
      All participants will be followed daily during their hospital stay to assess the development
      of complications, length of stay and discharge status. All patients will receive phone
      interview at one and 3 months after the surgery to inquire about their quality of life since
      their surgery using the SF36 instrument. The total duration of participant's commitment to
      the study will be 3 months, during which their lab and clinical data will be recorded.
      Statistical analysis of the data will be performed at the conclusion of the study period by
      professional statistician to determine the difference in the outcome and morbidity and
      mortality between the two groups using multiple logistic regression and Cox proportional
      hazard scoring with primary outcome variables being length of stay, total complications, and
      mortality.
    
  