
    
      STUDY PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to collect further data for safety and
      feasibility for the use of the medical device OncoSorb® in clinical routine for the treatment
      of patients with solid metastatic cancer entities who have failed standard therapies.

      MEDICAL DEVICE: The medical device used in this clinical study is the OncoSorb® column. It is
      used with a specially modified Fresenius ART apheresis machine, associated tubing sets and an
      Albuflow plasma filter, also from Fresenius. These components comprise the extracorporeal
      immune apheresis system. The OncoSorb® column was CE certified in April 2008. The OncoSorb®
      device is intended to specifically adsorb three soluble receptors (sTNF-R1, sTNF-R2 and
      sIL-2R α), which are known to inhibit the natural immune response of cancer patients mediated
      via tumor necrosis factor α (TNF- α).

      OBJECTIVES: Primary objective:

      The primary objective is to evaluate the use of OncoSorb® therapy in clinical practice in
      terms of both safety and feasibility. This involves the evaluation of system-immanent issues
      (particularly occurrence of possible catheter infections and suitability of citrate/heparin
      anticoagulation) during the course of the clinical study prior the initiation of a phase II
      study.

      Primary variables:

      Occurrence of

        -  Possible catheter infection

        -  Suitability of citrate/heparin anticoagulation (with clogging of the extracorporeal
           circuit or bleeding as potential consequences)

        -  Adverse events/serious adverse events in general including changes of clinically
           relevant laboratory parameters, changes of vital signs, ECG changes)

      Secondary objectives Evaluation of clinical efficacy as defined as objective response to
      treatment (according to RECIST), progression free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP),
      clinical benefit, quality of life (QoL) and kinetics of soluble receptors.

      Secondary variables:

        -  Objective response rate (ORR) to OncoSorb® therapy, defined as the proportion of
           patients with a confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST at efficacy evaluations I, II and
           III (after monthly Cycles 2, 4 and 6 and continuation until disease progression)

        -  Progression free survival (PFS)

        -  Time to progression (TTP)

        -  Clinical benefit of OncoSorb® therapy (defined as the proportion of patients with
           confirmed CR, PR and stable disease [SD]) in the evaluable patient population

        -  QoL (as assessed by EORTC QLQ-C30 rev. 3.0)

        -  Kinetics of sTNF-R1, sTNF-R2 and sIL-2R α (concentration levels pre-/post-apheresis as
           well as determination of receptor levels during treatments). Soluble receptor levels
           will be measured in the first 3 recruited patients at day 4 to 5 (hourly for the first 3
           hours, every 2 hours for the following 6 hours and every 3 hours until treatment start
           on day 5).

      STUDY POPULATION: A total of 5 evaluable patients will be recruited, aged 18 or older.
      Eligible patients will be identified at the NCT, Department of Medical Oncology or Department
      of Dermatology (Prof. Enk). Patient 5 will be a patient with cutaneous metastatic melanoma.
      One tumor lesion will be biopsied (tumor excision) in order to evaluate the induction of
      apoptosis triggered by TNF-α. The staging examination according to RECIST criteria will be
      conducted at the radiological department of the University of Heidelberg. Patients will
      receive a central venous catheter for the extracorporeal treatment at the site of Prof.
      Quentmeyer (St. Josefskrankenhaus, Heidelberg). The OncoSorb® treatment of the patients with
      OncoSorb® as extracorporeal immune apheresis device will be conducted either at the site of
      Prof. Rohmeiss (ze:ro dialysis center Schwetzingen) or at the site of Prof. Zeier
      (Nierenzentrum Heidelberg). For security reasons the recruitment of patients will be in
      consecutive order for patients 1 and 2: Patient 2 can be recruited only in the case that
      patient 1 has finalized OncoSorb treatments until the end of cycle 2. For the recruitment of
      subsequent patients (patients 3 to 5), no consecutive recruitment is planned. Patient 5 will
      optionally receive another biopsy (tumor excision) on day 5 of week 3 of the second treatment
      cycle to evaluate the biological effect of the OncoSorb treatment with respect to induction
      of apoptosis in response to TNF-α.

      STUDY TREATMENTS: The study will start with a screening visit (day -21 to day 0) after
      obtaining informed consent of the patient. Patients screened for recruitment of patient 5
      must give their consent for a baseline biopsy (tumor excision) and optional for a follow-up
      biopsy (after end of week 3 of cycle 2; tumor excision). Patients, who qualify for
      participation and are willing to participate, will receive in this period a central venous
      catheter for the conduction of the extracorporeal OncoSorb® therapy. During the treatment
      period all patients will receive OncoSorb® treatments consisting of daily immune adsorption
      treatment procedures 5 days per week for 3 weeks, followed by a resting period of one week.
      Due to safety reasons all patients will be hospitalized at the NCT during the first week of
      OncoSorb® treatment. Since currently no information exists about the counterregulation
      kinetics of sTNF-R1, sTNF-R2 and sIL-2Rα upon OnsoSorb® treatment, the collection of
      pharmacokinetic (PK) data is planned for the first 3 recruited patients. Blood samples for PK
      measurements of these patients will be taken between day 4 and 5 of the first treatment cycle
      under hospitalized conditions. PK data will be essential for designing an optimized treatment
      schedule (potential reduction of both frequency and apheresis time) of subsequent patients on
      trial. The schedule of the first 3 patients constitutes a one monthly treatment cycle. For
      the 2 remaining patients of this study the treatment plan will be re-designed according to
      the PK data obtained from the first 3 patients on treatment. The efficacy evaluation will be
      carried out 8 weeks after beginning of treatment. Patients with progression of disease may be
      withdrawn from OncoSorb® treatment. Patients with complete response (CR), partial response
      (PR) or stable disease (SD) will be offered to continue OncoSorb® treatments until disease
      progression. In this case efficacy evaluation (CT scans) will be performed every 8 weeks.
    
  