
    
      Surgical wound complications such as infection, dehiscence, necrotic tissue, surgical
      revision, and poor cosmesis are unfortunately highly prevalent in patients post breast
      reconstruction. In particular, necrosis/ischemia post breast reconstruction because of poor
      blood circulation is highly prevalent and is estimated to be occurring in up to 75% of cases
      leading to excessive scar formation. Some factors such as active smoking or an underlying
      disease such as diabetes and history of radiation therapy could increase the likelihood of
      excessive scar and/or necrosis.

      In most cases surgical wounds are managed with a simple island dressing, wool padding and a
      light retention bandage. It could be argued that such low cost, traditional dressings are
      adequate for most surgical wounds. However, patients with poor tissue blood circulation often
      require modern wound care products that offer additional benefits, in particular among those
      with vascular and poor tissue oxygenation problem. Poor tissue oxygenation and poor skin
      perfusion could lead to surgical wound complications such as wound inflection, tissue
      necrosis, pain, trauma and untimely surgical revision. In particular, the presence of
      non-viable necrotic tissue is significant as it can be responsible for delaying healing,
      prolonging the inflammatory response, mechanically obstructing contraction and impeding
      re-epithelialisation. It also provides a focus for wound infection and surgical revision.

      Even after successful healing, necrotic tissue could still lead to excessive scar formation.
      Many of these scars can be problematic, being aesthetically unpleasant and causing
      discomfort. Blood supply is a significant factor in wound healing, and area of the skin with
      rich supply of vasculature is known to heal with finer scars. Several studies have
      demonstrated that mild hypoxia (lack of transcutaneous oxygen) is present in early scars,
      moderate hypoxia in proliferative scars, and severe hypoxia in regressive scars. Oxygen
      levels then return to normal in mature scars, which is consistent along with the dynamic
      change in microvessel density. Therefore level of transcutaneous oxygen could be a
      determinant factor in formation of excessive scar formation.

      Continuous Diffusion of Oxygen (CDO) is a treatment modality that delivers pure oxygen to
      wounds using the same basic mechanism as breathing, namely direct diffusion into the wound
      from a moist surface. Because impaired blood flow results in impaired oxygen supply to
      incisional wounds, investigators have researched the potential of oxygen saturation, or
      supersaturation, to reinitiate or even accelerate wound healing. Oxygen has been shown to
      result in not only faster wound closure, yet also better strength of repair and higher
      organization of collagen, which in turn can result in lower wound recidivism and better scar
      appearance.

      In this feasibility and proof of concept study, The investigator plan to investigate the
      effects of oxygen on incisional wound repair and scarring after mastectomy and breast
      reconstruction. The investigator will use a device (TransCu O2® Oxygen Delivery System )
      which continuously supplies oxygen to the wound inside the wound dressing. The device the
      investigator used, the TransCu O2 System, (EO2 Concepts®, San Antonio, TX) is small, wearable
      and silent. The system is FDA-approved and CDO therapy has been the subject of a growing body
      of clinical experience and scientific investigations demonstrating good results. The therapy
      is similar in theory to the intermittent application of oxygen through Hyperbaric Oxygen
      (HBO) and Topical Oxygen (TO), with a few key differences summarizing in the following:

      1) CDO provides continuous therapy, providing ~twenty-fold longer time of oxygen delivery
      versus intermittent therapies that are only applied 90 minutes a day. 2) CDO allows for full
      patient mobility during treatment, thereby reducing the risk of non-compliance and reducing
      overall costs

      The investigator have successfully used CDO therapy to reduce likelihood of tissue necrosis
      after surgical closure post lower extremity amputation as well as post parathyroid surgery,
      in which over 20 subjects were recruited and no adverse outcomes were reported. The
      investigator plan to extend our study to determine whether CDO therapy would show decreased
      healing time and better scar cosmesis early on for standardized incisional wounds such as
      breast reconstruction. The investigator hypothesis that using CDO will reduce the likelihood
      of necrotic tissue as well as severe incisional scar post-surgical closure by improving
      transcutaneous oxygen levels during wound healing process. The investigator will examine the
      validity of this hypothesis using a pilot randomized controlled trial using a convenient
      sample of 40 people (20 subjects per arm) after mastectomy and breast reconstruction surgery.
    
  