
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS. Although evidence-based psychosocial interventions (EBPIs) are a preferred
      treatment option by vulnerable populations, they are rarely available in community primary
      care settings and when available, are often delivered with poor fidelity. High quality
      delivery of evidence-based psychosocial interventions (EBPIs) in primary care medicine is a
      function of many variables, including clinician training and usability of the intervention.
      Several studies find that for EBPIs to be delivered with sustained quality, on-going
      supervision and guidance is critical (this study's focus). While the availability of
      clinicians trained in EBPIs is scarce, the availability to supervisors trained in EBPIs is
      even more limited. Given the ubiquity of electronic health records, automated decision
      support tools and feedback systems have been found to be effective in supporting sustained
      quality EBPIs7, but in practice have had mixed success on outcomes such that they may
      actually hinder clinical care and are often ignored by clinicians.In a report by the Agency
      for Healthcare Research and Quality, a significant barrier to the use of decision support
      tools is that these tools have not been developed with input from the clinician or in
      consideration of their work environment. Using the Center's Discover, Design, Build, Test
      (DDBT) framework, we will work with clinicians from 13 Behavioral Health Integration Program
      (BHIP) sites to create a clinical decision tool that addresses the common decisional dilemmas
      clinicians face when implementing EBPIs. We hypothesize that creating tools to support EBPIs
      will result in improved clinician competency and sustained skill (target) to EBPIs, compared
      to clinicians without these supports, resulting in better patient outcomes . The specific
      aims of this study are: Aim 1: Discover Phase (6 months). Using Participant Action research
      (PAR) informed user-centered design methods we will interview clinicians in primary care
      about challenges they face in the delivery of two EBPIs, Behavioral Activation and Problem
      Solving Treatment, observe them delivering these EBPIs, and receiving feedback on cases from
      experts in these EBPIs. This process will help us to identify the common decisional dilemma's
      clinician's face in delivering EBPIs, their preferences for expert guidance strategies, and
      how decision support tools could be embedded into clinic workflow to reduce obstacles and
      enhance the delivery of EBPIs.

      Aim 2: Design/Build Phase (6 months). Based on information obtained in the discover phase, we
      will engage in a rapid cycle iterative prototype development and testing of decision support
      tools to support PST-PC will be carried out using user-centered design (UCD). The build of
      these tools will include the development of prototypes for user testing and refinement with
      input from care managers across the 13 BHIP sites. Contribution to the Center. Data from this
      phase will be used to inform the Matrix of EBPI Modifications.

      Aim 3: Test Phase (18 months) In the second to third year of the proposed project we will
      test the decision support tools in a small pilot trial with six providers and thirty patients
      randomized to the use of the decision support tools. H1: Clinicians with access to decision
      tools will report better acceptability, usability, and less burden when using BA and PST-PC
      than clinicians without the tools . H2: Clinicians randomized to decision support tools will
      more competently deliver EBPI elements than clinicians randomized to unsupported EBPI. H3:
      Patients treated by clinicians with access to decision tools will have better
      patient-reported outcomes than patients treated by clinicians without access to these tools
      as assessed with functional disability and change in depression symptoms over time .
    
  