
    
      With the progress of aging society, elderly patients with intertrochanteric fractures were
      occurred more and more. The best recommend treatment is surgical treatment of intramedullary
      fixation. However, existing methods of intramedullary fixation could not be restored the
      integrated interior support, and it will occur early hip varus. Meanwhile, the varus
      deformity will no longer develop if the two ends contact with wach other. This new
      intramedullary fixation device can overcome the existing shortage of intramedullary fixation
      devices and supporting the inside of the problem. It can prompting the fracture site to
      obtain a stronger initial stability, improve fracture healing rate, reduce the incidence of
      varus and allow patients with early weight-bearing walking.

      This new type of intramedullary fixation of intertrochanteric fractures of devices, including
      a proximal femoral anatomy and adapt to proximal femoral nail, proximal femoral nail through
      the femoral head and distal femur compression screw locking screw, its main features are:

        1. The proximal femoral nail was made from titanium, its proximal part is narrow inside and
           wide outside structure. It looks like a trapezoidal in cross-section. This device was
           matched with the anatomy of proximal femur and its mechanical reliability.

        2. The tip of compression screw was designed thread. It can come through the intramedullary
           nail, produce slide and sustained pressure.

        3. The femoral support screw was made in cylindrical, had a blunt rounded tip. The tip of
           the femoral support screw was tabling with the groove of compression screw. This design
           can support interior mechanical stability. At the same time, the support screw from the
           femoral head and neck compression screw can slide fine-tuning, so it has a direct offset
           against varus and femoral neck rotating shift to prevent secondary loss of fracture
           reduction. The screw in the femoral head also can prevent cutting occurs.

        4. This device can be used in minimally invasive approach of percutaneous and implanted in
           body. Reduce reduction time, fracture interference and help the natural healing of
           fractures.
    
  