
    
      This is a Phase I/II clinical trial.

        -  A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also
           tries to define the appropriate dose(s) of the investigational intervention to use for
           further studies.

        -  Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational
           intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease.

        -  "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

             -  In this research study, the investigators are investigating the combination of two
                study drugs: alectinib and bevacizumab. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug
                Administration) has not approved alectinib as a treatment for any disease.

      It has been found that some people with NSCLC have a change (mutation) in a certain gene
      called the anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase (ALK) gene. This mutated gene helps
      cancer cells grow.

      -- Alectinib belongs to a class of drugs designed to inhibit ALK. This drug has been used in
      other research studies. Information from those other research studies suggests that alectinib
      may be effective in killing cancer cells that have changes in ALK. Only participants with
      changes in the ALK gene will be allowed to participate in this study.

      In this research study, Alectinib will be combined with Bevacizumab.

      -- Bevacizumab (also called Avastin) works by slowing or stopping the growth of cells in
      cancer tumors by decreasing the blood supply of the tumors. If blood supply is decreased,
      oxygen and nutrients that are needed for tumor growth are decreased. The FDA has approved
      Bevacizumab as a treatment option for your disease

      The purpose of this study is to test the safety of Alectinib and Bevacizumab. The
      investigators will also determine how effective this combination is in participants with
      advanced, ALK-positive NSCLC with a focus on participants with brain metastases.
    
  