
    
      Measurement of the cardiac output is one of the important hemodynamic monitoring tools in
      cardiac surgery. It helps determine the type of medications needed to maintain optimal
      hemodynamic status in the entire perioperative period. Thermodilution method using pulmonary
      artery catheter is considered has the gold standard for the measurement of cardiac output,
      however over the past 10 to 15 years it has been questioned about its safety and efficacy.
      There has been a surge in recent years of less invasive devices capable of measuring cardiac
      output by various means, including bioimpedance, transpulmonary thermodilution, transthoracic
      and transesophageal echocardiography, and arterial waveform analysis.

      There is a variety of devices currently available for cardiac output measurement by
      arterial-waveform analysis. These devices have been compared to each other, and to the
      pulmonary artery catheter as the gold standard. However, the companies manufacturing these
      devices have made software upgrades that they believe improves their performance. No studies
      have been performed comparing the uncalibrated arterial waveform based cardiac output
      measurement device,LiDCORapid since the software upgrades. In addition to baseline cardiac
      output measurements, Investigators intend to study the effect of volume loading (by
      trendelenburg position), sympathetic stimulus (incision), a vasodilated state (15 minutes
      after separation from CPB) and chest closure on cardiac output measured by the three
      different techniques.

      In addition to cardiac output the investigators would like to measure stroke volume ,Systemic
      Vascular Resistance, stroke volume variation with LiDCO . The main purpose is to validate the
      accuracy of measurements by these two minimally-invasive methods in comparison with
      thermodilution method in various hemodynamic states.
    
  