
    
      Organ transplantation is a common procedure in hospitals, but organ rejection and serious
      side effects are potential problems for the patient. Alemtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody
      that binds to and depletes excess T cells in the bone marrow of leukemia patients. In this
      study, alemtuzumab will destroy the recipient's white blood cells (WBCs) at the time of
      transplantation. It is hoped that WBCs produced after alemtuzumab administration will
      recognize the transplanted liver as "self" and not reject the new liver.

      Drugs that suppress the immune system, such as tacrolimus, have contributed to increased
      success of transplantation. However, to prevent organ rejection, transplant recipients need
      to take immunosuppressive drugs for the rest of their lives, and these drugs make patients
      more susceptible to infection, endangering their health and survival. Regimens that are less
      toxic to or can eventually be withdrawn from transplant recipients are needed. This study
      will evaluate the effects of two in-patient doses of alemtuzumab followed by maintenance
      antirejection medication given to liver transplant patients post-transplant. This study will
      also determine if post-transplant tacrolimus therapy can be slowly and safely tapered off and
      withdrawn a year after transplant. Participants in this study will be patients with end-stage
      liver disease who will undergo liver transplantation at the start of the study.

      This study will last at least 2 years. Patients will undergo liver transplantation at the
      start of the study on Day 0. Patients will receive in-patient infusions of alemtuzumab on
      Days 0 and 4. Starting on Day 1, patients will receive oral cyclosporine, mycophenolate
      mofetil, and/or tacrolimus daily. Patients will be hospitalized for at least 1 week after
      transplantation. Because of suppression of patients' immune systems by alemtuzumab and these
      other immunosuppressants, they will also receive prophylactic medications for a minimum of 3
      months after transplantation to prevent opportunistic infections.

      There will be at least eight study visits; they will occur at Days 4, 7, and 14 and at Months
      1, 3, 6, 9, and 12. Patients will have liver biopsies at Day 0 and Months 6 and 12. At Month
      12, participants will have assessments and blood tests to determine if they meet certain
      criteria and are eligible to undergo tacrolimus tapering. Patients eligible for tapering will
      undergo a 12-month gradual withdrawal of tacrolimus; they will be followed for an additional
      2 years, with study visits at Months 18, 24, 30, and 36. Patients ineligible for tacrolimus
      tapering will continue taking their antirejection medication for the duration of the study;
      they will be followed for an additional year, with study visits at Months 18 and 24.
    
  