
    
      Anxiety disorders affect 50-80% of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and are
      associated with significant life impairment and worsening trajectory without treatment. The
      most effective psychotherapy for anxiety in youth with and without ASD is cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT), but many families are not able to access CBT due to the cost,
      practicalities of attending treatment sessions, and limited availability of trained
      therapists. Alternative models of service delivery are greatly needed, with particular
      promise of parent-led therapist-assisted (PLTA) models and telehealth delivery formats.
      Parents may benefit from additional information regarding how to optimize the delivery of CBT
      for youths with ASD given the potential impact of ASD symptomology on core CBT skills. Thus,
      this project aims to improve access to anxiety-focused Parent-Led Therapist-Assisted CBT for
      parents of youth with ASD. Parent-led low-intensity treatment models can improve
      accessibility, efficiency, and mental health treatment cost. Lower intensity treatment models
      provide a treatment option that is less costly and burdensome for parents; it is understood
      that some individuals will respond to the first step and others will require additional
      treatment to achieve anxiety reduction. However, understanding how many families, and which
      families, can benefit from a lower intensity model has dramatic benefits for improving
      access, allocating more intensive services for those most in need, and reducing barriers
      (e.g., distance). Thus, this study will examine the effectiveness of two anxiety-focused PTLA
      CBT telehealth models: 1) low-intensity therapist assistance (LTA) and 2) standard therapist
      assistance (STA). Overall, this study will provide important information regarding the
      potential benefits of two different approaches to parent-led interventions for youth with ASD
      and anxiety when delivered via telehealth.
    
  