
    
      This study aims to evaluate the cost effectiveness of Alvimopan as rescue therapy in patients
      undergoing colorectal or small bowel resection who develop POI, and its safety and
      effectiveness in reducing LOS and POI duration.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of alvimopan as rescue therapy in patients
      undergoing colorectal and small bowel resection surgery who develop POI can shorten their
      duration of POI and hospital length of stay.

      Objectives:

      To perform a prospective RCT to evaluate the effect of alvimopan as rescue therapy compared
      to standard of care in reducing the duration of post-operative ileus and post-operative LOS
      after colorectal and small bowel resection surgery.

      Protocol:

      This will be a prospective randomized control trial with a total of 58 patients, 29 in each
      group. Patients who undergo laparoscopic or open colorectal resection, small bowel resection,
      or ileostomy reversal with small bowel resection that subsequently develop postoperative
      ileus will be eligible for enrollment. If they meet inclusion/exclusion criteria, they will
      be randomized at the time of diagnosis of postoperative ileus to receive Alvimopan as rescue
      therapy or to receive conservative standard care.

      At the time of diagnosis of postoperative ileus and after enrollment and randomization, all
      patients will be returned to NPO status. Nasogastric tubes (NGT) may be placed for gastric
      decompression at the discretion of the surgical team if clinically indicated. In the event
      that an NGT is placed, medications will be given orally or via the NGT, which will be clamped
      for 30 minutes after administration. Patients will continue on standard ERAS pathways with
      the exception of reduction of diet. Antiemetics will be given as clinically indicated;
      however, no prokinetic or promotility agents will be given as scheduled dosages.

      Patients randomized to the study group will be given a maximum of 3 doses of Alvimopan 12mg
      orally, 12 hours apart. Alvimopan will be given from the time of diagnosis of postoperative
      ileus to the time of return of bowel function or the maximum 3 doses. Subsequent Alvimopan
      doses will be given if there is no return of bowel function or if symptoms of distension
      and/or nausea persist despite some return of bowel function.

      All patients will follow a standard ERAS pathway after surgery, with early feeding and
      ambulation, along with opioid minimizing measures as is our standard postoperative protocol.

      The patient and surgical team will be able to know which arm of the study the patient is in
      based on documentation in the medical record of the administration of Alvimopan.

      Standard discharge criteria will be applied to all patients, including: Passage of stool,
      Ability to tolerate solid food and to drink comfortably, Adequate oral analgesia, Patient's
      willingness to be discharged.
    
  