
    
      The FORECAST Study is an observational cohort study looking at two cohorts of patients
      presenting with COVID-19: a general public cohort, aiming to investigate if new loss or
      reduced sense of smell and/or taste are early signs of COVID-19 and a hospital cohort, which
      will investigate if taste/smell changes can predict the clinical course of a COVID-19
      infection.

      The main of objective of this study is to investigate whether loss/or reduced sense of smell
      and/or taste in the absence of fever and/or persistent cough are indicative of Coronavirus
      Infectious disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection. In addition, the study aims to investigate
      whether loss/or reduced sense of smell and/or taste precede the development of fever and
      persistent cough in people with COVID-19 infection and also whether loss of/reduced sense of
      smell and/or taste changes can be used to predict the clinical course of the disease.

      General public FORECAST: Participants over the age of 18 will be sent a text message invite
      through participating GP practices' patient messaging systems. This will direct participants
      to a website (hosted by Dendrite Clinical Systems) where study subjects will find the
      participant information sheet, screening checks and consent form. Enrolled participants will
      complete an online questionnaire containing questions about smell and taste changes, as well
      as other symptoms of COVID-19. Participants will then be sent a near-patient rapid antibody
      test kit for COVID-19 to be undertaken only under medical supervision. Participants will be
      booked for a video conference appointment with either a doctor or nurse and the screening
      test will be performed under medical supervision. The outcome of the test will be documented,
      discussed with the patient and appropriate advice given. Four weeks after completing the
      first questionnaire participant will be sent an email and / or text message asking them to
      complete a second questionnaire.

      This second questionnaire will contain questions about resolution of smell/taste symptoms and
      other symptoms of COVID-19. In case COVID-19 positive patients are subsequently admitted to
      hospital as a result of COVID-19, consent will be obtained to collect information on the
      outcome of the admission from discharge letter via GP. The data obtained will be analysed to
      determine if smell/taste symptoms alone are indicative of COVID-19 infection, whether
      smell/taste symptoms are early symptoms fo COVID-19 infection and whether smell/taste changes
      can be used to predict the clinical course of COVID-19 disease.

      Hospital FORECAST: clinical records of patients admitted to University College London
      Hospital (UCLH) and the Whittington Hospital as a result of COVID-19 will be reviewed. The
      clinical notes of COVID-19 positive patients where absence or presence of smell/taste changes
      have been documented will be selected for review. Anonymised clinical data will be collected
      about symptoms on admission, the course of illness and outcomes. The study primary outcome
      will be to compare case fatility rate in COVID-19 postivite with documented history of
      loss/reduced sense of smell and/or taste compared to COVID-19 postive with documented history
      of no loss/reduced sense of smell and/or taste. The study will investigate whether
      loss/reduced sense of smell and/or taste can predict the course of illness and outcomes in
      COVID-19.
    
  