
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the efficacy of the selected IP chemotherapy regimen (Arm 3: IV paclitaxel
           and IP carboplatin plus day 8 IP paclitaxel) versus IV carboplatin plus paclitaxel (Arm
           1) in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer optimally debulked at surgery following
           neoadjuvant intravenous chemotherapy. Nine month progressive rate post randomization is
           the primary endpoint for assessment of efficacy.

      Secondary

        -  To compare IP plus IV chemotherapy versus IV carboplatin plus paclitaxel with respect to
           progression free survival and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to cooperative group,
      residual disease (observable [e.g., macroscopic] disease that is evident at end of delayed
      primary debulking surgery vs no evidence of observable disease at end of delayed primary
      debulking surgery), reason for delayed primary debulking surgery at initial diagnosis
      (nonresectable disease vs other reasons), and timing of intraperitoneal catheter insertion
      (intra-operative catheter insertion vs post-operative insertion).

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

             -  ARM 1: Paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 intravenous day 1 plus Carboplatin AUC 5 if measured
                GFR or AUC6 if estimated GFR intravenous day 1; Paclitaxel 60 mg/m2 intravenous day
                8. Cycles given Q 21 days x 3 cycles

             -  ARM 2: Paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 intravenous day 1 plus Cisplatin 75 mg/m2
                intraperitoneal day 1; Paclitaxel 60 mg/m2 intraperitoneal day 8. Cycles given Q 21
                days x 3 cycles (Phase II cisplatin arm closed to accrual on 2014-Feb-03)

             -  ARM 3: Paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 intravenous day 1 plus Carboplatin AUC 5 if measured
                GFR or AUC6 if estimated GFR intraperitoneal day 1; Paclitaxel 60 mg/m2
                intraperitoneal day 8. Cycles given Q 21 days x 3 cycles.

      Patients also receive carboplatin IP on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Expanded Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in phase II, arm I.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive paclitaxel and cisplatin as in phase II, arm II or
                paclitaxel and carboplatin as in phase II, arm III.

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaires EORTC QLQ-C30, ovarian cancer module (EORTC
      QLQ-OV28), and FACT/GOG-Ntx at baseline, on day 1 of courses 2 and 3, at 3, 6 and 12 months
      after completion of study treatment, and then annually until disease progression, death, or
      initiation of second-line therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 weeks, every 3 months for 2
      years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually until progression, death, or initiation
      of second-line therapy.
    
  