
    
      The study is divided into 3 parts:

        -  Screening phase: Patients will be recruited at the investigational clinical centers.
           Alternatively, patients who had primary PCI performed at institutions different from the
           investigational sites can also be enrolled. Interested patients may be referred for
           screening to any of the participating study sites after acute reperfusion therapy.
           Informed consent and assessment of eligibility of patients with respect to in- and
           exclusion criteria will be done at the investigational site. If all other eligibility
           criteria are met, echocardiography will be performed 3 to 6 days after the acute PCI,
           and ejection fraction will be quantified by a central Echo Core Lab after web based
           transmission. CT examination will be performed 1 month after acute PCI in all screened
           patients with LVEF ≤ 45%. If LVEF will not improve ≥5% in the CT the patient may be
           qualified into the Study.

        -  Treatment phase: Bone marrow aspiration will be performed for the patients assigned to
           the treatment group (II). Bone marrow will be collected from the patient and MNC
           isolated using point-of-care system (Harvest) at a Site. Intracoronary infusion of
           BM-MNCs will be performed up to 2 hours after isolation via radial approach. Same
           procedure will be performed 3 and 6 months after first application.

        -  Follow-up phase: After hospital discharge, patients will be followed up per telephone 30
           days and 3, 6, 9 months after randomisation and with a site visit with CT examination 12
           months after randomisation. Afterwards, telephone follow up will be performed every 3
           months. Once the required number of clinical events has been observed, all patients will
           attend a final study visit, but minimum follow up period for each patient is 2 years.
           Endpoints will be reported as occurring throughout the follow up.
    
  