
    
      Bacterial resistance to antimicrobial drugs is a major public health problem. Of greatest
      concern is the rapid emergence and dissemination of resistance to third generation
      cephalosporins in Enterobacteriaceae, especially Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae.
      This is frequently seen in association with resistance to other classes of antibiotics
      leading to a multidrug resistance (MDR) profile. These MDR isolates are often involved in
      complicated urinary tract infection (cUTI), and are associated with poor clinical outcomes.
      In addition, in the last decade there has been an emergence of carbapenemase-producing
      Enterobacteriaceae, which are also resistant to other antibiotics than carbapenems, leaving
      few therapeutic options.

      The overall aim of this study is to provide information about the epidemiology, clinical
      management and outcome of patients hospitalised with cUTI, including pyelonephritis. To
      achieve this aim, the investigators will perform a multicentre retrospective observational
      study in patients with hospitalised cUTI. The study will be conducted in several European
      countries plus Israel, which have a high prevalence of MDR Gram-negative bacteria (GNB),
      including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The study will seek to identify possible modifiable risk
      factors for treatment failure, especially those related to antibiotic therapy.

      On completion of this study, the investigators will develop a better understanding of the
      clinical management of hospitalised patients with cUTI due to MDR GNB in European countries.
      The investigators will identify the modifiable risk factors for treatment failure. This
      information will be used to inform better clinical and antibiotic management of cUTI to
      improve patient outcomes. The study will also be used in the development of hypothesis for
      future randomised controlled trials in cUTI with new antibiotics. Dissemination of results
      will take place through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
    
  