
    
      This is a Phase 2 single-arm study to assess the efficacy of perampanel as an adjunctive
      anti-epileptic drug (AED) in patients with primary glioma that are presenting refractory
      partial onset seizure activity (defined as 3 or more seizures in a 28-day period). In this
      study, patients will be started on a dose of 2 mg of perampanel daily taken orally at bedtime
      for 2 weeks. At the start of week 3 perampanel will be titrated up in dose in 2mg increments
      per week up to 8mg daily, as long as it is well tolerated by the patient. The highest dose of
      perampanel will be 8 mg orally at bedtime. Once this is achieved, patients will remain on a
      maintenance dose of 8 mg for 12 more weeks. The planned treatment dose is 8mg, but the dose
      can be modified by the physician based on patient reported tolerability. Titration and taper
      periods will be determined by the physician in the case where patients do not reach the
      planned treatment dose of 8 mg daily. Patients will be assessed in the Brain Tumor Center
      Clinic every 8 weeks. Study assessments will be made at enrollment, 8 weeks, 16 weeks, and 24
      weeks. Assessments will include history and physical examination (H&P) including Karnofsky
      Performance Status (KPS), neurological examination, evaluation of seizure history,
      patient-reported outcomes of QoL, and computer based neurocognitive testing. After a total of
      16 weeks of therapy, perampanel will be tapered for 3 weeks and then will be discontinued,
      such that Week 20 patients will no longer be taking perampanel. Patients will then be
      monitored through Week 24. Patients will continue to take their original AED regimen after
      they stop perampanel. Patients will remain on their original AED regimen during this
      treatment time and the dose of their original AED regimen at the start of the study will not
      be changed while they are on study. If seizure control is achieved during the maintenance
      period or if seizures occur during the tapering period, patients can be continued on
      perampanel per the discretion of the treating physician. In this instance, perampanel will be
      prescribed by the treating physician and not provided within the confines of the study.
      Efficacy will be assessed using a log of patient-reported seizure activity. As is standard
      procedure at the PRTBTC, patients will be given a log to record the number of seizures that
      occur. Research team members will regularly contact patients for reminders and reports from
      the log. Safety will be assessed with the following laboratory evaluations: complete blood
      count (CBC) with differential, complete metabolic panel (CMP), and toxicity assessment.

      This study has been designed with 90% power to detect an increase in the 50% responder rate
      during the maintenance period from a benchmark of 20% to 35%. Assuming a type I error rate of
      0.1, 61 patients will be required. Based on prior studies the early discontinuation rate was
      16%, therefore 71 patients will be enrolled to compensate for patients discontinuing prior to
      the completion of the maintenance period.
    
  