
    
      The purpose of this pilot project is to develop and evaluate a recovery-oriented counselling
      group to support the physical, emotional, and social recovery processes of critical care
      survivors who access the services of the Calgary ICU Recovery Clinics. Upon discharge,
      critical care survivors are faced with challenges related to their stay in the Intensive Care
      Unit (ICU), as well as long-term recovery from critical illness. These challenges impact
      survivors' physical, emotional, social recovery processes, which reduce quality of life,
      delay (re)integration into their communities, and cause further health problems. Social
      support and counselling groups show therapeutic promise in supporting recovery processes by
      increasing social connection, quality of life, acquisition of skills, and emotional and
      psychological wellbeing.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate a recovery-oriented group counselling program for
      post-discharged critical illness survivors and their caregivers. The investigators will
      utilize Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration's (SAMHSA) evidence-based
      recovery curriculum to develop a counsellor-facilitated recovery-oriented group for patients
      and caregivers focusing on peer support, relationships, evidence-based strategies, daily
      life, purpose and meaning-making, strengths, and resilience.

      The research objectives are:

        -  Implement a recovery-oriented counselling group for ICU Recovery Clinic patients and
           their caregivers.

        -  Evaluate the recovery-oriented counselling group as situated within the Calgary ICU
           Recovery Clinic.

      The investigators will utilize a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) design (non-clinical
      trial). Participants will be randomized into a treatment (intervention) or wait-list control
      group. Participants in the wait-list control group will be offered the intervention after the
      treatment group has completed the intervention group. The investigators will evaluate the
      intervention through the use of outcomes measures currently used by the ICU Recovery Clinic
      in a pre-test (t0), immediate post-test (t1), 3-month (t2), and 6-month (t3) follow-ups. In
      addition, the investigators will conduct a process evaluation of the intervention via content
      analysis of audio recorded data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with
      participants. Patients and caregivers will participate in separate focus groups.
    
  