
    
      PURPOSE The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of treating ruptured Achilles
      tendon with autologous platelet rich plasma. The investigators plan to compare the outcome of
      traditional methods of immobilisation in a cast with the outcome of the same methods after
      applying platelet rich plasma to the ruptured tendon.

      Spontaneous rupture of the Achilles tendon is the most common tendon injury in the human
      body, it accounts for approximately 20% of all major tendon ruptures. Since the 1950s, the
      incidence of Achilles tendon rupture has been increasing. The peak incidence of ATR is
      between 30 and 40 years of age. Current treatments are associated with a significant risk of
      rerupture for the Achilles tendon; this is up to 15%. Therapies are currently dominated by
      the conflicting priorities of rapid rehabilitation and a return to work versus the risk of
      rerupture and/or surgery. New cost effective treatments that reduce both the risk of
      rerupture and time to functional healing are needed to address this challenge.

      Platelets are blood cells that form blood clots in the injured tissues. Platelets have
      evolved over millennia to deliver a combinatorial wound healing cocktail that comprises over
      1100 active soluble and membrane bound components, delivered sequentially over a timeframe
      from minutes to the lifespan of the platelets. Platelets and platelet derived growth factors
      play important roles in the healthy response to injury, promoting healing of tissues, and
      have been proposed as therapeutic agents. Their potential for tendon repair has been
      demonstrated in laboratory experiments and animal models. One human investigation has been
      published, a small study in athletes showing accelerated return to function with platelet
      preparations from patients own blood after complete Achilles tendon rupture. However, there
      has been no scientifically sound clinical research to assess the full potential of using
      platelet preparations to accelerate healing of Achilles tendon.

      Despite that lack of high quality trial data, PRP administration remains a potentially
      attractive strategy to explore given it is of relatively low cost and minimally invasive.
      There has been a recent steep growth in PRP use for musculoskeletal conditions. It is
      estimated that PRP is used to treat 86,000 tendon disorders annually in the United States and
      a similar number in Europe.

      There is also evidence that PRP injections are being introduced in NHS clinical practice, in
      addition to a wider use in private medicine within the United Kingdom. The investigators
      surveyed the declarations of use of PRP in NHS hospitals and discovered four offering PRP for
      tendon injuries. Without evidence of efficacy the consequences range from the NHS incurring
      extra costs for a treatment with unproven clinical effects to the non deployment of an
      effective autologous intervention. There is therefore a pressing need to undertake this study
      before the use of PRP becomes widely adopted. The results of this study may inform the design
      of a potential future clinical trial of optimal PRP therapy versus surgical repair for ATR in
      restoring patient function.

      The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) review of PRP use (IPG 438)
      states that specialist advisers noted that this was an established practice and it is of
      concern that participants are being exposed to these intervention techniques without adequate
      clinical investigation into their efficacy and validity. NICE encourages further research
      comparing autologous blood injections (with or without techniques to produce PRP) against
      established nonsurgical methods.

      The proposed trial aims are:

        1. Evaluate the clinical efficacy of PRP in acute ATR in terms of mechanical muscle tendon
           function.

        2. Evaluate the clinical efficacy of PRP in acute ATR in terms of patient reported
           functional recovery, pain and quality of life.

        3. Determine the key components of PRP that contribute to its mechanism of action.

        4. Explore the immunohistochemical response of the healing tendon to PRP at the cellular
           and tissue level.

      STUDY DESIGN Platelet Rich Plasma in Achilles Tendon Healing (PATH-2) is a pragmatic
      prospective multicentre, blinded, randomised, placebo controlled trial with two sub studies
      embedded within the main study. The study aims to evaluate the clinical efficacy of PRP in
      acute ATR in terms of mechanical muscle tendon function. To achieve the goals of this study
      and produce high level evidence of PRP efficacy, the study is a randomised controlled trial.
      The randomisation will reduce the risk of bias and the control arm will help to eliminate the
      placebo effect. Patients and assessors are blinded to the applied treatment to reduce the
      risk of bias.

      The PATH-2 study will take place in a minimum of 15 NHS hospitals across the UK. Participants
      will be identified in the orthopaedic/trauma outpatient clinic, usually following an
      emergency hospital attendance for an Achilles tendon rupture. The investigators anticipate
      the surgeon will confirm appropriateness for nonsurgical treatment and eligibility. A member
      of the local research team will carry out the informed consent process, baseline data
      collection and randomisation.

      Participants will be randomised via a telephone or website randomisation service, and will be
      allocated to receive either 'PRP injection' or 'Imitation (placebo) injection'. Treatment
      will be administered by a surgeon during the outpatient visit. Those involved in treatment
      delivery will be aware of treatment allocation due to the nature of the intervention.
      Participants should remain blind to allocation throughout the study.

      There are blinded outcome assessments at 4, 7, 13 and 24 weeks and 24 months after treatment.
      For the first three (4, 7, 13 weeks) responses will be collected over the telephone or during
      a hospital outpatient visit (where this coincides with local follow-up). The fourth follow-up
      requires a hospital attendance at 24 weeks, with a face-to-face interview and assessment by a
      physiotherapist/assessor. At this visit, the primary outcome (HRET) will be collected. The
      final follow-up (24 months) is completed by post or telephone.

      The two embedded sub studies are:

        1. Sub study 1: Blood component (all participants, all sites) and PRP component analyses
           (PRP intervention arm only). A blood sample will be taken from each participant after
           consent and randomisation but prior to treatment. The samples will be analysed to
           compare its composition by blood cell type. PRP samples will be prepared according to
           treatment allocation and a portion will remain after treatment. This will be sent to a
           central laboratory for later analysis (blood cells count, growth factors and platelets
           viability).

        2. Sub study 2: Immunohistochemistry analysis (16 participants from selected sites only who
           have given consent to undergo the sample collection procedure). A needle biopsy of the
           healing Achilles tendon under ultrasound guidance will be taking during an outpatient
           visit. Samples will undergo immunohistochemistry analysis centrally in a specialist
           laboratory.
    
  