
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is a major cause of visual impairment in the United States. Diabetic
      macular edema (DME) is a manifestation of diabetic retinopathy that produces loss of central
      vision. Data from the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) estimate
      that after 15 years of known diabetes, the prevalence of diabetic macular edema is
      approximately 20% in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM), 25% in patients with type 2
      DM who are taking insulin, and 14% in patients with type 2 DM who do not take insulin.

      Diabetic macular edema results from abnormal leakage of macromolecules, such as lipoproteins,
      from retinal capillaries into the extravascular space followed by an oncotic influx of water
      into the extravascular space. Abnormalities in the retinal pigment epithelium may also cause
      or contribute to diabetic macular edema. These abnormalities may allow increased fluid from
      the choriocapillaries to enter the retina or they may decrease the normal efflux of fluid
      from the retina to the choriocapillaris. The mechanism of breakdown of the blood retina
      barrier at the level of the retinal capillaries and the retinal pigment epithelium may be due
      to changes to tight junction proteins such as occludin.

      The increase in retinal capillary permeability and subsequent retinal edema may be the result
      of a breakdown of the blood retina barrier mediated in part by vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF), a 45 kD glycoprotein. Aiello et al, demonstrated in an in vivo model that VEGF
      can increase vascular permeability. Fifteen eyes of 15 albino Sprague-Dawley rats received an
      intravitreal injection of VEGF. The effect of intravitreal administration of VEGF on retinal
      vascular permeability was assessed by vitreous fluorophotometry. In all 15 eyes receiving an
      intravitreal injection of VEGF, a statistically significant increase in vitreous fluorescein
      leakage was recorded. In contrast, control eyes, which were fellow eyes injected with vehicle
      alone, did not demonstrate a statistically significant increase in vitreous fluorescein
      leakage. Vitreous fluorescein leakage in eyes injected with VEGF attained a maximum of 227%
      of control levels.

      Antonetti et al, demonstrated that VEGF may regulate vessel permeability by increasing
      phosphorylation of tight junction proteins such as occludin and zonula occluden 1.
      Sprague-Dawley rats were given intravitreal injections of VEGF and changes in tight junction
      proteins were observed through Western blot analysis. Treatment with alkaline phosphatase
      revealed that these changes were caused by a change in phosphorylation of tight junction
      proteins. This model provides, at the molecular level, a potential mechanism for
      VEGF-mediated vascular permeability in the eye. Similarly, in human non-ocular disease states
      such as ascites, VEGF has been characterized as a potent vascular permeability factor (VPF).

      The normal human retina contains little or no VEGF; however, hypoxia causes upregulation of
      VEGF production. Vinores et al, using immunohistochemical staining for VEGF, demonstrated
      that increased VEGF staining was found in retinal neurons and retinal pigment epithelium in
      human eyes with diabetic retinopathy.

      As the above discussion suggests, attenuation of the effects of VEGF provides a rationale for
      treatment of macular edema associated with diabetic retinopathy. Corticosteroids, a class of
      substances with anti-inflammatory properties, have been demonstrated to inhibit the
      expression of the VEGF gene. In a study by Nauck et al, the platelet-derived growth-factor
      (PDGF) induced expression of the VEGF gene in cultures of human aortic vascular smooth muscle
      cells was abolished by corticosteroids in a dose-dependent manner. A separate study by Nauck
      et al demonstrated that corticosteroids abolished the induction of VEGF by the
      pro-inflammatory mediators PDGF and platelet-activating factor (PAF) in a time and
      dose-dependent manner. This study was performed using primary cultures of human pulmonary
      fibroblasts and pulmonary vascular smooth muscle cells.

      As discussed above, corticosteroids have been experimentally shown to down regulate VEGF
      production and possibly reduce breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier. Similarly, steroids
      have anti-angiogenic properties possibly due to attenuation of the effects of VEGF. Both of
      these steroid effects have been utilized. For example, triamcinolone acetonide is often used
      clinically as a periocular injection for the treatment of cystoid macular edema (CME)
      secondary to uveitis or as a result of intraocular surgery. In animal studies, intravitreal
      triamcinolone acetonide has been used in the prevention of proliferative vitreoretinopathy
      and retinal neovascularization. Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide has been used clinically
      in the treatment of proliferative vitreoretinopathy and choroidal neovascularization.
    
  