
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the complete response rate (complete response and complete response
           unconfirmed) in patients with newly diagnosed, AIDS-related B-cell non-Hodgkin's
           lymphoma treated with doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome, rituximab, cyclophosphamide,
           vincristine, and prednisone (DR-COP).

        -  Determine the duration of response (relapse-free survival) in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the median survival time of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine rate of bacterial, fungal, and opportunistic infections in patients treated
           with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the relationship between MDR-1 expression in tumor tissue and
           response to therapy in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, any relationship between response and survival and BCL-2
           expression in tumor tissue in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine any relationship between development of bacterial, fungal, and/or
           opportunistic infections and baseline CD4 lymphocyte count, HIV-1 RNA level, and
           quantitative immunoglobulin levels, or changes in quantitative immunoglobulin levels
           over time in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Compare the results of positron emission tomography (PET) scanning with traditional CT
           scans in predicting response to therapy in these patients.

        -  Examine the relationship between chemotherapeutic drug levels and receipt of specific
           antiretroviral and/or anti-infective medications in these patients.

        -  Examine the mortality and the causes of death in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine event-free survival at 1 year.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter study.

      Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome IV over 90 minutes, rituximab IV over 5-7
      hours, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour, and vincristine IV over 1-2 minutes on day 1 and oral
      prednisone on days 1-5. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF), sargramostim (GM-CSF), or
      pegfilgrastim beginning on day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats
      every 21-28 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients undergo laboratory/biomarker studies at baseline and after every 2 courses of
      chemotherapy. Tissue is examined by immunohistochemistry for BCL-2, Ki67, and MDR-1, along
      with other markers.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 44 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  