
    
      Pressure ulcers (aka pressure sores, bed sores and decubitus ulcers) are a significant
      healthcare problem for the growing number of United States elderly long-term care (LTC)
      residents. Pressure ulcers (PU) diminish quality of life, exact a devastating loss of
      function, increase the risk of death in geriatric populations and raise healthcare costs.

      Despite Federal preventive mandates for the long-term care (LTC) setting, widespread
      non-compliance occurs. The last three Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) LTC
      surveys showed a cumulative increase of 21% in the number of citations issued for failure to
      provide proper intervention to prevent or treat pressure ulcers. Costs for the management of
      PU in the US likely exceed $6.4 billion annually with a prevalence of approximately 28% in
      the LTC population.

      Estimates of the number of sitting-acquired PU in the elderly, at-risk population range from
      36-50%. Several studies, including our own pilot investigation, support these estimates and
      have suggested that the use of wheelchair cushions designed to reduce interface pressure will
      reduce the incidence of sitting-acquired PU. Despite this evidence, elderly wheelchair users
      are not routinely evaluated for seating and positioning needs as definitive studies have not
      been completed to justify funding for such seating interventions. Consequently, elderly
      Medicare beneficiaries are being denied access to medically necessary and clinically
      appropriate interventions and instead are most frequently provided with convoluted or
      segmented-foam cushions that are not designed for pressure ulcer prevention.

      The primary aim of the proposed multi-site, randomized pressure-reducing wheelchair trial
      (PRWC-II) is to determine the efficacy of pressure-reducing cushions in preventing
      sitting-acquired pressure ulcers in the elderly, nursing home population. Positive results of
      the proposed trial will provide the level of evidence needed to change the standard of care
      to include the routine evaluation of at-risk residents for seating and positioning needs and
      the provision of pressure-reducing cushions as a preventive measure against sitting-acquired
      pressure ulcers. If our hypothesis is valid, such intervention should result in a decrease in
      the incidence and prevalence of sitting-acquired pressure ulcers, reduced healthcare costs,
      and improved quality of life.
    
  