
    
      Hypotheses of this study are

        1. Bone myoregulation reflex (BMR) inhibits presynaptically T-reflex during whole-body
           vibration (WBV)

        2. Cooling of ankle abolishes the inhibitor effect of BMR on soleus T-reflex Aim of this
           study is to test these hypotheses.

      Methods:

      Participants:

      Ten young, healthy and right hand dominant male adult volunteers will be included in this
      study.

      Procedure:

      Prior to the induction of WBV, control T-reflex recordings will be elicited and then the
      participants will complete a 15-s trial WBV protocol to familiarize themselves with the
      procedure. Following the control T-reflex recordings, the trial protocol and a 15-s rest, the
      participants will receive one session WBV. T-reflex will be recorded during WBV. Then, cold
      pack will be applied to the right ankle for 20 minutes. T-reflex will be recorded during the
      cooling of the ankle. Then, the participants will receive one session WBV, again. T-reflex
      will be recorded during WBV.

      A light (2.9 gr.) triaxial (x, y and z-axis) accelerometer (LIS344ALH, ECOPACK®) will be
      taped on the right Achilles tendon so that the z-axis will be perpendicular with the
      direction of the tendon (Achilles accelerometer). A custom-made reflex hammer will be used to
      tap the right Achilles tendon just caudal to the accelerometer. The intensity of tapping will
      be about 19.6 N WBV frequencies of 35 Hz will be delivered for 60 s. The vibration plate of
      WBV device (Power-Plate®Pro5, PowerPlate® International, Ltd. London, UK) oscillates with a
      linear movement upward and downward. The participants will be barefooted and stand directly
      on the vibration platform. The surface electromyography (SEMG) data will be obtained while
      the participants stand upright on the vibration platform with the knees in extension. The
      Ag/AgCl electrodes (KENDALL®Covidien) with a disc radius of 10 mm will be placed 20 mm apart
      on the right soleus muscle belly on shaved skin in accordance with the recommendations of the
      Surface ElectroMyoGraphy for the Non-Invasive Assessment of Muscles (SENIAM) project .

      The recordings of both T-reflex and WBV-IMR will be acquired using SEMG. SEMG data will be
      recorded using a PowerLAB® data acquisition system (ADInstruments, Oxford, United Kingdom)
      and the data will be analyzed offline using the LabChart7® (ver 7.3.7, ADInstruments, Oxford,
      United Kingdom) software.

      Precautions for voluntary muscle contractions and motion artifacts:

        1. the participants will be asked to use the handles of the WBV device to secure their
           balance. The sense of balance may impair during WBV. Therefore muscles may be activated
           to restore balance during WBV,

        2. before WBV trials, participants will be asked to relax and not to make voluntary
           contractions in their lower extremity muscles.

        3. a trial protocol will be applied to familiarize vibration,

        4. all cables will be carefully taped to the skin to minimize motion artifacts,

        5. all EMG recordings will be filtered to avoid WBV induced movement artifacts using a band
           pass filter from 60 to 500 Hz.
    
  