
    
      Scientific justification:

      Since the use of technology is rapidly increasing in every aspect of many people's daily
      lives, previous research has already begun to investigate its application and implementation
      in multiple areas within dementia care. An example of an area where technology and dementia
      come together is computerised cognitive interventions. These types of interventions build on
      the added benefits of computer use such as reduced cognitive decline in older adults and
      lower risk of receiving a diagnosis of dementia among older men with the added benefits of
      using one's cognitive capacities. In a recent systematic review, Garcia-Casal et al. (2016)
      concluded that computerised cognitive interventions led to significant improvements in
      cognition, depression and anxiety among people with dementia. Computerised cognitive
      interventions may have more of an impact on cognition than non-computerised cognitive
      interventions.

      In a randomised pilot trial conducted by Tárraga et al. (2006) which was included in
      Garcia-Casal's review, people with mild Alzheimer's Disease were allocated to a treatment
      group and a control group. The treatment group consisted of both a computerised cognitive
      stimulation programme and a non-computerised, face-to-face cognitive stimulation programme
      delivered in groups. The control group consisted solely of the non-computerised, cognitive
      stimulation programme. The results showed that that people with mild Alzheimer's Disease
      showed greater improvements in cognition lasting for 24 weeks in the treatment group which
      suggests added benefits of a computerised cognitive stimulation programme.

      These positive findings suggest that it is worthwhile to continue conducting research in the
      area of computerised cognitive interventions. Interestingly, Garcia-Casal et al (2016) have
      pointed out that the area of computerised cognitive stimulation (which is an area of
      computerised cognitive interventions) is relatively underdeveloped. Most computerised
      cognitive interventions are geared towards cognitive training.

      At the moment there are multiple, paper-based cognitive stimulation interventions available
      of which Cognitive Stimulation Therapy is being used more predominantly in the UK. CST is a
      brief evidence-based psychological treatment for people with mild to moderate dementia. It
      consists of mentally stimulating and engaging group activities which have shown to improve
      cognition and quality of life in a large scale randomised controlled trial. More recently, an
      individualised version of CST (iCST) was developed which is a home-based version of CST
      administered by informal carers (e.g., friends, family members). The content of the sessions
      is similar to those of CST. A multi-centre RCT of iCST showed no improvements in cognition
      and QoL for people with dementia, nor evidence of improvements in carers' mental and physical
      health. However, people with dementia receiving iCST reported a better relationship quality
      with their carer, and carers reported an improved health-related QoL. These findings indicate
      a need for further research to determine the effectiveness of carer-led cognitive stimulation
      interventions for people with dementia since most people received fewer than recommended
      number of iCST due to low adherence.

      Since there is a need for more research in both the area of computerised cognitive
      stimulation and carer-led cognitive stimulation, this research sets out to develop and
      evaluate the potential benefits of iCST adapted for delivery by an interactive (touch-screen)
      web-application in a feasibility study. The investigators are setting out to combine the
      added value of computer use and the beneficial effects of CST/iCST in order to produce
      benefits in cognition and quality of life. A participatory process while developing the
      web-application in the form of consultations, focus groups and interviews will be employed.
      Preliminary consultations with people with dementia and their carers have already given the
      investigators information on attitudes towards (touch-screen) technology, both appealing and
      non-appealing features of applications and desired length/duration of iCST.

      The investigators hope to see signs of improvements in quality of life and cognition after
      using the iCST web-application. If this is the case, this could lead to a larger randomised
      controlled trial with more participants to formally establish effectiveness. An iCST
      web-application has the potential to be more accessible for people on a national and an
      international level when adapted to appropriate cultural contexts compared to paper-based
      manuals. Lastly, the iCST web-application could be used long-term and could rapidly become
      widely used as a clinically and cost-effective standardised, and feasible intervention.

      Design and methodology:

        1. The focus groups and interviews will be a multi-centre study to gain insights and
           perspectives from people with dementia and their carers regarding the usability of the
           iCST web-app. This will enable the investigators to optimise the developmental process
           and learn about the experiences of the participants while they interact with the
           web-application. Observational and transcribed audio-recorded data will be collected
           from the focus groups and interviews which will be semi-structured in nature.

        2. The feasibility study will be a multicentre, pragmatic, single blind, randomised 2
           treatment arm (iCST web-app vs treatment as usual) study over 11 weeks.

      In accordance with good research practice, the investigators have decided to run a
      feasibility study prior to running a larger randomised controlled trial in order to assess
      the usability of the iCST web-application and the feasibility of running a larger-scale
      randomised clinical trial. With this feasibility study the investigators will be able to gain
      insights with regard to recruitment/drop-out rates, adherence, sample size, appropriateness
      of outcome measures, changes to made to the web-application etc. This will all be necessary
      information before a larger trial can be conducted.

      Programme development:

      The iCST web-application will be adapted from the paper-based iCST manual. The amount of
      sessions will be reduced from 75 to 21 after consultations with people with dementia and
      carers pointed out that the paper-based iCST manual contained too many sessions. Multimedia
      within the web-application will be used and participants will be given the opportunity to
      provide ongoing feedback on the web-application itself after completing each session. The
      research team will work together with all the stakeholders such as the software company
      employed to build the web-application, the people with dementia, and their carers. Regular
      consultations, focus groups and interviews should aid the development of the web-application
      in ensuring it is feasible, practical and appealing.

      Recruitment for the study:

      Recruitment for the focus groups, interviews and feasibility study will take place in a
      variety of community settings in Nottingham consisting of both primary care settings
      (outpatient clinics) and secondary care settings (community mental health teams (CMHTs),
      memory clinics, care homes, day centres, and voluntary sector organizations such as the
      Alzheimer's Society). By including a variety of settings, the reach for people with dementia
      and their carers will be extended. The PhD student will make close links with the
      aforementioned services and organisations through attendance and regular contact. In
      addition, the distribution of information leaflets and posters to organisations and
      professionals involved in the identification of possible participants will facilitate the
      recruitment process.

      The initial approach will be from a member of the person with dementia's usual care team. If
      the person with dementia and carer are willing and suitable for participation, the PhD
      student will fully inform them about of all aspects pertaining to involvement in the study
      through in person conversations and information leaflets. It will be explained to the
      potential participant that; (i) entry into the study is entirely voluntary and that their
      treatment and care will not be affected by their decision, (ii) they can withdraw at any time
      but attempts will be made to avoid this occurrence and (iii) in the event of their withdrawal
      their data collected so far cannot be erased and we will seek consent to use the data in the
      final analyses where appropriate.

      Sample size:

      The sample size estimation for the focus groups and interviews is based on previous work in
      the iCST study. For the current study, four focus groups with six participants each (one with
      people with dementia, one with carers, two collaborative groups) and ten interviews (five
      with people with dementia and five with carers) will be conducted.

      The investigators have estimated the sample size to be 60 participants. This is partly based
      on previous work with iCST considering the numbers recruited and the amount of centres
      involved in the iCST trial. The iCST trial recruited 356 participants over eight sites across
      the UK (Bangor, Devon, Dorset, Hull, Lincolnshire, London, Manchester, Norfolk and Suffolk).
      This equals to an average of 45 dyads per site. We will have an equal distribution of dyads
      across the two groups leading to 30 dyads per arm (iCST web-application vs.
      treatment-as-usual). The field-testing phase of iCST (without a control group) included 22
      dyads which roughly resembles the sample size for the current feasibility study.

      A sample size of 60 participants will be sufficient to demonstrate the effectiveness of the
      iCST web-application with an effect size of 0.80 with 80% power and 5% significance
      (two-tailed). The effect size has been chosen based on the sample size.

      Timetable:

      Focus groups/interviews (start from May 2018 onwards):

        1. 3 months recruitment;

        2. 4 months running of groups and interviews in Nottingham recruitment

        3. 6 months analysis and writing up findings

      Feasibility trial (start from November 2018 onwards):

        1. 5 months of recruitment;

        2. 7 months of running feasibility study;

        3. 5 months analysis and writing up findings
    
  