
    
      Introduction Primary hemochromatosis is the most frequent hereditary condition in
      Scandinavia. The condition may result in serious organ damage which can be prevented by
      therapy, but only few patients develop such organ damage. Provided the lack of more exact
      knowledge of which patients should be treated, we have based our inclusion criteria on the
      guidelines published by the Norwegian Society of Hematology. However, the criteria for
      ferritin levels have been set at 300 micrograms/L for patients who are homozygous for the
      C282Y mutation, and also heterozygous individuals will be included if ferritin is higher than
      500 micrograms/L.

      Furthermore, the optimal treatment method is still a matter of discussion. Prevention of
      organ damage has traditionally been accomplished by whole blood phlebotomy, which has to be
      frequently repeated during the initial phase and then continued indefinitely as a maintenance
      treatment. The removed amount of iron may be increased two- or threefold for each procedure
      by using modern equipment for selective withdrawal of red blood cells (erythrocyte
      apheresis). Possible drawbacks of this technique may be higher costs, prolonged time for each
      therapeutic procedure, and certain requirements to the patients. The possible advantages are
      the reduced number of therapeutic procedures and less strain for the patient. No larger,
      randomized study has been published in order to determine which method should be preferred.

      Hypothesis: A more rapid decline of primary endpoints (see below) can be achieved by
      erythrocyte apheresis as compared to traditional phlebotomy, without significant
      disadvantages.

      Design The trial is prospective, randomized and open. Eligible patients are randomized to
      erythrocyte apheresis and phlebotomy.

      Endpoints Primary endpoints Decline of ferritin levels and transferrin saturation.

      Secondary endpoints and other variables to be studied Decline in hemoglobin levels.
      Discomfort during the therapeutic procedure. Any changes in EVF, blood cell counts or albumin
      and CRP levels. Certain well-defined financial costs: consumed material, technician working
      time.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. Diagnosis

             1. Individuals who art homozygous for C282Y or H63D or "compound heterozygous" for
                these tow variants and have ferritin levels higher than 300 micrograms/L or
                transferrin saturation higher than 50%.

             2. Individuals heterozygous for C282Y or H63D if ferritin levels higher than 500
                micrograms/L or transferrin saturation higher than 50%.

        2. Requirements to the patient Body weight higher than 65 kg and initial hemoglobin level
           higher than 12 g/dL.

      Treatment schedule Following randomization to either apheresis or phlebotomy, patients are
      treated until ferritin levels have declined to below 50 micrograms/L and they are then
      followed for one year. Patients randomized to apheresis are treated every second week,
      whereas patients in the phlebotomy group are treated weekly. Prolongation of the interval is
      permitted in both groups in case of well-defined clinical indications. Any prolongation is to
      be recorded along with the clinical indication.

      Follow-up Clinical symptoms, body weight, laboratory findings (Hemoglobin levels; blood cell
      counts; levels of iron, transferrin, ferritin, albumin and IgG; serologic assessments for
      hepatitis viruses, CMV and HIV), discomfort during the therapeutic procedure, duration of
      each procedure, costs for consumed material, working time of the technician for each
      procedure.
    
  