
    
      Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency of the
      phenylalanine hydroxylase enzyme leading to an impaired conversion of the amino acid
      phenylalanine (Phe) to tyrosine. Increased Phe concentrations in blood and brain during
      childhood can lead to severe intellectual disability, epilepsy and behavioral problems.
      However, since the introduction of newborn screening and early treatment with a dietary
      restriction of Phe (low protein diet) and Phe-free protein substitutes (amino acid mixtures)
      initiated soon after birth, patient with PKU no longer develop profound and irreversible
      intellectual disability. While there is a wide agreement on the treatment strategy and target
      Phe concentrations in childhood, no consensus on the safe Phe concentrations in adulthood has
      been reached so far. Traditionally, the low protein diet had been enforced only during
      childhood and adolescence, leaving adult patients with PKU "off-diet". Over the last decade,
      observational and cross-sectional studies associated high Phe in early-treated adult patients
      with cognitive problems, psychiatric symptoms and behavioral abnormalities. These association
      studies and one small interventional study led to substantially differing recommendations of
      national and international guidelines with regard to Phe target levels in adult patients with
      PKU. One of these guidelines is the highly controversial grade D recommendation of the most
      recent European guidelines to keep Phe concentrations below 600 μmol/L throughout adulthood.
      Consequently, the recommendations are not only unequally accepted by the treating metabolic
      specialists, more than 50 % of adults with PKU exhibit substantial difficulty in maintaining
      the compliance necessary to reach the recommended target Phe concentrations. Therefore,
      prospective intervention studies in adult patients with PKU are strongly needed to evaluate
      the effects of dietary restrictions on cognition, cerebral markers and quality of life. The
      PICO-Study aims at adding evidence to current guidelines and improving treatment
      recommendations. To this end, adult patients with PKU will participate in a randomized,
      placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover, non-inferiority trial. With the intervention,
      the project evaluates the impact of temporarily elevated blood Phe levels on cognition and
      functional properties of the brain of adult patients. Results of the PICO-Study will help to
      increase knowledge about impaired cognitive functioning and neural abnormalities in adult
      patients with PKU and will improve guidelines on dietary treatment in these patients. Such
      guidelines can greatly influence clinical routine as well as patients' adherence to their
      diet and ultimately their quality of life.
    
  