
    
      Introduction Primary headaches occupy an important field in neurology consultations. Both
      migraines and tension headaches are often self-treated by the patients themselves and for
      some patients, headache is a true disease, constituting a symptomatology that can have
      various etiologies, from severe to functional organics. Headache, when it becomes chronic,
      becomes a serious problem for the patient with important repercussions on their quality of
      life.

      Objective. To evaluate the effectiveness of the application of the treatment by means of
      manual therapy in patients with tension headache and to compare it with the application of
      massage by means of a roll of foam manufactured for this purpose.

      Methodology The study will be carried out in the Faculty of Physiotherapy of the Universitat
      de València. An experimental, longitudinal and prospective design, controlled, randomized,
      with 3 groups will be carried out.

      Population. The sample will be formed by participants diagnosed with tension headache,
      following the criteria established by the IHS.

      Subjects with headache less than 15 days per month and other types of primary headache, as
      well as those associated with drug abuse and those who do not meet the criteria established
      by the IHS, will be excluded from the study.

      Experimental treatment The patients will be randomly assigned to 3 different groups (one
      group of treatment with manual therapy, one group that will receive massage and another group
      of placebo control).

      The treatment will last for 8 weeks (4 weeks of treatment and 4 weeks of follow-up). The 2
      groups will be evaluated before treatment, at the end of this and in the follow-up (30 days
      after treatment).

      Evaluations

      For the collection of data, a clinical interview with data referring to headache was designed
      and the following evaluation instruments are included:

        -  Scale disability due to HDI Headache

        -  Impact of pain HIT-6

        -  Quality of life SF-36

        -  Visual Analog Scale (EVA)

        -  Algometry. Measurement of pain at pressure on spinous and transverse processes

        -  CROM. Cervical range

        -  QS. Body satisfaction questionnaire
    
  