
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine feasibility of using an in vitro small molecule inhibitor screen to select
      kinase inhibitors to add to standard chemotherapy induction in AML or ALL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and tolerability of the addition of the kinase inhibitors when added
      to standard chemotherapy induction.

      II. Evaluate overall objective response rates at completion of induction therapy.

      III. Evaluate need for re-induction at day 14 (+/- 3 days) for AML. IV. Evaluate sensitivity
      to kinase inhibitors using our in vitro small molecule inhibitor screen in newly diagnosed
      AML/ALL.

      V. Determine twelve-month overall survival.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Perform next-generation mutational analysis in primary leukemia samples from study
      subjects at baseline to establish a panel of known mutations for each subject and at the time
      of bone marrow recovery after induction chemotherapy to measure residual disease and evaluate
      utility of next-generation sequencing as a method compared to flow cytometry for minimal
      residual disease (MRD).

      II. Evaluate pharmacokinetics for each individual kinase inhibitor. III. Determine if there
      is a cytogenetic or other risk group that has a higher rate of treatment failure or inability
      to obtain results from the small molecule inhibitor screen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (AML): Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously over 24 hours on
      days 1-7, and idarubicin IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3.

      ARM II (ALL) CYCLE A: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-3, vincristine sulfate IV on days 4 and 11, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 4,
      dexamethasone PO on days 1-4 and 11-14, and rituximab IV on day 1 and 11 (day 11 only of
      course 1). Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (ALL) CYCLE B: Patients receive cytarabine IV over 2 hours BID on days 2-3,
      methotrexate IV over 2-22 hours on day 1, methylprednisolone sodium succinate IV BID on days
      1-3, leucovorin calcium IV every 6 hours until methotrexate level is < 0.05 uM and rituximab
      IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In all arms, based on the results of the kinase inhibitor assay, patients receive either
      sorafenib tosylate PO BID, sunitinib malate PO daily, dasatinib PO daily, ponatinib
      hydrochloride PO daily, ruxolitinib phosphate or idelalisib PO BID on days 8-28 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks, and then for a
      minimum of 1 year.
    
  