
    
      BACKGROUND:

      It is estimated that over 50 percent of adults aged 65 and older report some sleep
      disruption, while about 20 percent suffer from chronic insomnia. Obstructive sleep apnea, a
      major cause of daytime drowsiness, occurs in an estimated 20-60 percent of older people,
      depending on the definition used and the specific population being studied. Despite the high
      prevalence of sleep disorders in the elderly, there have been relatively few studies focused
      on the consequences. Most studies have been limited by cross-sectional design, small sample
      size, or lack of comprehensive and objective assessment of sleep. The study, Outcomes of
      Sleep Disorders in Older Men, will take advantage of the established cohort that has been
      recruited for the Osteoporotic Fractures in Men (MrOS) Study (5U01AR045647-Dr. Eric Orwoll,
      PI). MrOS, a 7-year study that began in July 1999, is a multi-center prospective study of
      approximately 6,000 men aged 65 and older. During the MrOS baseline visit, a broad variety of
      measurements were collected, including body composition and body fat distribution by dual
      energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) and quantitative computed tomography, bone density,
      anthropometry, performance-based tests of strength and balance, medical history, medication
      use, smoking and alcohol use, and other parameters. Blood, urine, and DNA specimens have been
      archived for use in future studies of importance to the health of older men.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In a subcohort of 3,000 MrOS participants, comprehensive and accurate assessments of sleep
      will be added using in-home polysomnography, wrist actigraphy, questionnaires and other
      measures; and prospective adjudication of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events, to the
      extensive measures that have already been performed or planned in the MrOS cohort study.
      These new measures will enable testing of several important hypotheses: 1) to characterize
      the associations between sleep disruption and subsequent CVD events during 3.5 years of
      follow-up, 2) to determine if sleep disturbances are associated with an increased risk of
      total and cause-specific mortality in older men, 3) to test whether sleep disturbances are
      associated with increased risk of falls and decreased physical function, 4) to test whether
      sleep disturbances are associated with impaired cognitive function in older men, and 5) to
      test whether sleep disorders are associated with bone density and fracture risk in older men.
      The bank of MrOS specimens will be supplemented to allow for testing of future hypotheses
      concerning the role of sleep in the development of age-related diseases and conditions.
    
  