
    
      Severe health anxiety (illness anxiety disorder) or hypochondriasis, according to the
      psychiatric classification system ICD-10, is characterized by preoccupation with fear of
      having a serious illness, which interferes with daily functions and persists despite medical
      reassurance. Clinical significant health anxiety is prevalent in primary care with 0.8-9.5%,
      and has a lifetime prevalence of 5.7% in the general population. It is a disabling disorder,
      associated with extensive use of health care services and occupational disability.

      Earlier, health anxiety has been considered a chronic disease with poor treatment outcomes. A
      recent review found effect of both medicine and psychotherapy, but patients may prefer
      psychotherapeutic treatments. Despite the high prevalence, health anxiety is rarely diagnosed
      within primary care, and there is limited access to evidence-based treatment for health
      anxiety.

      An easily accessible, evidence-based treatment is needed for this debilitating condition.

      Internet-based treatment is a new approach where patients receive access to a guided
      self-help program. A meta-analysis has shown equal treatment effects of internet-based
      treatment compared to "face-to-face" treatment for depressive- and anxiety disorders.
      Internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy for health anxiety has shown to be
      cost-effective. ACT is a new effective generation of cognitive-behavioral therapy, with an
      emphasis on acceptance and value-based exposure that has shown good results for treating
      health anxiety in a group setting. Internet-based Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for
      health anxiety has shown promising results but low treatment completion. This may be due to
      the comprehensive treatment modules and the text-based format. ACT is an experiential
      behavioral therapy, and aims to activate patients with exercises, videos, audio-files and
      less text material.

      Most persons with health anxiety have high health care expenditure. However, some patients
      with health anxiety avoid contact to the health care system, and may not receive proper
      treatment. Patient self-referral is a new approach that may facilitate access to treatment.

      Aim

        1. To develop an internet-delivered treatment program for patients suffering from health
           anxiety based on ACT.

        2. To test the feasibility and effectiveness of the treatment programme in a randomized,
           controlled trial, comparing treatment with an active control condition.

      Hypothesis Primary hypothesis Patients with health anxiety treated with iACT will at 6-month
      follow-up report a significant reduction in illness worry compared to the action control
      condition iFORUM.

      Secondary hypotheses

      Patients with health anxiety treated with iACT compared to the active control condition
      iFORUM will at 6-month follow-up report:

        1. a reduction in physical symptoms and symptoms of anxiety and depression

        2. increased health-related quality of life

        3. more expedient illness perceptions and increased acceptance of symptoms

           Mediation analyses

        4. changes in illness perception and acceptance mediate the effect of iACT
    
  