
    
      The AML18 Pilot Trial is available to any patient who has primary or secondary AML as defined
      by the WHO Classification (Appendix A) (excluding Acute Promyelocytic Leukaemia), or high
      risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome (i.e. > 10% marrow blasts) who is not considered suitable for
      the current NCRI trial for younger patients (MRC AML 17). This trial has the primary aim of
      assessing the feasibility of three treatments that are planned for the forthcoming NCRI AML18
      Trial. The first is the feasibility of adding AC220, given sequentially initially for 7 days,
      to three courses of standard chemotherapy. AC220 will be assessed at up to three daily dose
      levels: - 60mg/day, 90mg/day, 135 mg/day and also, if required, at 40mg/day. The protocol
      will also assess in a separate study cohort the feasibility of combining the CXCR4 inhibitor,
      Plerixafor, at a fixed dose in combination with up to three courses of chemotherapy. The
      third intervention patients will receive 3 treatments of ganetespib on days 1, 8 and 15 of
      each course where day 1 is the first day of the chemotherapy. The chemotherapy will be
      DAE/DAE/DA. Three courses of chemotherapy will be given each of which will be associated with
      3 administrations of ganetespib.

      THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTIONS

      Therapeutic Interventions for AC220 Assessment:

      Patients will enter one of 3 dose level cohorts either 60mg/day, 90mg/day or 135mg/day with
      the provision to assess 40mg/day if required. Each cohort will receive three courses of
      chemotherapy approximately 4 to 5 weeks apart, which will comprise DAE ( Daunorubicin, Ara-C,
      Etoposide) over 10 days (Course 1) , DAE over 8 days (Course 2) and DA (Daunorubicin, Ara-C)
      over 5 days (Course 3). Two days after the last day of chemotherapy patients will receive the
      AC220 orally, daily for 7 consecutive days. Formal safety and pharmaco-kinetic assessments
      will be undertaken on day 1, 7 and 14 of each course of AC220, and interim toxicities will
      also be required to be reported. Sufficient patients must enter each AC220 dose level cohort
      to ensure that at least 3 patients are evaluable for all three courses. Cohort 2
      (i.e.60mg/day for 14 days) can open to recruitment after a minimum of 3 evaluable patients
      have completed course 1. Cohort 3 (40mg/day dose level for either 7/14 days) will be
      undertaken if cohort 1 or 2 are unsuccessful i.e. fail to satisfy the safety criteria.

      It is anticipated that the 'study dose' will be established from the experience of cohorts 1
      to 5. Cohort 6 ('study dose') will receive AC220 for 21 days after each chemotherapy course.
      In this cohort there must be a minimum of a 10 days break between the end of the AC220 course
      and the start of the subsequent chemotherapy course.

      Therapeutic Interventions for Plerixafor Assessment:

      The aim is to assess the feasibility of combining a fixed dose (240mcg/kg) of Plerixafor
      given on each day of chemotherapy for up to 3 courses, and if so to combine this with G-CSF
      in courses 2 and 3. The three chemotherapy courses will be Daunorubicin/Clofarabine (DClo)
      for courses 1 & 2 and Daunorubicin/Ara-C (DA) for course 3. Each course will last 5 days and
      Plerixafor will be given for 5 days.

      Cohort 1 will receive three courses of chemotherapy with Plerixafor in course 1 only. Cohort
      2 will receive three courses with Plerixafor in course 1 and 2. Cohort 3 will receive
      chemotherapy with Plerixafor in all three courses. Cohort 4 will be the same as cohort 3 but
      they will also receive G-CSF in course 2 and 3.

      Therapeutic Interventions for Ganetespib Assessment:

      There will be one feasibility cohort of 10 evaluable patients who require to be evaluable
      after 30 days after the first course, where day 1 is the first day of chemotherapy. Patients
      will receive 3 treatments of ganetespib on days 1, 8 and 15 of each course where day 1 is the
      first day of the chemotherapy. The chemotherapy will be DAE/DAE/DA. Three courses of
      chemotherapy will be given each of which will be associated with 3 administrations of
      ganetespib.
    
  