
    
      Study background:

      The selection of patients with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) for shunting
      remains difficult. The upcoming guidelines for the diagnosis and management of INPH state
      that there is no accepted standard for the clinical presentation, the results of imaging and
      the various tests that provide information on CSF dynamics 1. Hebb and Cusiamo could not find
      a single test that reliably predicts outcome after shunting in their systematic review of
      INPH 2. To properly evaluate the predictive value of diagnostic tests for the outcome of
      shunting all patients should receive a shunt irrespective of the test results. Only a few
      studies set up to examine the diagnostic reliability of tests of CSF dynamics fulfilled this
      condition. The common finding of these studies was that the predictive value of a positive
      test was high but the negative predictive values were disappointingly low.

      In the Dutch Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus Study, containing 101 patients, the positive and
      negative predictive values of lumbar constant flow infusion were 92% and 34% for an Rout of
      18 mmHg/ml/min and 100% and 27% for an Rout of 24 3. External lumbar CSF drainage for 4 days
      resulted in positive and negative predictive values of 87% and 36% 4. The predictive value of
      the cerebrospinal fluid tap test reported by Wikkelso et al in 1986 was 100% for a positive
      and 45% for a negative test 5 Another parameter of CSF dynamics is elastance that can be
      expressed by the pressure volume-index (PVI). In a group of 30 patients with NPH high
      elastance, i.e low PVI was the best predictor of a marked and rapid reduction of ventricular
      size after shunting 6.

      One of the major issues is whether the false negative tests mostly occur in the same
      population. In these patients the INPH might be caused not so much by a CSF circulation
      disorder but by parenchymal disease. From our clinical experience we think that different
      patients have false negative tests, we frequently encounter cases with a positive tap test
      and a negative infusion test or the reverse. This is also shown in a study by Kahlon et al.
      who performed an infusion test and a tap test in 68 patients suspected of NPH. Both tests
      agreed in only 45% and they were both negative in 31% of patients 7.

      An important drawback of all INPH studies so far is the rather limited number of patients
      and, the "mixing" of idiopathic NPH patients (primary NPH) with those of known cause
      (secondary NPH) such as trauma, subarachnoid hemorrhage and stroke.INPH is considered a
      multfactorial condition with a disturbance of CSF circulation as well as parenchymal
      abnormalities in a vulnerable population with much comorbidity. Because of the many outcome
      variables a study on the prediction of outcome needs large numbers of INPH patients. With a
      few exceptions, previous studies on CSF dynamics in INPH were conducted in single high
      quality institutions. We also have to demonstrate that the same or even better results can be
      obtained with international cooperation providing higher patients numbers. Therefore we
      intend to conduct a large European multicentre study on INPH including at least 200 patients.
      All these patients will receive the same shunt system and will be followed-up by a
      standardized protocol using primary and secondary NPH outcome measures. Because of the
      continuing controversy with respect to the appropriate shunt opening pressure and the many
      problems of over- and underdrainage after insertion of the shunt, we chose the Codman Hakim
      programmable valve 8.

      STUDY AIMS

      To determine primarily the sensitivity, specificity, positive- and negative predictive value
      of resistance to outflow of CSF (Rout) and the CSF-Tap-Test for prediction of the effect of
      shunt surgery in patients with idiopathic NPH (INPH) by a prospective "blinded" confirmative
      study.

      Secondarily the predictive value of elastance and CSF biochemical markers will be evaluated
      in the same population.

      Further, the predictive value of other tests as rCBF and vascular reserve capacity (PET or
      SPECT), MR investigations (i.e. fMRI, MRS and/or diffusion tensor imaging etc.), continuous
      CSF drainage, B-wave analyses and other investigations can be evaluated by cooperation
      between individual centres.

      General study design:

      A prospective "blinded" confirmative study of at least 200 consecutively included patients
      with INPH fulfilling the clinical and radiological inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients
      will be included during a period of 2 years by 20 or more centres that will enrol at least 5
      patients per year each. All patients in the study will receive a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt,
      using the Codman Programmable valve.

      After inclusion but prior to surgery 4 obligatory tests will be performed. We will measure
      the resistance to outflow of CSF (Rout) and the intracranial elastance, a CSF-Tap-Test will
      be carried out and CSF biochemical markers are determined. The caretakers are blinded for
      these results. Rout and the results of the tap test are the primary investigations.

      Optional tests as rCBF and vascular reserve capacity (PET or SPECT), MR investigations (i.e.
      fMRI, MRS and/or diffusion tensor imaging ), continuous CSF drainage and B-wave analyses will
      also be performed prior to surgery. The number of patients included in a study of an optional
      test should be at least 30 in order to qualify for recording of the data in the database.

      The patients are evaluated by a battery consisting of a handicap scale (modified Rankin
      scale) and 7 tests that measure gait, cognition and bladder function, before and 3 and 12
      months after surgery or establishment of a working shunt. The patients are also checked one
      month after surgery to secure shunt efficacy.

      The changes in clinical signs and disability after surgery are correlated to the results of
      the obligatory and optional tests. The primary outcome measures are the differences between
      the pre-operative and 12 months scores in the Rankin Scale and the composite NPH scale. These
      will be correlated with the results of the two primary investigations, resistance to CSF
      outflow (mmHg/ml/min) and CSF Tap Test (% change).

      Patients data will be stored electronically in a web-based central data base using a special
      data security system for data transfer. Access to the database will be provided through an
      official homepage protected by a certified username/password based authenticity mechanism.
    
  