
    
      Rationale:

      Anastomotic leakage occurs in up to 20% after low anterior resection for rectal cancer. It is
      a severe complication with high associated morbidity, ICU admission, prolonged hospital stay
      and need for reinterventions and readmissions. Anastomotic leakage is independently
      associated with the risk of local recurrence and reduced long term survival. Most literature
      focusses on incidence and predictive factors. Remarkably, there is almost no data on the
      efficiency of different treatments of anastomotic leakage after low anterior resection.

      Anastomotic leakage after rectal cancer resection is generally underreported, mainly due to
      subclinical leaks below a diverting stoma. However, up to 50% of the leaks do not heal with
      fecal diversion alone, especially not in an irradiated field, related to a competent
      sphincter which hampers adequate drainage of the presacral abscess. Late diagnosis of
      'reactivated' leaks after stoma reversal is not an infrequent phenomenon. Chronic sinus,
      gluteal abscess, and fistula formation have been reported in up to 10%, and permanent stoma
      rates around 20%, both having significant impact on quality of life.

      Examples of factors that may influence the severity and chance of healing of the anastomotic
      leakage are: timing of diagnosis, degree of systemic inflammatory response, etiology (e.g.
      ischemia of the afferent loop), degree of dehiscence and retraction, location of the leak
      (e.g. circular staple line, blind loop), whether or not a diverting stoma is in place, and
      extent of abdominal contamination. However, little is known about to what extent these and
      other factors contribute to anastomotic leakage severity and chance of healing. In addition,
      it is not known which anastomoses are likely to be preserved by which type of treatment, and
      which anastomotic failures require redo surgery at a certain time frame.

      Primary study objectives

        1. To investigate which factors contribute to anastomotic leakage severity and to compose
           an evidence based anastomotic leakage severity score, in which clinically relevant
           subgroups will be explored (e.g. diversion or not), as well as different clinical
           settings (e.g. leak diagnosis within or beyond 90 days postoperatively).

        2. To evaluate the effects of different treatment approaches on all different pre-specified
           outcome parameters, stratified for severity score, anatomical characteristics of
           leakages and timing of diagnosis of leakage.

      Study design:

      International multicenter retrospective cohort study.

      Study population:

      Adult patients with anastomotic leakage after low anterior resection for rectal cancer.

      Primary outcome parameter:

      1-year stoma-free survival.

      Secondary outcome parameters:

      ICU length of stay, mortality, comprehensive complications index, total number of
      reinterventions (surgical, radiological, endoscopic) within one year, total number of
      unplanned readmissions within one year, total hospital stay during one year, total time of
      having a stoma until one year, stoma present at one year, type of stoma present at one year
      (diverting, permanent), secondary leakage related complications (extrapelvic abscess,
      cutaneous fistula, vaginal fistula, bladder fistula, small bowel, ureteric fibrosis with
      hydronephrosis), hospital related costs.

      Sample size calculation:

      Inclusion of 980 patients will be sufficient to analyze primary study objective 1 and this is
      1246 patients for primary study objective 2. Therefore, the aim is to include at least 1246
      patients.
    
  