
    
      A crossover, double-blinded randomized clinical trial is proposed. The investigators will
      recruit literate adult females aging 18 to 65 years old; fulfilling the diagnosis criteria
      for fibromyalgia according to the American College of Rheumatology 2010; with mean pain ≥6 in
      the verbal analog scale; who speak Brazilian Portuguese; and were able to perform the three
      visits. Female adult participants without chronic pain will also be recruited. Participants
      with severe psychiatric disorders that would limit consenting; neurologic deficits;
      decompensated systemic disease or chronic inflammatory disorders (Systemic Erythematous Lupus
      or Rheumatoid arthritis); contraindications for TMS; and those with previous use of
      Pregabalin will be excluded.

      In the investigators' study, participants will be asked to visit the investigators'
      laboratory in three opportunities: one for a baseline assessment, and the other two to test
      the effects of either Pregabalin 150 mg PO or Placebo. All participants will eventually
      receive both, Pregabalin and Placebo. In each visit a brain hemodynamic, electrical, hormonal
      and clinical evaluation will be performed.

      In the first visit, after explaining the research, solving doubts and signing the informed
      consent, participants will be randomized to an allocation sequence (either Pregabalin in the
      second or in the third visit). Then, a blood sample will be gathered and participants will be
      asked to fill some questionnaires to understand better their pain, and its impact on their
      quality of life (Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire), Anxiety (State/Trait Anxiety Inventory),
      Depressive symptoms (Beck Depression Inventory II), Catastrophizing thinking (Pain
      Catastrophizing Scale - PCS), Sleep (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index), and resiliency. Then, a
      fingertapping task will be performed while assessing hemodynamic changes using fNIRS. After
      that, heat perception will be tested using quantitative sensory testing (QST) and Conditioned
      Pain Modulation (CPM) with cold. Also, the pain pressure threshold (PPT) using a digital
      algometer will be evaluated. Finally, cortical excitability parameters (motor evoked
      potentials, intracortical facilitation and inhibition, and cortical silent period) will be
      determined using paired pulsed TMS.

      In the second visit, according to the randomized allocation participants will receive either
      Pregabalin 150 mg PO or Placebo. Then, the M.I.N.I. International Neuropsychiatric Interview
      will be performed. One hour after taking the medication, the fNIRS, QST, CPM, PPT and TMS
      evaluations will be repeated, and a new blood sample will be collected. In the third visit, a
      blood sample will be gathered, followed by administration of the corresponding intervention
      according to the randomized allocation. Then, the pain level, PCS, STAI and International
      Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) will be asked again. One hour after taking the
      medication, the fNIRS, QST, CPM, PPT and TMS evaluations will be repeated, and a final blood
      sample will be collected. Participants' guess about blinding will be assessed after each
      intervention. All evaluators will remain blind to the allocation.
    
  