
    
      Speech therapy is the standard of care nationwide in treating individuals who have had a
      stroke and are now experiencing aphasia. Speech therapy can help to rehabilitate language
      skills and supplement function by teaching alternate strategies for communication; however,
      these benefits often leave room for further improvement. Researchers have focused their
      efforts in combining speech therapy with other techniques to boost the effects. In this
      study, we will combine speech therapy with non-invasive brain stimulation, specifically
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), in the hopes of significantly improve
      language in subacute aphasia patients.

      This is a double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled pilot project, where inpatients with
      subacute stroke and aphasia will be recruited from the Penn Institute for Rehabilitation
      Medicine hospital (PIRM). The typical patient admitted to PIRM is approximately 1-2 weeks
      post-stroke. Upon enrollment, baseline aphasia severity will be characterized using
      standardized measures such as the Western Aphasia Battery (WAB), Pyramids and Palm Trees
      (PPT) and Philadelphia Naming Test (PNT) by the patient's speech therapist. Subjects will
      subsequently be randomized to undergo either real or sham tDCS. Subjects will then undergo a
      minimum of 5-consectuive stimulation session (Monday-Friday) and maximum of 10-consecutive
      stimulation sessions (Monday-Friday) of either real or sham tDCS. During stimulation,
      subjects will receive either real tDCS at a current of 2.0 mA for 20 minutes or sham
      stimulation for an equivalent period of time with a 30sec ramp-up/ramp-down. Sham stimulation
      mimics real stimulation closely; most subjects cannot distinguish between real and sham tDCS.
      During stimulation visits subjects will concurrently participate in their regular speech
      therapy treatment. Speech Therapy will be administered by their speech therapist and will
      follow whatever protocol the therapist deems useful for standard of care treatment of their
      aphasia. An immediate follow-up session will also take place, subjects will repeat language
      batteries including the WAB, PPT and PNT.
    
  