
    
      US guidance for epidural anesthesia is yet challenging due to anatomical and technical
      restrictions which are rely on the operator's memory to imitate accurate needle trajectory.
      To address the problem, the study investigators designed and developed the first model of a
      live anatomical holographic marking system using Microsoft HoloLens, an augmented reality
      technology tool, to provide a superimposed US image as an objective alternative to the
      operator's memory. In this study, the proposed methodology will be used to accurate and ease
      directing the needle insertion thereby leading to the success of the epidural placement and
      decrease in procedure time. Based on previously published and data from the SHSC institution,
      mean thoracic epidural analgesia placement required 10 minutes with a standard deviation of 3
      minutes. A reduction in procedure time will reduce patient discomfort, increase block and
      operating rooms efficiency thereby reducing hospital costs as well as used for anatomically
      challenging patients.

      The investigators hypothesize that using augmented reality through HoloLens will lead to
      implementation of a newly developed virtual holographic 'see-through' tool for neuraxial
      anesthetic techniques that will increase needle accuracy and decrease procedure time.

      The main question of the study is to assess the accuracy of the developed application. In
      particular, the study will determine if a holographic marking of the site of needle insertion
      and optimal angulation will increase needle accuracy and reduce procedure time by increasing
      first past success when compared to traditional ultrasound land-mark based techniques.

      The methodology proposed in this study is truly innovative in medical content, involves a
      partnership with software and engineering experts. The study will lead to implementation of a
      new objective tool, validation of which will create an accessible, cost-effective piece of
      technology that will reduce patient morbidity and increase procedure success rate. This
      'state-of-the-art' technology can be used for alternate procedures such as peripheral nerve
      block in patients that cannot be easily positioned for live US techniques. Also, this study
      will generate a knowledge-based approach that can be used as a teaching and clinical tool
      locally at institutions presented with anatomically difficult population (e.g. trauma,
      obstetric patients) at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and around the world, where
      resources are at a minimum.

      This is a prospective cohort randomized trial. With institutional ethical approval and having
      obtained both, written informed consent and verbal assent from participants, 84 thoracic
      epidural events will be assessed. A thoracic spine US 3D Phantom model utilizing open source
      BodyParts3D library anatomy files constructed by group of software and engineering experts,
      and accessible for practice to anesthetists. Our 3D Phantom model has similar palpation
      characteristics to a patient mimicking a standard loss of resistance to saline that occurs on
      entrance of a needle to the spinal canal cavity. The holographic mapping methodology will be
      practiced by anesthetists on the Phantom model until they feel comfortable with the system
      prior the study start. Participants will be recruited from the pre-anesthesia clinic. Only
      participants who meet inclusion criteria will be approached for participation in this study
      (Table 1,inclusion/exclusion criteria, study protocol). The anesthetists will be randomized
      to: Group1, landmark based thoracic epidural technique(control) or, Group 2,
      HoloLens-assisted thoracic epidural technique(intervention), where the needle will be
      inserted using instantly created holographic trajectory. SHS centre has a dedicated regional
      block room and four regional expert anesthetists in the US-guided thoracic epidural technique
      and are comfortable with the HoloLens. Prior to the study start, anesthetists will practice
      needle insertion on the phantom model by attempting needle insertion 20Xeach, or until they
      felt comfortable with the tool, while wearing HoloLens. Other aspects of patient care will
      follow the standard of care at the centre. Data will be collected by anesthetists and include
      patients surgical/abdominal pain assessment during epidural procedure and post-operatively,
      and questionnaire about their experience using the HoloLens.

      Data will be validated to enable optimization and further implementation of novel technology.

        1. Inclusion Criteria/Anesthetists:

             -  Trained in US-guided epidural technique with fellowship

             -  Performed >100 thoracic US-guided epidural procedures

        2. Exclusion Criteria/Patients:

             -  age >18

             -  Lack of verbal patient assent after study introduction

      The control group will be required to determine if hologram mapping and methodology indeed
      provide an accuracy of the holographic trajectory and create a live road map for the needle
      path hidden under the patient's skin. Study paricipants will be withdrawn from the study at
      their request at any time.

      To address this study specific objectives of whether the HoloLens application, that is
      designed to allow a holographic marking of the needle insertion site and optimal angulation
      would 1) decrease procedure time by increasing first past success when used as a guide to the
      thoracic epidural space; and 2) increase needle accuracy when compared to traditional
      ultrasound landmark based techniques, an observer (i.e. anesthesiologist) will document
      following:

        1. the time to procedure completion starting from skin puncture to time at which the Tuohy
           needle is withdrawn;

        2. the number of a needle movements (in any direction/re-direction)

        3. number of skin punctures made;

        4. patients' pain score during the procedure and post-operatively using the numeric rating
           scale (NRS);

        5. any complications during the procedure such as paresthesias, dural punctures;

        6. the need for patient controlled analgesia (PCA) in PACU (constituting failure of
           epidural).
    
  