
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Septic shock is common, often lethal, costly, and associated with prolonged suffering among
      survivors and relatives. Traditionally, intravenous (IV) fluids are used to optimise the
      circulation, and the use of higher volumes is recommended by international guidelines. There
      is, however, no high-quality evidence to support this. In contrast, data from cohort studies,
      small trials and systematic reviews in sepsis and large trials in other settings and patient
      groups suggest potential benefits from restriction of IV fluids in patients with septic
      shock.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The aim of the CLASSIC trial is to assess the benefits and harms of IV fluid restriction vs.
      standard care on patient-important outcome measures in adult intensive care unit (ICU)
      patients with septic shock.

      DESIGN:

      CLASSIC is an international, multicentre, parallel-grouped, open-labelled, centrally
      randomised, stratified, outcome assessor- and analyst-blinded trial.

      POPULATION:

      Adult ICU patients who have septic shock and have received at least 1 L of IV fluid in the
      last 24-hours.

      EXPERIMENTAL INTERVENTION:

      In the IV fluid restriction group no IV fluids should be given in the ICU unless extenuating
      circumstances occur, including signs of severe hypoperfusion, overt fluid loss or a failing
      GI tract with a total fluid input of less than 1 L per day. In these circumstances, IV fluid
      may be given in measured amounts.

      CONTROL INTERVENTION:

      In the standard care group there will be no upper limit for the use of IV fluids.

      OUTCOMES:

      The primary outcome is 90-day mortality; secondary outcomes are serious adverse events in the
      ICU (ischemic events or severe acute kidney injury); days alive without life support at day
      90; days alive and out of hospital at day 90 and mortality, health-related quality of life
      and cognitive function at 1-year.

      TRIAL SIZE:

      A total of 1554 participants will be randomised to allow the detection of a 15% relative risk
      reduction (7% absolute) in the restrictive vs. standard care group in 90-day mortality with a
      power of 80%.
    
  