
    
      This project is quantified as a Feasibility study. The design for the study is a double blind
      randomised control trial. Forty patients with MS above 18 years and who have the ability to
      walk will be randomised to receive either IPC or sham intervention. Potential candidates will
      be identified from the MS clinic and Neuro Day Case Unit of the Royal Hallamshire Hospital
      (RHH) in Sheffield.

      All participants will be identified by MS consultants and nurses from MS clinics and from
      neuroday case unit of Royal Hallamshire Hospital. The patient information sheet will be
      mailed to the participants deemed suitable for the trial by the treating team. The
      participants will be given up to two weeks to consider their participation in the trial.
      Patients wishing to participate will be consented by Dr Siva Nair/Kate Lavender/Dr Ismail,
      following consent Dr Nair/Kate Lavender/ Dr Ismail will ensure the participants are
      randomised into the treatment group or the control group using a random number table. The MSc
      student will act as blinded assessor.

      After obtaining consent, the research team will conduct checks against the inclusion criteria
      to assess whether the participant fulfils the criteria for entry into the study. The
      participant will then be allocated into one of the two groups using a random number table:
      Experimental group or the Sham group. Participants will not be told which group they have
      been randomised to. The researcher will check the participant's blood pressure and heart rate
      while sitting. Then the researcher will request the participant to walk for six minutes as
      they normally walk. The researcher will measure the distance covered in 6 minutes and will
      ask the participant to grade the exertion experienced using Borg's Rating of Perceived
      Exertion scale. The researcher will again measure the blood pressure and heart rate again.

      In the active comparator group The participant will rest in a sitting position for 10 minutes
      before measuring resting blood pressure. Blood pressure will be measured on the arm. IPC will
      be administered to the upper arm using cuff inflation pressures of 30mm Hg above the systolic
      BP using a manual BP. The IPC cycles comprised of three cycles of cuff inflation each lasting
      5 min in duration followed by 5-min period of cuff deflation.

      Within the sham intervention The participant will rest in a sitting position for 10 min
      before measuring resting blood pressure. Blood pressure will be measured on the upper arm.
      Sham intervention will be administered to the right upper limb using a manual BP cuff which
      will be inflated at a pressure 30mmg Hg below the diastolic blood pressure. The sham cycles
      comprised of three cycles of cuff inflation each lasting 5 minutes in duration followed by
      5-min period of cuff deflation.

      The researcher will ask the participant to grade any pain or discomfort experienced during
      the intervention in a scale of 0 (no pain or discomfort) to 10 (Worst pain or discomfort ever
      experience).

      Ten minutes after the end of the cycle the Researcher will again measure the blood pressure
      and heart rate. Then the participant will be asked to walk for six minutes with the
      researcher. The researcher will measure the distance covered in 6 minutes. The researcher
      will ask the participant to grade the exertion experienced using Rating of Perceived
      Exertion. The researcher will measure the blood pressure and heart rate again. We anticipate
      that the patient spend around 2 hours at Royal Hallamshire Hospital for this study.
    
  