
    
      Anterior open bite is commonly related with lower anterior face height increase. Some early
      treatment protocols use appliances that control deleterious habits associated to appliances
      that produce control of the vertical dimension. Usually, these appliances (chincup, removable
      orthopedics) depend on patient's collaboration. Recently, the efficiency and stability of
      anterior open bite treatment with resin blocks bonded to the posterior teeth (build-ups)
      associated with fixed orthodontic appliances was described. They could be considered as a
      promissory alternative for vertical control during anterior open bite treatment. Then, it
      could be thought that the association of bonded spurs with posterior build-ups, instead of
      chincup, would produce vertical control during anterior open bite early treatment without the
      need of patient collaboration. Therefore, the aim of this study is to compare the
      dentoalveolar and skeletal effects of bonded spurs associated with build-ups versus
      conventional bonded spurs in the early treatment of anterior open bite patients.

      For this, patients will be recruited at the Orthodontic Clinic of Bauru Dental School,
      University of São Paulo, Brazil. Fifty patients between 7 and 11 years old diagnosed with
      anterior open bite greater than 1 mm will be prospective and randomly allocated in one of the
      two study group. The experimental group will consist of 25 patients treated with bonded spurs
      associated with build-ups. Control group will consist of 25 patients treated with
      conventional bonded spurs.

      Lateral radiographs and digital dental models will be obtained at the beginning (T1), 12
      months after treatment (T2), and 24 months after treatment (T3). Dentoalveolar and skeletal
      variables will be evaluated from the lateral radiographs in the Dolphin® software. Dental
      casts will be analyzed with the Orthoanalyzer® software to evaluate dentoalveolar anterior
      vertical development, posterior teeth inclinations and arch dimensions. Superimposition of
      digital dental models will be performed to evaluate the relative three-dimensional
      dentoalveolar changes on the maxillary and mandibular arches. Discomfort, pain and quality of
      life will be evaluated using questionnaires.

      After verifying the normal distribution, intergroup comparisons (T1 vs T2 and T1 vs T3) will
      be performed with t test and intragroup comparisons with dependent t test. Results will be
      considered statistically significant at P<0.05.

      The possible harms that could appear with these therapies are related to temporary tongue
      discomfort during the first days after the installation of the appliances. Patients and
      parents will be informed that is it normal. Although it has been reported that the discomfort
      is temporary and transitory and usually patients adapted to the treatment after 3-5 days,
      patients or parents will be able to stop the treatment at any moment.
    
  