
    
      Participation in the study will require one overnight admission and three outpatient visits
      at the Clinical and Translational Research Center at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of
      UPMC (also called the PCTRC). The total length of the study is 7 weeks.

      Subjects will have blood work and an intravenous access line (IV) placed for several blood
      draws during the visit. Subjects will begin fasting at 8pm during the admission, which means
      they may consume only non-caloric fluids (water, unsweetened black coffee or tea, or
      sugar-free beverages). The next morning, fasting blood work will be obtained. The subject can
      then eat breakfast and will receive the study drug, Ravicti. The total time of fasting will
      be 12 hours.

      Dosing for this study will begin at 2 grams/m2/day, which is about one-fifth (1/5) the dose
      used for other disorders. The reason for starting the dose lower in MCAD patients is that
      Ravicti is metabolized by the MCAD enzyme. Following the initial dose, blood will be drawn
      from the IV every two hours for 8 hours. These blood studies will check the levels of Ravicti
      in the subject's blood and monitor how the subject's body metabolizes them. The subject will
      be discharged 8 hours after drug administration. Following discharge, the subject will take
      Ravicti every day for two weeks.

      Visit 2: After two weeks at a dose of 2 grams/m2/day, the subject will fast after 8 PM, and
      will come to the PCTRC the following morning to have an IV placed and blood draws. If the
      subject's blood work from the first visit shows that there is no concern, the subject's dose
      will be increased to 4 grams/m2/day. The subject will receive the first dose at this level in
      the PCTRC with breakfast, and blood samples will be collected from the IV every 2 hours for
      the next 8 hours. The subject will continue on this dose for two weeks.

      Visit 3: After two weeks at a dose of 4 grams/m2/day, the subject will fast after 8 PM, and
      will come to the PCTRC the following morning to have an IV placed and blood draws. If the
      subject's blood work from the previous visit shows that there is no concern, the subject's
      dose will be increased to 6 grams/m2/day. The subject will receive the first dose at this
      level in the PCTRC with breakfast, and blood samples will be collected from the IV every 2
      hours for the next 8 hours. The subject will continue on this dose for two weeks.

      Visit 4 (final): After two weeks at a dose of 6 grams/m2/day, the subject will fast after 8
      PM, and will come to the CTRC the following morning to have one blood draw. The subject will
      return any unused Ravicti, and their study participation will be completed.

      All study procedures will be done at no cost to the subjects.
    
  