
    
      Methodology:

      The study is a single-centre, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group
      trial with one visit. The investigators planned to include at least 64 patients in 4 months.
      Adult patients (at least 21 years old) diagnosed with plantar warts are potential subjects
      for the study.

      Once a potential subject is identified, the field investigator will assess him/her for
      eligibility to enter the study. Then, the potential subject will be provided with full and
      adequate verbal and written information about the nature, purpose, possible risks and
      benefits of the study. If the subject agrees to enroll into the study, a signed informed
      consent will be obtained from him/her.

      All patients are randomly assigned by computer-generated randomization sequence to receive
      either eutectic lidocaine/prilocaine cream (EMLA)® 5% or placebo 60 mins prior to application
      of cryotherapy. The plantar warts are pared with shape blade before applying EMLA®or placebo
      cream. Based on the randomization, an designated dermatology laboratory technician will apply
      either the EMLA® cream 5% or placebo cream to the wart lesions. The cream is applied as a
      thick layer to the wart and to the surrounding 1 to 2 mm and left on for 60 minutes under
      occlusion of Tegaderm dressing. The cream is then removed, and liquid cryotherapy applied
      using cryospray. The lesions are treated with double freeze-thaw cycle. The end point of each
      freeze is a complete ice-ball covering the lesion with 1-2mm peripheral extension. The study
      involved only one treatment with either placebo or EMLA® cream 5% followed by cryotherapy as
      described. No other analgesic other than the EMLA® cream 5% or placebo is allowed at least 2
      hours prior to or during cryotherapy.

      A 100 mm visual analogue pain scale (VAS) is used to denote pain severity ranging from "no
      pain" (0 mm) to the "worst possible pain" (100 mm). The patient will choose a distance from
      the "no pain" anchor closest to the pain experienced during cryotherapy for wart removal.
      Pain is evaluated in each participant using a self-administered VAS immediately after
      cryotherapy treatment.

      Potential Benefits:

      The potential benefits are:

        1. The patients may experience less pain during application cryotherapy.

        2. The application of local anesthetic cream may possibly increase the effectiveness of
           cryotherapy.

      Potential Risks:

      EMLA cream® is known to be relatively safe with minimal side effects. The commonest side
      effect would be local irritation to the skin e.g. redness, itchiness which is reversible
      after removal of the cream. Very rarely (<1000), severe allergic reaction can occur with
      application of EMLA cream® (AstraZeneca information brochure).
    
  