
    
      Research questions:

        1. Does ventilation practice, in particular tidal volume size, varies amongst patients
           without ARDS, patients at risk for ARDS, and patients with mild ARDS?

        2. Are tidal volumes used in patients without ARDS higher than those used in patients with
           ARDS?

        3. Are the outcomes in patients without ARDS dependent on the size of tidal volumes?

             -  Methods: In this international observational study, consecutive patients in the ICU
                under mechanical ventilation are eligible for participation. Patients in
                participating centers will be screened on a daily basis. Patients in mechanical
                ventilation will be included during a 7-day period, from Monday at 8:00 AM to the
                next Monday at 7:59 AM (in time zones of the participating centers). The inclusion
                period will be flexible for participating centers and determined at a later stage
                together with the study-coordinator.

      Times points of data collection:

        1. Demographic data and baseline data, including severity scores (e.g. APACHE II-scores and
           SAPS III) and LIPS, are collected from the clinical files on the day of intubation

        2. Ventilation settings, gas exchange variables and vital parameters are collected once a
           daily in the morning, until ventilation is stopped

        3. Chest radiography data from available chest X-rays (i.e., no extra chest X-rays are
           obtained)

        4. Predefined complications are recorded from medical chart until discharge from ICU or
           death, whatever comes first

        5. Length of ICU and hospital stay, and ICU, hospital and 90-day mortality

             -  Centres: The investigators aim to recruit 40 - 150 centers worldwide.

             -  Ethics Approval: National coordinators will be responsible for clarifying the need
                for ethics approval and applying for this where appropriate according to local
                policy. Centres will not be permitted to record data unless ethics approval or an
                equivalent waiver is in place. The investigators expect that in most, if not every
                participating country, a patient informed consent is not be required.

             -  Monitoring: Due to the observational nature of the study, a DSMB is not be
                necessary.

             -  Study Population: Adult patients in the ICU under mechanical ventilation.

             -  Data Collection: Data will be collected at inclusion, every day during seven days,
                day of ICU and hospital discharge and on day 90. Data will be coded by a patient
                identification number (PIN) of which the code will be kept safe at the local sites.
                The data will be transcribed by local investigators onto an internet based
                electronic CRF.

             -  Sample Size Calculation: We did not perform a formal sample size calculation, seen
                the largely descriptive character of this investigation. We expect to collect data
                from at least 1000 patients, which will be sufficient to test the hypotheses.

             -  Statistical Analysis: Patient characteristics will be compared and described by
                appropriate statistics. Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney U-tests are used to
                compare continuous variables and chi-squared tests are used for categorical
                variables. Data are expressed as means (SD), medians (interquartile range) and
                proportions as appropriate. Comparisons between and within groups are performed
                using one-way ANOVA and post-hoc analyses for continuous variables.

      The primary analysis concerns the determination of (variation of) tidal volume size in
      patients without ARDS. Tidal volume size is compared between predefined patient groups:
      patients at no risk for ARDS, patients at risk for ARDS, patients with mild ARDS, and
      patients with moderate or severe ARDS.

      To identify potential factors associated with outcome like development of ARDS, or worsening
      of ARDS, development of pulmonary complications, duration of ventilation, or death,
      univariate analyses are performed. A multivariate logistic regression model is used to
      identify independent risk factors. A stepwise approach is used to enter new terms into the
      model, with a limit of p < 0.2 to enter the terms. Time to event variables are analyzed using
      Cox regression and visualized by Kaplan-Meier.

      - Organization: The study is conducted by the PROtective VEntilation Network (PROVENet).
      National co-ordinators will lead the project within individual nations and identify
      participating hospitals, translate study paperwork, distribute study paperwork and ensure
      necessary regulatory approvals are in place. They provide assistance to the participating
      clinical sites in trial management, record keeping and data management. Local coordinators in
      each site will supervise data collection and ensure adherence to Good Clinical Practice
      during the trial.
    
  