
    
      Spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH) is a condition caused by non-iatrogenic spinal CSF
      leaks that classically presents with orthostatic headaches. These headaches, in conjunction
      with other presenting symptoms such as nausea, diplopia, tinnitus, and cognitive deficits,
      often result in profound disability. SIH is considerably underreported due to pervasive
      misdiagnosis. Thus, while the estimated annual incidence is reported to be 5 in 100,000, the
      actual number is likely considerably greater.

      The current standard-of-care treatment for SIH cases that are refractory to conservative
      measures (i.e. bed rest and hydration) is percutaneous epidural blood patching (EBP) of the
      spinal CSF leak. Percutaneous EBP can be performed in several ways: 1) with or without
      imaging guidance, 2) targeted to a site of known or suspected CSF leak or non-targeted, and
      3) with or without the addition of fibrin glue sealant.

      The leading theory for the mechanism behind percutaneous EBP treatment of SIH is that it
      creates a durable seal of the CSF leak resulting in normalization of CSF hydrodynamics and a
      resultant diminution in symptoms. Fibrin glue, a sealant used for treatment of unintended
      durotomies during neurosurgery, is thought to improve the likelihood of a successful patch
      over patches containing blood alone. Therefore, imaging-guided targeted delivery of patching
      material containing both blood and fibrin glue directly to the site of CSF leak, a novel
      therapy, is presumed to be the optimal therapy. For this reason, this procedure has become
      standard-of-care at many tertiary-care institutions over the past several years.

      Our group has extensive experience with CT fluoroscopy-guided targeted blood and fibrin glue
      patching of proven CSF leaks in SIH patients. However, significant uncertainty remains with
      regard to the efficacy of this procedure due to a paucity of outcomes data and the absence of
      any prospective RCTs. In fact, nearly all of the current evidence for the treatment of SIH is
      found in the form of retrospective chart reviews. Given the growing recognition of SIH, the
      fact that a known subset of patients will have spontaneous resolution of symptoms, and the
      absence of clear evidence to guide treatment, there is a critical need to evaluate the
      efficacy of targeted patching with blood and fibrin glue with a prospective RCT. Fulfilling
      this unmet need forms the basis for this proposal. While determining the efficacy of the
      other types of EBPs is also important, we aim to begin by evaluating the efficacy of the
      presumed optimal therapy.
    
  