
    
      Age-Related Eye Disease (ARED) is a group of conditions that are associated with an increased
      risk of manifesting later in life, and include: Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD),
      cataract, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, dry eye, and low vision. AMD and cataract are the
      leading causes of visual impairment in the United States. According to the National Eye
      Institute, approximately 1.7 million Americans suffer from some form of AMD, and over 1.5
      million cataract surgeries are performed annually.

      Although there are established risk factors, such as smoking and diabetes, cataracts are
      generally considered a consequence of ageing. The National Eye Institute estimates more than
      half of Americans will have cataracts or have had cataract surgery by the time they reach 80
      years old. Additionally, AMD is the leading cause of central vision loss in developed
      countries and affects 13.4% of all adults aged 60 years and older.

      It is estimated that the number of patients with AMD in the U.S. will double in 2050, based
      on 2010 demographics.

      The severity and irreversibility of ocular pathology have created interest in researching
      ways to either prevent or slow their progression. Nutritional methods have been demonstrated
      to improve microvascular function in hypertensive patients, however diet modifications are
      infrequently well established and maintained in the American population.

      Over the last 15 years, researchers focused on the role of the AREDS vitamin formulation on
      age related eye disease, specifically as it pertains to the development and progression of
      AMD and cataracts. While the benefit of AREDS supplementation has proven beneficial for AMD,
      its role in the prevention of cataract and/or glaucoma development has not been confirmed.
      However, with evidence suggesting that some combination supplements do provide potential risk
      reduction, it is our belief that further studies are needed to elucidate the role of
      combination nutriceuticals for the prevention of cataracts.

      Lycored Nutrient Complex for eyes (LNC for eyes) a.k.a. (LYC-001e) is a commercially
      available multivitamin formula nutraceutical product that also contains a standardized tomato
      extract. Research by Armoza, et al. has shown multiple benefits of tomato extract as it
      pertains to limiting inflammatory processes of the vascular endothelium. Along with the
      previously mentioned benefits of nutraceuticals, diminished endothelial damage may result in
      increased ocular blood flow and alter the progression of Age Related Eye Diseases.

      This is an important research consideration as ocular blood flow has been implicated in the
      disease process of several ophthalmic pathologies including AMD, glaucoma, and diabetes.
    
  