
    
      Clinical sites will be established across the United States for study participation. The
      investigators will conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of 24
      children, aged 6 months through 17 years, with confirmed diagnosis of PDC Deficiency.

      Study participants complete Screening procedures at Visit 1 to confirm eligibility for study
      participation. Screening study procedures include medical history review and physical exam;
      blood and urine collection, and collection of cheek (buccal) cells; training to complete the
      ObsRO daily survey. The ObsRO is a survey developed for this study to evaluate how study
      participants are feeling and functioning in the home setting. The ObsRO survey is completed
      by the study participant parent/caregiver every day during both treatment periods (study
      medication and placebo) of study participation (approximately 9 months). During treatment
      period 1 and 2 (4 months of study medication and 5 months of placebo), the study participant
      will communicate with the study team at least 2 times per month to evaluate the child's level
      of health, and compliance with daily survey completion and taking the study medication.

      Study participants complete Baseline study procedures at Visit 2 prior to randomization to
      treatment. Baseline study procedures include, medical history review and physical exam; blood
      and urine collection; 3 day food record. The study medication will be shipped to the study
      participants home each month of study participation.

      Safety labs are completed during each randomization period (month 3 and month 5). The safety
      labs can be completed at the clinical trial site, or at any standard clinical laboratory.

      Study participants will complete a study visit after each randomization period (month 5 and
      9) to complete study assessments at the same clinical site. Visit study procedures include
      medical history review and physical exam; blood and urine collection; 3 day food record.

      Study participants who complete both treatment periods and did not sustain serious adverse
      events attributable to DCA, will be offered continued access to investigational medication
      DCA through an open-label access program until the study concludes. Study participants must
      sign a separate consent form for participation in the open-label access phase of this
      clinical trial and must complete a study visit every 6 months at the same clinical site for
      study assessments that include medical history review and physical exam, blood and urine
      collection. The study medication will continue to be mailed to the study participant during
      the open-label phase at the same dose received during the blinded phase of the study.

      Study participants will be stratified according to their predicted rate of DCA metabolism and
      clearance, based on genotyping prior to randomization (completed at visit 1 buccal cell
      collection).

      Study participants will continue whatever diet and other "standard of care" is deemed
      appropriate by their local expert clinicians.
    
  