
    
      Auditory verbal hallucinations (AH), a cardinal feature of schizophrenia, are often severely
      distressing and increase the risk for violence and suicide. Although antipsychotic medication
      mostly exerts rapid beneficial effects on this symptom particularly in first-episode patients
      who continue on taking their medication (Sommer et al. 2012), in up to 25%-30% of all
      patients, such hallucinations persist (Shergill et al. 1998). The often progressive course of
      the disease and insufficient treatment adherence due to unwanted side effects significantly
      limit the treatment response. In turn, this lack of treatment efficacy also contributes to
      low treatment adherence which is generally associated with an unfavorable course of
      schizophrenia and increased relapse and readmission rate. New and effective treatments are
      therefore essential to reduce the massive individual burden and psychosocial costs associated
      with schizophrenia. Nevertheless, in the last decades, the hopes for new pharmacological
      treatment options have been disappointed and the pharmaceutical industry has apparently
      withdrawn from the development of new compounds for this disorder. Accordingly, the
      development of non-pharmacological approaches based on an increasing body of
      patho-physiological knowledge is even more needed to pave new ways for the treatment of this
      frequently detrimental symptom of schizophrenia.

      The main objective of the present study is to provide high-level evidence for efficacy and
      safety of continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) in the treatment of auditory
      hallucination (AH) by this first full-size multicenter (3 centers) controlled clinical trial.

      This is a double blind (actually triple blind, i.e. patient, clinical investigator, and
      person who will administer cTBS), randomized, sham-controlled clinical trial to test the
      efficacy and safety of bilateral (successively applied) daily cTBS to the temporoparietal
      cortex on the severity of AH. The study will be conducted in a two-armed parallel design in
      which 50 % of the patients will be treated with the verum stimulation and the other half of
      patients will receive the placebo / sham stimulation.

      The cTBS protocol follows the method by Huang et al. (2005) and our pilot study (Plewnia et
      al. 2014a) to achieve a lasting reduction of cortical excitability. Accordingly, each
      stimulation train (40 s) of cTBS consists of 600 stimuli applied in bursts of 3 pulses at 50
      Hz given every 200 ms (5 Hz). Stimulation intensity is standardized at 80% of the resting
      motor threshold (RMT) and applied successively to each hemisphere. For the first session, the
      order of right and left hemisphere will be determined by randomization and will alternate in
      each following session to preclude order effects.The RMT will be determined using EMG
      recordings from the left and right abductor pollicis brevis and defined as the minimal
      stimulation intensity needed to elicit at least 10 out of 20 motor-evoked-potentials of ≥
      50µV. RMT will be determined once, i.e. before the beginning of treatment period. The cTBS or
      sham treatment will be targeted both temporoparietal cortices halfway between T3/P3 and T4/P4
      (EEG 10/20 system).

      The treatment (active cTBS or sham cTBS) will be administered over a period of 3 consecutive
      weeks at each workday (Monday to Friday), resulting in a total of 15 treatment sessions.
      Ratings will be performed after the last treatment of each week by an independent rater.
      Follow-up visits are planned 1, 3 and 6 months after end of treatment phase to control for
      sustainability of cTBS treatment effects.
    
  