
    
      This study explores the tolerability, safety and treatment response of flexibly dosed
      paliperidone palmitate in approximately 1,000 patients with schizophrenia previously
      unsuccessfully treated with an oral or LAI antipsychotic medication. Non-acute and acute
      patients will be involved in the study. This study consists of a screening phase, a 6-month
      core treatment phase, and an optional extension phase. A transition period of preferably a
      maximum of 4 weeks will be allowed for the previous oral antipsychotic. When switching
      patients from previous LAI antipsychotics, paliperidone palmitate will be initiated in place
      of the next scheduled injection. Patients without source documentation of previous
      risperidone or paliperidone exposure must undergo oral tolerability testing with paliperidone
      ER (3 mg/day) for the 2 days prior to Baseline Visit. Patients who successfully complete the
      6-month core treatment phase and would like to continue treatment with paliperidone palmitate
      may be enrolled in an optional extension phase until paliperidone palmitate is available in
      their respective country or until a maximum duration of 12 months after the last subject has
      completed the 6-month core treatment phase, whichever comes first. Patients will receive,
      without cost, paliperidone palmitate. Patients entering this optional extension phase, will
      receive once monthly injections with paliperidone palmitate. The recommended maintenance dose
      for these monthly injections is 75 mg eq. once monthly but flexible dosing in the range of 50
      to 150 mg eq. once monthly will be allowed. The doctor may flexibly increase or decrease the
      dose preferably by one dosing level (within the range of 50 to 150 mg eq.) according to
      patients' clinical needs. During the extension phase, two types of visits can be
      distinguished: 'assessment visits' and 'treatment-only visits'. At each assessment visit
      (once every 3 months +/- 7 days), patients will receive their injection and will be
      questioned about adverse events (AEs). Body weight will also be assessed. Paliperidone
      palmitate will be given once monthly by injection in either the upper arm or buttocks muscle,
      but start every time with upper arm application. The recommended maintenance dose for these
      monthly injections is 75 mg eq., range could be between 50 to 150 mg eq.
    
  