
    
      Non-interventionel study Total duration: 12 months (preparation, recruitment, analysis)
      Recruitment period: 6 months Duration of monitoring per patient: no monitoring

      Main objective: to assess the current prevalence of addictive co-morbidities in
      opiate-dependent subjects receiving Opiate Substitution Treatment (OST) for at least 6
      months.

      Secondary objective: to compare patients being treated using OST who currently have a
      co-addiction (with the exception of tobacco dependence) with patients being treated with OST
      who do not currently have a co-addiction, based on pharmacological and clinical
      characteristics (for pharmacological characteristics: pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenetic
      analyses as part of an ancillary study into only those patients being treated with
      methadone).

      Main judgment criterion: Presence or absence of co-addictions (except tobacco dependence),
      determined using assessment tools.

      The secondary assessment criteria shall be: sociodemographic data, data about opiate
      dependence, data about other substance use disorders, data about gambling practice,
      psychopathological data (impulsivity, ADHD), pharmacokinetic data and pharmacogenetic data.

      Statistical analysis: For the main judgment criterion, a rate of prevalence of current
      co-addictions will be estimated using a 95% confidence interval.

      Descriptive analyses will be carried out for all variables gathered and along with point
      estimates and 95% confidence intervals for qualitative and quantitative variables.

      The second stage will involve univariate exploratory analyses. The two groups of patients
      will be compared according to the presence or absence of co-addictions. For the quantitative
      variables Student tests or non parametric tests will be used. For the qualitative variables,
      we will use Chi-squared or Fisher tests.

      Finally, multivariate analyses will be carried out. The factors that have been previously
      identified as a being linked to co-addictions (with the threshold p = 0.2) will the be
      incorporated into logistic regression models. The best model, wich enables explanation of the
      co-addictions will then be selected using likelihood ratio tests.
    
  