
    
      For a period of four weeks, during the spring term of 2020, children from four primary
      schools in Uppsala municipality will receive a new school lunch menu plan which has been
      optimized through linear programming to be as similar as possible to the baseline menu while
      having about 30% lower greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE), being nutritionally adequate, and not
      more expensive.

      During the fall of 2019, a meeting was held with the public meal administration in the
      municipality of Uppsala. The research team described the OPTIMAT project, including the
      previously developed strategy for optimizing and implementing more climate friendly lunches
      in schools. Following this meeting, the municipality agreed to take part in the project. The
      municipality's meal planner proposed four primary schools for the study, presently having the
      highest food related GHGE in public meals in the municipality. To be eligible, the
      intervention schools were required to have on-site kitchens as well as being able to provide
      electronic recipes for a standard four-week menu. All proposed schools fulfilled these
      criteria and approved participation.

      Recipes for an original (baseline) four-week school lunch menu plan previously served at the
      recruited schools were obtained through the municipality's electronic meal planning system.
      The foods included and amounts are considered as the baseline food supply. Each food item
      included has a code that can be coupled to the Swedish national food database and a national
      climate database for foods containing life cycle data for each food item. This baseline food
      supply will be optimized using linear programming. The optimized food list, not including new
      foods or excluding any foods from the baseline list, will be handed to the municipality's
      meal planner who develops a new menu plan for the intervention using all foods on the
      optimized list.

      To assess the effect of the new menu plan, data on food waste and consumption will be
      collected daily in each intervention school four weeks before (baseline) as well as during
      the four-week intervention with a one-week brake between measurement periods. Kitchen staff
      will perform daily weighting (using school kitchen scales) of all food prepared in the
      kitchen (prepared food); the share of the prepared food that is not eaten and has to be
      thrown away (serving waste); the share that can be saved (leftover food); and plate waste.
      Total plate waste, plate waste per pupil, serving waste, total consumption, and consumption
      per pupil will be considered as the primary outcomes as they are regarded as directly related
      to the pupils' acceptability of the new menu. Data on school meal satisfaction will also be
      collected through an anonymous online questionnaire at baseline and during the last week of
      the intervention period. Pupils in grade 8 will answer the questionnaire containing ten
      questions related to the school lunch.
    
  