
    
      Many studies demonstrated immune differences between men and women suffering from acute and
      chronic inflammatory processes. In cases of acute inflammatory diseases, such as sepsis,
      females have better prognosis comparing to males (1,24-28).

      On the contrary, worse prognosis for women is observed in chronic inflammatory diseases such
      as asthma or cystic fibrosis (8-10,12,13,29).

      Sex-depended inflammatory response was attributed to the influence of sex hormones on the
      immune system. (2,15-18). However recent studies revealed differences in the clinical outcome
      but also in inflammatory markers between boys and girls suffering from acute and chronic
      inflammatory diseases (19-23). Sex hormone levels in prepubertal children are particularly
      low and insufficient to explain the gender differences observed in inflammatory conditions
      from neonates to the elderly, suggesting the contribution of another mechanism, such as the
      influence of genes situated on the sex chromosomes and involved in the inflammatory response.

      The aim of this work is to identify the potential X-linked mechanisms responsible for some of
      the differences between boys and girls in the inflammatory response, making the girls more at
      risk of developing complications in chronic inflammatory diseases and the boys more at risk
      of lethal complications in severe acute inflammatory diseases like sepsis. Several genes
      coding for innate immunity components are linked to the X chromosome such as diapedesis
      molecule CD99 or TLR pathway proteins genes. (30-33). X chromosome is also highly enriched in
      genes encoding micro RNAs (miRNAs) involved in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene
      expression which play a critical role in immune inflammatory response (34-36).

      Thus, in order to discriminate more precisely the role of the X chromosome relatively to the
      sex steroids in the sex-specific inflammatory response, some innate immune functions related
      to X-linked genes will be evaluated in whole blood from prepubertal children of both sexes,
      suffering from acute inflammatory processes such as pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia
      coli, pneumonia with pleural effusion caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae or sepsis. We will
      also study the correlations between inflammatory and clinical markers of the disease activity
      to identify prognosis indicators depending on the sex. Additionally, to delineate microbiome
      contribution, we will study the gut microbiota in stool samples obtained from the recruited
      patients.
    
  