
    
      Fertility and having a child is a significant experience for most individuals; however, many
      struggle to achieve pregnancy. Infertility is defined as the inability of a couple to
      conceive after 12 months of regular unprotected sexual intercourse or to carry a pregnancy to
      term. It is estimated that 10-15 % of the couples globally experience infertility. In Turkey,
      it is estimated that 10-20% of the couples are diagnosed with infertility. In the evaluation
      of infertile couples, hysterosalpingography (HSG) is a simple, safe, and minimally invasive
      radiologic procedure to visualize uterine cavity and tubes after contrast enhancement. HSG
      plays an important diagnostic role in finding the cause of infertility and in deciding the
      line of management. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of education and
      counseling on anxiety and pain before the treatment of women who will have HSG procedure with
      the diagnosis of infertility.

      This randomized controlled study was conducted at Gulhane Training and Research Hospital,
      Obstetrics and Gynecology clinic between May 2016 and January 2017. Volunteer women
      undergoing HSG as part of infertility evaluation have been included. Participants were
      randomly assigned to the intervention or the control group using a computer-generated list. A
      data collection form including socio-demographic and obstetric characteristics such as age,
      educational status, duration of infertility, previous pregnancies, births, abortion/curettage
      numbers, Spielberger State Anxiety Scale and Visual Analog Scale scores was used for each
      patient. After obtaining written informed consent, the data collection form, Spielberger
      State Anxiety Scale and VAS scoring scale were applied to both groups by face to face
      interview during the day giving appointment for HSG. Immediately after the questionnaires
      were applied, the nurse gave individual education and counseling were giving by the nurse
      researcher to intervention group for 30 minutes. Participants in the control group received
      standard care (verbal information about procedure and a short written information about the
      procedure) and no intervention (education and counseling) was performed.The IBM SPSS
      (Statistical package for the Social Sciences) 22.0 package program was used to evaluate the
      data obtained in the study.
    
  