
    
      The study set out to evaluate the efficacy of two antibiotic prophylaxis regimens in patients
      with facial fractures admitted to the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Traumatology
      services of the Onofre Lopes University Hospital attached to the Federal University of Rio
      Grande do Norte.This clinical study was prospective, randomized and controlled. Patients
      underwent surgery for facial fracture reduction and fixation under general anesthetic. Prior
      to surgery, patients were randomly divided into two groups. Group 1 patients each received 2g
      of Cefazolin (Cefazolin Sodium - Ampoule- 1g - Genéricos Brasil), administered intravenously
      but none was administered in the post-operative period. Group II patients received the same
      dose prior to the operation but in the post-operative period they also received 4 additional
      1 g doses of Cefazolin intravenously, completing a 24 period of antibiotic prophylaxis. In
      the case of operations that lasted for more than 4 hours, an additional 1g dose was given.

      The surgical operations involved intra and extra-oral interventions and when required
      internal rigid fixation was undertaken using titanium plates and screws. Patients were given
      advice on oral hygiene procedures to be followed in the post-operative period that included
      chlorhexidine (0.12%) oral rinses and care to be taken with the surgical wounds.

      Post-operative follow up was conducted in the 1st, 2nd, 4th and 6th weeks. The criteria used
      to determine the presence of infection were: a) pus drainage at the fracture site or in the
      vicinity of the surgical intervention site; b) increased swelling 7 days after the operation;
      c) presence of a fistula in the area of the surgical intervention or at the site of the
      fracture, with active drainage; d) other clinical features observed by the evaluator
      including typical signs of infection such as fever, edema, and localized redness.

      Descriptive analysis was made of the independent variables, namely, age, sex, presence of
      systemic diseases, trauma cause, drug use (tobacco, alcohol, marijuana, crack, cocaine ,
      etc.), the time lapse between the trauma event and the surgical operation, length of the
      operation, and the measures adopted when infections were detected.
    
  