
    
      1. Statement of the health problem or issue

           Dialysis is a life-saving treatment for patients with kidney failure. However, over 20%
           of patients die within one year of starting dialysis from heart disease or stroke.

           One reason that so many dialysis patients die from heart diseases and strokes may be
           related to the dialysis treatment itself. During dialysis, blood pressure often drops,
           and the flow of blood and oxygen to the heart and brain is reduced. Over time, this can
           cause significant damage to vital organs and result in heart attacks, strokes, and even
           death due to cardiovascular related causes.

           Our team was the first to show that the heart and brain become starved of blood and
           oxygen during dialysis. We and others have shown that lowering the temperature of
           dialysis (to just below the patient's own body temperature) improves blood flow and
           protects the heart and brain during dialysis. We will now determine if this method can
           prevent heart attacks and strokes in a large population of dialysis patients.

        2. Objective of your project

           The purpose of this study is to test the effect of outpatient hemodialysis centers
           randomized to (1) a personalized temperature-reduced dialysate protocol or (2) a
           standard-temperature dialysate protocol for 4 years on cardiovascular-related death and
           hospitalizations.

        3. How will you undertake your work?

           We will conduct a cluster randomized controlled trial. Our study will include ~7500
           dialysis patients in 84 dialysis centres across Ontario. The name of this study is
           MyTEMP. Patients in 42 of the 84 dialysis centres will be in the treatment group and
           they will receive personalized dialysis (0.5-0.9ºC below their measured body
           temperature). Patients in the other 42 centres will be in the control group and will
           receive standard dialysis at a fixed temperature of 36.5ºC. This study will last for
           four years. At the end of four years, we will compare the rate of cardiovascular-related
           deaths, heart attacks, strokes, and heart failure in the treatment and control groups.

        4. What is unique/innovative about your project?

           We usually need to study a large number of patients in a clinical trial to reliably
           understand the effects of a treatment. Normally, a study with 7500 patients would cost
           more than $15 million dollars to conduct; however, our study will provide a reliable
           answer to the question being asked and cost less than $2 million. This is because we
           will use data that is already being collected by our healthcare system. For example,
           when a patient is hospitalized for a heart attack or stroke, this information is
           recorded in a secure healthcare database. We will be able to analyze these healthcare
           data at the end of the study (and link patient outcomes to the type of dialysis
           treatment received (i.e. treatment or control)). This innovative study design means that
           our study will be much larger (but cost much less) than a traditional clinical trial.

           This pragmatic trial includes all patients who receive chronic in-centre hemodialysis
           patients in participating Ontario centres. High-risk patients with multiple
           comorbidities, including cognitive impairments or disabilities, who are often excluded
           from trials because of their high-risk status are eligible for participation in the
           MyTEMP trial. By including patients from a variety of medical, ethnic, geographic, and
           socioeconomic backgrounds, the results of our trial should be broadly generalizable.

        5. What is the impact of the proposed research?

      Currently many patients worldwide receive hemodialysis with a dialysate temperature of 36.5ºC
      to 37.0ºC. Lowering the dialysate temperature below a core body temperature is a promising
      intervention that has the potential to reduce the risk of cardiovascular-related mortality
      and major adverse cardiovascular events in patients on hemodialysis.

      At four years of follow-up, we believe there will be at least a 20% relative risk reduction
      in the composite outcome of time to first cardiovascular-related mortality and
      hospitalization for major cardiovascular events among centres that use a temperature-reduced
      personalized hemodialysis protocol compared with centres that use a standard-temperature
      hemodialysis protocol.
    
  