
    
      Children cancers are rare and survival rate are around 75%. 1 French adult out of 850 is
      considered as a children-cancer-survivor. Chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgical
      complications can lead to a late risk of death estimated in literature at 14%. A regularly
      support, a therapeutic education, a support of the psychological difficulties have a positive
      impact on the quality of life and on long-term health for patients surviving to a cancer.
      Many countries developed structures able to take care for a long term this kind of patients.
      In France, such structures are going to be developed.

      The register of cancers concerning children of Rh么ne-Alpes (ARCERRA) exists since 1987,
      registering around 150 new cases a year. They coordinated, from 2011 to 2014, a multicentric
      study with a long term follow up in oncology (SALTO). 150 patients diagnosed between 1987 and
      1992 were included, and the study demonstrated the feasibility and utility for patients and
      their physicians of a long-term follow-up coupled with an interview with a psychologist in
      Rh么ne-Alpes-Auvergne.

      The primary objective of SALTO-2 project is to know the becoming of young adults that
      survived to pediatric cancer, diagnosed in Rh么ne-Alpes between 1993 and 1999. The second
      objective is in one hand to study the psychological becoming and on another hand, to
      ameliorate their lifestyle thanks to different documents created specially for them.

      This is a prospective cohort study of patients surviving cancer (excluding leukemia)
      diagnosed between 1993 and 1999 in the Rh么ne- Alpes region before age 15 years. A
      questionnaire concerning their general situation and their professional life, their shape,
      and their quality of life will be sent to them. A consultation with an oncologist and an
      internist if possible will be planned. The two physicians will adapt the consultation
      according to the SFCE (French society of struggle against cancers and leukemia of children
      and teenagers) recommendations. They will give the two SFCE's documents.

      After that, a consultation with a psychologist will be proposed, with a questionnaire MINI
      evaluating psychological aspect.

      Two years later, a new questionnaire will be delivered to the patients, to check the new
      events during this period. It will be added to a satisfaction survey, allowing the measure of
      documents' impact.

      The results will allow the description of the long term impacts for these patients, to answer
      their eventually questions.
    
  