
    
      Informed consent will be obtained before colonoscopy that includes the known risks and
      benefits related to the procedure according to the standard protocol of the physician and
      institution.

      A separate informed consent document to participate in the study specific to the approach,
      technology will be executed.

        1. Operator's training before the beginning of the study

           Thirty short pCLE video sequences will be sent to each investigator. Video sequence
           contains pCLE images of mucosal inflammation in a patient with UC. For each video the
           correlation with histology is known. The investigator will have to recognize the
           different pCLE inflammation criteria (Annex 2) and a 90% correct response rate will be
           required.

        2. Endoscopic procedures

      MACROSCOPIC examination: colonoscopy

      Bowel preparation according to standard protocol was used for colonoscopy. During the
      colonoscopy, the rectal and colonic mucosal will be analysed with high resolution white light
      (with or without virtual chromoendoscopy). Before pCLE examination and according to current
      guidelines, targeted biopsies will be taken in every suspected area of dysplasia for specific
      histological examination.

      MICROSCOPIC examination: pCLE (Cellvizio)

      pCLE examination will be done after intravenous injection of fluoresceine (2.5 ml), with the
      monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory functions. Three defined area will be analysed:
      right colon, left colon (40cm from the anus) and the rectum (10cm). Real time analysis and
      re-reading after the colonoscopy will be done for the video sequences recording during the
      procedure. A double-blind analysis for each video sequence will be done by two experienced
      endoscopists.

      Rectal and colonic biopsies

      For each location (right colon, left colon and rectum), 4 macroscopic area will be
      indentified (anterior, posterior, left and right), recorded (endoscopic images) and the
      mucosal inflammation will be scored according to the Mayo's and UCEIS classifications. Then,
      the probe using for the pCLE procedure will be applied on these 4 different areas and video
      sequences will be recorded ("optical biopsies"). At the end of the procedure, biopsies will
      be taken from each area. Each biopsy will have a registration number and the corresponding
      pCLE video sequence will be specified.

      For each location (right colon, left colon, rectum), the final score of inflammation
      (macroscopic or microscopic) will be define by the higher score recorded in the 4 areas
      (anterior, posterior, left and righ).

      Sensibility to change

      For the patients with active UC in group 2 (Mayo' sub-score 2 or 3), a rectosigmoidoscopy
      should be performed 8 weeks after starting therapy, according to current french guidelines.
      In order to compare the pCLE examination before and after adalimumab therapy in the group 2,
      each area will be identified with a submucosal injection of Indian ink.
    
  