
    
      Symptomatic hand osteoarthritis (HOA) affects 8-16% of the general population above 50 years
      and involves interphalangeal (IP) joints. HOA symptoms include pain, stiffness and are
      responsible for disability and substantial burden. Erosive HOA (EHOA) (10% prevalence among
      symptomatic HOA from the general population and 40-50% prevalence in tertiary centers) is the
      most severe HOA phenotype characterized by inflammatory flares, more IP joint destruction,
      pain, soft swelling joints (ie, synovitis), and more disability (similar to rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA)) than its non-erosive counterpart.

      Current symptomatic pharmacological treatments of HOA or EHOA have a poor efficacy on pain
      (ie, paracetamol) or safety issues (ie, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)) in
      this aging population with frequent comorbidities. Systemic and joint inflammation contribute
      to EHOA but 4 studies using TNF inhibitors, 2 using hydroxychloroquine, 1 using methotrexate
      and 1 using a new anti-IL1α/β failed to show any efficacy on pain in HOA or in EHOA.
      Therefore, innovative therapeutic approaches are awaited.

      Stimulation of the vagus nerve (VNS), belonging to parasympathetic system, dampens
      pro-inflammatory cytokines production by splenic macrophages, through to the binding of
      acetylcholine neurotransmitter to α7nicotinic receptor on macrophages: this is the
      cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway (CAP). VN stimulation (VNS) by cervical implantable
      device activating CAP has given promising results in refractory RA patients. Beyond its
      anti-inflammatory effects, VNS is analgesic in chronic pain disorders (headache,
      fibromyalgia). However, the use of such implantable device is limited by the need of cervical
      surgery and subsequent potential side effects.

      Besides implantable devices, VNS may be also performed using transcutaneous VNS (tVNS) of the
      ascendant auricular branch of the VN that selectively innervates the cutaneous zone of cymba
      conchae at the left ear. Auricular tVNS avoids invasive neurosurgery and its potential side
      effects and is less expensive than implantable VNS, making it an attractive candidate for
      neurostimulation. Auricular tVNS has given positive results in chronic migraine and is
      currently tested in RA, Crohn's disease, widespread pain, irritable bowel syndrome and
      musculoskeletal pain related to systemic lupus.

      We hypothesize that auricular tVNS using a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS)
      device could be a novel, simple and well-tolerated analgesic and anti-inflammatory treatment
      of symptomatic (i.e., painful) and inflammatory EHOA.

      ESTIVAL is a 12 weeks randomized sham-controlled trial investigating the symptomatic efficacy
      and the safety of tVNS in patients with symptomatic and inflammatory EHOA.

      tVNS will be performed using an active or sham transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation
      (TENS) device connected to an auricular electrode stimulating the cutaneous area of the left
      ear innervated by the auricular ascendant branch of the vagus nerve.

      Exploratory and ancillary studies will include i) changes of serum biomarkers of inflammation
      and of cartilage degradation that will be assess at inclusion and at week 12 ii) hand MRI at
      W0 and W12 of the most symptomatic joint at inclusion for HOAMRIS socring at W0 and W12
    
  