
    
      This study will examine the effectiveness of Cistanche Total Glycosides(CTG) in treating
      patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) - a fatal neurological degenerative disease
      that causes adult-onset, progressive motor neurons loss in the spinal cord, brain stem and
      motor cortex. Patients develop progressive wasting and weakness of both upper and lower
      limbs, bulbar and respiratory muscles. Usually death from respiratory failure typically is
      within 3-5 years of diagnosis. Although there are various treatments for ALS, riluzole is the
      only approved treatment to delay the disease progression. Cistanche Total Glycosides is an
      approved drug that has protective effects. It acts anti-apoptosis by activating several
      protective pathways, stimulates neuronal differentiation of adult neural stem cells in the
      brain, and improves long-term recovery. CTG is a highly attractive candidate for the
      treatment of neurodegenerative conditions such as ALS.

      Patients 18 to 65 years of age who have had mild to moderately severe ALS for 0.5 to 2 years
      of duration may be eligible for this study. Candidates will be screened with a medical
      history and possible review of medical records, physical examination, blood test, urine and
      stool analyses, electrocardiogram, electrophysiological examination, neurological imaging
      and, for women, a pregnancy test.

      Participants will have drug therapy according to randomized number. One group receives CTG
      while other group receives placebo. For the procedure, patients are given a medication to
      lessen anxiety and any discomfort. Patients receive drugs for 9 months. The CTG dosage is
      1.8g/day. Physical examination and interview, Appel ALS scale and ALS-Functional Rating Scale
      will be done in 28 days and 3, 6, 9months. Electrophysiological examination will be tested
      per 3 months. Blood samples will be collected on treat28 days and 3, 6, 9months.
    
  