
    
      Bronchiectasis is defined by the presence of permanent and abnormal dilation of the bronchi.
      This usually occurs in the context of chronic airway infection causing inflammation. The main
      clinical manifestation is a productive cough. Bronchiectasis is currently nearly always
      diagnosed using high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scanning. The main diagnostic
      features are: 1) internal diameter of a bronchus is wider than its adjacent pulmonary artery;
      2) failure of the bronchi to taper; and 3) visualization of bronchi in the outer 1-2 cm of
      the lung fields.

        -  From a series of benzamide derivatives, roflumilast
           (3-cyclo-propylmethoxy-4-difluoromethoxy-N-[3,5-di-chloropyrid-4-yl]-benzamide) was
           identified as a potent and selective PDE4 inhibitor. It inhibits PDE4 activity from
           human neutrophils. PDE4 inhibitors were demonstrated to inhibit inflammatory cytokine
           and mediator release from inflammatory cells. In addition, it inhibits neutrophil
           chemotaxis or migratory activity. Lastly, PDE4 inhibitor promotes apoptosis of these
           cells .

        -  Studies have demonstrated the efficacy of roflumilast in patients with both asthma and
           COPD, where roflumilast improved lung function and reduced exacerbation rates.

        -  Bronchiectasis is a chronic destructive lung disease, which is characterised by
           persistent bacterial colonization, bronchial inflammation, reduced mucociliaryclearance,
           and in some patients progressive tissue damage. There is evidence of an associated
           influx of neutrophils into the lungs of these patients , resulting in the expectoration
           of large volumes of purulent sputum containing neutrophils and their products, so In
           patients with bronchiectasis, there is also neutrophilic inflammation as in COPD.

             -  The PDE4 inhibitor, roflumilast, was evaluated in short term clinical trial of
                non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis. It has been shown symptomatic improvement from
                baseline Park J. found that 16 weeks Roflumilast treatment in patients with non
                cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis significantly reduce CAT score and improve the
                symptoms of non-CF bronchiectasis.
    
  