
    
      TEMPO2 is an multicentre, prospective randomized open label, blinded-endpoint (PROBE)
      controlled trial of thrombolysis with low dose Tenecteplase (TNK-tPA) versus standard of
      care. A total of 1274 patients will be enrolled, at approximately 50 sites worldwide.

      TEMPO-2 will enroll patients within a 12 hour time window with a NIHSS score of <6 and an
      ASPECTS >7. All patients will be evaluated clinically and then undergo brain imaging using CT
      followed immediately by a CT angiogram. Patients must have an intracranial occlusion on CTA
      or CTP.

      Randomization will be 1:1 to TNK-tPA (experimental) or standard of care antiplatelet agents
      (control).

      Experimental: TNK-tPA (0.25mg/kg) given as a single, intravenous bolus immediately upon
      randomization. Experimental treatment will be administered as a single intravenous bolus over
      1-2 minutes.

      Control: Patients will be treated with standard of care based antiplatelet treatment - choice
      at the discretion of the investigator. Low dose aspirin (single agent) will be the choice of
      most physicians, some will chose to use the combination of aspirin and clopidogrel. The local
      investigator to chose which antithrombotic regime should be used

      All patients will be treated within 90 minutes of the first slice of the baseline CT.
      Patients will undergo a study CT angiogram of the intracranial circulation between 4-8 hours
      after treatment to determine whether the occluded artery has recanalized or not. In sites
      where MRI/MRA is routinely used this can be substituted for CT/CTA. Any patient who has
      neurological worsening should have standard of care brain imaging completed to rule out
      intracranial hemorrhage.

      All patients will have standard of care medical management on an acute stroke unit and
      undergo follow-up imaging at 24 hours with CT or MR. Use of MR will be encouraged.

      Patients will be assessed at 24 hours and at Days 5 and 90. The Day 90 Outcomes will be
      performed by a blinded assessor.
    
  