
    
      In the Pediatric Gastroparesis Registry (PGpR), we will collect detailed epidemiological,
      clinical, psychological, and patient outcome data with the goal of classifying patients with
      gastroparesis and gastroparesis-like syndromes into pathophysiologically defined phenotypes.

      The Primary Objective is to create a national prospective registry of children and
      adolescents with gastroparesis and gastroparesis-like syndrome (symptoms of gastroparesis but
      normal gastric emptying) to include:

        1. Demographic, clinical, psychological, nutritional characteristics, physiological
           measures, and serial assessments of symptoms over 3 years while receiving clinical care;

        2. Establish a Biorepository of plasma, serum, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC),
           GI mucosal biopsies (in those undergoing upper GI endoscopy), urine and stool collected
           from the children and adolescents in this registry which will allow for future analyses
           such as cytokines, bacterial DNA and microbiome to investigate the etiology and
           pathogenesis of gastroparesis in children.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine what factors, if any, play a role in the outcomes of children who do not
           improve within two years of diagnosis

        2. To assess the spectrum of symptom severity of the cardinal gastroparesis symptoms:
           nausea, vomiting, early satiety, postprandial fullness (and upper abdominal pain, if
           present) in children with gastroparesis

        3. To assess several areas of gastric motility in pediatric patients with symptoms of
           gastroparesis (e.g., intragastric meal distribution, global gastric emptying)

        4. To capture the clinical symptomatic course (outcome) of pediatric patients followed in
           the registry

        5. To determine whether gastroparesis symptoms are correlated with gastric emptying in a
           pediatric population

        6. To characterize abdominal pain in patients with gastroparesis and gastroparesis-like
           syndrome by using questionnaires, water load satiety testing and quantitative sensory
           testing (QST)

        7. Determine the prevalence of hypermobility spectrum disorders in pediatric patients with
           gastroparesis

        8. To determine if the volume of water consumed during the water load satiety test is an
           indirect measure of gastric accommodation

        9. To determine if the water load satiety test is associated with an increased severity of
           gastroparesis symptoms (fullness, bloating, abdominal pain, etc).

       10. To compare the intragastric meal distribution during scintigraphy to symptoms of early
           satiety, postprandial fullness in patients with symptoms of gastroparesis

       11. Define immune cell profiles, cytokine induction and epigenetic changes in diabetic and
           idiopathic gastroparesis
    
  