
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a connective tissue disease characterized by vasculopathy,
      fibrosis, and autoimmunity. The prognosis of the disease depends on the nature and severity
      of organ involvement. Patients with SSc suffer from digital ulceration, arthritis,
      progressive skin tightening, and joint contractures that cause pain and limitation of limb
      function. The cardiopulmonary system may also be severly affected by SSc in the form of
      interstitial lung disease and pulmonary arterial hypertension, which leads to reduction in
      exercise capacity and symptomatic dyspnea. Gastrointestinal involvement by SSc may cause
      malnutrition, and SSc renal crises may result in renal failure. In addition, cosmetic
      disfigurement resulting from facial and limb skin involvement may lead to social isolation,
      mood problems, and significant work disability.

      It has been reported that health related quality of life (HRQoL) is significantly impared in
      SSc patients compared to the general population. Moreover, the degree of impairment in SSc
      patients was comparable to those who suffered from other chronic illnesses such as heart and
      lung disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and depression. However, there were no studies
      yet comparing the HRQoL of SSc patients with other rheumatic diseases, such as rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Especially, information regarding the
      impact of SSc on functioning and HRQoL in Korean patients is lacking.

      Therefore, the investigators plan to compare the functioning and HRQoL of patients with SSc
      with other rheumatic diseases, such as RA, SLE, and Sjogrens's syndrome, and healthy
      controls. A validated Korean version of the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 (SF36)
      questionnaire and the EuroQol five dimensions questionnaire (EQ-5D) will be used in this
      study.
    
  