
    
      This project aims to study the clinical performance of a new composite restoration material
      (Filtek Silorane®) compared to a conventional composite restoration material (Ceram X®).

      Amalgam and composite are the most commonly used restorative materials, with the number of
      composite restorations increasing over the past 20 years. Composite restorative materials
      have improved considerably over the years. They have almost reached the same resistance to
      wear as amalgam, and are as a consequence now also used for molar restorations.

      The main reasons for replacing composite restorations are fractures and caries associated
      with the restorations.

      To reduce the risk of caries a new composite material Filtek Silorane® with reduced
      polymerization shrinkage has been developed.

      Extensive laboratory studies have been performed on the new material, but the clinical
      attributes have yet to be disclosed.

      The study will be carried out as a randomized, double blinded, longitudinal study, with
      assessment of the restorations after one year.

      The project includes 72 patients, 158 teeth. Most of the patients have been recruited from
      the Treatment Planning Clinic at the dental school in Aarhus. After giving their consent to
      take part in the study, the teeth are randomized into two treatment groups. Multi surface
      restorations of both upper and lower molars and premolars are performed

      The treatment procedure is:

      The patients are offered local anesthetic before treatment start. The cavity is excavated and
      filled according to the guidelines for composite restorations. An impression of the cavity is
      taken before and after it has been filled. After treatment bw-radiographs are taken.

      The control procedure is:

      The restoration is evaluated according to marginal adaptation, cavo surface marginal
      discoloration, approximal contact, fractures, caries associated with restorations and
      postoperative hypersensitivity. The controls will take place after three weeks and one year.
    
  