
    
      The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to examine the
      effectiveness of a video-based KPD education intervention to improve knowledge,
      self-efficacy, concerns, and informed decision-making about KPD among potential live kidney
      donor and kidney transplant patients.

      There will be equal allocation of LKDs and intended recipients to both KPD education
      conditions: (1) Usual Care (UC) group and (2) UC plus video-based KPD education group. All
      enrolled LKDs and intended recipients will complete a baseline survey and another survey 2
      weeks post-intervention. Additionally, follow-up data will be gathered on KPD
      decision-making, participation, and reasons for non-participation at 3 months
      post-intervention.

      Settings and target population:

      The study will be conducted at three kidney transplant programs in the United States: Beth
      Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC; Boston, MA), the Medical University of South Carolina
      (MUSC; Charleston, SC), and Erie County Medical Center (ECMC; Buffalo, NY). BIDMC will act as
      the coordinating center for this study and will be responsible for study design, oversite,
      reporting, updates, and final data analysis. MUSC and ECMC will rely on the CCI at BIDMC for
      review. This study will target potential LKDs and their intended recipients.

      Randomization:

      Random assignment to the usual education or usual education plus video intervention group
      will occur within the 48 hours following completion of the baseline survey. The BIDMC study
      coordinator will oversee randomization after receiving an automated notification of baseline
      completion by participants from all study sites. Randomization will be done with the LKD,
      with the randomized group matched to the intended recipient. We have decided to ensure that
      the randomized group is the same for any LKD-recipient pairs to reduce the risk of
      contamination, which is a critical threat to internal validity in this type of study. For
      instance, if a LKD was assigned to the KPD video-based education group and their intended
      recipient was assigned to the UC group, there is the real possibility that there would be
      some diffusion of treatments in which the LKD discusses some elements of the intervention
      with the recipient and this, in turn, may influence the recipient's living donation and KPD
      knowledge, concerns, and decision-making processes. A simple unrestricted random allocation
      sequence will be used. We will use REDCap to generate the randomization sequence, which will
      be accessible to the site coordinators and transplant educators. The PI and Co-Investigators
      will be blinded to the subjects' allocation assignment.

      Interventions:

      Usual Care (UC) Living Donation and KPD Education:

      Potential LKDs and recipients will receive living donation and KPD-specific education as they
      usually do at their respective kidney transplant programs.

      Typically, potential LKDs are informed of their incompatibility during a phone call with the
      donor nurse coordinator. At this time, the KPD option is described and the potential LKD is
      provided with kidney paired donation information. This information is available in English
      and Spanish. For those who do not have internet access, the written educational materials are
      mailed. The potential LKD is advised to call the donor nurse coordinator with any questions
      about KPD and/or to initiate the full donation evaluation. An identical KPD educational
      process occurs for the intended recipient, although this is done with their own transplant
      nurse coordinator and only if their potential donor decides to initiate the full donation
      evaluation.

      For study purposes, we will approach waitlisted recipients and any potential donors who
      complete an online health screening. LKDs and recipients assigned to the UC group will be
      sent an email after randomization, which will include a reminder to visit the usual
      educational websites and link to the usual care brochures. Participants will only be shown
      the materials provided as standard of care at their respective institutions.

      Video-Based KPD Education:

      LKDs and recipients assigned to the video-based KPD education group will receive the same
      living donation and KPD educational materials as those in the UC group. Also, as in the UC
      group, they will be encouraged by the site coordinator to review the educational materials.
      In addition, following randomization to this group, participants will be sent an email
      encouraging them to watch the embedded KPD education video. This video will be professionally
      designed and will highlight the operational features of KPD and address the specific barriers
      highlighted in our formative research. The primary goal of these sessions is to increase
      living donation and KPD knowledge of risks and benefits and to reduce specific concerns that
      are based on inaccurate information. The intent is not to persuade LKDs or recipients to
      pursue living donation or KPD, but to ensure that they have sufficient information to make an
      informed choice that is consistent with their own values and preferences.

      Assessment Time-points:

      Study data will be collected from participants at three different time points.

      Baseline. Participants will complete a 30-minute online assessment via REDCap following email
      consent but prior to randomization. The questionnaire assessment will gather sociodemographic
      information, assess primary and secondary outcomes, and measure important covariates.

      Post-Intervention. Two weeks after randomization, participants will complete a 20-minute
      REDCap assessment of the primary and secondary outcomes, uptake of the written and video
      educational elements, any discussions they have had with others about living donation or KPD,
      educational intervention process and evaluation, and any steps they have taken to pursue
      further donation evaluation. The rationale for the timing of this assessment is to re-assess
      the primary and secondary outcomes in close proximity to the delivery of living donation and
      KPD-specific education yet that provides sufficient time for the participant to assimilate
      and consider the information acquired.

      Follow-up. Three months following the living donation and KPD-specific education,
      participants will complete a final REDCap assessment on living donation and KPD knowledge, as
      well as a brief assessment to learn of their final decision regarding living donation and the
      factors that contributed to it. The rationale for the timing of this follow-up assessment is
      that the vast majority of incompatible potential LKDs and recipients who have been offered
      KPD have achieved a final disposition within this time period.
    
  