
    
      Despite advancements in recognition and treatment, sepsis continues to be a frequently fatal
      condition comprising 750,000 cases in the US with an estimated death rate of 28-38%.
      Bacterial sepsis complications are the result of a cascade of inflammatory mediators
      secondary to the immune system's recognition and response to invading bacteria, intracellular
      constituents and metabolites. Bacterial recognition results in the widespread activation of
      biological mediators essential to the immune response such as cytokines, chemokines,
      prostaglandins and reactive oxygen species. These compounds result in the activation and
      up-regulation of neutrophils, monocytes at the cellular level as well as the physiological
      changes of sepsis such as hyperpyrexia, vasodilation, and tachycardia. Despite this generally
      coordinated response, it is likely that marked complications are related to the sequela of
      the uncontrolled immune response leading to significant injury to the lungs (Acute
      Respiratory Distress Syndrome), and other organs (acute renal failure, shock liver). In
      addition, there is question that impairment of the gut mucosal barrier may result in
      translocation of bacteria and perpetuate the multiple organ failure.

      G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) comprise one of the largest collections of transmembrane
      proteins in the mammalian genome. Recently, a subfamily of G protein coupled receptors have
      been identified that utilize short chain free fatty acids as ligands, FFA1 (GPR40), FFA2
      (GPR43) and FFA3 (GPR41). Research has intimated that these receptors are involved in
      essential biological crosstalk between colonic bacteria, host and immune defenses. Although
      highly conserved in structure, members of this sub family demonstrate differences in fatty
      acid specificity, intracellular signaling mechanisms and tissue localization. Specifically,
      FFA2 (GPR43)4 expression has been shown to be expressed in higher magnitudes within immune
      cells, has been hypothesized to be involved in the modulation of pro- and anti-inflammatory
      mediators, such as prostaglandin E2 and is involved in neutrophil chemotaxis in mice. GPR43
      is involved in the process of differentiation of progenitor immune cells into monocytes and
      macrophages, a key component of host defense. In addition, highly selective expression of
      GPR43 in polymorphonuclear cells point to strong role in chemotaxis and recruitment of immune
      cells to foci of bacterial infection. Short chain fatty acids also activate GPR43 receptors
      on intestinal epithelial cells with rapid production of secondary chemokine and cytokines
      after being challenged with inflammation and infection, and likely aid in the coordinated
      immune response. GP43 is likely an essential component of the phagocytic chemotaxis that
      maintains normal intestinal immune defense. In a model of acute colitis, GPR43 knockout mice
      demonstrated increased mortality. The authors concluded that GPR43 deficiency likely
      suppressed the role of immune cells within the gut immune milieu leading to death from sepsis
      related complications. Conversely, in a chronic colitis model, GPR43 deficient knockout mice
      demonstrated reduced colonic inflammation, without overwhelming infection, the authors
      concluded that GPR43 has an unfavorable role in the manifestation of chronic inflammatory
      conditions. These findings were confirmed with at least one later study. In humans, fetal
      membrane expression of GPR43 was higher in parturients in preterm labor with signs of
      infection.
    
  