
    
      STIMO is a First-in-Man (FIM) study with the objective to confirm the safety and feasibility
      of a closed-loop Epidural Electrical Stimulation (EES) in combination with overground robot
      assisted rehabilitation training for patients with chronic incomplete spinal cord injury
      (SCI), as it was previously successfully demonstrated in animals.

      The study consists of two phases:

      A. Main study

      The main study lasts about 8-12 months for each individual participant, from signing informed
      consent to the final test in the study This period can be divided into 3 distinct phases:

        -  Pre-implant : about 6-8 weeks from informed consent to implant. During this phase,
           patient will participate during a total of 6 distinct days of evaluations, of which 5
           days in Lausanne and 1 day at the assessment center in Zurich. The patient will also
           participate to 3 weeks of pre-implantation training in a Body Weight Support (BWS)
           system.

        -  Implant and stimulation optimization: about 6-8 weeks, including the implantation of the
           epidural lead and the neurostimulator. In this phase, the optimal stimulation parameters
           will be determined for the flexing and stretching of both legs. During this period,
           participants need to be present at the CHUV University Hospital in Lausanne 4-5 days per
           week (lodging can be provided).

        -  Rehabilitation training and final evaluation: 4 days per week of rehabilitation training
           during a period of 5 months, followed by a final evaluation lasting 4 days in Lausanne
           and 1 day in Zurich. In this phase, the patients receive intensive overground
           rehabilitation training using a body weight support device in combination with EES, with
           the aim of significantly improving their walking capabilities. During this period,
           participants need to be present at the CHUV University Hospital in Lausanne (lodging can
           be provided) 4 days per week.

      Once the patient has shown the ability to stand or walk safely without robotic assistance,
      he/she is offered the possibility to complement his/her neuro-rehabilitative training using
      EES outside the robotic environment and rehabilitation room by making use of the Home-use
      system.

      B. Optional study extension (3 years)

      The patient has the possibility to continue his/her neuro-rehabilitative training with the
      home-use system for an additional period of 3 years after the end of clinical rehabilitation
      period. During this period, evaluation measures and technical check-ups are made at regular
      time points. The patient is contacted monthly to ensure a normal training conduct and a
      safety follow-up.

      At the end of the protocol, the study aims to make the patients walk better and faster.
      Improvements are quantified through pre-defined measures assessed prior to implant and at the
      end of the main study as well as at regular time points during the optional study extension.

      As this is the first study of its kind, success is not guaranteed. However, the potential
      benefits outweigh the potential risks.
    
  