
    
      Study Drug Dose Levels:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of Clostridium novyi-NT based on when you join this study. Up to 4 dose levels will be
      tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose level of Clostridium novyi-NT. Each new group will
      receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen.
      This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of Clostridium novyi-NT is found, or all
      4 dose levels are filled.

      During the study, the supporting company (BioMed Valley Discoveries, Inc.) and study doctors
      may increase the number of patients in a dose group based on the available study results.
      This will not change your participation while on study.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of pembrolizumab.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive pembrolizumab by vein over about 30 minutes on Day 0 and then every 3 weeks
      for up to 12 months.

      Clostridium novyi-NT will be injected into the tumor on Day 8. This is the only injection
      into the tumor you will receive. Your doctors may use an x-ray or ultrasound to help place
      the needle into the tumor. You will be in the hospital for 7 days to check for side effects,
      or possibly longer if your study doctor thinks it is needed. You will be able to go home if
      you have no signs or symptoms of infection. If the study doctor thinks it is needed (for
      example, based on your tests or any infection symptoms), you may need to return to the
      hospital at a later time.

      Starting on Day 15, you will take an antibiotic (doxycycline) by mouth 2 times a day for the
      rest of your life to lower the risk of further growth of Clostridium novyi-NT. This is
      because the study drug is a changed form of bacteria. If you miss a dose or forget to take
      doxycycline, take it as soon as you can. If it is almost time for your next dose, wait until
      then to take it and you should skip the missed dose. Do not take an extra dose to make up for
      a missed dose.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will also take additional antibiotics,
      piperacillin/tazobactam and metronidazole. The antibiotic that is given and the length of
      time you need to take it will depend on your reaction to the study drug. You should still
      continue to take doxycycline. Your doctor will discuss this with you. You may receive
      piperacillin/tazobactam by vein over about 30 minutes and metronidazole by vein over about
      30-60 minutes as often as your doctor tells you to, until your doctor thinks it is acceptable
      for you to change to taking the antibiotics by mouth. In some cases, if you need to receive
      antibiotics by vein for more than a week or two, your doctor may ask you to have a central
      venous catheter placed. A central venous catheter is a sterile flexible tube that will be
      placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this
      procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate consent form.

      You may also be given other standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You may
      ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may receive 1 dose of Clostridium novyi-NT and receive pembrolizumab every 3 weeks for up
      to 12 months. You will then have 12 months of follow-up after you receive the last dose of
      pembrolizumab. You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse, if you have
      intolerable side effects, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the Month 12 post-dosing follow-up visit.

      If you leave the study early, you or your family will be called every 3 months for up to 12
      months to see how you are doing. These calls should last less than 30 minutes each time.

      Study Visits and Calls:

      For your safety, you must stay within 45 minutes driving distance from an emergency room and
      also have a caregiver available for at least 28 days after you receive your dose of
      Clostridium novyi-NT spores.

      If an abscess (a swollen area of infection that contains pus) forms in the tumor and it needs
      to be drained, the study doctor may decide to collect some of the drainage for research tests
      to study the infection and test your immune system response.

      Tumor biopsy samples (described below) may be collected at different times than listed, or
      not at all, depending on the inflammation around the tumor, the amount of tissue available,
      or how easily it can be collected.

      On Days 0 and 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have an EKG to check your heart function.

        -  You will have a biopsy sample collected from the target tumor before you receive
           pembrolizumab. The tumor sample will be used for biomarker testing, including genetic
           biomarkers and to check your body's inflammatory and immune responses to the study drug.
           Biomarkers are found in the blood/tissue and may be related to your reaction to the
           study drug. The type of biopsy you have will depend on the location of the disease. The
           study staff will describe this procedure in more detail, including its risks.

        -  If you can become pregnant, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine pregnancy
           test.

      On Day 8:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 ½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to find out how long the
           Clostridium novyi-NT spores and bacteria stay in your body, and to measure your risk for
           bacteremia at 1 hour and 12 hours after the study drug dose.

      On Days 9-15 daily:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1½ teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have either a CT scan or MRI to check the status of the disease (Day 15 only).

        -  If you have any skin lesions, photographs will be taken of these lesions.

      After you leave the hospital and during the first 28 days after you receive Clostridium
      novyi-NT spores, the study staff will call you 1 time each day on the days you do not have
      study visits. You will be asked how you are doing. The calls should last less than 30 minutes
      each time.

      On Days 18 and 25, you will have a physical exam.

      On Days 21 and 28:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1½ teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Days 35:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 ½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to check your body's
           inflammatory and immune system response to the study drug, to find out how long the
           Clostridium novyi-NT spores and bacteria stay in your body, and to measure your risk for
           bacteremia.

      At Weeks 6, 9, 15, 24, 39, 45, and 48, you will have a physical exam.

      Every 3 weeks beginning with Week 6, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine
      testing.

      Every 6 weeks beginning with Week 6:

        -  You will have either a CT scan or MRI to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you have any skin lesions, photographs will be taken of these lesions.

      At Week 9, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will also be drawn for HLA testing.

      At Week 12, you will have a tumor tissue biopsy sample collected of the injected tumor and a
      non-injected tumor for biomarker testing and to help learn how your body is responding to the
      study drug.

      At Weeks 9, 24, 33 and 48, blood (about 4 ½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to
      check your body's inflammatory and immune system response to the study drug, to find out how
      long the Clostridium novyi-NT spores and bacteria stay in your body, and to measure your risk
      for bacteremia.

      The tests and procedures may be repeated anytime the doctor thinks it is needed.

      End of Study Visit:

      After you stop receiving the study drug(s):

        -  Blood (about 3½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to check your body's
           inflammatory and immune system response to the study drug, to find out how long the
           Clostridium novyi-NT spores and bacteria stay in your body, and to measure your risk for
           bacteremia.

        -  You will have either a CT scan or MRI to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you have any skin lesions, photographs will be taken of these lesions.

      Follow Up Visit:

      About 30 days after your last dose of pembrolizumab:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have either a CT scan or MRI to check the status of the disease. It will be
           repeated every 3 months for up to 12 months.

        -  If you have any skin lesions, photographs will be taken of these lesions.

      After the last follow-up visit, you or a family member will be called every 3 months for an
      additional year and asked about how you are doing. Each call should last about 15 minutes.
    
  