
    
      Study design: prospective cohort study. Time: From December 2020 to May 2021. Place:
      Department of Geriatrics, Gia Dinh People's Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City. Sample population:
      All patients aged 60 and older entered the Geriatric Department of Gia Dinh People's Hospital
      in Ho Chi Minh City from December 2020 to May 2021.

      Sampling technique: Convenience sampling Admission criteria: All patients ≥ 60 years of age
      agree to participate in the study.

      Exclusion criteria: Disturbance or other cognitive disorders at the time of assessment at
      admission, hospital stay not exceeding 48 hours

      Data collection:

      Data collection process:

      Direct interview with the patient. Minimum time 10-15 minutes for each interview (excluding
      time to explain purpose, method of conducting research, time for collecting information on
      demographic characteristics and medical conditions).

      Person doing interview: geriatric resident doctors including Dinh Pham Thi Thuy Van, Huynh
      Khoi Nguyen, Tran Tan Dat The interviewers will explain the research objectives and only
      started conducting the interview when the patient or his relative (authorized) agreed to
      participate in the study.

      Conduct interviews:

      *Evaluation at the time of admission (within the first 24 hours of admission): Patients
      entering the geriatric ward who agree to participate in the study will be assessed by the
      doctor for cognitive status, clinical characteristics and a diagnostic flow chart for
      Delirium

      Record details about:

        -  Demographic characteristics: gender, age, address, occupation, family status and marital
           status.

        -  Diagnosis at the time of admission, co-morbidities (pulmonary disease, hypertension,
           type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease, osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, constipation,
           liver and gastrointestinal diseases, cardiovascular disease, arrhythmia, endocrine and
           metabolic disorders, neurological diseases, urological diseases, hematological
           pathologies and other diseases). Amount and type of medication being taken at home up to
           the time of admission. Routine tests.

        -  Frailty status, functional activities according to ADLs and IADLs scale, initial
           cognitive status according to MMSE, vision and hearing.

             -  Evaluation during the hospital stay:

      When a patient is suspected of delirium, we evaluate it using the CAM tool to identify. After
      that, the patient was recorded the following characteristics: the time of onset, the clinical
      form (increased activity, decreased activity or mixed), current medical conditions and
      medications.

      Record falls, transfer to other wards (if any).

      *Evaluation at the time of discharge: At the time of discharge, we will record the time of
      hospitalization, the reason for discharge (improved condition or relative request due to
      serious illness) or the place of hospital transfer or in-hospital death (if any).

      Record diagnosis on discharge and drugs used during inpatient treatment at the department

      Data collection tools: A sheet of prepared data and medical records.

      Bias control:

        -  Information discrepancy

             -  Clearly define the subjects of study.

             -  Choose a sample according to admission and exclusion criteria

        -  Selection errors

             -  The person doing the interview is the person who wrote the data collection sheet,
                so it will limit the errors in the interview process.

             -  The variables are clearly defined and measurable.

             -  Collect information in a unified form.
    
  