
    
      Hemiplegic shoulder pain is a common clinical consequence of stroke and can result in
      significant disability. Shoulder pain can negatively affect rehabilitation outcomes as good
      shoulder function is a prerequisite for successful transfers, maintaining balance, effective
      hand function, and performing activities of daily living. The reported prevalence of shoulder
      pain varies between 5% and 84%, depending on timing and definition of shoulder pain used. An
      incidence of hemiplegic shoulder pain during the first year range from 1% to 22%. Causes of
      hemiplegic shoulder pain are multifactorial. Pain is associated with shoulder tissue injury,
      abnormal joint mechanics, and central nociceptive hypersensitivity. About one third of
      patients with acute stroke have abnormal ultrasound findings in the hemiplegic shoulder when
      studied at the time of admission to acute inpatient rehabilitation, including effusion in
      biceps tendon or subacromial bursa; tendinopathy of biceps, supraspinatus, or subscapularis;
      and rotator cuff tear There are several treatments for Hemiplegic shoulder pain. Patient and
      family education (ie, range of motion and positioning) is recommended for shoulder pain and
      shoulder care after stroke, particularly before discharge or transitions in care. Well- known
      interventions for Hemiplegic shoulder pain includes botulinum toxin injection, intraarticular
      steroid injection and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation. Nowadays, there are high
      technology modalities which are less invasive such as ultrasound therapy, extracorporeal
      shockwave therapy, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and laser therapy.

      Ultrasound therapy is frequently used to relieve pain in hemiplegic shoulder; although there
      were limited evidences of benefit of ultrasound in hemiplegic shoulder. Randomized control
      trials in 2010 showed that ultrasound therapy significantly reduce pain and increase pain
      free ROM of post stroke shoulder pain.

      However from previous study in1972 showed that ultrasound dose not significantly increases
      pain free range of motion in the involved shoulders of patients with hemiplegia.

      Laser therapy has become increasing use in hemiplegic shoulder pain. Previous study shows
      that low level laser therapy significantly reduced pain and improved range of motion in
      hemiplegic shoulder compared with electrotherapy. High intensity laser therapy (HILT) has
      been known to reduce pain through multiple pathways including central nervous system pathway,
      peripheral nervous system pathway and tissues pathway. In the central nervous system, laser
      therapy centrally inhibits pain sensation by increasing the secretion of endogenous opioids
      such as b-endorphins. In the peripheral nervous system, laser therapy has been reported to
      decrease the secretion of substance P by peripheral receptors. Laser therapy might increase
      the latency and decrease the conduction velocity of sensory nerves by inhibiting Aδ- and
      C-fiber transmission; these in turn may decrease the transmission of pain signals. In
      tissues, laser therapy may also reduce the release of histamine and bradykinin in injured
      tissues and increase the pain threshold. HILT increases cell metabolism, vascular
      permeability, and blood flow in deep tissue structures. Compared to low level laser therapy,
      HILT have a shorter laser emission time and a longer laser emission interval. Therefore, a
      large amount of laser irradiation can be delivered to deep tissues.

      According to Latest systematic review and meta-analysis, HILT significantly improved pain and
      disability scores compared with control in musculoskeletal disease especially with neck and
      back pain. From this study there was insufficient evidence to conclude the efficacy of HILT
      on shoulder pain. However, in randomized controlled trial which studied the efficacy of HILT
      in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome showed greater reduction in pain,
      improvement in articular movement and muscle strength of the affected shoulder after 10
      treatment sessions of HILT than did participants receiving Ultrasound therapy over a period
      of 2 consecutive weeks. In management of frozen shoulder, HILT (3 times per week for 3 weeks)
      provided significant pain relief at 3 and 8 weeks, but not at the final follow-up time point
      ( 12 weeks).

      To the best of our knowledge, there is no clinical trial regarding the efficacy of HILT in
      hemiplegic shoulder pain. Therefore, the aim of our study is to investigate the beneficial
      effects of HILT on pain reduction, ROM and function in patients with hemiplegic shoulder
      pain.

        -  Objectives To investigate the beneficial effects of HILT on pain reduction, ROM and
           function in patients with hemiplegic shoulder pain compared with ultrasound therapy

        -  Research Process Please specify research procedures, research devices, steps of research
           process, things that participants/volunteers must do or be treated (such as number of
           blood drawn, amount of blood drawn, number of appointments, time consuming for
           participation in the study). If the research proposal is attached, the wordings in Thai
           and English versions must be the same, including the reference pages in the relevant
           proposal.

             1. Stroke patients who have hemiplegic shoulder pain and meet with inclusion criteria
                will be recruited from inpatient department of Department of Rehabilitation
                Medicine Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj Hospital.

             2. Participants whose characteristics meet the exclusion criteria will be excluded

             3. All participants who are recruited will be provided with an information sheet
                explaining the study protocol and informed consent.

             4. Sticker determining that the patient was recruited to the shoulder pain research
                project will be placed in front of patient's chart to inform the practitioner.

             5. The assessor (Physiatrist) will assess participant's baseline demographic data,
                pain score, affected shoulder range of motion and brunnstrom classification.

             6. After randomization, the participants are divided into 2 groups. Participants will
                be randomly allocated to experimental group or control group with the help of
                computer-generated block of four randomization sequence placed in sequentially
                numbered opaque sealed envelopes by administration staff 6.1 Experimental group:
                HILT + sham ultrasound therapy participants will receive HILT treatment 1 session
                per day over a period of 2 consecutive weeks (5 days/week); total 10 sessions.

                In this study the investigators use an HIRO 3.0 device apply to hemiplegic shoulder
                and the area of following muscles include upper trapezius, supraspinatus, deltoid,
                pectoralis minor muscles and the tender points.

                The treatment consists of high peak power (3kW), a wave length of 1064 nm. Two
                phases of treatment will be performed according to Rotator cuff tendinopathy
                protocol of the device. Two steps are predicted in the initial (fast manual
                scanning phase) and final (slow scanning phase) phases of the treatment; the
                intensity used are 810, 970 and 1070 mJ/cm2, respectively. Therefore, the total
                energy administered will be approximately 2500 J. The total treatment time will be
                approximately 10 minutes.

                The participants will also receive sham ultrasound therapy for 10 minutes. (HILT
                and sham HILT will be provided by co-investigator who is a resident of Department
                of Rehabilitation Medicine Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj Hospital).

                6.2 In control group: sham HILT + ultrasound therapy participants will receive
                continuous ultrasound therapy for 10 minutes in the same area as an experimental
                group with Chattanooga intellect mobile ultrasound device. The device will be
                operated at the frequency of 1 MHz, an intensity of 2 W/cm2 and a duty cycle of
                100% in the same area of the HILT group. The participants will also receive sham
                HILT for 10 minutes. (Ultrasound therapy and sham ultrasound will be provided by
                Physiotherapists of Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Faculty of Medicine,
                Siriraj Hospital.)

             7. Both groups will receive 3 ROM exercise sessions per day. First at Physiotherapy
                gym by the physiotherapists who do ultrasound therapy, second at Occupational
                therapy room by the occupational therapist and third at bedside by themselves. The
                researcher who is physiatrist will check for compliance. Participants and their
                caregiver will be educated about proper positioning and manual handling.

             8. After 10 sessions the assessor who are blind to the intervention groups
                (Physiatrist) will assess pain score ( numeric rating scale), affected shoulder
                range of motion with the standard protocol to measure shoulder flexion, abduction,
                internal and external rotation with goniometer according to the standard text book,
                brunnstorm classification and side effects.

             9. Participants are permitted to ask for pain killer medication (paracetamol) and pill
                count will be recorded.

      Bobath sling will be worn only while walking, otherwise participants will use pillow support
      for proper positioning.
    
  