
    
      Metastatic renal cell carcinomas (mRCC) are highly angiogenic tumors because of mutation of
      the pVHL gene leading to over-expression of VEGF. Therefore, mRCC represents a paradigm for
      the use of anti-angiogenic treatments targeting the VEGF/VEGFR pathway. Despite an increase
      of the time to progression these treatments, administered alone, are not curative with
      ineluctable progression especially for the reference treatment sunitinib a multi kinase
      inhibitors of VEGF, PDGF, CSF1 receptors and c-kit, FLT3. At progression with sunitinib
      treatment, patients received mTOR inhibitors which is responsible, at least, of HIF1A mRNA
      translation, then through a third line sorafenib that inhibits VEGFR2, 3 PDGFR, c-KIT and
      B-RAF. The access to these different lines of treatment has finally prolonged survival but
      this situation is not satisfactory. New way of thinking and new therapeutic targets are
      necessary to "chronisize" the pathology or even to cure it. The current therapeutic practises
      are based on the statement that the treatments must destroy blood vessels to asphyxiate the
      tumors and that endothelial cells are normal cells that cannot adapt to the selection
      pressure exerted by the treatments. These statements arewrong since tumor cells aberrantly
      express the receptors targeted by anti-angiogenic drugs leading to cell adaptation and tumor
      recurrence. Another unexpected aspect associated with the use of anti-angiogenesis treatments
      was the diversity of the patients'response. Some patients are right away refractory and die
      rapidly, but the majority of patients has a transient response then progress and a few
      percentages of them are responders for a very long period. By only targeting normal
      endothelial cells and tumor neo-vascularization, the response should have been more
      homogenous. 3 conclusions follow from these observations: 1- The need to identify predictive
      markers of efficacy; 2-The identification of druggable targets participating in progression
      on anti-angiogenic treatments; 3- These targets should be independent of the VEGF/VEGFR axis.

      The results have highlighted the ELR+CXCL cytokines, pro-inflammatory and pro-angiogenic
      cytokines as prognosis markers of survival of mRCC patients and relevant therapeutic targets
      on experimental tumors in mice. As VEGF/VEGFR, these cytokines are produced by tumor,
      endothelial and inflammatory cells. Their receptors (CXCR1, 2) are expressed physiologically
      by immune and endothelial cells and aberrantly by tumor cells generating at the same time
      autocrine proliferation loops, chronic angiogenesis and inflammation. Therefore, the
      CXCL/CXCR1,2 axis constitutes an independent axis of cancer development and propagation.
      However, the current standard of care is to administer anti-angiogenic therapies as the first
      line treatment. Hence, what is the relevance of CXCL cytokines as predictive markers of
      sunitinib efficacy, and what are the mechanisms linked to the production of CXCL cytokines by
      mRCC or in response to treatments?. Deciphering the molecular mechanisms associated with the
      production of such cytokines by tumor cells and by cells of the microenvironment represents
      an interesting intellectual challenge and a relevant way to improve the current treatments by
      targeting, at progression on the current standard of care, other pathways than the VEGF/VEGFR
      axis.

      This project aimed at the improvement of current clinical practises for mRCC. Numerous
      efforts have been given to the determination of prognosis markers for different tumors
      including mRCC. However, for clinical practises, physicians are more interested to predictive
      markers of success/failure of a treatment that to biological prognosis markers that are most
      of the time as indicative as classical clinical parameters (TNM for example). The recent
      experiments have highlighted relevant cytokines (ELR+CXCL) participating in the
      aggressiveness of mRCC. Indeed, the intra-tumor amounts of the ELR+CXCL cytokine CXCL7 was a
      potent prognosis marker of survival independent of any clinical parameters. Therefore it was
      indicative of poor prognosis for patients who were a priori of good prognosis according to
      the TNM or the Fuhrman grade (consideration of nuclear and nucleolus size). We have also
      demonstrated the prognosis value of two other ELR+CXCL cytokine CXCL1, CXCL5 and CXCL8. Both
      of them are not independent of clinical parameters. However, their role as predictive markers
      of resistance to anti-angiogenic drugs, the current standard of care, is still unknown.

      For a medical point of view, a rapid identification of responders and no-responders is of
      first importance. It will avoid undesired toxic events for unresponsive patients and a rapid
      adaptation of the treatment considering that different lines of therapies are currently
      available for mRCC patients. The determination of a threshold value for the most relevant
      cytokines is needed and this threshold must be determined of independent cohort of patients
      for a better reliability. Such test should not be invasive for the patients and as simple as
      possible in order to introduce in clinical practises for a low price that can be reimburse by
      the social security. It is compatible with what we propose to do by measuring ELR+CXCL levels
      on blood samples with classical ELISA tests.

      Deciphering the mechanisms at the origin of the de novo synthesis of redundant
      pro-angiogenic/pro-inflammatory cytokines under the selection pressure of treatment targeting
      the VEGF/VEGFR pathway is intellectually challenging and may identify unknown parameters
      implicated in Darwinian adaptation of tumor cells among a very heterogeneous environment.

      The main objectives are :

        -  Research helping to the understanding of biological mechanisms from clinical
           observations (Bed to Bench) and the transfer of knowledge from the clinic to the
           laboratories (bed to bench).

        -  Research helping to the prognosis.

        -  Research helping to the therapeutic decision and treatment monitoring.
    
  