
    
      Falls and their consequences are among the major problems in the medical care of older
      individuals. The long-term goal of this research is to develop a mechanistically based
      therapeutic intervention to enhance muscle power, weight-shifting capability, and lateral
      balance function through protective stepping to prevent falls. When human balance is
      challenged, protective stepping is a vital strategy for preventing a fall during activities
      of daily life. Many older people at risk for falls have particular difficulties with
      successfully stepping sideways as a protective response to loss of balance in the lateral
      direction. The investigators propose that age-related declines in lateral balance function
      through impaired weight transfer and protective stepping linked with falls, result from
      neuromuscular and biomechanical limitations in hip abductor-adductor (AB-AD) muscle power
      generation. Moreover, the investigators hypothesize that these balance and neuromotor
      impairments can be improved with high-velocity muscle resistance power training that will be
      more effective than conventional muscle resistance strength training. The specific aims are,
      Aim 1: To conduct a single blind, randomized, and controlled trial comparing the effects of
      12 weeks of hip AB-AD muscle power training against strength training, and the rate of
      retention after 3 months of no training in community living older adults by determining a)
      the changes in neuromotor performance (kinetics, kinematics, muscle activation patterns) of
      pre-step weight transfer during waist-pull induced side stepping, and rapid voluntary
      reaction time (RT) sidestepping; and by b) the changes in isolated hip AB-AD muscle
      neuromotor performance. Weight shifting and stepping ability will be tested with different
      initial induced stepping limb load conditions, and by varying voluntary stepping limb
      selection certainty with simple and choice RT tasks; Aim 2: To compare the effectiveness of
      hip AB-AD muscle power and strength training in reducing the rate of prospective falls over a
      one-year monitoring period post-training. Secondary analyses will assess the number of
      in-task falls, and the effect of muscle power versus strength training on changes in
      functional balance and mobility. Overall, the studies are expected to establish support for
      the superiority of velocity dependent power training over strength training on enhancing
      muscle performance, protective balance control and functional mobility outcomes, and for the
      prevention of falls among older adults.
    
  