
    
      Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) has impacted over 60% of all OEF/OIF Veterans over the
      past decade, and over 20% of these Veterans carry a diagnosis of postconcussion syndrome.
      Arguably the most disabling postconcussion symptoms are sleep-wake and cognitive
      disturbances. Sleep, cognitive function, and related symptoms often remain impaired >10-15
      years following mTBI. Not only are these symptoms themselves exceedingly difficult to live
      with, but poor sleep and cognition also interfere with ongoing rehabilitation interventions,
      and prevent reintegration into civilian life and return to gainful employment. Most existing
      therapies for sleep-wake and cognitive dysfunction following mTBI are merely symptomatic, and
      they also suffer from low efficacy and/or patient acceptability. Thus, there is an urgent
      need to identify mechanism-based interventions for sleep and cognitive problems following
      mTBI, in order to facilitate optimal rehabilitation and functional outcomes.

      The study team's long-term goal is to implement a brain-bioactive pharmacological
      intervention to address sleep and cognitive disturbance in individuals with mTBI. The overall
      objective of this application, which represents the first step towards this goal, is to test
      the feasibility and limited efficacy of a highly promising therapy consisting of a dietary
      supplement, branched chain amino acids (BCAA; i.e., leucine, isoleucine, and valine), to
      treat sleep disturbances in individuals with mTBI. There is compelling scientific precedent
      and safety data to support the testing of BCAA therapy in Veterans with mTBI. Preliminary
      preclinical data has shown that the mechanism of action for BCAA, acting as a precursor to
      the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, restores the balance of excitation to inhibition
      within the dysfunctional brain circuits for both sleep and cognition in mTBI. With these
      data, the study team has also meticulously mapped the optimal dosing, duration, and route of
      administration in mice. Further, the study team now has pilot data from a double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled study showing that 3 weeks of dietary BCAA supplementation, but not
      placebo, significantly improved self-reported sleep in Veterans. Other research groups have
      used dietary BCAA supplementation in humans across multiple conditions at doses up to 60
      grams/day and durations up to 12 months with few to no side effects.

      The central hypothesis is that BCAA dietary supplementation will improve sleep quality in
      Veterans with mTBI. As a first step towards testing this hypothesis, herein is proposed a
      long-term feasibility, acceptability, and limited efficacy study of BCAA's effects on sleep
      that will be randomized, placebo-controlled, and double-blinded. Veterans with mTBI will be
      randomly assigned to receive BCAA at 20, 40 or 60 grams/day per oral (PO) or a placebo (n=50
      per group) for 12 weeks. Feasibility, acceptability, and limited efficacy outcomes based on
      sleep (e.g., self-report, continuous actigraphy, and overnight polysomnography) will be
      assessed.

      Results will inform the optimal study methodology and design for a future, full-scale
      randomized controlled trial, including the identification of the proper dose and duration of
      BCAA to improve sleep and the potential subpopulations of Veterans with mTBI that may be
      differentially affected by BCAA. This work will aos be used to generate hypotheses on the
      effect of BCAA on cognition and overall quality of life measures to inform future research.
    
  