
    
      A single arm phase 2 study designed to evaluate the rate of patients free from Prostate
      Specific Antigen (PSA) progression (TTP) one year after completing ADT for men with BCR after
      definitive local therapy for prostate cancer.

      The null and alternative TTP rate were 41% and 60% respectively. A sample size of 42 would
      provide 80% power to detect the difference with a 2-sided type I error rate of 0.05.'

      The primary objective was to evaluate the proportion of patients free from PSA progression
      after completing one year of ADT

      The secondary objectives included

        1. PSA response (< 0.2 ng/mL and < 0.01) at completion of docetaxel/bevacizumab, at
           completion of ADT and one year off ADT

        2. Correlation of PSA response and TTP

        3. Toxicity

        4. Testosterone recovery at 6, 12 months off ADT

      Treatment schedule details are as follows:

        -  Each treatment cycle lasts three weeks. During the first three months, participants will
           receive the Avastin and docetaxel on day 1 of each three-week cycle for a total of four
           doses of docetaxel/Avastin. Avastin and docetaxel are administered intravenously. The
           Avastin will continue to be given every three weeks after the docetaxel is completed for
           a total of 17 doses (one year) of Avastin therapy.

        -  Participants will receive zoladex (or lupron) on day 1 of the first cycle and then every
           3 months for a total of 18 months. Zoladex is administered subcutaneously and Lupron is
           administered intramuscularly.

        -  Bicalutamide pills will be started at the completion of docetaxel chemotherapy (start of
           month 4) and will be taken once daily until hormone therapy is completed (total of 15
           months).

        -  During all treatment cycles, the participant will have a physical exam and will be asked
           questions about their general health and specific questions about any problems they
           might be experiencing. Blood work will be performed every three weeks for the first
           three months and then every three months while on hormone therapy and during follow-up.

        -  After the final treatment participants will have a follow-up visit every three months
           for the first two years, every 4 months for the third year and every 6 months for years
           4 and 5.
    
  