
    
      Severe complicated intra-abdominal sepsis (SCIAS) is a World-Wide challenge, with high
      mortality rates, and ever increasing incidence. Most cases are subjected to secondary
      peritonitis in which there is a physical disruption of the integrity of the gastrointestinal
      (GI) tract leading to contamination of the peritoneal cavity. Ultimately, the resultant organ
      damage results in auto-amplifying biomediator generation and systemic inflammation. Mortality
      rates range from 10% to over 40% when shock is present. The key principles of treating SIAS
      are early antibiotic administration and the earliest possible operative intervention to
      provide source control of GI perforations/disruptions. A further potential therapeutic option
      may be to utilize open abdomen (OA) management with active negative peritoneal pressure
      therapy (ANPPT) to remove intra-peritoneal inflammatory ascites and to ameliorate the
      systemic damage from SCIAS. Recent data from a randomized controlled trial including either
      severe peritonitis or trauma patients, showed the 30-days mortality differed between
      commercial open abdomen systems and non-commercial technique, which favored the more
      effective commercial device. Although there is a biologic rationale for such an intervention
      from animal models as well as non-standardized clinical utilization currently, the open
      abdomen management with ANPPT remains a novel therapy with much clinical equipoise. Thus, the
      Closed Or Open after Laparotomy (COOL) study will constitute a prospective randomized
      controlled trial to address this issue.

      There is a complex relationship between pressure, ischemia, and inflammation within the
      peritoneal cavity. Independently the damaged gut seems to act as a continued source of
      inflammation propagating systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and potentiating
      multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS). Although extremely complicated, visceral ischemia
      further generates multiple immunological mediators with the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and interleukin 6 (IL-6), as well as inhibitive cytokines such
      as interleukin 10 (IL-10). Post-operative complications associate with increasing levels of
      systemic IL-6, and peritoneal TNF-α. Jansson and colleagues believe that peritoneal cytokines
      in humans respond more extensively compared to systemic cytokines, and that a normal
      postoperative course is characterized by decreasing levels of peritoneal cytokines based on
      studies of both elective and emergency surgery. Overall, the peritoneal cytokine response is
      much higher than the systemic response in peritonitis.

      ANPPT therapy may be a more direct and focused solution to this complicated problem, and that
      will be complementary to the other benefits of open abdomen management in the sickest
      patients. Whether improved post-operative courses can be obtained through this relatively
      simple approach of actively removing peritoneal cytokines in humans is therefore a secondary
      objective of this trial.

      Another potential benefit of ANPPT after severe infection may be the attendant decompression
      of the abdominal compartment and prevention of even modest degrees of intra-abdominal
      hypertension (IAH). Patients with intra-abdominal infections are at risk of elevated
      intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) both as a result of the primary intra-peritoneal disease, and
      as large fluid resuscitation often required maintaining organ perfusion. Recent studies have
      demonstrated a high prevalence of IAH following aggressive resuscitation of septic patients.
      Intra-abdominal hypertension is present in as many as 80% of septic medical and surgical ICU
      patients. Reintam also reported that septic patients with IAH had a 50% rate of mortality
      compared to 19% without IAH, making IAH a significant marker for an increased risk of death.
      Within our own institution, rates of IAH were over 87% of septic ICU patients and further 61%
      of these patients had severe IAH at levels commensurate with abdominal compartment syndrome
      (ACS). Although direct translation to humans is uncertain, even modest degrees of IAH (often
      clinically ignored) have been found to have profound effects on propagating multiple organ
      failure in animals with ischemia/intra-peritoneal infections.

      The study intervention will comprise the randomized decision to either A) primarily close the
      fascia after laparotomy for SCIAS (CLOSED); or B) leave the fascia open after laparotomy for
      SCIAS and apply an ANPPT temporary abdominal closure (TAC) device (OPEN).

      Patients will be randomized intra-operatively once it is determined that COMPLICATED and
      SEVERE Intra-Abdominal Infection (SCIAS) is present. SEVERE will be defined and denoted by
      the presence of any organ dysfunction exemplified by septic shock OR a
      Predisposition-Infection-Response-Organ Dysfunction Score > 3 or a
      World-Society-of-Emergency-Surgery-Sepsis-Severity-Score > 8, and COMPLICATED with the
      presence of purulent, feculent, or enteric spillage over at least 2 intra-peritoneal
      quadrants.
    
  