
    
      Objective:

      Central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC) is a chorioretinal disorder characterized by an
      accumulation of serous fluid under the retina. Although acute CSC tends to resolve
      spontaneously on its own with minimal sequelae, chronic CSC tends to persist and lead to
      irreversible visual loss. The pathogenesis of CSC is complex. However, systemic androgens
      have been implicated. Finasteride is an anti-androgen medication that is widely used in the
      treatment of various conditions. A previous study performed at the NEI demonstrated a
      reduction in the amount of subretinal fluid among participants treated with 5 mg of
      finasteride. The objective of this study is to further investigate the efficacy of oral
      finasteride as a treatment for chronic CSC.

      Study Population:

      Thirty-eight participants with chronic CSC are eligible. Up to an additional four
      participants may be enrolled to account for participants who withdraw from the study prior to
      Month 3.

      Design:

      In this Phase II, single-center, placebo-controlled, double-masked, randomized trial,
      investigational product will be administered to two different groups. Half of the
      participants will be randomized to 5 mg oral finasteride for the initial three months. The
      other half of the participants will be randomized to placebo for the first three months. At
      the end of three months of treatment, all participants may be followed for at least four
      years and nine months. During this follow-up period, all participants will be able to receive
      finasteride therapy pro re nata (PRN) if subretinal fluid re-emerges. The PRN phase will last
      until the last participant completes the five years of follow-up. Other standard care
      treatments, such as photodynamic therapy, will also be permitted after the primary outcome at
      three months.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome for regulatory filing is the proportion of participants with an
      improvement in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) ≥ 15 letters at three months compared to
      baseline in the study eye. The primary outcome for publication of the study results is the
      proportion of participants with a subretinal fluid volume decrease ≥ 50% at three months
      compared to baseline in the study eye. Secondary efficacy outcomes include changes in BCVA,
      changes in the maximum retinal volume as measured on optical coherence tomography (OCT),
      changes in central retinal thickness on OCT, changes in leakage as seen on fluorescein
      angiography (FA), changes in size of existing plaque(s) on indocyanine green (ICG)
      angiography, changes in autofluorescence patterns seen on fundus autofluorescence (FAF)
      imaging, changes in mean macular sensitivity as assessed by microperimetry, changes in serum
      levels of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT), as well as changes in urine levels of
      cortisol during the study period. Safety outcomes include the number and severity of adverse
      reactions from the investigational product and the number of withdrawals.
    
  