
    
      The investigative team will implement and evaluate a multi-faceted, supported, integrated
      knowledge translation initiative called CO-OP KT.

      The long-term objective of CO-OP KT is to optimize functional outcomes for individuals with
      stroke and cognitive impairments. Three specific research questions are posed, one of which
      is the focus of this registration:

      1. Is CO-OP KT associated with changes in activity, participation, and self-efficacy to
      perform daily activities in patients with cognitive impairment following stroke at discharge
      from inpatient rehabilitation and at 1, 3, and 6-month follow-ups? The research question,
      which relates to patient outcomes, will be addressed using a non-randomized design with
      historical controls.

      Recruitment:

      Five inpatient stroke rehabilitation units or combined stroke/neurology units within the
      Toronto Stroke Networks have agreed to participate. It is estimated that the 5 units together
      will have approximately 80 admissions per month. Patients admitted to the inpatient stroke
      unit who have at least some cognitive impairment will be recruited. Cognitive impairment will
      be determined using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). Patients with scores lower than
      26 will be included. Based on data from a previously published study, a sample size of 13 per
      group will have 80% power to detect a between-group difference of 9 points on the FIM™,
      standard deviation of 8. Allowing for 30% attrition from all sources, the investigators will
      recruit 17 participants per group, 34 in total. Based on past experience, the investigators
      expect a consent rate of 1 participant per site per month. Thus, recruitment is highly
      feasible, and will likely be completed in 4 months for each group.

      Data Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be compiled for all quantitative data collected. Between- and
      within-group differences on the outcome measures will be examined using repeated measures
      ANOVA for the non-randomized trial of individual patients with historical controls.
    
  