
    
      A substantial number of descriptive studies and clinical trials have made it evident that
      upper gastrointestinal endoscopy elicits cardiovascular and respiratory changes. Recent
      publications have indicated less marked cardiovascular changes when using thinner endoscopes
      or transnasal endoscopy .Hormonal stress response during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy has
      also been described, but never related to the different methods of upper gastrointestinal
      endoscopy. Furthermore the patient tolerance is markedly improved compared to the standard
      transoral route.

      The aim of the present randomised study was to evaluate the ECG-, blood pressure- and pulse
      rate changes and the endocrine stress response (norepinephrine, epinephrine and cortisol)
      elicited by upper gastrointestinal endoscopy using a thin endoscope either transnasally or
      orally or a standard endoscope orally.

      Method and material Sixty patients were included consecutively after written and informed
      consent and were all over 18 years. Patients receiving digitalis, ß-blocking agents or
      calcium antagonists were excluded, as well as patients receiving drugs for thyroid
      dysfunction or patients receiving steroids. Patients with known disease or trauma of the
      nasal cavity were not included.

      Only intended diagnostic upper gastrointestinal endoscopies were included. The patients
      received standard medication during the endoscopy if required.

      Immediately prior to the endoscopy each of the 60 patients chose an envelope with the
      allocation to one of three groups A) Endoscopy with a thin endoscope (4.5 mm Olympus
      prototype fiberendoscope) introduced transnasally (T group), B) Endoscopy with a thin
      endoscope (4.5 mm Olympus prototype fiberendoscope) introduced orally (O group) or C)
      Endoscopy with a standard gastroscope (6 mm Olympus GIF XV10) (S group). All patients
      received the same amount of a local anesthetic spray (Lidocaine 10 mg/dose, ASTRA Zeneca)
      (twice in each nostril and twice in the oropharynx, given by one of two particular persons to
      ensure application of comparable doses of local anesthetic).
    
  