
    
      The trial has been designed in accordance with the Recommendations for Interventional Trials
      (SPIRIT 2013) and the Consolidated Standards for Reporting of Trials CONSORT guidelines.

      Patients who meet the study inclusion criteria (severe trauma patients, surgical patients and
      medical patients with sepsis, with inserted nasogastric/nasoduodenal feed-ing tube) will be
      eligible to participate, especially patients who are mechanically ventilated. The last
      criterion is not a necessary precondition (a module of indirect calorimetry will be used in
      these patients). The necessary condition is the elimination of shock within 24 hours from the
      ICU admission and tolerance of trophic enteral feed-ing (20ml/hour) at for the period of at
      least 24 hours. Patients will be randomized in a ratio of 1:1 within 72 hours of their
      admission to receive bolus or continuous enteral feeding (sealed envelopes method). In both
      groups, the same goals of energy and protein will be observed (Day 1-2: E 15 kcal/kg/day,
      protein 0.8-1 g/kg/day; Day 3-4: E 20 kcal/kg/day, protein 1. 2 g/kg/day; Day ≥ 5: E 25
      kcal/kg/day, protein 1.5-2 g/kg/day), according to protocol. The bolus enteral group will
      receive the amount of enteral nutrition in six boluses (per 60min dose), the continuous
      enteral group will receive the amount using a pump, within the timeframe of 6am-24pm. The
      need for parenteral nutrition will be determined by treating clinical staff independently to
      group allocation.

      Demographic data collection: (weight, high, BMI) and conditions (trauma, surgical, medical
      patients), Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) Sequential Organ Failure
      Assessment (SOFA), Nutritional Risk Screening (NRS 2002).

      Daily observations: glucose, mean glucose changes, insulin (IU/d), energy and protein intake
      (administered calories divided by the calculated energy expenditure and administered protein
      divided by calculated protein intake) - Adjusted/calculated energy and protein (%). Feeding
      intolerance (tolerating less than 40% of requirements via the enteral route for ≥ 3 days,
      diarrhea ≥ 500ml per day or five bowel actions). Mechanically ventilated patients (Resting
      Energy Expenditure (REE) and Respiratory Quotient (RQ) measured with indirect calorimetry)
      Day 1, 3, 5, 7: Nutritional parameters (serum albumin prealbumin, C-reactive protein (CRP),
      urine urea, N balance).

      Day 1 and 7: Muscle layer thickness (QMLT by ultrasound measurement and mid-upper arm
      circumference) and muscle strength (dynamometer) from baseline to discharge. Outcomes of
      muscle strength/ultrasound and dynamometer) will be measured by an investigator blinded to
      the group allocation.
    
  