
    
      8-Chloro-adenosine is a new drug similar to other drugs already approved by the FDA for the
      treatment of CLL and other types of cancer. 8-Chloro-adenosine belongs to a class of
      chemotherapy drugs called purine analogues that work to treat cancer by their ability to
      interfere with cancer cell metabolism, causing cell death.

      If you are eligible, you will receive 8-chloro-adenosine as an infusion into a vein once a
      day for five days in a row. Each infusion will take about 1 hour. This 5-day treatment will
      be repeated every 4 weeks (± 3 days) (1 course).

      This is a dose escalation study. Patients treated on this study will be treated in groups of
      3. The first group will receive the lowest dose of the drug. If the type, number, and
      severity of any side effects experienced are acceptable, the next group of 3 patients will
      receive the next higher dose of drug. The dose of drug will be increased for each new group
      until the highest safe dose is found.

      For your first course only, you will have blood tests (about 1 tablespoon) on Day 3 and Day 5
      of treatment to monitor for safety. After that, you will have weekly (± 3 days) evaluations
      and routine blood tests (about 1 tablespoon) in the clinic at University of Texas MD Anderson
      Cancer Center (UTMDACC). During these evaluations, you will also have a physical exam and be
      asked about any side effects you may have experienced. You will be evaluated for improvement
      in your CLL. If your disease is stable or responding to treatment, you may continue with
      treatment. If your disease improves to the point that your doctor feels that you are in
      complete remission, he or she will request you to have a bone marrow biopsy to confirm
      complete remission.

      If your disease is worsening and it appears that the treatment is not helping you, then you
      will stop treatment with 8-chloro-adenosine and may begin other treatment at the direction of
      your treating doctor. If you have unacceptable side effects, you may be taken off treatment.

      If you stop treatment, you will be evaluated in the clinic and have routine blood tests
      (about 1 tablespoon) once a week for the first month, twice a month for the next 2 months,
      then once a month from then on. During these evaluations, you will have a physical exam and
      be asked about any side effects you may have experienced. If you begin other treatment, your
      scheduled follow-up will end.

      This is an investigational study. 8-Chloro-adenosine is not approved by the FDA and is not
      commercially available. A total of up to 28 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled and treated at MD Anderson.
    
  