
    
      Participants

      Older adults age 65 and older, both males and females, with normal or corrected vision and
      hearing. Participants will require a diagnosis of dementia, with no other known comorbid
      cognitive or neurological impairments.

      Participants will be randomly allocated to one of three groups

        1. Visual arts intervention group

        2. Music intervention group

        3. Waitlist control group (receiving the intervention after the completion of both testing
           sessions).

      Data analysis

        1. Mixed 2x3 analysis of variance (ANOVA) for each construct, with within-subject factor of
           time (pre-intervention and post-intervention) and between-subject factor of group
           (visual arts, music, control).

        2. Test for confounding effects of background factors (socioeconomic status, education
           level, gender, activity participation).

        3. Mediation analyses for effects of mood on cognition and behaviour.

      Procedure

      The present study is a randomized controlled trial assessing three groups of dementia
      patients: a visual art group, a music group, and a non-art waitlist control group. Randomized
      control trials are needed in dementia research because few experimental studies exist to
      support that training has a causal influence on dementia related decline. Older adults with
      dementia will be allocated to either a visual art group, music group, or waitlist control
      group. Using two arts forms enables us to have active control groups to examine the
      specificity of observed effects.

      To address inconsistencies and methodological issues in existing results, the current study
      will use rigorous experimental control, such as allocation concealment, adequate sample size,
      and tester blinding. Based on a power calculation using effect sizes from previous studies,
      each group will have sixty participants for an adequately powered sample. Participants will
      be recruited by contacting activity administrators at dementia retirement residences and day
      programs. Attention has and will be taken to prevent attrition, such as tailoring
      interventions towards participants' needs and capacities, and by involving families and
      caregivers in the research. Furthermore, the intervention and assessments will be conducted
      at the participant's respective care facility. Currently, the investigators have an
      established partnership with day dementia programs in the Toronto area, and will be
      negotiating agreements to work with other senior retirement residences and day programs.
      Recruiting from multiple locations and randomly assigning participants to experimental or
      control groups will help with generalizability of results.

      Following previous studies, the art interventions will take place over ten weeks (one hour
      per day, two days per week). The visual art course will be a drawing course focusing on basic
      visual art concepts (such as shape and contrast) and the music course will be a singing and
      instrumental course focusing on basic music concepts (such as rhythm and melody). Defining
      training elements will delineate the specific effects of different activities on cognition, a
      poorly explored area in previous studies. The visual arts and music courses will be taught by
      the study's graduate student investigators (Annalise D'Souza and Katherine Matthews). Both
      teachers have experience and accreditations in their respective art.

      Before and after both courses, all participants (wait-list control group included) will
      complete multiple assessment tasks. Data will be analyzed using mixed analyses of variance to
      compare performance for each participant at both testing sessions, and between groups. The
      pre-tests will occur one to two weeks before the beginning of the arts courses, and the
      post-tests will occur during the two weeks after the art courses are finished. Testing will
      occur over a two day period, for one hour per day to accommodate participants attention span
      and cognitive load. All tasks have been selected for their reliability, validity, and their
      suitability to the population at hand. To investigate specific influences of each art,
      separate visual and auditory/verbal tests will be used for each measure. Testing and courses
      will begin in early 2015, and will be run multiple times at different locations to reach the
      targeted sample size, with expected start dates in April, September, and January. Participant
      recruitment for these courses will begin in April and continue until December. Based on
      previous discussions with dementia day programs, and the attrition and admission rates of
      these programs, attaining sixty participants per group by December will be possible if the
      investigators continue recruiting from multiple day programs and retirement residences.

      The participants' involvement in the study is completely voluntary and the participant and
      their caregiver (if substitute consent is required) may choose to stop their participation at
      any time. In the event the participant withdraws from the study all associated collected data
      will be immediately destroyed wherever possible. All information the participant supplies
      during the study will be held in confidence. Confidentiality will be provided to the fullest
      extent possible by law.

      Hypotheses

      Predictions are outlined in the hypotheses below:

        1. Visual art and music training will offset some of the decline in cognitive functions
           (working memory, long-term memory, selective attention, dual-tasking, and task
           switching).

           a. Effects of visual art will be greater on visual measures of cognition and effects of
           music will be greater on auditory measures

        2. Visual art and music training will improve mood and lessen problematic behavior.

        3. Visual art and music training will improve overall quality of life.

        4. Mood will mediate some of the changes in cognition and behaviour

      Background

      The present study focuses on non-pharmacological art interventions for persons with
      Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. Arts interventions will be designed and
      implemented to investigate the effects of arts training on disease symptomology and overall
      quality of life for persons with dementia. Dementia can be characterized by declining
      cognitive functions, accompanied by a loss of daily functioning (DSM-IV, 2000), with a range
      of cognitive, behavioural, and psychological deficits for different types of dementia.

      The study will use a randomized controlled trial to test efficacy of two arts interventions.
      Arts and dementia experts will guide intervention design to ensure that programs are powerful
      and controlled. With the aims of reliability and applicability, interventions will be created
      that can be tested by future researchers and applied by real-world practitioners. Effects
      will be evaluated with a broad range of measures (affective, cognitive, and behavioural. The
      proposed study is significant for two reasons. First, it addresses a repeatedly highlighted
      need for non-pharmacological interventions in treating dementia. Second, it looks beyond
      disease treatment alone by looking to also improve overall quality of life in patients with
      dementia.

      Non-pharmacological interventions offer great potential for mental improvement, but further
      experimental research is needed before efficacy is established. A large evidence base
      demonstrates a cognitive benefit of arts on healthy older adults. It is uncertain however,
      whether such findings also apply to individuals with dementia. A few preliminary studies
      indicate similar benefits can be found, but not all studies have reported cognitive
      improvements following arts interventions in this patient population. In addition,
      prospective studies indicate a link between dementia and cognitively stimulating activities
      such as the arts. For example, it has been supported that older adults who participate in
      more stimulating activities also display fewer incidences of dementia and Alzheimer's
      disease.

      Research suggests that non-pharmacological treatments should be used as a first line of
      action against dementia, while pharmacological treatments should serve as a second-line
      approach. While non-pharmacological treatments have indicated remedial effects, there is a
      need for reliably conducted experiments to establish efficacy. Art recreation is easy to
      administer, inexpensive and non-time consuming. Unlike the majority of current
      pharmacological treatments, it is a noninvasive and pleasurable activity, and maintains the
      personhood of the individual with dementia.

      Note: Music intervention dropped prior to study initiation, due to insufficient participant
      recruitment.
    
  