
    
      Gastrostomy involves creating an opening between the skin and the stomach. It allows the
      administration of nutrition solutes or food directly into the stomach without passing through
      the mouth and esophagus. It is a method widely used since the 1980s for enteral nutrition.

      In the field of pediatrics, gastrostomy is considered in chronic diseases when enteral
      nutrition is necessary in the long term. The percutaneous endoscopic method is nowadays one
      of the most widespread methods that has proven effective on growth and nutrition, with few
      side effects. Few studies have analyzed children's quality of life after gastrostomy. On the
      one hand, it increases the perceived health after the pose. It allows a reduction of the
      stress of the parents, at a distance from the pose, and its insertion would be chosen again
      by the parents if it were to do again. Meals and medication administration would be easier
      for parents with a decrease in frequency and time for meals. But on the other hand, its
      insertion is often difficult for families to experience by changing the diet. The family
      dynamics is modified and it would lead to logistical constraints for meals or outings . The
      vision of the corporal schema would also be altered. Following a systematic review of the
      literature conducted in early 2018, there are currently only 12 cross-sectional studies
      assessing the quality of life of caregivers after gastrostomy . The numbers vary from 24 to
      100 with an average of 65. The results of these studies are generally positive with an
      improvement in the quality of life and a high degree of satisfaction of carers.

      These studies reveal logistical difficulties for social contacts and meals as well as for the
      re-education of their child. They also raise a lack of information on the part of health
      professionals. These studies were conducted with different, non-standardized
      self-questionnaires. None of these studies conducted a direct assessment of the child using a
      questionnaire designed for them. This assessment of children can be performed in children of
      understanding age and having a pathology that allows them to communicate. It allows an
      approach and a direct vision of the quality of life. The investigator's goal is to study the
      quality of life with generic questionnaires, validated and used in other pathologies and
      chronic diseases of the child. This will allow reproducibility and comparisons to other
      populations, general or other chronic diseases (acute leukemias ...). This is to conduct a
      pilot study, preliminary to the construction of a larger study, longitudinal with several
      evaluation times.
    
  