
    
      Participants will report for a study visit. They will review and sign a consent form.

      They will first be fitted with two 5x7cm electrodes placed over occipital and parietal cortex
      (Cz and Oz). They will also be fitted with ECG electrodes as well as a respiration belt. In
      addition, they will have a 128-channel EEG net placed on their head and pupillometry glasses.
      Once the participant is fitted with this equipment, they will complete a 2-minute resting
      state EEG with their eyes closed to determine their individual alpha frequency. Following the
      individual alpha frequency determination, the participant will fill out an alertness
      questionnaire, followed by 3 EEG recordings:

        1. 5 minute before stimulation recording

        2. 20 minute recording during stimulation; either at their individual alpha frequency
           (between 8 and 12 Hz) or sham stimulation.

        3. 5 minute after stimulation recording

      Following these three recordings, the participant will have a 20 minute break in which they
      will read neutral reading material or converse with the study staff, as well as provide a
      saliva sample to test for brain derived neurotropic factor (BDNF).

      After the 20 minute break, the participant will complete the alertness questionnaire, and the
      three recordings will be completed again. The participant will then be allowed to clean up,
      be paid, and leave.

      ------------------------

      Clarification for the Experimental Design:

      This part of the study is a control condition that will consist of stimulation over occipital
      and parietal cortex with electrodes over Cz and Oz. Participants will then receive 2mA
      alternating current stimulation between 8Hz and 12Hz (based on their individual alpha
      frequency determined by a 2 min eyes closed recording) or sham stimulation for 20 minutes
      (approximately the duration of the TTCT test) in a resting condition where they will have to
      focus on a cross hair on a computer screen. EEG will be collected simultaneously during this.

      In both conditions, the participants wear a Pupil eye tracking headset, which is commercially
      available. This allows to monitor eye movements and to obtain physiological relevant measures
      of the pupil.

      To obtain a measure of the heart rate during both conditions, ECG electrodes as part of the
      EEG acquisition system are placed on the participant's body. Ideally one electrode below the
      left collarbone and a second below the right chest.

      Respiration Effort is measured in both conditions by a SleepSense sleep-lab sensor that is
      placed with an elastic band over the participants chest and connected to the EEG acquisition
      system.

      Before each session, a questionnaire will be administered to the participant to assess the
      alertness state.

      The entire procedure will be conducted by study personnel with documented training using
      brain stimulators and EEG.
    
  