
    
      Cancer of the larynx and hypopharynx remains the third most common head and neck malignancy,
      constituting about 20% of all tumors. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the most common
      histopathologic type of the laryngeal and hypopharyngeal malignancies, accounting for more
      than 90% of cancers occurring in this region (1). Lymph node metastasis directly affects the
      prognosis of patients with laryngeal and hypopharyngeal SCC (2). The presence of lymph node
      metastasis significantly reduces the probability of regional control and survival (3).
      Furthermore, the American Cancer Society shows no trend toward an improvement in 5-year
      survival rates between patients diagnosed in 1974 to 1976 and 1989 to 1995 (4).

      Tumor metastasis is the hallmark of malignancy, and is probably a result of the interaction
      between tumor cells and a supportive microenvironment. Malignant cells that have the
      capability to metastasize to a particular organ may have various properties supporting their
      tissue invasion or growth such as enhanced adherence to the microvascular cells of the organ,
      higher responsiveness to chemotactic signals released from the target organs and increased
      response to local soluble or tissue associated growth signals in the target organ (5,6).
      Though there are several molecules expressed or produced in cancer cells are considered the
      metastatic factors, it remains unknown which factors produced by the lymph node or tissue
      affect the metastasis of cancer cells.

      Chemokines are a large family of pro-inflammatory polypeptide cytokines, consisting of small
      (7-15 kDa), structurally related heparin-binding proteins. They are grouped into CXC
      chemokines and CC chemokines, on the basis of the characteristic presence of four conserved
      cysteine residues (7-9). Chemokines are produced locally in the tissues and act on target
      cells through G-protein-coupled receptors, which are characterized structurally by seven
      transmembrane spanning domains. Chemokines are involved in the attraction and activation of
      mononuclear and polymorphonuclear leukocytes to sites of inflammatory responses, bacterial or
      viral infections, allergy, cardiovascular diseases and wound healing (5, 9-14). Chemokines
      are known to also function as regulatory molecules in the leukocyte maturation, trafficking,
      and homing of T and B lymphocytes, in the development of lymphoid tissues, and in dendritic
      cell maturation (15,16). Other functions of chemokines have been described more recently,
      particularly for the CXC chemokines. The role of chemokines in malignant tumors is not clear
      yet. Some chemokines may enhance innate or specific host immunity against tumor
      dissemination. On the other hand, some may advocate tumor growth and metastasis by promoting
      tumor cell proliferation, migration or angiogenesis in tumor tissue (5). Reports have
      suggested that several types of cancer, such as breast (17), ovary (18), prostate (19),
      kidney (20), brain (21), lung (22), and thyroid (23), expressed the chemokine receptor and
      used the chemokines to metastasize to the target organ as in the homing of hematopoietic
      cells.

      SDF-1 belongs to the CXC chemokine family and is a ligand for CXCR4 (24, 25). SDF-1 was
      initially cloned by Tashiro et al. (26) and later identified as a growth factor for B cell
      progenitors, a chemotactic factor for T cells and monocytes, and in B-cell lymphopoiesis and
      bone marrow myelopoiesis (24, 27-28). Most of the chemokine receptors interact with pleural
      ligands, and vice versa, but the SDF-1/CXCR4 receptor ligand system has been shown to involve
      a one-on-one interaction (29, 30). Recently, several studies have been conducted to detect
      the mRNA expression of CXCR4 and SDF-1 in solid tumors. The results are not uniform, and the
      relevance to cancer progression is not determined (31, 32). Sehgal et al. (31, 33) concluded
      that CXCR4 plays an important role of proliferation and tumorigenic properties of human
      glioblastoma tumors. Muller et al. (34) have reported that SDF-1 signaling through CXCR4
      interaction appears to determine the directional migration of breast cancer cells through the
      basement membrane. Furthermore in vivo, the interaction between SDF-1 and CXCR4 significantly
      represses the metastatic potential of breast cancer cells to lymph node and lung. Barnard and
      his colleagues (35, 36) showed the contrary results that CXCR4 mRNA expression was reduced in
      hepatocellular carcinoma tissue when compared with noncancerous tissue, but was not changed
      in colon, esophageal, and gastric cancer. They also found reduced mRNA expression of SDF-1 in
      these malignant tissues (32). Thus, there is a diversity of views on the role of the
      SDF-1/CXCR4 receptor ligand system in malignant tissues. And such studies are limited in
      laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer.

      Since metastasis of laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer occur frequently through the
      lymphatic system, and metastasis is a key prognostic factor for the disease. Evaluation of
      the relationship between SDF-1/CXCR4 system and metastasis in laryngeal and hypopharyngeal
      cancer could help us understand whether this system is important in the metastasis of this
      disease.

      We hypothesized that SDF-1/CXCR4 (ligand/receptor) system plays an important role in
      laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer metastasis. To test this hypothesis, we will investigate
      (1) the distribution of CXCR4 protein expression in cancer and lymph node tissues by means of
      immunohistochemical analysis of tissue samples obtained from surgical operation, (2) the
      relationship between CXCR4 expression and clinicopathological findings with special reference
      to cancer metastasis, (3)the expression of SDF-1 and CXCR4 in the cancer cell lines cells and
      tissues, (4) the chemotactic activity and the growth-promoting effect of SDF-1 on cancer cell
      lines cells, (5) the role of Src, MAPK, and Akt signal transduction pathway in this response,
      (6) the effect of the blocking agent on this response.

      Undoubtedly, the findings of this study will help us understand whether SDF-1/CXCR4 system
      could be a focal point of anti-cancer research. If laryngeal and hypopharyngeal SCC that
      express high levels of CXCR4 show a consistently higher incidence of lymphatic and distant
      metastasis, then blocking SDF-1/CXCR4 signaling may be a novel approach to inhibit metastasis
      in these patients. The development of SDF-1/CXCR4 system antagonists will provide opportunity
      to improve the survival rate.
    
  