
    
      Opioid dependence is a severe public health problem. Current efforts to taper individuals off
      opioid medications are limited due to a high relapse rate and lack of efficacy in relieving
      subjective symptoms. Methadone substitution therapies might decrease the criminal rate and
      increase the quality of life for individuals with opioid dependence, but the high drop-out
      rate and continuing use of methadone are major problems in the maintenance of therapy for
      opioid dependence. Studies in the pathogenesis of opioid dependence and additional behaviors
      need more focused attention.

      Dextromethorphan (DM) is a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist that has
      proven safety record for anti-tussive purpose. Previous studies demonstrated that DM may be
      useful in decreasing craving in animals (Huang, et al., 2003; Lue et al., 2007) and
      withdrawal tendencies in human with opioid dependence. In recent studies, DM has been
      reported to afford neuroprotection against endotoxin-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity (Li
      et al. 2005; Liu et al. 2003; Zhang et al. 2004, 2005) which might be related to treatment
      for additictive behaviors. The purposes of this study are to examine whether DM is able to 1)
      reduce opioid tolerance and decrease methadone use; 2) reduce withdrawal symptoms; 3)
      decrease the relapse rate of opioid use, and 4) be an effective treatment for opioid
      dependence (and addictive behaviors).

      This is a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, randomized, and parallel groups clinical
      research trial study. Subjects with opioid dependence are recruited from two different
      sources. One group will come from the list of current opioid users and will be required to
      stay on methadone treatment (opioid using group), and the second group will come from
      subjects who are forced to discontinue opioid use for more than one week (opioid free group).

      In the opioid using group, add-on of DM or placebo treatment will proceed in a double-blind
      fashion for 12 weeks after completed structured diagnostic interview and adjusted methadone
      dose. In the opioid free group, subjects will take one-week placebo for the wash-out period
      first and then will be admitted into a double-blind DM/placebo only for 12 weeks. Both opioid
      using and opioid free groups will be examined weekly through urine tests for opioid use and
      will be assessed on a craving scale after the completion of the structured diagnostic
      interviews. We will measure the treatment response and side effects to clarify the curative
      effects of DM with the use of the double-blinded DM/placebo therapy design in both the opioid
      using and opioid free groups. Several psychological examinations, psychosocial
      questionnaires, tests for immune parameters, electrophysiological studies and genetic markers
      will be performed in this study. The interim analysis and decording of partial subjects who
      completed DM/placebo add-on treatment for three months will be performed in the end of first
      year.
    
  