
    
      Design Overview. The investigators will conduct a two-arm Randomized Clinical Trial to
      compare the effects of the ReMind with the Mind interventions on psychological and physical
      health outcomes and cognitive task switching between the DMN and TPN neural networks in
      Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI). The full
      ReMind intervention involves daily self-tailored mindful meditation application focused on
      kindness and compassion for 4 weeks with self-selected frequency of use thereafter. The
      application that is being used is theoretically constructed and tested and can be delivered
      on a smart phone app for free (iPad, computer as well). ReMind also includes five
      resourcefulness training aspects: 1) one face-to-face session for teaching social
      (help-seeking) and personal (self-help) resourcefulness skills, 2) ongoing web access to
      video vignettes of parents of technology-dependent children describing the application of
      resourcefulness skills in daily life, 3) 4 weeks of skills' reinforcement using daily journal
      writing by the parents, 4) weekly phone calls from the intervention nurse over 4 weeks after
      face-to-face intervention training. The Mind Only intervention includes only the meditation
      component. Thus, the investigators will be able to see if the addition of Resourcefulness
      Training will significantly impact proximal outcomes (self management behaviors) such as
      appraised sleep quality, positive health practices and distal outcomes such as psychological
      health (Mental Health Related Quality of Life, depressive cognitions, anxiety, caregiver
      burden), physical health (Physical Health Related Quality of Life), and economic costs.

      Sample. A purposive sample of 30 parent caregivers of technology-dependent children (n=15
      ReMind, n=15 Mind Only) seen at outpatient clinics (Pulmonology, Gastroenterology,
      Trach/Vent). The investigators have used this patient population in prior work. Given the
      availability of potential subjects and the investigator's experience with this population,
      the investigators anticipate little difficulty in recruiting 30 subjects.
    
  