
    
      Endogenous B-type natruretic peptide (BNP) concentrations correlate with heart failure (HF)
      severity and are significantly elevated in severe end-stage HF patients. However, normal
      biologic compensatory responsiveness to BNP is attenuated in patients with severe HF.
      Patients who are UNOS 1B cardiac transplant candidates have relatively few options for
      therapy, despite the fact that they constitute a very ill patient population. These options
      include getting a transplant, if one is available, receiving intravenous inotropes and/or
      vasodilators, or being implanted with a circulatory support device (e.g. Left Ventricular
      Assist Device). Natrecor (Nesiritide) is a human recombinant form of BNP approved for use in
      the treatment of acute decompensated HF. Limited information is available from controlled
      clinical trials on the effects of Natreor (nesiritide) infusion for longer than 72 hours.
      However, based on reports in the literature, Natrecor (nesiritide) has been used by
      independent investigators for much longer durations in end-stage HF patients, including UNOS
      Status 1B cardiac transplant candidates, who are refractory to standard care. In these
      patients, Natrecor (nesiritide) has been safely administered by continuous infusion for more
      than 2 and up to 210 days. These experiences showed that continuous Natrecor (nesiritide)
      infusion was well tolerated, uniformly improved hemodynamics (circulation of the blood and
      the forces involved), maintained stable renal (kidney) function, and reduced the need for
      ventricular assist devices during the prolonged wait for heart transplant. In controlled
      clinical trials reported in literature, Natrecor (nesiritide) was given concomitantly with
      several other standard HF therapeutic agents, such as diuretics, angiotensin-converting
      enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers, dopamine, dobutamine, anticoagulants, digoxin, and
      oral nitrates. Concomitant dosing was well tolerated, and no drug interactions were observed.
      No randomized controlled trial has been conducted to evaluate the safety of combination
      nesiritide and milrinone therapy. Several investigations were undertaken because of concerns
      over the potential additive hypotensive (lowering blood pressure) effect that these two
      agents may exert when administered concurrently. The study investigators reported that
      concurrent dosing of milrinone and nesiritide appeared to be safe and beneficial, without
      evidence of an additive hypotensive (lowering blood pressure) effect. The TMAC trial will
      investigate the safety and efficacy of Natrecor (nesiritide), compared with placebo, when
      added to standard care in the management of end-stage refractory HF.This prospective,
      randomized(patients are assigned different treatments based on chance), parallel,
      multicenter, double-blind (neither the doctor nor the patient knows whether the patient is
      being administered a placebo or the test drug), placebo-controlled study will be conducted
      with UNOS Status 1B (or equivalent) cardiac transplant candidates who are receiving standard
      care and continuous IV infusion of dobutamine or milrinone while awaiting heart
      transplantation. Approximately 120 patients will participate in this study. Enrolled patients
      will be randomized 1:1 to receive Natrecor (nesiritide) by continuous infusion in addition to
      standard care and one inotrope (drugs such as dobutamine or milrinone used to increase the
      heart rate and improve the force of cardiac contraction), or to receive placebo by continuous
      infusion in addition to standard care and one inotrope (dobutamine or milrinone). Patients
      will be managed as inpatients or outpatients, according to the guidelines in this protocol
      and study center practices. All patients will continue to receive their usual long-term
      cardiac medications (excluding commercial nesiritide). Study drug dose adjustments may be
      made according to the guidelines in this protocol and the investigator's clinical judgment,
      and in accordance with the dosing guidelines.Study drug will be administered as a continuous
      intravenous infusion under the control of a programmable ambulatory infusion pump for the
      28-day treatment period. Patients will be hospitalized for study drug initiation and
      titration to ensure safety, observe tolerability, and achieve the recommended study drug
      dose. Day 0 (Screening) will entail completing required procedures and randomization.
      Baseline and screening procedures may occur on the same day. A window of up to 7 days will be
      permitted between Day 0 (Screening) and Day 1 (Baseline) visits if circumstances delay
      initiation of study drug dosing. The following day, Day 1 (Baseline), continuous infusion of
      study drug will begin. Patients will be hospitalized for a minimum of 3 days after starting
      the study drug for titration and dose optimization. A dose optimization period of up to 5
      days will be permitted. Patients will be eligible for discharge following completion of the
      study procedures on the 4th dosing day (Day 4). Patients will return to the clinic for weekly
      visits (± 2 days) through Day 28 (Termination of Treatment) and again at Day 35 for a 7-day
      post dosing safety visit. On the Day 28 visit (Termination of Treatment), Patients may be
      hospitalized for up to 24 hours at the investigator's discretion to undergo end of treatment
      study procedures. This study includes two substudies: the Pulmonary Function Testing Substudy
      and the Glomerular Filtration Rate Substudy. All TMAC Patients will be asked to participate
      in these substudies. Participation is optional and does not affect enrollment or
      participation in TMAC. The Study Hypothesis is that continuous administration of Natrecor
      (nesiritide) over 28 days when added to standard care (including inotropes) is safe and
      provides a clinical benefit when compared to placebo added to standard care (including
      inotropes) therapy. Study drug will be administered continuously as a fixed-rate infusion for
      28 days without a bolus dose. Natrecor (nesiritide) dosing will begin at 0.005 mcg/kg/min and
      may be titrated to a maximum dose of 0.015 mcg/kg/min.
    
  