
    
      Currently, the only effective treatment to prevent disease progression is lowering of the
      intraocular pressure (IOP).2 Usually, clinical IOP measurements are performed during the day
      with little information collected on nocturnal IOP. A recent surge of interest in nocturnal
      IOPs stems from the hypothesis that significant glaucomatous damage may occur at night.4,5 In
      response, some investigators have advocated particular classes of glaucoma medications based
      on their nocturnal IOP effects.6-8 The most efficacious drug on the market may not be the
      preferred treatment if it is ineffective at night. Therefore, the understanding of nighttime
      IOP and the aqueous humor dynamics that control it has important scientific, clinical, and
      commercial implications.

      Previous research on glaucoma medications has been limited to the effects of ocular
      hypotensive drugs on 24-hour IOP or daytime aqueous humor dynamics. Few studies have
      evaluated nocturnal aqueous humor dynamics. The investigators recently completed studies of
      day and night differences in aqueous humor dynamics in patients treated with drugs from three
      different classes that include a prostaglandin analog, a beta blocker and a carbonic
      anhydrase inhibitor. The current study is designed to elucidate the physiological mechanisms
      driving the efficacy of brimonidine, an alpha 2 adrenergic agonist, throughout the 24-hour
      period, i.e. circadian rhythms in aqueous humor dynamics. Based on what the investigators
      know of 24 hour IOPs this drug is expected to work well at night potentially by enhancing
      uveoscleral outflow. This study will test this hypothesis.

      In studies of new glaucoma medications the preferred study population includes ocular
      hypertensive subjects. These people have high IOP but no optic nerve damage and no glaucoma.
      They may be taking prescribed IOP lowering drugs for this condition or they may not. Those
      taking ocular drugs are asked to stop taking them. Since glaucoma drugs affect aqueous humor
      dynamics in different ways, it is essential that no residual medical effect remains from
      these drugs. A washout period is necessary to remove all topical ocular drug effects. A
      concern for patient safety exists when OHT patients are taken off of glaucoma medications, as
      IOP may rise during the washout period. In order to monitor IOP in these patients, a biweekly
      check of the IOP is made. If pressure rises above the ophthalmologist's preset "target
      pressure" at any point, then the patient is removed from the study and returned to his/her
      previous medical regimen.
    
  