
    
      1. Primary and secondary outcomes and analysis methods

      (1) Primary endpoint Comparison of asthma exacerbation rates of omalizumab-treated vs
      non-Omalizumab treated group at outcome period (6 months). (asthma exacerbation: at least 1
      systemic steroid treatment and/or bursts of systemic oral steroid use by
      prednisone-equivalent dose ≥45mg/3days, in a 6 month for relieving asthma exacerbations.)
      Fisher's exact test is examined for asthma exacerbation between omalizumab-treated vs
      non-Omalizumab treated group.

      (2) Secondary endpoint

        -  Comparison of the clinical parameters Asthma exacerbation rate, ICS sparing effect, OCS
           requirement, lung function (FEV1%), Healthcare resource use (asthma-related ER
           visit/hospitalization)

             1. Within Omalizumab-treated group between baseline and outcome period

             2. Between Omalizumab-treated and not-treated groups at outcome period For comparison
                of within group, paired T-test and McNemar test are applied for continuous and
                categorical parameters, respectively. And, T-test and Fisher's exact test are
                examined for continuous and categorical parameters between Omalizumab-treated and
                not-treated groups. Incidentally, non-parametric tests will be examined as needed.

        -  Finding predictor of favorable responders to Omalizumab at 6 months. (Favorable
           responder: 50% reduction of asthma exacerbation or of steroid requirement during 6
           months with/without ICS/LABA) Candidate factors: Omalizumab treatment period/monthly
           dose, age, gender, asthma treatment duration, total IgE, sputum cell profile, peripheral
           eosinophilia serum periostin level, anti-asthmatic drug requirements etc.

      Binary logistic regression is used for finding predictor of favorable responders. If a
      serious imbalance of dependent parameter occurs from a low frequency of favorable responder,
      the descriptive analysis will be applied with T-test and Fisher's exact test.
    
  