
    
      Individual Interviews:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will take part in individual interview session.
      The interviews will be conducted by phone and audiotaped (recorded) and transcribed (typed)
      by the research staff at M. D. Anderson.

      You will be asked a series of questions about your knowledge of acetaminophen, views about
      the packaging, beliefs about the benefits and risks of taking acetaminophen, and when and how
      often you use acetaminophen. You will also be asked about what you have heard from other
      people about using acetaminophen and what types of experiences other people that you talked
      to about acetaminophen have had. The interview should last about 30 minutes.

      To protect your confidentiality, only first names will be used during the interview sessions.
      Your name and any identifiable information will be removed when the audio recordings are
      typed. The audio recordings will be stored in a password protected file that only the study
      chair and research staff will have access to. The audio recordings will be destroyed by the
      researchers once study results have been published.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after the interview is complete.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 124 people will be enrolled in this multicenter study. All will be enrolled by M. D.
      Anderson research staff. Participants will be recruited from outpatient pediatrics and
      primary care clinics at Kelsey-Seybold and Harris County Hospital District.

      Focus Group Session:

      The focus group session will be led by a trained interviewer. There will also be a research
      staff member present. During the focus group sessions, the interviewer will ask the group
      questions about acetaminophen, the directions on the packaging, beliefs about the benefits
      and risks of taking acetaminophen, and when and how often you use acetaminophen. Each focus
      group session should last about 90-120 minutes and will have 6-8 participants. The study
      chair will decide which focus group you will participate in.

      You will take part in one of the following groups:

        -  Parents of children less than 8 years old will meet to talk about how acetaminophen is
           given to children.

        -  Adults will meet to talk about your beliefs about the benefits and risks of taking
           acetaminophen, how you take acetaminophen, and how often you take acetaminophen.

      The focus group sessions will be audiotaped (recorded) and transcribed (typed) by the
      research staff at M. D. Anderson. To protect your confidentiality, only first names will be
      used during the focus group sessions and names will be coded when typed. The audio recordings
      will be destroyed by the researchers once study results have been published.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation on this study will be over when the focus group session is complete.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 124 people will be enrolled in this multicenter
      study. All will be enrolled by M. D. Anderson research staff. Participants will be recruited
      from outpatient pediatrics and primary care clinics at Kelsey-Seybold and Harris County
      Hospital District.
    
  