
    
      The aim of this study is to audit the outcomes of laparoscopic sacrocolpopexy procedures done
      in our unit. The investigators aim to permanently monitor outcomes of this procedure
      correcting vaginal vault prolapse or cervical descent. Auditing institutional performance
      with pelvic floor procedures is increasingly being required by (inter)national societies in
      pelvic floor medicine, so that patients can be counseled on outcomes they can expect at a
      given institution.

      Sacrocolpopexy is offered to patients with symptomatic prolapse (≥stage II) of the vaginal
      apex (vault or cervix). The procedure involves dissection of the promontory and the vaginal
      vault, suturing of two meshes to the anterior and posterior aspect of the vagina using
      minimally three rows of sutures on each side, and one row at the apex. Thereafter the mesh is
      fixed with staples to the promontory and the peritoneum closed, with staples and a running
      suture.

      The investigators started auditing this procedure 20 years ago because of the conversion to
      laparoscopy.

      High anatomical and subjective cure rates are reported on the medium term (range 12-60
      months), though long-term data (60 months or longer) are scarce and most studies focus on
      anatomical outcomes.4 The investigators recently published medium term outcomes of patients
      operated up to 2014 1. Now the aim is to extend this audit to patients operated since 2014
      and install a process of permanent monitoring our performance with this operation. The
      investigators also want to use the availability of outcomes in large numbers and/or the long
      term, to detect potential rare or long term complications, and study the effects of small
      technical increments such as extending dissections, associate other pelvic floor
      reconstructive procedures or the change in bio-materials used for this operation. All these
      may affect outcome.

      Primary outcome is a subjective outcome, using a patient-centered approach and report patient
      reported out-comes. Additional outcomes such as anatomical failure, or complications, both by
      occurrence and time point, re-interventions, and pelvic floor functional outcomes are
      secondary outcomes that allows the investigators to benchmark their performance to previous
      studies and other series. Key in an objective assessment process is that patients are
      examined by an experienced clinician not involved in the management, which will also be used
      herein.
    
  