
    
      To better understand the etiology and treated natural history of UCPPS, and to identify
      clinical factors and research measurements to define clinically relevant sub-groups of these
      patients for future clinical trials, and to inform symptom management, the NIDDK established
      the Multidisciplinary Approach to the Study of Chronic Pelvic Pain (MAPP) Research Network in
      20089 (http://www.mappnetwork.org/). The primary clinical research effort carried out by this
      network in Phase I was a prospective cohort study, the Trans-MAPP Epidemiology/Phenotyping
      (EP) Study.10 From 12/14/2009 through 12/14/2012 1,039 men and women were enrolled, including
      persons with UCPPS (n=424); persons with other co-morbid illnesses, including fibromyalgia,
      irritable bowel syndrome, and chronic fatigue syndrome (n=200 for all conditions); and
      healthy controls (n=415). Study participants were extensively characterized (i.e.,
      phenotyped) at baseline, and UCPPS participants were followed for 12 months. During
      follow-up, using a web-based symptom data capture system, a small battery of self-report
      questionnaires were repeated on a bi-weekly schedule for 48 weeks. In addition, neuroimaging
      was performed in a subset of participants (n=279) at baseline, and biological samples were
      collected on all participants at baseline and follow-up for studies to identify plasma and
      urine biomarkers and potential infectious agents. This study was complemented by a number of
      Discovery Site-Specific clinical research studies (i.e., studies generally conducted at a
      single site) and investigations of animal models developed by multiple sites to mimic
      symptoms of human UCPPS.

      Initial analyses of these data have identified a number of provocative findings. There are
      strong indications those certain subgroups of participants (albeit with small sample sizes)
      with urinary and non-urinary symptoms tend to improve over time; whereas other subgroups tend
      to worsen over time. These patterns of improving or worsening are differentially expressed
      according to sex, subtype of bladder pain syndrome (BPS), and pain location (localized to the
      pelvic region vs pain reported in the pelvic region and beyond).

      The second phase of the MAPP Network is designed to conduct a prospective, observational
      study of men and women with UCPPS, referred to as the Symptom Patterns Study (SPS). This
      follow-up study will have pre-defined subgroups, with longer follow-up, in order to further
      investigate clinical and biologic factors associated with worsening and/or improvement of
      reported urinary and non-urinary symptoms.

      This proposed MAPP Phase II SPS also presents the opportunity to apply many of the most
      promising research methods in the pain field (e.g. functional, chemical and structural
      neuroimaging, quantitative sensory testing) during the course of the study (at baseline and
      then longitudinally) to better characterize men and women with UCPPS. Most of these measures
      were only collected at a single point in time in the Trans-MAPP Epidemiology/Phenotyping
      Study of Phase I, and within a sample of UCPPS patients not enriched with predefined
      subgroups. Further phenotyping in the second phase study will allow us to better determine
      which of these measures, or any other measures identified during Phase I (e.g., urinary or
      serum biomarkers), might identify individuals most likely to have spontaneous improvement of
      their symptoms, versus transition to a more "peripheral" (pelvic pain only) or "centralized"
      form (pelvic pain and beyond) of urinary and non-urinary pain.

      Eligible participants will be asked to participate in the study for up to 36 months. During
      which they will be asked to complete a series of in-clinic study visits that will at various
      time points a neuroimaging scan and quantitative sensory tests, online internet-based
      questionnaires in clinic and off site/at home (assessing symptoms, health care utilization,
      flare status, and quality of life), a physical exam, a pelvic exam, and prostate massage
      (optional for males only).
    
  