
    
      All research activites are on hold due to COVID-19. We updated enrollment start date and we
      will update primary completion date and study completion date later.

      This project is focused on identifying mechanistic pathways to guide future therapeutic
      interventions for central sleep apnea (CSA) based on the strong premise that multi-modality
      therapy - aiming to normalize respiration- is the requisite path to mitigating the long-term
      adverse consequences of CSA. The central hypothesis is that CSA reflects a combination of
      physiologic perturbations and may require combined modality therapy targeting different parts
      of the ventilatory feedback loop. The proposed studies will test combination therapies,
      including PAP plus a pharmacological agent. This will also increase the clinical relevance of
      the proposed studies since PAP therapy is typically prescribed as the initial treatment of
      CSA. To achieve the objectives of this proposal, the investigators will test the following
      three specific aims. Specific Aim (1) is to determine the effect of combination therapy
      aiming to dampen chemoreceptor sensitivity AND decreasing plant gain. The investigators
      hypothesize that combined therapy with PAP, acetazolamide and oxygen will be superior to each
      intervention alone in reducing central apnea-hypopnea index (CAHI) and the CO2 reserve during
      sleep in patients with central sleep apnea. Specific Aim (2) is to determine the effect of
      decreasing respiratory-related arousals on the propensity to develop central apnea. The
      investigators hypothesize that administration of PAP and zolpidem, will decrease
      respiratory-related arousals, CAHI and the CO2 reserve during sleep in patients with CSA
      compared to placebo. Specific Aim (3) is to determine the effect of augmenting serotonin A1
      receptor activity on breathing during sleep. The investigators hypothesize that
      administration of PAP and buspirone, a serotonin A1 receptor agonist; will reduce the
      propensity to central apnea during sleep in Veterans with central sleep apnea. This Novel
      project seeks to identify physiologic pathways that can, in combination with PAP therapy,
      improve the effectiveness of treatment for patients with CSA. The proposed studies are
      innovative, feasible and will provide a much-needed roadmap for future clinical trials that
      are likely to transform the care of central apnea in Veterans.
    
  