
    
      4. RESEARCH DESIGN/METHODS/SUBJECT JUSTIFICATION

        1. General Approach To randomize between Lichtenstein, PHS, GBP,and MPR hernia repair in a
           double blinded fashion in patients presenting to the general surgery clinic with primary
           unilateral inguinal hernias. . Daily visual analogue pain scales (validated for this
           purpose) will be obtained. An SF 12, quality of life instrument, validated for this
           purpose will be provided on a weekly basis to assess impact, if any, that differing
           hernia repairs may have. This instrument has been validated to provide serial
           assessments in quality of life in surgical patients.

           (1) Research Objective 2. Comparison of operative costs between groups. 3. Comparison of
           Visual Analogue Pain Scale between groups to assess differences in percieved
           postoperative pain.

           4. Comparison of operative times between groups as an estimation of operative ease in
           performing the different procedures.

           5. Comparison of Quality of life suveys (SF 12) serially between groups.

           (2) Detail how many groups or arms are in the study and what each receives Patients will
           be assigned randomly to one of four comonly performed hernia repairs; Lichtenstein, MPR,
           GBP, and PHS. See below for details in the procedures.

           (3) Randomization Procedures Computer generated block randomized list will assign
           patients to one of four repairs on the morning of surgery.

        2. Methods and Materials

             1. Lichtenstein hernia repair: A piece of polyproplene mesh will be trimmed to fit the
                inguinal floor. The mesh will be secured to poupart's ligament and the conjoined
                tendon using 2-0 prolene suture. Tacking sutures of 2-0 Vicryl will be used
                laterally to secure the mesh in place.

             2. Mesh Plug hernia repair (MPR): A 2 part prosthesis (Perfix Plug) is fixed in place
                using 2-0 vicryl. The plug is secured into the inguinal ring and the onlay mesh is
                tacked to the same structures noted for the Lichtenstein hernia repair using 2-0
                Vicyrl.

             3. Prolene Hernia System (PHS): The preperitoneal space is developed through the
                internal ring. The inner mesh is placed beneath the transversalis fascia and the
                superficial mesh sits above the transversalis fascia. The outer mesh is fixed with
                tacking sutures to the same structures noted for the Lichtenstein hernia repair
                using 2-0 Vicyrl.

             4. Gore Bioresorbable Plug (GBP): The plug is secured to the internal inguinal ring
                with 2-0 Vicryl.

      Closure of the fascia of the external oblique, scarpa's fascia and skin will be accomplished
      with 2-0 vicryl (fascia) and 4-0 monocryl sutures for all hernia repairs. Postoperative
      management of pain will include oral narcotics and non steroidal anti inflammaory medication.

      The active duty male patients with primary unilaterial inguinal hernia seen in the General
      Surgery Clinic will be offered participation in the protocol. An investigator or
      Subinvestigator will explain the details of the study to eligible patients and if interested,
      they will consent said patients. They will be randomized the morning of the operative
      procedure. On discharge, the surgeon will recommend convalescent leave based on their
      individual preferances (this is current standard of care) and the patient will be asked to
      record their visual analogue pain scales daily. They will be seen in the surgery clinic
      before expiration of the con leave and re assessed for additional need for con leave by a
      clinic nurse (unaware of which surgical procedure the patient had ) who will provide
      recommendations for additional con leave to the responsible surgeon. The patient will be
      contacted weekly by and investigator and the telephone version of the SF12 will be
      administered until 30 days postoperatively (4 samples). The responsible surgeon has final
      responsibility for recommendation of con leave. . Operative times will be recorded from the
      operative record and costs will be generated from actual material costs and an average of OR
      room charges and anesthesia charges from the tidewater area.

        1. Standard of Care Primary inguinal hernias are repaired in a tension free fashion. The
           lichtenstein, mesh plug repair, bioresorbable plug, and prolene hernia system are
           commonly performed repairs. Surgeons choose one of these repairs based on personal
           preference and ease of performance.

        2. Experimental Procedure Randomization and blinding between hernia repair types,
           collecting pain data (VAS), costs, and quality of life questionaires.

      We have propose the following changes to the protocol which have been submitted to the IRB to
      facilitate enrollment. The protocol was approved in February 2006 with an anticipated
      enrollment requirement of 680 patients. To date, one patient has enrolled. The majority of
      patients have declined participation because they prefer not to return to the clinic weekly
      until returning to work. As return to work and con leave were not primary end points of the
      study (operative times, VAS, and QOL are the endpoints of interest), the following changes
      are recommended to improve participation in the study.
    
  