
    
      Back Squat Exercise for Low Back Pain: Avoiding Butt Wink vs Full Range Clinical Trial.

      Background The deterioration of muscle strength of the back was the most important factor to
      decrease the range of motion of the spine and were related to the worsening of quality of
      life. Back pain is the leading cause of deficiency and loss of productivity worldwide.
      Resistance training has become increasingly a great ally in the benefit of health and
      especially in the functional capacity of the human being, and reduction of injuries.

      Squat is one of the most popular exercises in resistance training, widely used to achieve
      health, rehabilitation, performance and aesthetic goals.

      Vertebral posture has been much questioned in the scientific literature whether or not it may
      undergo changes in its curvature associated with high overloads during the execution of the
      squat, believing that this may cause or increase back pain. Further studies are needed before
      abandoning the current standards of the squat technique that defend a neutral position of the
      lumbar spine during a deep squat.

      OWEN et al. (2020), concluded that no evidence of any particular form of exercise was more
      effective than others for treating back pain. Therefore, the aim of the present study is to
      evaluate the efficacy of two resistance training protocols, with different techniques for
      performing squat exercise, in improving vertebral posture and reducing low back pain.

      Methodology

      Participants, Randomization and Blindness

      This study is a randomized clinical trial involving 54 participants aged 18 to 69 years, all
      with symptoms of low back pain, controlled by participant, in the effectiveness of the
      movement technique with a teacher for each exercise.

      The participants were recruited in the Faculty of Physical Education and Dance, Federal
      University of Goiás (UFG), at the Clinical Hospital and Fern Campus Health Center.

      Research participants must attend 85% of the classes during the 12 weeks of
      exercise/intervention treatment.

      For randomization, they were distributed in a ratio of 1:1, in order of the registration
      number and parallel intervention. The intervention groups will be: 1) Restricted Squat (RS)
      and 2) Full Range Squats (FRS). All perform the same exercises, the only difference between
      the groups will be the technique of movement of the Squats and Stiff.

      To ensure blindness, participants will not know why the technique of movement between them
      will be different. The movement technique will be monitored with one teacher per participant
      throughout the training and cannot be altered by participants at risk of compromising the
      results.

      For the participants of the research, a first meeting will be scheduled to present and
      clarify the research and schedule the evaluations.

      Ethical procedures All participants will sign the Free and Informed Consent Form in two ways
      according to the Ethics Committee on Human and Animal Research of UFG, opinion number
      2,458,324.

      Evaluation of Vertebral Posture

      The posture of the spine of each participant will be measured by videogrammetry. Adhesive
      retroreflective markers (flat, rectangular [12 × 8 mm]) will be placed to mark and identify
      anatomic points on the back. A pair of bilateral markers will be placed starting point 1 by
      the left posterior superior iliac spines (PSIS), point 2 by the right PSIS, successively the
      3rd and 4th points representing the fourth lumbar vertebra (L4), 5th and 6th to twelfth
      thoracic vertebra (T12), 7th and 8th the lower angle of the scapula, 9th and 10th to sixth
      thoracic vertebra (T6), 11th and 12th the trine of the scapula. After the bilateral points
      above are marked, the line defined by the spinous processes of the vertebrae will be filled
      with markers spaced approximately every 2.5 cm numbered from 13 to 30 depending on the height
      of the participant.

      Then, the posture of the participants' spine will be recorded during the neutral position
      without bar (orthostatic posture), walking at 5km/h for one minute on the treadmill (Moviment
      LX 160, Brudden Equipments, São Paulo, Brazil). After the interval of 2' will perform 30"
      race at 10 km/h. A 5' interval will be given to start the squat assessment. Each participant
      will perform 5 repetitions with the 10 RM load for the two techniques: with the step between
      the biacromial distance and 21º rotated feet and the stride between the distance of the
      anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) and parallel feet. The volunteers the RS will perform
      the range of motion visually controlled by the teacher until the vertebral posture remains
      neutral and the CAS will prioritize the greatest possible range of motion. A 3' interval
      between one technique and another will be given.

      Three-dimensional reconstruction and posture quantification

      Three camcorder (NV-GS320 Mini-DV, Panasonic, Tokyo, Japan) will beused to record back
      movement at 60 Hz. Before the experiment, the focus, shutter speed (1/500) and all other
      parameters from the camera will be adjusted and set to manual.

      The processing of images and data will be carried out using the Software Matlab® (The
      MathWorks, Natick, MA, EUA). In each image of each camcorder, the two-dimensional coordinates
      of the centroid of the markers will be located in the. The calibration will be performed by
      recording the points with a known location, which will allow three-dimensional reconstruction
      (3D) using the method direct linear transformation and intra-frame synchronization of the
      camcorders records.

      The overall framework of the laboratory will be defined as: vertical axis Z (up),
      posterior-anterior horizontal axis X (forward), and side horizontal axis Y (left). The
      posture of each participant will be analyzed at the instant of the lowest vertical position
      of S2 during the deepest position of the squat execution.

      The 3D coordinates of all column markers will be described in a local frame of reference in
      the trunk, originating in T12. The vector from L4 to T6 will define the orientation of the
      longitudinal axis z (pointing upwards). The half-sided vector provisional y' will be defined
      with its origin at the midpoint of the reference pointing to the right of L4 and T6 and its
      end at the midpoint of the reference pointing to the left of L4 and T6. The product crossed
      between y' and z will define the orientation of the sagittal axis x (forward) and the product
      crossed between z and x will define the orientation of the transverse axis y (to the left).

      Using the Brenzikofer method, the geometric curvature of the column will be calculated for
      each participant in each task described above (21). Markers of spinal positions will be
      projected onto the sagittal and frontal planes. In each plane, a polynomial function p (z)
      will be adjusted to the spinal points using the is the least squares adjustment technique.
      The degree of all polynomials will be 8º, defined by the use of the reduced chi-square test .
      In each plane, the two-dimensional geometric curvature K (z), will be calculated from the
      first and second derivatives, P' (z) and P" (z), respectively, using the Equation:K(z) =
      P"(z) / [1+P" (z) 2] 3/2

      At each point of a curve in two-dimensional space, the geometric curvature can be interpreted
      as the reciprocal radius of the circle that fits locally in the curve. The unit of
      measurement of geometric curvature is m-1. Local sagittal geometric curvature of the lumbar
      spine will be analyzed in the lower lumbar (L5), central lumbar (L3) and upper lumbar (L1)
      regions. It will assume that the level of L1, for each volunteer, will be in the marker below
      T12, L5 will be the marker below. Level L4 and L3 will be between L5 and L1. The sagittal
      global geometric curvature of the lumbar spine will be calculated by mounting a circle for
      the points from L1 to L5, projected onto the sagittal plane of the trunk. The sagittal angle
      of the lumbar spine will also be quantified by the angle between the two following spinal
      segments, projected in the sagittal plane of the trunk: the thoracolumbar segment will be the
      straight line from L4 to T12; and the lombossacrum segment from S2 to L4. For these postural
      variables, positive values indicate anterior concavity (cifosis), negative values indicate
      posterior concavity (lordosis) and null values represent a rectified spine.

      As each individual has a very characteristic posture, standing posture (neutral posture) will
      be used as a reference called orthostatic posture, and lumbar posture during squatting will
      be referred to as normal posture. The orthostatic position posture will be subtracted from
      the squat, so the orthostatic position will correspond to 0° (angle) and 0m-1 (curvature).
      Positive values presented during exercise mean that the lumbar curve during squatting was
      more flexed than during neutral posture. A trunk segment will be defined as the S2 straight
      line to T6. The lumbosacral segment and trunk segment will be projected in the sagittal plane
      of the laboratory (normal for Y) and the angles between the Z axis (vertical) and these
      segments will be defined respectively the trunk (β) and the lumbosacral slope (θ). For both
      segments, 0° will correspond to a vertical position, positive values to advance tilt angles
      and negative backwards.

      Interventions

      Participants will be trained frequently three times a week, being 2x for lower limbs (Smith
      Machine Squat, Free Squat, Unilateral Squat and Stiff Legged Deadlift, at 3rd and 6th and 1x
      for upper limbs for motivational issues of the sample, on Thursdays, (Lat Pulldown, Low Row
      Machine, Inverted Crucifix with Dumbbells, Complete and Inverse Abdominal, Barbell Bench
      Press, and Barbell Shoulder Press).

      The selected exercises will be the same for the two protocols, but what will differentiate
      one group from the other will be the technique of movement of the Squat and Stiff Legged
      Deadlift exercises. The evaluations will be made in two times, at the baseline and at the end
      of the intervention, after 12 weeks.

      In the Exercise Stiff Legged Deadlift will also control neutral vertebral posture for RS
      participants, and the FRS will prioritize the range of motion. The positioning of the feet
      will also be controlled in the Stiff Legged Deadlift exercise in the two protocols
      respectively in the positions explained for the squat. For the FRS the orientation will be to
      go down as much as possible seeking the best posture they can.

      During the execution of both protocols, the knees will exceed the footline so that the
      positioning of the trunk maintains as straight as possible and also does not compromise the
      greater range of motion of the knees.

      The intensity of the exercises will have load adjustment according to the volition tolerance
      for 10 to 12 maximum repetitions. The loads and repetitions achieved in each series of each
      exercise per training session of each participant will be noted to control the evolution of
      the training load. The rest interval will be only one minute timed between all series. The
      cadence of repetitions will be 2 seconds in concentric contraction and 4 seconds for
      eccentric contraction. All 36 training sections will be monitored from 14:30 to 16:30 with
      guidance and supervision of the teacher graduated in Physical Education and Physiotherapy,
      who will conduct this research and 4 more teachers.

      Adhesive markers were fixed on the floor, which were measured with goniometer and metric
      tape, outside the lateral edge of the feet, of an individual with height of 1.64 cm in height
      and 60 kg at the site of the Squats, to control the positioning of the feet in the two
      protocols in all training sessions. According to the marking on the ground, the participants
      will be guided by the teachers in each training session, in the positioning of their stride,
      according to the references of the individual anatomical points specified in each protocol
      above.
    
  