
    
      The study will be a prospective, randomized, controlled trial between two treatment cohorts.
      A total of 50 patients will be enrolled in the study. Informed consent will be obtained in
      clinic prior to any surgical intervention, per the IRB protocol. Enrollees will receive a
      copy of the consent and HIPAA form. All patients that meet inclusion criteria who consent to
      participate in the study will then be randomly assigned to either the control group or
      moderated blood flow therapy group. Randomization will occur by autogenerated permutated 1:1
      block randomization using electronic assignment from the orthopaedic research team prior to
      initiation of post-operative therapy. The control group will undergo standard of care,
      post-operative ACL reconstruction rehabilitation. The treatment group will also receive
      standard ACL rehabilitation combined with Delfi moderated blood flow restriction therapy.
      Patients will follow up at standard of care clinic visits and participate in the same
      standard of care physical therapy protocol for ACL reconstruction. Baseline measurements of
      thigh circumference, knee ROM, KT 2000, Lachman exam, and labs for HGH, IGF, and CK will be
      obtained preoperatively. Patients will also complete preoperative IKDC, Tegner, PROMIS, and
      VAS pain surveys. Measurements of thigh circumference and knee range of motion will occur at
      2 week intervals post operatively. Strength testing will start at 6 weeks post-operatively.
      These measurements will occur during standard therapy sessions. KT 2000 and Lachman exam will
      be performed at 4, 6, 8, and 12 months post operatively. A standard functional return to
      sport evaluation will be performed at the 4, 6, 8, and 12 month postoperative visits. Labs
      for HGH, IGF, and CK will be drawn at 2, 6, 12, and 24 weeks. VAS pain scores will be
      recorded before and after each therapy session. The PROMIS, IKDC, and Tegner surveys will be
      given at 4, 6, 8, 12 month intervals. The study will conclude at 12 month follow up. All
      post-operative visits will be standard of care. No additional clinic visits will be required
      for this study. Background patient information will be collected including age, sex, BMI, and
      co-morbidities.

      The control group will be necessary to provide a baseline measure on which moderated blood
      flow therapy will be compared.

      Blinding of the subject will not be possible as the patient will be able to recognize if they
      have or have not had the moderated blood flow (Delfi) device applied during therapy and
      application of a sham-device is not practical or considered standard of care. Evaluators
      performing measurements will be blinded to the patient's treatment group during assessment of
      muscle strength, thigh circumference, knee range of motion, Lachman exam, and KT2000.
      Surgeons will also be blinded to the respective treatment groups. All other outcome measures
      are objective and quantitative.
    
  