
    
      This study will be unicenter, randomized and single blind. It focuses on studying the
      effectiveness of four preparations for bowel cleansing before colonoscopy. Polyethylenglycol
      (PEG) will be compared as a gold standard of bowel cleansing with low volume preparations:
      Sulfate-based solution (SBS), low volume PEG + ascorbic acid and solution of magnesium
      citric-acid and sodium picosulfate. The effectiveness will be rated according to a quality of
      bowel preparation (Boston Bowel Preparation Scale) and detection of a colorectal neoplasia.
      The aim of this project is to compare the effectiveness of each four preparations.

      Primary endpoint: To compare a quality of bowel preparation. Secondary endpoint: To compare a
      detection of colorectal neoplasia in those preparations.

      Main hypothesis: PEG as a gold standard of bowel cleansing preparation is not worse than the
      other compared preparations.

      Secondary hypothesis: PEG is not worse in detection of colorectal neoplasia than the other
      compared preparations.

      Methods: There will be 400 patients included in the project with all indications for
      colonoscopy (age ≥ 18 years, no upper age limit) except the exclusion criteria. The patients
      will be offered to participate in the study at the Endoscopy unit when arranging the
      examination. In case of agreement they will sign informed consent and they will be educated
      about the correct process of bowel preparation. They also get all the instructions in printed
      version and questionnaire of preparation tolerability. The advantages for the patients in
      study will be earlier date of colonoscopy. On the day of colonoscopy, the patients will
      submit the questionnaire and undergo standard colonoscopy examination.

      The quality of a bowel cleansing will be evaluated by the experienced endoscopists who will
      be blinded about a type of bowel preparation. The effectiveness will be assessed by the
      degree of bowel cleansing (Boston Bowel Preparation Scale) and ADR, aADR and number of
      cancers diagnosed. The GE unit staff will record all results in the on-line study database.
      Results will be statistically evaluated in Institute of Biostatistics and Analyses, Masaryk
      University, IBA MU).
    
  