
    
      BACKGROUND There are several American studies on the costs that the antifungal represents in
      the hospital bills, but in Brazil we do not have this type of study (WINGARD 2007; GREENE
      2007). The American studies cannot be extrapolated to Brazil because the cost of drugs is
      different as well as other hospital charges. Furthermore, in Brazil spending on public
      medicine, governed by the Unified Health System (SUS) are different from those employed in
      the complementary health services (private health services). For these reasons, knowledge of
      the percentage they represent in the antifungal hospital bills in order to define the actual
      cost-effectiveness of different formulations of amphotericin B, considering length of
      hospital adverse events and mortality is needed.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Determine the direct and indirect hospital costs with different formulations of amphotericin
      B (deoxycholate, lipid complex and liposomal) in different public and private hospitals in
      the city of Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.

      Specifics

        1. Measuring the total cost of hospitalization with antifungal treatment.

        2. Measure the direct spending each formulation of amphotericin B

        3. Measuring the indirect costs related to the nephrotoxicity of different formulations of
           amphotericin B

        4. Assemble a model of cost-effectiveness of different formulations of amphotericin B

      METHODS

      This is a retrospective, observational, cohort study economic. Database of admissions of
      patients who used antifungal in all private hospital from an specific private health system
      (more than 5 hospitals) and databases of two large public hospitals in Curitiba (Evangelical
      University and the Clinical Hospital).

      Patients over 18 years of age who used any formulation of amphotericin B will be included.

      The data will be evaluated by the principal diagnosis ICD10 obtained at admission or
      discharge, the total length of stay, length of hospital stay before antifungal start, length
      of stay after initiation of antifungal drug, which formulation of amphotericin B used, the
      necessity and amount of dialysis. Also we will assess the final outcome of the patient (death
      or cure). Other epidemiological data such as age and gender will be evaluated.

      A cost analysis will be based on total bill of the patient, the cost of antifungal, cost
      throughout the dialysis procedure, cost of laboratory tests used in monitoring during
      treatment with amphotericin (complete blood count, electrolytes, renal function, partial
      urine, function liver, electrocardiogram). The cost will be measured in American Dollar.
      These data were obtained from a similar study used for costing with antifungals in invasive
      aspergillosis in the USA (KIM 2011).

      Data will be analyzed according to the type of variable. Means or medians will be used for
      continuous variables with standard deviation. Statistical methods for comparing means or
      medians will be parametric or non-parametric, as well as chi-square test for dichotomous
      variables. The data will be considered statistically significant when a difference of 5% (p
      <0.05) occur. Other multivariable method can be applied according with the results.

      Informed consent is not necessary because is a retrospective cohort with data obtained from
      medical charts, without any intervention.

      Principal investigator and co-investigator will be the sponsor for fill the request. All the
      survey will be fulfilled by investigator and co-investigator. The survey is attached in the
      end of the project.

      This study will be sent for ethics committee for approval before start.
    
  