
    
      Early diagnosis is one of the most important factors in the survival of patients diagnosed
      with breast cancer. To aid in the early detection of breast cancer, a new technology, called
      tomosynthesis imaging is being developed. The idea behind tomosynthesis imaging is to "look"
      at the breast from different points of view by obtaining x-ray flat images from different
      angles while the breast does not move, and then mathematically combine these flat images into
      a three-dimensional image. The benefit of these three dimensional images is that the
      radiologist can look at the different tissues of the breast in their real positions, as
      opposed to all the tissues being "flattened" into a flat image, like that of a normal
      mammogram. The flat images in mammograms bring about the possibility that normal healthy
      tissue sometimes covers up malignant tumors, making them harder, and sometimes impossible,
      for the physician to see. In addition, this "flattening" sometimes generates what appears to
      be suspicious tissue, but is in reality a superposition of normal healthy tissue. This effect
      results in performing an increased number of biopsies that end up being negative for breast
      cancer. Since tomosynthesis images of the breast show the tissues in their real position,
      these effects can be avoided. It has already been shown by various research labs, including
      ours, that this kind of imaging does in fact result in better visualization of lesions
      compared to conventional two-dimensional imaging, even without performing tomosynthesis under
      ideal conditions.

      For tomosynthesis to reach its full potential, it is necessary to perform a large number of
      studies to find the optimal way to acquire the tomosynthesis images and the optimal way to
      mathematically combine these images to get the three dimensional image. In this study, we are
      aiming to find if the resulting three dimensional image should be divided into slices or
      layers each representing 1 millimeter (less than one 16th of an inch) of the breast or 5
      millimeters (one 5th of an inch) of the breast. The difference between these two thicknesses
      in how useful the images are to the radiologist could be important. Up to now, tomosynthesis
      imaging has been performed with 1 millimeter slices, but there has been no scientific study
      to prove that this is the best slice thickness. We will try to determine if slicing the image
      of the breast into thicker slices will make the job of the radiologist easier or not when
      deciding to recommend or not a biopsy (laboratory analysis) of what the previous mammogram
      found. To find the answer to this question, we will image patients with our tomosynthesis
      machine and look at the tomosynthesis images with the thin and thick slices. The radiologists
      that read each image will decide if they would have recommended the patient to get a biopsy
      based only in each of these images. The recommendations based on the images with thin slices
      and the recommendations based on the images with thick slices will be compared with what was
      actually recommended using the standard clinical tests. We hope to show that the images with
      the thick slices will do as well if not better than those with the thin slices. Even if the
      thick slices only do as well as the thin slices, this will show that creating images with
      thicker slices is better, since these images can be read faster by the radiologist.
    
  