
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Atherothrombotic disorders of the cerebrovascular, coronary, and peripheral arterial
      circulation, affect nearly 20-30% of those older than 70 years of age and are among the
      leading causes of death and disability in the world. Individuals with peripheral artery
      disease (PAD), referring to arterial vascular disease of the extremities, have the greatest
      risk of experiencing cardiovascular death and myocardial infarction when compared to those
      with coronary artery disease or cerebrovascular disease alone PAD usually signals more
      systemic atherosclerotic disease and often goes undiagnosed and undertreated, which is
      thought to be a major reason for why these patients have been found to be at increased risk
      for major adverse cardiovascular events and mortality. One of the major goals of antiplatelet
      therapy is for prevention, both primary and secondary, of acute thrombotic events. Despite
      the increased local and systemic cardiovascular risk in PAD patients, the literature on the
      most effective antiplatelet regimen and its recommended duration are lacking, especially
      compared to studies primarily focusing on coronary artery disease. The major consensus
      guidelines for PAD suggest using mono antiplatelet therapy in PAD but state that the data
      either for or against the use of DAPT in this population are too limited to make strong
      recommendations. There has been an attempt to update the international TASC guidelines but
      disagreement among the societies has delayed a universally accepted TASC III document. After
      PAD revascularization, corresponding risks are even higher, with reported rates of nonfatal
      MI, ischemic stroke, or cardiovascular death 36 months after procedure of 14% among patients
      with IC and 34% among those with CLI. These risks are further elevated after repeat limb
      revascularization, supporting the need for more aggressive secondary prevention measures,
      including intensive antithrombotic therapy, to prevent recurrent events in this high-risk
      population. Despite the greater risk of cardiovascular and limb adverse outcomes in patients
      with PAD undergoing limb revascularization, high-quality data on antithrombotic therapy in
      this clinical context are sparse. As a result, recommendations regarding antithrombotic
      therapy for these patients are based on lower levels of evidence and are inconsistent.

      Until now no clinical trial had reported the use of AAT (Apixiban aspirin therapy) after
      lower limb revascularization therefore, the purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare
      the effect of CAT (Clopidogrel aspirin therapy) and AAT (Apixiban aspirin therapy) at time of
      discharge, on survival following lower extremity revascularization and major adverse effects
      Aim of the work compare the effect of CAT (Clopidogrel aspirin therapy) and AAT (Apixiban
      aspirin therapy) after lower extremity revascularization.

      Outcome Primary outcomes: Major adverse limb events (MALES);

        -  Endovascular or surgical revascularization

        -  Acute vessel thrombosis,

        -  Amputation of the target limb Secondary outcomes: Major adverse cardiovascular events
           (MACE);

        -  Nonfatal stroke

        -  Nonfatal myocardial infarction

        -  Cardiovascular death. Patients and methods Study location: The study will be conducted
           at the department of vascular surgery in Mansoura university hospitals Type of study:
           Randomized controlled Prospective study Study duration: 2 years: 2019-2021 Sample size:
           It will include all patients presented to our department fulfilling the inclusion
           criteria. We revascularize about 5-10 limbs per week and the study will be carried over
           30 months; sample size will be 600-1200 patients Study population: The study will be
           conducted in patients with lower limb ischemia who need revascularization.

      Inclusion criteria: Symptomatic peripheral artery disease according to Rutherford stages 3 to
      6.

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Patients with severe groin or limb infection.

        2. who can't give consent (unconscious)

        3. Those with mental or behavioral disorders will be excluded. Consent: Patients after
           signing informed consent that possible complication from the procedure ought to happen
           and what are the alternatives.

      Data collection: The demographics, Symptoms and preoperative clinical data will be collected
      History Data: included patient's demographics, underlying medical conditions, any previous
      associated morbidity.

      Examination: Arterial assessments. Laboratory: Blood picture, Blood sugar level, Kidney
      functions, Liver functions and Coagulation profile.

      Imaging: Duplex US and CTA Method of Randomization: Block randomization: Two elements A for
      CAT, B for AAT A A B B A B A B A B B A B B A A B A B A B A A B Therapies CAT (Clopidogrel
      aspirin therapy) Clopidogrel 75 mg (Plavix 75mg) plus Aspirin 81 mg.

      AAT (Apixiban aspirin therapy):

      Apixiban 2.5 twice daily (Eliquis 2.5mg) plus Aspirin 81 mg. Follow up

        -  Every patient will be followed every week till first month, then every 3 months till 1
           years.

        -  Hemodynamic improvement was assessed by ankle brachial pressure index (ABI), performed
           before and after the procedure and every 3 months.

        -  Evaluation made by CTA or duplex ultrasonography to determine 1ry and 2ry patency

        -  Coagulation profile (platelet count, INR, prothrombin time and activated partial
           thromboplastin time).

        -  Adverse bleeding complications.

        -  Both MACEs and MALEs will be documented Statistical analysis

        -  The data will be analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences. The
           numerical outcomes e.g. age is calculated as mean. Gender will be recorded as frequency
           and percentage. Chi Square test is applied to assess the association of various
           parameters. The results will be considered statistically significant if the p-value is
           found to be less than or equal to 0.05.
    
  