
    
      This Phase I study is for children and adolescents who have acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)
      that has come back (relapsed) or has become resistant (refractory) to standard therapies.
      Researchers want to know if a drug called dasatinib is safe when used together with standard
      chemotherapy in treating patients who have relapsed or have resistant AML. Their leukemia has
      a particular genetic mutation, called core-binding factor.

      This type of leukemia has an increase of a cancer promoting protein called c-KIT. Dasatinib
      can target this protein in laboratory experiments. Laboratory and other studies suggest that
      dasatinib may prevent acute myeloid leukemia cells from growing and may lead to the
      destruction of leukemia cells.

      The main goal of this study is to find a safe dose of dasatinib and to find out the side
      effects of dasatinib when it is given in combination with standard chemotherapy to children
      and adolescents. Similar studies are currently being done in adult patients. Dasatinib has
      been proven safe and effective in the treatment of other types of leukemia, both by itself
      and in combination with standard chemotherapy. It is not, however, FDA-approved for use in
      children.

      Three to six participants will receive the starting dose of the drug. If the side effects are
      not too severe, the next group of participants will take the study drug at a higher dose
      level. Up to two dose levels of the study drug will be tested. Dasatinib is given by mouth
      once daily on days 6 to 29 of each 42-day cycle. Participants may receive two cycles in this
      study.

      In addition to dasatinib, participants receive chemotherapy intravenously (IV) with
      fludarabine, cytarabine, idarubicin, as well as in the spinal fluid (intrathecal or IT
      chemotherapy). Intrathecal chemotherapy includes cytarabine at the start of each cycle. These
      drugs are part of standard AML treatment. If at the time of study entry a subject has
      leukemia cells in their spinal fluid (CNS leukemia), they may receive additional intrathecal
      chemotherapy with cytarabine, methotrexate, and hydrocortisone (IT triples) during each
      cycle.

      Required research tests include pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) blood draws
      (about 1 teaspoon each time) during cycle 1. Optional research tests include extra marrow
      (about 1 teaspoon each time) for genetic testing and banking of marrow (1 teaspoon) for
      future studies about cancer.

      Primary Objectives of this study are:

        -  To evaluate the safety of combining dasatinib with reinduction chemotherapy comprised of
           idarubicin, fludarabine and cytarabine (Ida - FLU/Ara) in children with relapsed or
           refractory core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia (CBF AML)

        -  To characterize the toxicity profile of this combination in pediatric patients with
           relapsed or refractory CBF AML

      Secondary Objectives of this study are:

        -  To estimate the response rates to the combination chemotherapy in the context of a Phase
           I study, in children with AML in first or greater relapse or refractory to induction
           chemotherapy

        -  To determine the genotype of c-KIT exons 8 and 17 and correlate with response rate

        -  To characterize c-KIT expression of bone marrow blasts at study entry and at the end of
           course 1 of therapy and describe any correlation with response to therapy

      Exploratory Objectives are:

        -  To investigate descriptively the pharmacodynamic modulation of c-KIT target, Stat3, in a
           cell line by patient-derived plasma

        -  To perform RNA sequencing on bone marrow samples at study entry in order to describe the
           prevalence of mutations in AML associated genes, including c-KIT, and correlate
           descriptively with progression free survival

        -  To collect biology specimens at study entry and completion of therapy for future biology
           studies
    
  