
    
      This prospective single arm study will be conducted within DUH Department of Radiology CT
      Imaging. The study team will enroll 50 patients with a history of axillary SLNP presenting
      for routine radiographic scan to undergo ipsilateral IV insertion. Patients will complete
      baseline bilateral arm volumetric measurements and self-reported symptom assessments.
      Patients will be followed every 3 months for 1-year duration for development of lymphedema.
      Patient acceptance or reluctance to ipsilateral IV access will be categorized at time of
      screening. Staff uptake on practice change will be assessed through medical record
      documentation for number, location, and factors affecting IV attempts and their perceptions
      of practice change and acceptance at the end of one year.

      All participants will complete baseline measures: bilateral volumetric measurements and
      self-reported symptoms. Per DUH policy, participants will undergo SOC contralateral arm
      intravenous access attempt. After one failed attempt, ipsilateral intravenous access instead
      of pedal or neck access will be offered per research protocol. Nursing documentation will
      reflect the failed venipuncture and categorize a reason for the failed attempt. At the
      discretion of the treating radiologist, a participant who has a history of multiple failed IV
      placement attempts in the contralateral arm may proceed to IV placement in the ipsilateral
      arm on the first attempt.

      Patients with successful ipsilateral intravenous access will be provided a patient education
      sheet describing signs and symptoms that should be reported to the study team. All
      participants will be contacted by the study team at twelve week intervals for 12 months after
      their radiology encounter for completion of symptom assessments. If a subject reports new
      signs or symptoms of lymphedema during follow-up, a clinic appointment for volumetric
      measurements and thorough evaluation will occur within 2 weeks; findings will be discussed
      with their physician. Participants will undergo bilateral volumetric measurements, symptom
      assessments, and perceptions of the ipsilateral IV access protocol at the end of one year.
    
  