
    
      Acute Kidney Injury (AKI), defined as an abrupt loss in kidney function, is common, occurring
      in 5-20% of hospitalized patients, and carries a significant and independent risk of
      inpatient mortality. International guidelines for the treatment of AKI focus on "best
      practices" that include appropriate management of drug dosing, the avoidance of kidney-toxic
      exposures, and careful assessment of fluid and electrolyte balance. Early nephrologist
      involvement may also improve outcomes in AKI. However, AKI, which is often asymptomatic, is
      frequently overlooked in a variety of hospital settings and many "best practices" occur
      infrequently and inconsistently.

      The investigators previously conducted a randomized clinical trial testing the efficacy of
      electronic alerts for AKI, randomizing patients with AKI to usual care, or to an alert group
      in which a single alert was sent to the patient's primary provider. The study demonstrated
      clinical equipoise regarding the effectiveness of such alerting, as there was no improvement
      in the rates of AKI progression, dialysis or mortality among those in the alert group.

      Rather than simply making providers aware of AKI, it may be beneficial to provide them with
      actionable items to increase recognition and rate of best practices. Further, because of the
      heterogeneous nature of AKI, personalized recommendations tailored to individual patients
      that are delivered directly to the patient care team may improve AKI outcomes. The aim of
      this study is to determine, through a single-blind, parallel group, randomized controlled
      multicenter clinical trial, if personalized recommendations, as delivered by a Kidney Action
      Team, for the work-up and treatment of AKI will improve patient outcomes. The Kidney Action
      team will serve as a centralized, remote monitoring service and will consist of a group of
      highly trained individuals, including an advanced practitioner, a pharmacist and a
      board-certified nephrologist, dedicated to reviewing enrolled patient's charts and providing
      recommendations for patient diagnosis and initial work up and care within 30 minutes of AKI
      onset. Recommendations will span five domains of care, including diagnostic workup, acid/base
      management, electrolyte management, hemodynamic management, and medication management.

      Using the Kidney Disease: Improve Global Outcomes creatinine criteria, inpatients in sites of
      the Yale New Haven Health System and of the John Hopkins University Health System who develop
      AKI during the course of their hospitalization will be randomized to either receive usual
      care, or to an active intervention group in which the recommendations of the Kidney Action
      Team are delivered to the patient's primary care team in the form of a structured note in the
      electronic health record to be cosigned by the attending of record. The primary clinical
      outcome will be a composite of AKI progression, dialysis and death at 14 days
      post-randomization. The primary process outcome will be the percent of recommendations made
      that are enacted within 24 hours after randomization.
    
  