
    
      The design is a multicenter, double-blind (outcomes assessors and data analysts), randomized
      and controlled trial with 2 parallel arms: Exercise Program (Ex) and Exercise and Lifestyle
      Education Program (ExLE). The sample size was calculated considering the ISWT distance as the
      primary outcome and based on a previous study that tested the effects of a comprehensive
      cardiac rehabilitation program on the same primary outcome in coronary patients. The
      calculation was made using R Software version 3.4.3 and considering the following parameters:
      moderate effect size (d = 0.20), the statistical power of 80%, an alpha level of 5%,
      one-sided test, two arms, and three measurements. A total of 200 participants (100 per
      program) was required and assuming a 20% attrition rate based on previous studies using
      educational intervention in Cardiac Rehabilitation patients,42 it will take 120 participants
      in each program to sign the consent form in order to have 200 participants who will complete
      the study.

      Adults with diabetes and prediabetes will be recruited from the public and private health
      services in two Brazilian cities (Belo Horizonte and Juiz de Fora). Volunteers will
      participate in the interventions for 12 weeks and will be invited for follow-up and
      reassessment after 6 months of program completion. In this sense, three assessments will be
      performed: pre-intervention (baseline), after 12 weeks of intervention and 6 months
      post-program completion.

      The initial assessment will comprise an interview to obtain their clinical characteristics
      and sociodemographic data, medical history, vital signs measurement, electrocardiographic
      monitoring and measurement of primary, secondary and tertiary outcomes (other pre-specified
      outcome measures) through questionnaires and specific tests.

      The number of patients approached and date will be recorded, as well as the reasons for
      inclusion/exclusion. With informed written consent from the patient, potentially eligible
      participants will be scheduled to come on-site to complete initial assessments. Eligible
      participants will be randomized to one of the 2 groups. The generation of the randomized
      allocation sequence will be performed by the project coordinator using the software available
      on the website www.randomization.com. To ensure allocation concealment, the local research
      coordinators have the allocation sequence in a password-protected file, and will only provide
      randomization information to the research team member once it is confirmed the participant is
      eligible. Due to the nature of the intervention, participants and the research team members
      cannot be blind to treatment allocated. However, an independent research member who will be
      blinded to the group allocation will perform database management and analyses.

      The group Ex and ExLE participants will be submitted to a supervised and individually
      prescribed exercise program consisting of aerobic (walking) and muscle-strengthening exercise
      sessions. This exercise program is 12 weeks in duration with 16 exercise sessions of
      approximately 1 hour offered at the following frequencies:

        -  Stage 1: 4 weeks - supervised exercise sessions 2x/week

        -  Stage 2: 8 weeks - supervised exercise sessions 1x/week

      Each session will be constituted by moderate-intensity walking and muscle strength exercises
      that encompass the main muscle groups, using bodyweight or elastic bands.

      In addition, they will receive counseling for unsupervised exercise sessions in their
      community to aim to accumulate a minimum of 150 min/week.

      Participants in ExLE also attend education classes using the educational curriculum of
      Diabetes College offered through different tools including website, patient workbook and
      learning management. Education classes will be delivered by a health educator team post each
      exercise session and participants receive a comprehensive education workbook to accompany the
      sessions.

      The workbook was developed by Diabetes College group researchers in Canada and the English
      version has been translated and culturally adapted to Brazilian Portuguese. This tool titled
      "A Guide to Help You Live and Thrive with Diabetes" or "Guia para Uma Vida Plena com
      Diabetes", contains 20 chapters, developed by a multi-disciplinary committee of health
      professionals and based on diabetes patients' needs. Chapters are organized into 5 sections:
      treat diabetes, get active, eat healthy, feel well, and take control. In total there will be
      offered 18 educational sessions since there will be an initial extra class to program
      introduction and an extra final class to program graduation.

      Diabetes College is an educational program that helps people live and thrive with diabetes.
      The program development was based on patients' educational needs (assessed by the information
      needs assessment and focus groups) in the University Health Network in Toronto/Canada. This
      program can help diabetes patients to improve their health and functional capacity, make
      lifestyle changes, take control of their blood sugar and prevent diabetes (if they have
      prediabetes). These objectives can be achieved by teaching patients what diabetes is and how
      it impacts their health, how diabetes medicines work and help control blood sugar, and how to
      make lifestyle changes to take control of their health.

      All participants will be invited to the follow-up after completion of the interventions.

      During the 6-month follow-up, participants will be instructed to record their
      Diabetes-related morbidity information on the standardized sheet developed by the research
      team. Research team members will make monthly phone calls to participants to remind them to
      perform this registration properly. Besides that, to minimize drop-outs to follow-up, the
      research team members will send email and phone reminders for patients about to come on-site
      to the 6-month follow-up assessment post-intervention.
    
  