
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine if a biologically active commercially available
      amnion chorion membrane (ACM) is as effective as the commercially available inert dense
      polytetrafluoroethylene membrane (D-PTFE) in preserving jaw bone dimensions and whether it
      provides the added benefit of reducing post-operative discomfort after dental surgery. The
      hypotheses for the study is that the use of ACM in preservation of bone dimensions in
      extraction socket will result in greater remaining horizontal and vertical ridge dimension,
      and reduced postoperative discomfort when compared with D-PTFE in sites where extraction
      socket will not be closed by advancing the gums. Subjects in need of single rooted teeth
      extraction on both left and right side of the same jaw will be recruited. Pre-surgical
      clinical and radiological measurements will be made using dental calipers, stents and reduced
      cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) three dimensional scans. Involved teeth will be
      extracted with minimal trauma. Freeze dried bone allograft (bone from human donors) will be
      used in all extraction sockets. ACM will be used in the one extraction socket and D-PTFE in
      the other extraction socket without advancing the gums to cover the socket. A Visual Analog
      Score (VAS), pain scale questionnaire will be given to record the postoperative discomfort
      and patient will be seen for routine post-operative monitoring as well as research
      measurements. At 3-months recall postoperatively, clinical measurements and radiographic
      measurements will be recorded as before. Wound fluid will also be collected at all visits.
      The sites will be reentered and trephine core (bone sample) will be collected for
      histomorphometric as well as microtomographic assessment. Statistical analysis will be
      performed to test the significance using a mixed-model analysis of variance (ANOVA).
    
  