
    
      Preoperative chemoradiation is now an initial treatment of choice for locally advanced
      resectable rectal cancer, and 5-fluorouracil is the standard agent during chemoradiation.
      Capecitabine is an oral fluoropyrimidine which has been thought to be a replacement for
      intravenous 5-fluorouracil, and several trials have proved that preoperative chemoradiation
      with capecitabine was also effective in this setting.

      Oxaliplatin, a newer platinum agent, plus fluoropyrimidines (either 5-fluorouracil or
      capecitabine) is one of the standard cytotoxic chemotherapeutic regimen for metastatic
      colorectal cancer, and it is also proved to be effective as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for
      patients with liver only metastasis from colorectal cancer.

      Approximately 25% of patients with colorectal cancer have liver metastases initially at the
      time of diagnosis and there have been quite well established evidences for clear survival
      benefits from hepatic metastasectomy in these patients. Treatment for colorectal liver
      metastases should be planned with consideration of both systemic chemotherapy and local
      treatment modality (surgery or radiofrequency ablation) because long term survival would be
      expected after curative liver metastasectomy. As mentioned previously, neoadjuvant
      oxaliplatin plus fluoropyrimidines before hepatic metastasectomy improved disease-free
      survival, thus it is thought to be that better systemic controls would be achieved with
      perioperative oxaliplatin based chemotherapy.

      In patients with locally advanced rectal cancer, preoperative chemoradiation with
      fluoropyrimidines improves local control but not systemic control. Recent randomized trials
      of preoperative chemoradiation with oxaliplatin plus fluoropyrimidines failed to show better
      local control rates than those with fluoropyrimidines alone. But it is too early to determine
      the non-superiority of preoperative chemoradiation with oxaliplatin plus fluoropyrimidines in
      terms of systemic control; long-term duration of follow-up is needed to determine the
      efficacy in terms of disease-free or overall survival and it is evident that oxaliplatin
      based chemotherapy is effective for systemic control in patients who will be candidate for
      liver metastasectomy.

      Thus, the investigators planned a randomized phase II trial of preoperative chemoradiation
      with oxaliplatin plus capecitabine, with or without prior induction chemotherapy in patients
      with locally advanced or borderlinely resectable rectal cancer with resectable synchronous
      liver metastases.
    
  