
    
      Patient reported outcomes (PROs) instruments are often used to measure meaningful treatment
      benefit or risk in clinical trials. PROs allow patients voices to be heard in ways that
      assist healthcare clinicians to address treatment effects and individual patient preferences.
      Unfortunately, infants and young children, especially those with a debilitating disease, such
      as neuromuscular disorders (NMD), may be less able to provide clear and concise information
      about treatment effects. In this case, we often defer to parents and guardians (to be
      referred to collectively as parents throughout protocol) to provide their perception of their
      child s overall health and wellbeing. Including parents in the assessment process recognizes
      the unique knowledge parents have of their child s development, reinforces their central role
      in implementing interventions, and aids in their ability to make better-informed healthcare
      decisions [1]. Yet, most parent-reports for young children are confined to overall quality of
      life (QoL). While QoL is an important area of assessment, its meaning varies among different
      ages and populations, and its results are often not precise enough to reveal small
      differences within samples [2]. A more specific area of concern in children with NMD is
      early-onset muscle weakness leading to difficulties in motor function.

      The current lack of patient-centered, sensitive measures (based on motor function and item
      difficulty hierarchy) that are suited for repeated assessments in infants and young children
      with NMD represents a major obstacle to the rapid translation of promising therapeutic
      interventions from preclinical models to clinical research studies. Multiple clinical outcome
      measures used at a single time-point for capturing a child s functional status are
      burdensome, difficult to interpret and do not provide us with comprehensive, meaningful
      information to detect changes following an intervention [3]. Psychometric measures that can
      be completed by parents make it possible to collect a considerable amount of data over many
      time-points rather than being limited to a single clinical observation. Moreover, a
      parent-observational measure that focuses on their child s functional performance in their
      real-life will maximize the ecological validity of measures of motor development used for
      clinical trials.

      Objective: To develop a parent reported observational measure of motor development in infants
      and young children, which will serve as a complimentary tool to clinical observation by
      reporting motor function as observed in the home setting and which will be used in clinical
      trials.

      Study population: Parents of children aged 0-5 with neuromuscular disease and neuromuscular
      experts in pediatrics.

      Design: Qualitative (parent interviews, focus groups) and quantitative study (analysis of
      newly developed questionnaire)

      Outcome Measures: parental responses to phone interviews, neuromuscular expert responses to
      focus groups, parental responses to cognitive interviews, validity and reliability of newly
      developed questionnaire
    
  