
    
      Rising US suicide rates and the increased risk of suicide among persons who visit an
      emergency department (ED) for suicidality make the ED an important site for interventions to
      prevent suicide. Clinical trials, including ours, show relief of suicidal thoughts within
      hours of treatment with inexpensive, generic, subanesthetic ketamine. We have received NIMH
      R01 funding to conduct a clinical trial of intramuscular (IM) ketamine in unipolar or bipolar
      depressed adults who present to the CUIMC psychiatric ED with suicidality severe enough to
      require inpatient hospitalization as judged by ED clinical staff. Clinical staff will ask
      potentially eligible patients if they would like to learn more about the study, and if so, a
      research assistant (RA) will describe the study to the patient and perform a basic
      eligibility screen. Key exclusions are unstable medical problems, substance abuse, psychosis,
      and further detail is provided in the Inclusion/Exclusion criteria. Participants (N=90) who
      enroll will undergo baseline clinical ratings, brief cognitive testing, and then be
      randomized, double-blind, in a 2:1 ratio to a single IM injection of ketamine (n=60) or
      midazolam comparator (n=30). Vital signs and clinical state will be monitored until injection
      effects subside (approximately 2 hrs). Blood samples will be drawn at 60 minutes and 90
      minutes postinjection to assay ketamine level and a genetic sample will be stored. All
      participants will then be admitted to the 9GN inpatient unit for standard clinical treatment
      with periodic research follow-up ratings through 4 weeks post-discharge from hospital.
      Ongoing outpatient treatment will be arranged by the inpatient clinical team. Positive
      results from this trial would support a novel, easy-to-use, inexpensive, and scalable
      intervention for busy emergency clinicians to implement.
    
  