
    
      Cilostazol is a quinoline derivative that selectively and reversibly inhibits cellular cyclic
      adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) phosphodiesterase III, thus suppressing cAMP degradation and
      maintaining its high intracellular levels. Through this mechanism, cilostazol inhibits
      platelet aggregation, exerting significant antiplatelet and antithrombotic activity.
      Cilostazol also improves endothelial function and exerts anti-inflammatory, anti-atherogenic
      and vasodilatory effects. Additionally, cilostazol inhibits equilibrative nucleoside
      transporter-1 (ENT-1) which is responsible for the cellular uptake of adenosine, reducing its
      plasma concentration. Through this mechanism, cilostazol maintains high extracellular
      adenosine concentration allowing adenosine to exert its biological effects. Thus, cilostazol
      not only shows potent antithrombotic activity, but also prevents restenosis after
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Finally, cilostazol has beneficial effects in the
      lipidemic profile reducing triglyceride levels and increasing HDL-cholesterol. Clinical
      studies have shown that in patients with intermittent claudication, cilostazol increases the
      walking distance. Based on these studies, cilostazol administration in combination with an
      antiplatelet drug (clopidogrel or aspirin) is recommended for patients with intertermittent
      claudication.

      Recent pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated that adding cilostazol to aspirin or
      clopidogrel may represent an effective way to overcome high on-treatment platelet reactivity.
      Additionally, clinical studies have shown that the addition of cilostazol to dual
      antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel (triple antiplatelet therapy, TAPT) in
      patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing PCI offers significant clinical benefit.
      This favorable effect of cilostazol was confirmed in a recent meta-analysis which included
      nine studies and a total of 2,179 patients undergoing PCI. Furthermore, other clinical
      studies have shown that administration of TAPT with cilostazol reduces restenosis after PCI.
      Finally, the administration of dual antiplatelet therapy with cilostazol and aspirin
      significantly reduces the progression of symptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis compared
      to monotherapy with aspirin.

      The aim of The Diabetic artery Obstruction: is it possible to Reduce Ischemic events with
      Cilostazol? (DORIC) trial is to investigate the clinical efficacy and safety of dual
      antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with clopidogrel and cilostazol versus clopidogrel alone in
      preventing ischemic vascular eventsin patients with type 2 diabetes (DM2) and symptomatic
      peripheral arterial disease (PAD).
    
  