
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To confirm penetration of fimepinostat across the blood brain barrier (BBB) in children
      and young adults with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), recurrent
      medulloblastoma, or recurrent high-grade glioma (HGG) by measuring concentration of
      fimepinostat and metabolite in primary tumor tissue.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess pharmacokinetics (PK) of fimepinostat in plasma and tumor tissue of children and
      young adults with newly diagnosed DIPG, recurrent medulloblastoma, or recurrent HGG.

      II. To assess pharmacodynamics (PD) of fimepinostat in children and young adults with newly
      diagnosed DIPG, recurrent medulloblastoma, or recurrent HGG as measured by phosphorylation
      and acetylation in tumor tissue.

      III. To correlate acetylation and phosphorylation in tumor tissue with tissue and plasma PK
      levels.

      IV. To assess the safety and tolerability of fimepinostat in children and young adults with
      newly diagnosed DIPG, recurrent medulloblastoma, or recurrent HGG.

      V. To assess preliminary efficacy of fimepinostat given as monotherapy after surgery in
      children and young adults with newly diagnosed DIPG, recurrent medulloblastoma, or recurrent
      HGG, as based on progression-free survival (PFS) and objective response rate (ORR) as
      appropriate.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive fimepinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -2 to 0. Within 2 hours of
      receiving fimepinostat on day 0, patients undergo tumor resection.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive fimepinostat by mouth, once daily for days 1-5 each week.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
      for up to 12 months from the time treatment begins. Should patients continue to derive
      clinical benefit, and not experience excess toxicity or progression, patients can continue to
      receive drug for up to 24 months or longer pending discussion with study chairs and study
      sponsor.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months
      for up to 5 years.
    
  