
    
      Optoelectronic plethysmography (OEP) is based on the analysis during breathing of the
      trajectories of a series of markers positioned on the thoracic-abdominal surface of the
      patient. The positions in space of these markers are recorded and processed with mathematical
      models and algorithms by a computing unit that can accurately measure not only volume
      variations of the whole thoracic-abdominal wall, but also the variations of the various
      compartments. This detects, for example, asymmetries in the action of respiratory muscles.
      The system can accurately measure current volume, vital capacity, respiratory frequency,
      duration of the phases of inspiration and exhalation, the average inspiration and exhalation
      flux and the volume variations at the end of exhalation.

      Structured Light Plethysmography (SLP) also assesses regional chest wall excursion but does
      not require markers to be placed on the patient. The system uses visible light shone onto the
      chest wall in a checkerboard pattern and reflected back by the patient's skin or a tight T
      shirt.

      Images from 4 Microsoft Kinnect Motion Cameras can be used to create a 3D representation of
      the patient's torso. This system has been shown to correlate well with chest wall
      measurements recorded by OEP.

      These systems are innovative examination instruments, non-invasive, accurate, easy to use and
      unlike traditional plethysmographic technologies, are not affected by humidity and
      temperature variations and can easily be used to perform measurements for extended periods of
      time. They accurately measure the dynamics of the volume variations that occur during
      breathing in the various sections of the thoracic-abdominal walls (upper, lower and abdominal
      thoracic area). This data, which is otherwise undetectable, is a useful contribution to the
      evaluation of patients. We will apply chest wall motion analysis to understanding the
      physiology of thoracic disease processes as well as assessing potential diagnostic and
      prognostic (response to treatment) markers that could be used in future clinical practice.
    
  