
    
      OBJECTIVES: Major innovations in radiotherapy (RT) delivery (3D conformal RT, intensity
      modulated RT) now permit RT dose escalation to be tested as a means of improving control of
      localized prostate cancer. With delivery innovations, severe toxicity occurs rarely, but
      significant bladder and rectal toxicity is common. The investigators have studied a cohort of
      98 patients who received dose-escalated 3D-CRT and have obtained evidence of dosimetric
      factors underlying rectal toxicity. They posit that the late radiation toxicity disease state
      has significant genetic determinants. These determinants are neither understood nor accounted
      for in selection of treatment, and the investigators propose to study the above
      well-characterized cohort, who are clinically well from a disease control perspective, given
      that comprehensive dosimetric and outcome information is available on all.

      HYPOTHESIS: Comprehensive analysis of the genomic, proteomic, and dosimetric characteristics
      of patients with prostate cancer will provide a novel understanding of the genetic
      predisposition of cellular and tissue responses to irradiation which result in the clinical
      occurrence of significant chronic rectal and bladder injury after 3D-CRT.

      APPROACH: For a thorough understanding of the molecular processes underlying tissue responses
      to radiation damage, the investigators propose a genomic analysis. Their working hypothesis
      is that rectal and bladder toxicity will be correlated to patient genetics as measured by
      single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a select group of genes. The criteria for selecting
      SNPs will be based on evidence for the various genes implicated or demonstrated in DNA repair
      pathways and radiation-induced tissue damage. In addition, since radiation injury can be
      considered a phenotypic tissue response to RT in genetically predisposed individuals, the
      investigators will examine the protein profile "signature" in sera from patients who have
      suffered significant toxicity. Analysis of these data will be unique in that the
      investigators will use both statistically based bioinformatics approaches, and biophysical
      modeling. This proposal represents the most comprehensive exploration to date of the concept
      of a molecular "signature" of normal tissue radiation injury of which the applicants are
      aware.

      SPECIFIC AIM 1:

        -  To create a database of SNPs among long-term prostate cancer survivors who have been
           treated with 3D-CRT, and for whom detailed toxicity, quality of life and dosimetric
           information are available;

        -  To assess the feasibility of using bioinformatics approaches with this database to
           examine the possibility that specific SNPs, in the context of known dosimetric factors,
           can predict occurrence of late rectal or bladder toxicity;

        -  To perform a proteomic analysis of serum samples from a cohort of 25 patients
           experiencing higher levels of ongoing late toxicity and 50 patients with no ongoing late
           toxicity.

      SPECIFIC AIM 2:

        -  To utilize biophysical approaches to modelling clinical complication data, using the
           concept of generalized mean biological effective dose (GMBED) and the critical volume
           model.

      SUMMARY: This proposal will be the first comprehensive retrospective analysis of genomic,
      proteomic and dosimetric determinants of late radiation injury in prostate cancer. The
      investigators have assembled a broad array of expertise from the CCI PolyomX program (the
      only high throughput SNP facility in western Canada), the NCI/FDA Clinical Proteomics Program
      at Bethesda, MD, and the unique biophysical modeling capability of CBIAR researchers to reach
      these goals.
    
  