
    
      IBD and Pregnancy: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the
      gastrointestinal tract that comprises two subtypes, Crohn's disease (CD) and Ulcerative
      Colitis (UC), Canada has among the highest reported incidence of CD and UC in the world, as
      high as 20.2 and 19.5 per 100,000, respectively. Because the risk of IBD is greatest during
      the third decade of life, its greatest impact for women in during the reproductive years. In
      comparison to the general population, women with IBD have a significantly higher risk of
      pregnancy related complications.

      IBD Disease Activity and Outcomes: Active IBD symptoms during pregnancy significantly
      increase the risk of preterm birth. Furthermore, women with IBD who suffer a relapse during
      pregnancy, requiring hospitalization, are more likely than their asymptomatic counterparts to
      delivery preterm birth and low birth weight newborns. More than two-thirds of women who have
      active disease at the time of conception will have continued or worsened symptoms during
      pregnancy. In contrast, women who are asymptomatic at conception are half as likely to have
      active disease during pregnancy. This data underscores the importance of achieving disease
      remission prior to conception and aggressively treating relapses during pregnancy.

      Medication Adherence During Pregnancy: Despite the safety of most IBD medications, most
      pregnant women with IBD exhibit low medication adherence rates. Medication non-compliance is
      often linked to concerns that IBD medication may confer unnecessary harm to the fetus. Most
      women have reported that they would rather endure symptoms of IBD rather than confer risk to
      the fetus, without realizing that active IBD itself is strongly associated with adverse
      pregnancy outcomes. Consequently, most of these women decrease the dosage or stop their
      medications without informing their treating physicians, thus comprising treatment.

      Motivational Interviewing Adherence: Motivational Interviewing (MI) refers to a
      patient-centered process in which a health care provider employs specific communication
      skills and strategies that facilitate the patients confidence and decision making, while
      emphasising respect for autonomy. A key feature of MI is that the counselling process induces
      behavioural change by triggering and channelling a patient's internal motivations for change.
      Previous clinical trials have demonstrated the effectiveness of MI in improving medication
      adherence for various chronic condition, including diabetes, hypertension, obesity and HIV.
      In a small study of IBD subjects, MI was associated with positive patient perceptions of the
      physician-patient relationship. In another pilot study, nurse-administered MI in UC patients
      was associated with medication adherence as high as 90%.

      Rationale: Pregnancy is an especially vulnerable time for women with IBD. During this
      critical window of time, even brief lapses in medication adherence can lead to sub optimal
      control of IBD disease activity that can lead to life-threatening complications to both
      mother and fetus. Adverse outcomes such as preterm delivery have long-term implications for
      the children of mother with IBD. Out of misguided concerns for their fetus, many women may
      stop lifesaving medications. Educating pregnant women with IBD is an important step in
      improving adherence rates, but tools such as motivational interviewing have proven to be much
      more powerful. As such the primary objective of this study is to assess, through a
      multi-center clinical trial, whether patient-centered counselling incorporating motivational
      interviewing and telemedicine-based follow-up by an IBD nurse leads to improved medication
      adherence during pregnancy and improved pregnancy outcomes. The investigators hypothesize
      that patient-centered counselling will result in higher medication adherence rates and
      improved pregnancy outcomes.

      Design: The investigators will conduct a multi-center randomized controlled clinical trial
      that includes 3 University of Toronto affiliated hospitals (Mount Sinai Hospital, University
      Health Network, and Women's College Hospital) and the University of Calgary.

      Study Population: The investigators will enroll 220 pregnant women who have or will be seen
      by: an obstetrician or maternal fetal specialist at Mount Sinai Hospital or the University of
      Calgary; or a gastroenterologist at Mount Sinai Hospital, University Health Network, Women's
      College, or the University of Calgary who meet the inclusion criteria.

      Significance: This clinical intervention has the potential to directly impact inflammatory
      bowel disease patients by reducing complications of the disease during pregnancy.
      Motivational interviewing can potentially improve adherence and optimize the impact of IBD
      medical therapies. Most tertiary centers already have clinical IBD nurses. The structured
      training of an IBD nurse to counsel pregnant women through motivational interviewing is a
      reproducible intervention and can be used at tertiary centers throughout the country. Because
      poor disease control can lead to preterm delivery, which is associated with lifelong chronic
      illnesses, patient-centered counselling would not only ameliorate the IBD health of mothers,
      but also improve the lives of their children. Findings from this study would also allow
      physicians to lobby provincial health ministries to request funds for IBD nurse counsellors.
    
  