
    
      In December 2019, the first case of a new coronavirus causing pneumonia was described in
      Wuhan (China), designated as SARS-CoV-2 by the World Health Organization.

      From the start of the SARS-CoV-2 alert until May 21st, 2020, 250,287 cases of coronavirus
      disease (COVID-19) were reported in Spain. The importance of the COVID-19 pandemic with its
      high humanitarian and economic cost, urgently requires effective therapies to reduce the
      severity, complications and mortality associated with this infection.

      As the number of cases of COVID-19 increases, so does information regarding the management
      and evolution of the disease. More recently, a new clinical presentation called "long
      COVID-19" has been reported, for patients with symptoms lasting for more than 4 weeks from
      the onset of the disease. Typically, the symptoms comprise dyspnea, cough, headache,
      arthralgia, fever, abdominal pain, asthenia and skin manifestations.

      The inflammatory process produced at the pulmonary and extra pulmonary level, and the immune
      response triggered have been identified as important mechanisms in the pathophysiology of
      COVID-19.

      Coronavirus infection activates the cytokine cascade at the immune level, in which
      leukotriene are possibly involved in the development of respiratory symptoms in patients with
      persistent symptoms after infection by SARS-CoV-2.

      Leukotriene antagonists (LTRAs) have a bronchodilator action and inhibit inflammation of the
      airways, resulting in a significant improvement in asthma symptoms and allergic rhinitis. In
      asthma, they improve respiratory function, inhalation rate of inhaled β2 agonist, airway
      inflammation, airway hyper responsiveness, inhaled corticosteroid dosage, and reduce
      exacerbations.

      Regarding the treatment of acute SARS-CoV-2 infection, to date, the available evidence is
      limited; there are few conclusive clinical trials that allow recommendations based on
      scientific evidence.

      To date, no treatment has been evaluated in long COVID-19. The hypothesis of using
      Montelukast would be based on the pathophysiological response of the disease mediated by the
      immune system against the SARS-CoV-2 infection.

      Montelukast blocks the action of substances such as leukotriene C4, D4 and E4 by binding to
      the CysLT1 receptor in the lungs and bronchi. This reduces the bronchoconstriction caused by
      leukotriene and results in less inflammation.

      Montelukast effectively attenuated both lung inflammation induced by Lipopolysaccharides in a
      mouse model with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, as in human neutrophils.

      Individuals affected by long COVID-19 have self-organized to gain visibility. They have made
      a self-completed form to describe the characteristics of the disease. The "Persistent
      COVID19" network in Catalonia currently gathers more than 3000 people.

      From the contact with the "Persistent COVID19 association" in Catalonia, and in search of a
      response to this symptomatology, which can be very disabling, a pilot study was carried out
      in patients with persistent COVID-19 symptoms with off-label use of Montelukast.

      Empirical treatment with Montelukast at a dose of 10 mg / day for 14 days was started in 13
      patients with long COVID-19, some with symptoms of more than a month of evolution since the
      beginning of the COVID-19 clinic. The patients were followed up to evaluate the improvement
      of the symptoms with a numerical scale from 0 to 100 and COPD Assessment Test Scale (CAT), 3
      weeks after starting treatment.

      An improvement in symptoms was observed a few days after treatment and a good evolution of
      the sensation of dyspnea, chest pain, symptoms of discomfort, dry cough, and nasal symptoms.
      Likewise, the incorporation of the patients to their work activity during that period was
      observed. To date, the improvement continues to exist, without evidence of clinical
      deterioration.
    
  