
    
      Latinx adults with depression are a particularly vulnerable population; although Latinx
      exhibit similar rates of depression to other racial/ethnic groups, they are less likely to
      seek treatment, are more likely to drop out of treatment, and thus experience greater
      chronicity of depression. This health disparity is likely due to a complex network of
      factors, but mental health literacy is one important contributing factor. Latinx are more
      likely to exhibit lower mental health literacy (including misconceptions, stigma, knowledge
      of treatment, etc.), which contributes to lower rates of treatment-seeking. Understanding how
      to engage Latinx in depression treatment by overcoming health literacy barriers is important
      in reducing health disparities.

      Entertainment-education interventions are those that use popular media to engage consumers
      and deliver health messages. These interventions hypothesized to be useful in targeting
      populations with health disparities in encouraging changes in health-related behavior through
      dramatic and culturally-relevant narrative elements. However, no study has tested these
      theorized mechanisms in helping to explain changes in health literacy and subsequent health
      behavior.

      This study will test the impact of a graphic novel about depression specifically for Latinx
      adults with depressive symptoms on theorized mediators, including transportation (feeling
      emotionally engaged in the narrative), identification (cultural relevance of characters,
      their language, and their appearance), and social proliferation (sharing of health
      information and mutual reinforcement of health behaviors). Furthermore, this study will test
      if these mediators help explain changes in mental health literacy and subsequent health
      behavior. Lastly, this study will test moderators of changes in mental health literacy and
      behavior to determine for whom the fotonovela has the largest impact.
    
  