
    
      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have an ultrasound of
      your prostate before brachytherapy so that the prostate can be measured and mapped and the
      placement of the needles and seeds planned ahead of time. This is a 20-minute outpatient
      procedure that involves placing a probe (tube) into your rectum, which takes ultrasound
      pictures of the prostate to learn the size and shape. A specialized radiation plan for each
      patient is made, and the exact number of needles and seeds depend on the size and shape of
      the prostate. Ultrasound pictures, using the probe in the rectum, are taken before the
      implant procedure so that the plan can be made.

      Brachytherapy is an outpatient surgical procedure. Under general or spinal anesthesia, you
      will have thin needles inserted through the skin between the anus and the scrotum. Seeds are
      inserted into the prostate through the needles. An ultrasound probe (tube which sends images
      of the prostate to a screen) is placed into the rectum and remains there during the procedure
      to help direct the needles. After the seeds are inserted, the needles are removed. The seeds
      remain permanently in the prostate. Typically, about 25 needles are inserted with about 100
      seeds. The implant procedure takes about 1-2 hours in the operating room. Afterwards, you
      will go to the recovery room for 1-3 hours. You will then have a computed tomography (CT)
      scan after the procedure to make sure the seeds are properly placed. You will then be allowed
      to return home.

      After treatment, you will have a study visit in 4-6 weeks. After that first follow-up visit,
      you will have follow-up visits at 4, 8, and 12 months (+/- 3 weeks) after treatment. After
      that, follow-up visits are every 6 months until 5 years after treatment and then once a year
      from then on (+/- 3 weeks). At these visits, you will have a physical exam. This may include
      a digital rectal exam if your doctor feels that it is needed. Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will
      be drawn for routine tests. You will be asked to complete 2 questionnaires about your
      urinary, bowel, sexual function, and overall quality of life. The 2 questionnaires take about
      30 minutes to complete in total. A CT scan of the prostate will also be performed at the
      first follow-up visit after the implant to make sure the seeds are properly placed.

      If blood tests show that your cancer is getting worse, a biopsy may be done after the
      treatment is complete. A biopsy is done by inserting a needle through the rectum and into the
      prostate. The procedure is similar to the one done to first diagnose your prostate cancer.
      Six (6) to 10 samples are usually taken. The doctor will also perform an ultrasound. This is
      done by placing a tube in the rectum, which shows a picture of the prostate on a screen and
      is used to guide the biopsies.

      You will be taken off study if your disease progresses. Otherwise, you will remain on study
      indefinitely.

      This is an investigational study. Brachytherapy is FDA approved. Up to 300 patients will take
      part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  