
    
      The patients were given a spray of lidocaine 10% as a topical pharyngeal anaesthesia before
      sedation. Intravenous midazolam bolus dose 0.1 mg/kg (maximum 4 mg) was administered to Group
      A. Two minutes later, ketamine bolus dose 1 mg/kg was given intravenously. Patient responses
      to verbal and tactile stimuli were evaluated two minutes after ketamine application. Ketamine
      0.5 mg/kg (maximum of 2 mg/kg) was added in two minute intervals if adequate sedation was not
      achieved initially. The endoscopy process was initiated by the endoscopist if there was no
      response. If the patients were agitated after the procedure started, a ketamine 0.5 mg/kg
      single dose was applied. Intravenous fentanyl bolus dose 1µg/kg was administered to Group B.
      Two minutes later, propofol bolus dose 1 mg/kg was given intravenously. Patient responses to
      verbal and tactile stimuli were evaluated two minutes after propofol application. Propofol
      0.5 mg/kg was added in two minute intervals if adequate sedation was not achieved. The
      endoscopy process was initiated by the endoscopist if there was no response. If the patients
      were agitated after the procedure started, a propofol 0.5 mg/kg single dose was applied. None
      of the patients were given an antidote after the process during recovery.

      All patients were monitored for peripheral oxygen saturation, heart rate (HR), respiratory
      rate, and RSS during the procedure. Oxygen (2L/min) by nasal cannula was given to all
      patients during the procedure. Hypoxia (peripheral oxygen saturation <90% during 60 seconds),
      apnea, laryngospasm, tachycardia (defined as 30% more than the average heart rate by age),
      bradycardia (30% less than the average heart rate by age), increase in oral secretions (more
      than enough to warrant aspiration), flushing, coughing and vomiting were assessed as
      complications and recorded.
    
  