
    
      The FRX system is comprised of hardware and consumable components. The hardware components of
      the system include an Analyzer (thermal cycler with fluorescence detection capability), a
      notebook computer and a printer. The consumable component of the FRX system is a sample
      collection kit. Each kit contains a buccal swab (used to collect the patient sample) and a
      tube containing the reagents required for genomic DNA extraction and PCR (polymerase chain
      reaction) amplification stages of the test.

      The Spartan FRX System is capable of detecting three CYP2C19 SNPs(single nucleotide
      polymorphism) (*2, *3, *17) in each test performed. An individual sample collection kit is
      required for each SNP tested; therefore three sample collection kits are required for each
      test performed on the system.

      To perform a test, the user collects three buccal samples from the patient and then inserts a
      sample into each of the three reagent tubes (one for each of the CYP2C19 loci *2, *3 and
      *17). The reagent tubes are placed into the Analyzer and the FRX system automates the
      processes of DNA extraction, PCR amplification, fluorescent signal detection and data
      analysis. The system provides the user with a printed result listing the patient genotypes at
      the *2, *3 and *17 loci.

      The objective of the study is to evaluate the performance of the FRX System under
      multivariate conditions. Specifically, the following variables will be included in the study:

        -  Test site - x3

        -  Operator - x6 (2 per site)

        -  Day - x15 (5 non-consecutive days per site)

        -  FRX System - x16

      Test performance is defined as the number of correct genotype calls, expressed as a
      percentage of the total number of tests performed on the system.

      For both the first-pass and second-pass results, 1-sided 95% confidence lower limits will be
      calculated using the score method for the % correct calls (i.e. % agreement).

      Genotype results from the FRX system will be compared with results of DNA sequencing. The
      result of the FRX System test will be determined to be correct if the genotype calls for all
      three SNPs are identical to the genotypes determined by DNA sequencing for that
      sample/individual.

      Results of the Reproducibility Study will be acceptable if the lower bound of a 1-sided 95%
      confidence limit of the total correct call rate per genotype is greater than or equal to 95%,
      based on second-pass results.
    
  