
    
      All pregnant women reporting to the clinic in their first trimester of pregnancy (week 11 ± 2
      weeks of pregnancy) will be asked to participate in this study. Participation will be
      voluntary and written informed consent will be obtained from each participant. The study
      visits will take place in the hospital.

      At Visit 1, the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be verified. After signing the informed
      consent, a physical examination will be performed in addition to a vaginal-rectal smear to
      detect if they are GBS-positive. Information on the demographic profile and medical history
      will be collected. The investigator will explain to the participant that she cannot use any
      probiotic during the course of the study.

      At Visit 2, within 21-23 weeks ± 4 days of gestation, the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be reviewed. When a positive result of the microbiological analysis of the
      vaginal-rectal exudate are obtained, the pregnant GBS+ women will be invited to continue in
      the study. The randomized participant will intake one capsule of probiotic or placebo every
      day for the next 12 weeks. The participant will be given a diary and instructions to record
      the product intake. Adverse events occurring from the time of study inclusion will be
      recorded. Adverse Events occurring from the time of study inclusion will be recorded.

      At the third visit (Visit 3, 35 weeks ± 4 days of gestation), all participants continuing in
      the study will undergo a general physical examination. A sample of vaginal and rectal exudate
      will be collected from the participants who end the treatment period. Adverse Events
      occurring during the period between Visit 2 and Visit 3 will be recorded. The participants
      must deliver the remaining product and the completed diary.

      During Visit 4 (1 month after delivery), all participants will have a general physical
      examination. Adverse Events occurring since Visit 3 will be recorded. Data will be collected
      on the delivery and occurrence of early- or late-onset GBS sepsis in the newborn during the
      first month of life.
    
  