
    
      Consenting Procedure Patients will be contacted first by phone and, if not available, then by
      email. Interested patients will make an appointment to visit the GO Health Clinical Research
      Unit at Adams School of Dentistry for this study. Study participation includes only one
      visit. For Spanish speaking patients and/or parents, Spanish forms will be provided and
      communication will occur through a Spanish translator. All patients are adults and over
      normal cognitive capacity, and therefore will be able to consent for themselves.

      Screening

        -  At the visit, a consented patient will answer screening questions regarding inclusion
           and exclusion criteria. Answers will be entered into the Carolina Data Acquisition and
           Reporting Tool (CDART) research database managed by UNC.

        -  Prior to finalizing these screening questions, women participants of childbearing
           potential will be asked to provide a urine sample in the restroom, to undergo a rapid
           pregnancy test by study personnel. Any pregnant or lactating patients will be excluded.

      Enrollment, Baseline, and/or Randomization Outpatient subjects will be recruited from
      patients seen in the UNC Respiratory Distress Clinic (RDC) who have tested positive for
      COVID+ and consented to be contacted for participation in COVID-related research studies. The
      subjects being approached by phone or email have signed a prior facility consent at the
      Respiratory Distress Clinic confirming willingness to share their name and contact
      information to be contacted for study participation in COVID related research. Investigators
      will not receive information on subjects that decline this internal consent. Subjects will be
      contacted for recruitment by phone and (if unreachable by phone) by secure email by study
      personnel; patients will have the study rationale and risks explained and will be provided
      time to ask questions and consider participation. If patients are interested in
      participating, a single appointment will be scheduled for them at the Adams School of
      Dentistry GO Health Clinical research core. Consent documentation will be signed in person
      and in private in the GO Health Clinical Research Core. A list of COVID+ subjects that have
      consented to be contacted for research, will be provided by the RDC clinic, sent via secure
      University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill NC servers or secure UNC email to the
      research team's clinical coordinator, and this list will include names and contact details
      (PHI). This list is updated daily and provided to approved research sites..

      Randomization The study statistician will create a block randomization schedule and perform
      these computations. The researcher in charge of collecting the salivary samples will be
      blinded to the mouthwash solution, as they will be given a pre-aliquoted mouthrinse in an
      unlabeled storage tube to provide to the patient for the rinse.

      Blinding Subjects will be provided with an unlabeled/blinded mouthrinse. The researcher in
      charge of collecting the salivary samples will be blinded to the mouthwash solution as well,
      as they will be given a pre-aliquoted mouthrinse in an unlabeled storage syringe to provide
      to the patient for the rinse. The study statistician will set up a block randomization
      schedule that the team will abide by for assignment of enrolled subjects.

      Follow-up Visits This study requires only one 70-90 minute, single visit appointment. No
      diagnostic tests will be run as part of this clinical trial. All participants will already
      have known COVID+ status, and therefore no follow-up reporting is needed.

      Completion/Final Evaluation This study requires only one 70-90 minute, single visit
      appointment. Subjects will be asked to rinse with an unlabeled/blinded antiviral mouth rinse
      for 60 seconds and provide 5 mL of saliva prior to the rinse and 2 mL of saliva immediately
      post-rinse, 15 minutes post-rinse, 30 minutes post-rinse, 45 minutes post-rinse, and 60
      minutes post-rinse. Subjects will also be asked to complete a short survey about the rinsing
      experience.

      Subjects may withdraw from the trial at any time or they may be withdrawn at any time at the
      discretion of the Investigator or Sponsor for safety, behavioral or administrative reasons.
    
  