
    
      The aim of this prospective randomized clinical trial is the comparison of two surgical
      treatment options for talar avascular necrosis (analogical to Ficat and Arlet stage II and
      III). The randomized study design allows direct comparability of the outcome after either
      core decompression and nonvascularized osseous autografting from the iliac crest or core
      decompression and osseous autografting with a free microvascular medial femoral condyle.

      Talar avascular necrosis is caused by osseous malperfusion leading to malnutrition and
      destruction of the talar bone. The extend of this malperfusion is variable and can be
      categorized in 4 stages. The osseous defects can remain without consequences (stage I) or
      lead to irreversible talar destruction. The current treatment option for stage II and III is
      the core decompression followed by osseous auto grafting from the iliac crest. Reducing the
      intraosseal pressure and filling the drill holes with the bone graft can lead to reperfusion
      of the talus.

      A new technique is to fill the drill hole with a vascularized bone graft from the medial
      femoral condyle, using microvascular anastomosis. This procedure has already been approved
      for the treatment of avascular necrosis and malperfusion of the carpus (lunate and scaphoid)
      as well as the femoral head.

      Patients are examined preoperative as well as 3, 6 and 12 month after operation, documenting
      the active range of motion and pain sensation while resting and on activity. Well established
      scores like the AOFAS Ankle-Hindfoot Score and the Lower Extremity Functional Scale are used
      to get subjective and objective informations about patients' daily life and postoperative
      satisfaction. X-Rays are taken at the same stages. MRIs of the ankle joint with contrast
      agent are performed before as well as 6 and 12 months after surgery.

      Statistical analysis is performed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS). The Study protocol has been approved by the Ethics Commission of Rheinland-Pfalz.
      Interventions are done according to the declaration of Helsinki.
    
  