
    
      Lung transplantation is one treatment option for people with end-stage lung disease. The
      majority of people undergoing a lung transplant have COPD, and while transplantation can
      potentially improve survival and quality of life, it may also carry substantial risks,
      including surgical complications, infections, and pneumonia. The impact of lung
      transplantation on survival and quality of life has not been extensively studied. In the
      United States, the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) is the organization that allocates
      donor lungs to lung recipients. Before 2005, the length of time that a candidate had been on
      the transplant waiting list was the major determining factor for receiving a donor lung. In
      mid 2005, the UNOS system changed and began prioritizing candidates on the basis of risk of
      death prior to lung transplantation and the probability of death within the first year after
      transplantation. The purpose of this study is to evaluate quality of life factors for lung
      transplant patients with COPD, both before and after the lung transplant procedure. In
      addition, quality of life of patients in the new UNOS allocation system will be compared with
      that of patients in the old UNOS allocation system.

      This study will enroll all COPD patients undergoing an evaluation for lung transplantation at
      the Washington University Medical Center and Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis, Missouri.
      Participants will attend study visits at the time of the transplant evaluation and again just
      prior to listing in the UNOS system. After the transplant, participants will attend study
      visits at Months 3 and 6 and then once a year for 5 years. During each study visit,
      participants will complete a computerized interview and health-related questionnaires that
      will assess quality of life factors, including social life, work life, and home life. Study
      researchers will also review participants' medical records to collect information on lung
      function and blood test results.
    
  