
    
      Plague is a life-threatening disease that requires immediate treatment with effective
      antimicrobials. Drugs with demonstrated efficacy include streptomycin, doxycycline, and to a
      lesser extent, gentamicin. Animal and in vitro studies suggest that fluoroquinolones,
      including ciprofloxacin, may be effective agents for treatment of plague. However, with the
      exception of a single case report, there are no published instances in which fluoroquinolones
      have been used successfully to treat plague in humans. There is a critical need to evaluate
      newer antimicrobials that have been shown to be efficacious in vitro and in animal studies,
      used extensively in the treatment of other illnesses in humans, work by a separate mechanism
      than antimicrobials currently used for treatment, and are widely available and affordable.

      The objective of this study is to conduct a randomized, open-labeled, non-inferiority study
      comparing the safety and efficacy of ciprofloxacin to doxycycline, the national treatment
      standard in Uganda. This study is designed to test the following hypothesis: the safety and
      efficacy of ciprofloxacin for the treatment of plague in humans is not inferior to
      doxycycline. This study will result in a better understanding of the safety and efficacy of
      ciprofloxacin for the treatment of plague in humans. Information from this study will be used
      to expand the experience and knowledge base for the treatment of plague in humans and guide
      national and international treatment guidelines. Information from this study also will
      possibly add to the antiquated list of effective antimicrobials used to treat plague and
      possibly lead to a reduction in the overall morbidity and mortality caused by plague and its
      treatment.

      The randomized clinical trial provides the best design to distinguish treatment effects from
      other effects such as bias in allocation, observation, and measurement; spontaneous changes
      in disease course or healing; and improvement from participating in a study (i.e., placebo
      effect). An open-labeled design is being used because the opportunities for investigators or
      patients to bias the outcome are limited (i.e., patient randomized after enrollment and
      mortality is objective outcome) and a double blind design would greatly increase the
      complexity and cost of the trial.

      The primary outcome for this trial will be patient outcome 14 days from enrollment and
      initiation of treatment, which includes outcomes of patient recovery without complications,
      recovery with complications, withdrawal, or death. Patient outcome will be evaluated only for
      those patients with laboratory-confirmed plague illness. Time to defervesence and occurrence
      of antimicrobial-associated adverse events will be evaluated as secondary outcomes in
      patients with laboratory-confirmed plague illness and all enrolled patients, respectively.

      When conducting a non-inferiority study, it is important to consider the appropriate
      selection of a comparator treatment, non-inferiority margin (M), and analysis strategy. For
      non-inferiority trials, it is critical to select a standard treatment that has proven to be
      the best historically or been used in prior randomized clinical trials as the comparator
      treatment. Of the possible options, doxycycline is most optimal choice for this trial because
      it is the current treatment standard in Uganda (the country location of the proposed study)
      and its treatment regimen and side effect profile are the similar to that of ciprofloxacin.
      For this trial, the non-inferiority margin (M) is the acceptable difference between the
      probability that ciprofloxacin cures plague as compared to the probability that doxycycline
      cures plague. Because of the severity of illness and high case fatality rate for plague in
      general, and the potential for pneumonic transmission with pneumonic plague, the choice of an
      acceptable M should be no more than 10% with a most conservative choice of 2%. If we assume
      an overall Type I error rate = 0.05, a power (power = 1 - Type II error rate) of 80%, πs =
      0.90 and we choose M = 0.10, then the number of patients required for each study arm is well
      over 1,000 (calculations not shown). From our previous experience with a similar trial (i.e.,
      The safety and efficacy of gentamicin vs. streptomycin in the treatment of plague in humans,
      CDC IRB #3700) and our current experience with surveillance data in Uganda, we anticipate
      being able to enroll approximately 100-200 total patients per year. Therefore, we computed
      the power using different values of M (0.02, 0.05, 0.10; where 0.02 is the most conservative
      and 0.10 is the most forgiving but still within the accepted non-inferiority margin), to
      represent a range of reported efficacy of the standards (table not shown). Using the table,
      we would have approximately 61% power to detect non-inferiority of ciprofloxacin treatment
      with a non-inferiority margin, M, = 0.10 if the true efficacy of the standard is = 90% and if
      we were to enroll 148 patients total, for example.

      This study will attempt to include all suspect cases of plague aged 8 years or older
      identified through clinic-based surveillance. Most patients, including plague cases, are
      treated at the "level 3" health centers, mainly due to a lack of motorized transport. Between
      3 and 10 "level 3" clinics in Arua and Nebbi Districts, Uganda will be chosen to participate
      in this study based on the reported number of cases of plague in the last 5 years and
      logistic considerations. Only UMOH clinics will be considered for inclusion.

      The "level 3" clinics are staffed by 1-2 clinical officers and are very busy, seeing 50-150
      patients each day. Because of the excess patient volume, the study collaborators will hire
      and train one additional clinical officer for each collaborating clinic to work alongside the
      UMOH clinical officer(s) stationed at the collaborating clinic so as not to impair normal
      clinic function. The hired clinical officer will be trained on the clinical aspects of plague
      and the study protocol, and will be responsible for evaluating suspect plague patients for
      study enrollment, consenting patients, and providing patient treatment and monitoring per the
      study protocol.

      The diagnosis of suspected plague patients who consent and enroll in the study will follow
      the national guidelines of the UMOH. The only adaptations are that, after receiving informed
      consent, UMOH physicians will collect biologic samples and patients will be randomized and
      receive ciprofloxacin or doxycycline. Of note, a urine pregnancy test will be conducted on
      every female of child-bearing age at time of enrollment and randomization and antimicrobial
      treatment will not be initiated unless the results are negative. Based on our experience
      conducting a similar trial in Madagascar, results from the urine pregnancy test are available
      in less than 5 minutes so this should not cause any substantial time delays. Antimicrobial
      treatment per UMOH national guidelines will be started immediately should there be instances
      where there are delays in obtaining consent or collecting biologic samples, or if the
      treating physician deems it necessary.

      Suspect cases of plague will be eligible and will be asked to give consent for study
      enrollment using the following criteria:

        1. any person, including women and persons who are minorities, who;

        2. must be aged 8 years or older, and;

        3. must have had potential exposure to rodents and/or fleas or contact with a confirmed
           plague case, and;

        4. must have a fever of at least 38ºC that developed rapidly, and have at least one of the
           following:

             1. One or more buboes, defined as a tender lymph node swelling > 1cm in diameter, or;

             2. Clinical suspicion of pneumonic plague (e.g. prostration, cough, increased
                respiratory rate, hemoptysis and/or purulent sputum), or

             3. Clinical suspicion of cutaneous plague (lesion)

             4. Clinical suspicion of plague and epidemiologic link with other cases.

      Patients with suspected plague illness will be considered ineligible for the study and will
      be excluded from study enrollment using the following criteria:

        1. Any women who is pregnant, or;

        2. Any woman who is breast-feeding, or;

        3. Any person aged < 8 years of age, or;

        4. Any patient with:

             -  signs of plague meningitis

             -  hypotension unresponsive to fluid therapy

             -  an illness severity score of > 16 at time of enrollment (see below)

             -  known allergy to ciprofloxacin or doxycycline

             -  taken tetracyclines, quinolones, gentamicin, streptomycin,
                trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, or chloramphenicol in the 24 hours preceding study
                enrollment.

      We will enroll suspected plague cases during the high transmission season between September
      and April, 2010 through 2012. Based on enrollment for a similar study performed previously by
      these investigators in Madagascar and Uganda (unpublished data, CDC) and given the existing
      epidemiological data on plague in Uganda, we anticipate recruitment of between 125 and 200
      suspected cases of plague per year, where approximately 40% to 50% of cases will have a
      confirmed plague illness, with a 20-30% case-fatality rate.

      Patients will be monitored daily. Participants may voluntarily withdraw from this study for
      any reason at any time. The protocol and consent forms must be approved by all three
      supervising IRBs (i.e., US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Uganda Virus Research
      Institute Scientific Ethics Committee, and Uganda National Council for Science and
      Technology) prior to starting the trial. A Data Safety and Monitoring Board will review all
      serious adverse events and interim and final trial data to ensure patient safety and good
      trial conduct.
    
  