
    
      Subjects were randomized into one of two treatment sequences: pregabalin/active placebo or
      active placebo/pregabalin. Each arm lasted 10 days, with a washout period of 10 days between
      treatments. Pregabalin was administered as a standardized two step titration, starting at
      75mg twice daily up to a maximum daily dose of 150mg twice daily; and likewise,
      diphenhydramine (active placebo) was administered starting at 6.25mg twice daily up to a
      maximum daily dose of 12.5mg twice daily. The primary endpoint was time to first symptoms of
      moderate intensity (NRS ≥ 4/10) during treadmill ambulation. Ambulation assessment was
      performed during the screening visit, and on day 10 of each period to evaluate pain intensity
      associated with walking as well as distance covered by the patients. Quantitative assessment
      of ambulation was conducted on a treadmill at 0° ramp incline at 1.2 miles per hour (mph).
      Measurement of self-reported symptom severity using the NRS at baseline, and every 30 seconds
      for a maximum of 15 minutes was recorded. The following information was also recorded: time
      to first symptoms, total ambulation time. The examination was stopped after 15 minutes or at
      the onset of severe symptoms. Severe symptoms were defined as the level of discomfort that
      would make patients stop walking in usual life situations. No one was encouraged or prompted
      to continue walking beyond this point. Patients were instructed to walk with an upright
      posture. They were not permitted to lean forward or hold onto the handrails during the
      examination. Secondary outcome measures included area under the curve of present pain
      intensity with ambulation at each specified time point, final pain intensity with walking,
      walking tolerance, time to return to baseline pain level after ambulation, as well as the
      results of a series of pain related questionnaires including: Visual Analog Scale (VAS),
      Patient Global Assessment (PGA), NRS, Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ), modified
      Brief Pain Inventory short form (mBPI-sf), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and Swiss Spinal
      Stenosis (SSS).
    
  