
    
      Consciousness disorders have high impact on society and national health system. One of these
      disorders is vegetative condition in which, as in coma, there isn't any self or environmental
      consciousness but there is alertness, whereas in minimal state of consciousness at least part
      of awareness is conserved.

      In Emilia Romagna region about 80 people per million of inhabitants are hospitalized after
      cerebral damage, and after discharge about 1/5 of patients are stabilized in a consciousness
      disorder.

      The diagnosis of these disorders is based on neurobehavioural tests, for example JFK Coma
      Recovery Scale Revised (CRS-R).

      In these patients recovery of state of consciousness is one of the main challenges. There are
      very little evidences about treatment, it has been proposed the use of therapies that could
      modulate central nervous system activity, like specific drugs, neuroimaging and
      neuromodulation techniques such as transcranial magnetic stimulation and repetitive
      transcranial current stimulation.

      A non invasive neuromodulation technique is transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
      which can modulate cortical excitability: cathodic current reduces excitability whereas
      anodic current increases it.

      In conclusion, tDCS is an easy technique to use, it's not invasive and it's an efficient tool
      for the modulation of cortical excitability that demonstrated reliable results in healthy
      subjects.

      As the tDCS can modulate cortical excitability it is likely that the combination of this
      stimulation tool with transcranial magnetic stimulation for the registration of cortical
      excitability could give important information about cerebral damage in patients with
      consciousness disorders and to test new treatments. It is also likely that the modification
      of cortical excitability could induce neurobehavioural changes.
    
  