
    
      Rationale of this study:

      Ex vivo generated and tumor-antigen-loaded dendritic cells (DC) are currently used in
      clinical vaccination protocols in cancer patients. DC vaccines are safe, with minimal side
      effects. Evaluating more than 200 patients treated the past ten years we found that clinical
      responses measured in several patients directly coincide with specific cytotoxic T cell
      responses. The majority of studies investigated the therapeutic effects of DC vaccines in
      late-stage cancer patients with metastasis. In these (heavily) pretreated patients the immune
      system is compromised. Based on our observations that a specific immune response is
      indicative for a good clinical outcome we believe that the full potential of these
      immunostimulatory cells has to be exploited in high-risk patients with low tumor burden or in
      a precancerous state.

      A good clinical model are carriers of a germline mutation in one of the DNA mismatch repair
      (MMR) genes, such as patients with Lynch syndrome (also known as Hereditary Non-Polyposis
      Colorectal Cancer or HNPCC). These persons have a lifetime risk of 60-80% for colorectal
      cancer that has developed within a few years from a precancerous adenoma. The immune system
      is thought to be of potential great importance as the colorectal cancer in Lynch syndrome is
      characterized by a strong lymphocyte infiltration, even at the stage of adenomas. In affected
      cancer lesions, MMR dysfunction results in frameshift mutations at short, repetitive DNA
      sequences referred to as microsatellites. In coding regions these mutations destroy gene
      function and have been demonstrated to lead to the production of neopeptides. These
      neopeptides are: 1) tumor specific, because frameshift mutations only occur in tumor cells
      and their premalignant progenitors, 2) are very similar between patients, since the same
      genes are affected by the mismatch repair defect and 3) immunogenic, since cytotoxic T cells
      (CTL) and helper T cells could be induced in vitro from blood of patients with Lynch
      syndrome. Similar mechanisms occur in sporadic colon cancer with MMR dysfunction, which
      represents about 10-15% of all colorectal 2.

      Objectives:

      In this Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre (RUNMC) initiated study our first
      objective is to investigate toxicity (safety and feasibility) of vaccination with
      frameshift-derived neoantigen-loaded DC of CRC patients with an MSI-positive CRC and persons
      who are known to be carrier of a germline MMR-gene mutation with no signs of disease yet.

      The secondary objectives of the study are to demonstrate that peptide-loaded DC can induce or
      enhance an immune response to tumor-associated antigen CEA and specific frameshift-derived
      neoantigens in the study population. And we want to study the pathological and clinical
      responses, e.g. disease-free survival, determined according to the standard protocol.

      Study design:

      This study is a phase I/II open-label study.

      Study population:

      Two groups of adults will be vaccinated:

      Group I) CRC patients, who are known to carry a germline MMR-gene mutation and patients with
      an MSI-positive CRC and yet unknown or negative MMR-gene mutation status.

      Group II) persons who are known to be carrier of a germline MMR-gene mutation with no signs
      of disease yet. All participants need to be HLA-A2.1 positive.

      Main study endpoints:

      The first objective of this study is to toxicity (safety and feasibility) of vaccination with
      frameshift-derived neoantigen-loaded DC. This will be measured by recording of the adverse
      events according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0.

      The secondary objectives of the study are to demonstrate that peptide-loaded DC can induce or
      enhance an immune response to tumor-associated antigen CEA and specific frameshift-derived
      neoantigens in the study population. Immune responses will be assessed as:

        -  proliferative and humoral response to KLH

        -  cytokine production of KLH stimulated PBMC

        -  tumor antigen-specific T cell responses in peripheral blood

        -  tumor antigen-specific T cell responses in biopsies from DTH

        -  cytokine production of T cells in biopsies from DTH

        -  cytotoxicity of T cells in biopsies from DTH

        -  immunohistochemical characterization of DTH infiltrating lymphocytes

      The pathological and clinical responses, e.g. disease-free survival, will be determined
      according to the standard protocol.
    
  