
    
      HIV directly or indirectly related to male-to-male sexual intercourse is the largest
      contributor to HIV infection among Blacks (CDC 2002), accounting for approximately half of
      all US AIDS cases diagnosed among Black men and a substantial but unknown portion of cases
      diagnosed among Black women in 2001 (CDC 2002). The Men of African American Legacy Empowering
      Self (MAALES) Project is an intervention, designed to reduce HIV risk-related behaviors among
      African American men who have sex with men and women (MSMW) in Los Angeles.

      We propose to test the efficacy of the Men of African American Legacy Empowering Self
      (MAALES) Project, a newly developed, novel, and culturally congruent intervention designed to
      reduce HIV risk-related behaviors and improve psychosocial outcomes. The MAALES intervention,
      which originally pilot tested with 50 men using funds from the University of California's
      University wide AIDS Research Program (UARP), is guided by the Theory of Reasoned Action and
      Planned Behavior (9; 10), the Critical Thinking and Cultural Affirmation (CTCA) Model
      developed by a collaborating community-based organization (11), and the Empowerment Theory
      (12). The small group MAALES intervention was developed through an extensive formative
      research process and involves six two-hour group sessions held over three weeks and lead by
      two ethnically matched co-facilitators. In the proposed study, we will conduct a Phase 2a
      test of an enhanced version of the intervention with a total of 350-400 MSMW, evenly
      randomized to intervention and wait listed control conditions. The enhanced intervention
      includes two booster sessions conducted at 1.5- and 4.5-months post conclusion of the six
      sessions and dialogues regarding assumptions about prospective partners' HIV serostatus.
      Post-intervention survey assessments will occur immediately (for psychosocial outcomes and
      mediators) and at three and six months post conclusion of the intervention (for all outcomes
      and mediators). This project will be among the first to develop and test an HIV
      risk-reduction intervention designed specifically for African American MSMW.

      The Primary Specifics Aims are to:

        1. Determine the impact of the MAALES intervention on: (a) HIV-related sexual risk
           behaviors and (b) sex under the influence of drugs and alcohol among African American
           MSMW.

             1. Hypothesis: Compared to the control condition, the MAALES Intervention condition
                will be more effective in decreasing episodes of unprotected anal and vaginal
                intercourse and number of intercourse partners at the 3- and 6-month post
                assessments.

             2. Hypothesis: Compared to the control condition, the MAALES Intervention condition
                will be more effective in decreasing the number of episodes of drug and alcohol use
                prior to or during sex at the 3- and 6-month post assessments.

        2. Determine the impact of the MAALES intervention condition on psychosocial outcomes,
           including reducing HIV stigma and increasing racial/cultural pride among African
           American MSMW.

      Hypothesis: Compared to the control condition, the MAALES Intervention condition will be more
      effective in decreasing HIV stigma and improving racial/cultural pride at the immediate, 3-
      and 6-month post assessments.
    
  