
    
      Restorative proctectomy is increasingly being performed for rectal cancer, allowing patients
      to avoid permanent colostomy. Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) refers to a
      constellation of bowel symptoms including frequency, urgency, incontinence, and clustering of
      bowel movements, that can affect up to 70 to 90% of patients following restorative
      proctectomy. Symptoms can last up to 15 years after resection. Currently, there is no
      standard treatment for LARS and management is symptom-based and reactive, rather than
      proactive. A recent focus group conducted at our institution among LARS patients and
      caregivers showed that people living with LARS experience anxiety and isolation due to their
      symptoms.

      Peer support could be an important psychosocial intervention for people living with LARS,
      helping them normalize and validate their experience. Peer support refers to a supportive
      relationship between individuals who share common experiences or face similar challenges.
      This approach has been associated with positive physical and mental health outcomes for
      several patient populations. Our research group conducted a comprehensive review of online
      health information for patients with LARS, and demonstrated that existing online resources
      were generally of poor quality and lacked important content. With this knowledge, we created
      a LARS educational booklet and developed an online app containing LARS educational material
      and an interactive forum for online peer support. We are now in an optimal position to
      rigorously test the potential effects of this initiative on patient-centered outcomes.

      This study is a multicenter, randomized, assessor-blind, parallel-groups, pragmatic trial
      involving patients from 5 large colorectal surgery practices (Jewish General Hospital, McGill
      University Health Centre-Montreal, QC; Toronto Western Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital-
      Toronto, ON; Saint Paul's Hospital-Vancouver, BC). Participants will be randomized into the
      intervention group, who will have access to the online peer support app, and the control
      group who will only receive a LARS patient educational booklet. Trained peer support mentors
      will moderate discussion in the peer support forum, which will also be monitored daily by
      expert health care professionals. Data regarding patient demographics, disease and treatment
      characteristics will be obtained via hospital chart review. The primary outcome will be
      health- related quality of life at 6 months. Secondary outcomes will be patient activation
      and bowel function. We hypothesize that availability of this app (consisting of LARS
      information, a closed forum for discussion among peers and trained peer support mentors)
      improves health-related quality of life when compared to the comparison group.

      Given the significant numbers of patients who suffer from LARS symptoms following restorative
      proctectomy and the potential chronic nature of their symptoms, this RCT has the potential to
      contribute important knowledge to support patient-centered care of rectal cancer survivors.
      The technology addressed in this study (a mobile app for information and online peer support)
      is readily accessible and can be relatively easily implemented across large range of
      geographic jurisdictions and surgical settings.
    
  