
    
      This is a Phase II/III, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-part, dose-finding,
      Multi-center study, in which subjects with refractory schizophrenia will be enrolled.

      This study will be conducted in two parts:

      In Part 1 (i.e. dose finding portion) of the study One hundred seventy one (171) subjects
      will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio (NaBen® 2000 mg/day: NaBen® 1000 mg/day: Placebo).

      All subjects, after signing the Informed Consent Form (ICF), will be assessed during the
      screening phase. This screening phase is designed to exclude subjects who have had more than
      20 percent reduction in the PANSS total score using PANSS score evaluations at Visit 1 and
      Visit 2. Only those subjects who successfully complete the screening phase and still meet the
      study eligibility criteria will proceed with Randomization and the double-blind treatment.
      All randomized subjects will receive eight (8) weeks of randomized treatment (NaBen® 2000
      mg/day, NaBen® 1000 mg/day or Placebo). Study treatments will be given twice daily.

      An Interim Analysis (IA) will be conducted when 171 subjects in Part 1 of the study have been
      randomized and completed 8 weeks of treatment or early terminated, whichever occurs first.
      Randomization of subjects in the study will continue until the IA of the Part 1 data is
      completed. The data from the Part 1 analysis will be reviewed by an independent Data Safety
      and Monitoring Committee (DSMC) who would assess the data for both safety and efficacy
      trends. The DSMC responsibilities will be further elaborated in the DSMC charter. The DSMC
      will approve continuation of the study and recommend the optimal dose and sample size
      adjustment for the Part 2 of the study.

      Assuming no sample size adjustment was made as a result of the IA, for Part 2 of the study a
      total of 116 subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio, of which 58 subjects will be
      randomized to the NaBen® optimal dose group and 58 subjects to the Placebo group. The
      procedures and assessments for subjects in Part 1 and Part 2 of this study will be identical
      with the exception of the randomization schema.
    
  