
    
      Background: After receiving a heart transplant (HTx) patients have to adhere to a number of
      health behaviors (e.g., medication taking, and smoking cessation) in order to guarantee
      optimal outcomes. Non-adherence to these health behaviors is associated with poor clinical
      and economic outcomes. However, the prevalence of non-adherence to these health behaviors is
      high among HTx recipients. Furthermore, differences in prevalences among countries and
      continents are observed. The extent to which a HTx recipient is adherent is affected by a
      variety of risk factors, namely 1) patient-related factors, 2) socioeconomic factors, 3)
      therapy-related factors, 4) health-related factors and 5) healthcare system and team factors.
      To-date, this last group of factors only received limited attention in understanding the
      complex phenomena of adherence.

      Aims: The aims of this study are:

        1. To describe CIM practice patterns among centres, countries/continents in HTx.

        2. To assess the prevalence and variability of nonadherence to treatment regimen, i.e.
           medication taking, smoking cessation, diet keeping, alcohol consumption, physical
           activity, sun protection and appointment keeping in HTx recipients among centres,
           countries/continents.

        3. To determine which multi-level factors are related to immunosuppressive medication
           adherence at the different system levels

        4. To benchmark the participating centres, countries and continents in relation to CIM
           practice patterns and non-adherence to health behaviours

      Methodology: The BRIGHT study is an international, multi-center, cross-sectional study. Data
      were collected using interviews and questionnaires. HTx recipients, nurses working in the
      post-transplantation care of HTx recipients and the medical directors of the HTx programs
      were surveyed. The investigators recruited a convenience sample of 36 heart transplantation
      centers (North America (n= 12), European (n= 19), Australia (n= 2) and South America (n= 3)).
      Within participating centers, a random sample of patients who met the study eligibility
      criteria was selected. Per center, a minimum of 20 and a maximum of 60 patients were
      included. In total, 1677 heart transplant recipients were invited to participate in this
      study. The questionnaires used in this study will be existing questionnaires (e.g. BAASIS
      interview to assess adherence with medications, DASS to assess depression) as well as
      questionnaires developed for this study.

      During a regular follow-up visit, patients were invited by a staff person to participate in
      this study. The staff first informed the patient about the study and, if the patient was
      willing to participate, retrieved a signed informed consent. Participating in this study was
      voluntary. Informed consent of the nurses and the medical director of the transplant center
      were implied by completing the questionnaires. Participant names will be held in strict
      confidence and will remain anonymous in research reports or publications.

      The results of the benchmarking of the parameters assessed in this study will be reported by
      figures and tables. Because of privacy, the HTx centers can only identify the parameters
      specific to their center. All other information will be reported anonymously.
    
  