
    
      Despite the public health burden of Shigella spp. on travelers, deployed soldiers and, most
      significantly, young children in the developing world, there is no licensed vaccine against
      Shigella. The rationale for using Shigella flexneri 2a whole cell killed vaccine (Sf2aWC), is
      that it is expected to be especially well tolerated by subjects. If Sf2aWC is safe and
      immunogenic, it may be combined with S. sonnei and S. flexneri 3a as the basis of a
      multivalent vaccine, because these three components should cover up to 80% of shigella
      infections in developing countries and over 90% in developed countries. This is a single
      site, Phase 1, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation study in healthy
      adult subjects. Approximately 82 subjects will be enrolled into four separate cohorts and
      will be randomized to receive Sf2aWC or placebo. The placebo preparation will be bicarbonate
      buffer. Cohort 1 subjects will receive a single oral dose of Sf2aWC (2.6±0.8 x 10^8 vp/mL) or
      placebo. Dosing and 72 hours of supervised post-vaccination safety follow-up will be
      conducted in the CIR Inpatient Unit. Before enrolling subjects in subsequent cohorts, safety
      data from the previous Cohort(s) through Study Day 7 will be evaluated and reviewed by the
      Safety Review Committee (SRC). Cohorts 2, 3, and 4 participants will receive three doses of
      Sf2aWC vaccine or placebo at 0, 1 and 2 months. The first immunization will be administered
      in the CIR inpatient unit, followed by 72 hours of direct post-immunization observation. If
      after review by the SRC the first dose appears safe and well tolerated, subsequent doses will
      be administered on an outpatient basis. Safety will be assessed by solicited symptoms/subject
      memory aid and laboratory evaluations. Adverse events (AE)s will be graded according to
      standardized criteria. The immunogenicity outcome measures of interest include serum IgG and
      IgA antibodies by ELISA against S. flexneri 2a LPS and S. flexneri 2a invasive protein
      antigens (Ipa), cytokine assays, B and T cell memory responses, and vaccine-specific IgA
      responses. The proposed sample size of twenty per group in Cohorts 2, 3, and 4 would be
      sufficient to select the appropriate dose to move into the next study phase, providing that a
      difference in the immunogenicity between the two arms is 20% or greater. Participants will
      include 82 healthy adult male and female subjects, ages 18 to 45 inclusive. The primary
      objective of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of Sf2aWC vaccine when
      administered in three oral doses over a range of dose levels in healthy adult subjects. The
      secondary objective is to assess the immunogenicity of the Sf2aWC vaccine over a range of
      doses in healthy adult subjects.
    
  