
    
      Betel quid chewing has been shown to have intimate correlation with oral cancer. In Taiwan,
      the incidence of oral cancer is the fourth most common malignancy in male and in fact, 90% of
      which has been linked to betel quid chewing. The predisposing factors in oral cancers between
      the western countries and India, Southeast Asia including Taiwan are different. The factor is
      smoking in the former countries and betel quid chewing is the most important one in the
      latter groups. The genetic aberrations of oral cancers are different too between the western
      countries and India, Southeast Asia including Taiwan. The percentage of RAS mutations of oral
      cancers in the western countries is around 5%, and 35% in the India. In Taiwan, the RAS
      mutation rate revealed with immunohistochemical staining is 92%, comparing with those in
      western countries (62%), Japan (55-65%) and vice versa in the p53 mutations. The percentage
      of p53 mutations of oral cancers in the western countries is around 50%, and 16% in the
      India, Southeast Asia and Taiwan. It is generally believed that betel nut itself, arecoline
      and arecaidine, the major betel alkaloids, account for the etiological factors in the
      pathogenesis of oral cancer while betel quid supplements, unlike the former two main
      components, were reported to have little relevancy to oral cancer. Despite the fact that the
      cytotoxic and genotoxic effects of betel nut extract and arecoline, arecaidine have been
      extensively documented, and that some well-studied oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes have
      been implicated in betel quid-related oral cancer, the molecular mechanisms, addressed in a
      broader view, by which betel nut ingredients lead to oral tumorigenesis are not fully
      understood. Our preliminary results, by virtue of different genome-wide screening approaches
      to explore cellular functions of protein kinases in this context, identified several
      candidates that showed differential expression upon treatment of BQ on primary cultures from
      human oral mucosa. Of the candidates isolated, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), a
      neuron-specific cytoskeletal protein that is thought to predominantly express in rat brain
      cells, was found up-regulated at RNA level by RT-PCR in primary cultures. Our expanded
      immunohistochemical results of normal mucosa, leukoplakia and oral squamous cell carcinoma
      (OSCC) suggest that expression of the MAP2 significantly correlates with progression of
      BQ-induced OSCC (P = 0.0046), since the percentage of MAP2 positive staining is as much
      fourfold in BQ-exposed OSCC (41.2%) as in BQ-free OSCC (10.5%), whereas normal mucosa and
      leukoplakia show much less immunoreactivity as a whole. Furthermore, the MAP2 is shown to be
      preferentially expressed in histopathologically less differentiated OSCC (P = 0.014).
      Finally, we show that the MAP2 is highly expressed in the majority of invasive OSCC (67%).
      Consequently, this finding, in conjunction with the previous one, raise a possibility that
      overexpression of the MAP2 may play a critical role in the development of highly malignant
      OSCC characteristic of invasive and/or metastatic. Here we study the issue by establishing an
      in vitro system where extracts from the whole betel quid sandwiches are used to treat head
      and neck cancer cell lines and primary oral epithelial cells and subsequently, the effects of
      such treatments will be evaluated in terms of cell migration, Western blotting. Eight head
      and neck cancer cell lines and normal oral mucosae from 8 patients undergoing oral surgery
      will be collected. Extracts from the whole betel quid sandwiches with the concentration of
      1.5 mg/ml will be added to the cell lines and primary oral epithelial cells for 1,3 and 5
      days, respectively. Migration assay and detection of MAP2 expression will be performed to
      elucidate the relationship of MAP2 and cell migration.
    
  