
    
      The objective of the proposed study is to evaluate the effectiveness and implementation of a
      fluoroquinolone (FQ) Preprescription Authorization (PPA) as an antibiotic stewardship (AS)
      strategy to target and prevent CDI, promote appropriate antibiotic use, and reduce the
      transmission of resistant bacteria. This will contribute to the long-term goal of reducing
      the burden of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI), which is an essential step in improving
      the safety and quality of healthcare. FQ PPA is a particularly promising AS strategy to
      reduce CDI. Although FQs are one of the most frequently utilized classes of antibiotics in
      inpatient acute care facilities and are closely associated with risk for CDI, FQ usage has
      not been the focus of control efforts in endemic settings in the US. The proposed study will
      use an effectiveness-implementation hybrid type 2 design to simultaneously evaluate the
      efficacy of an FQ PPA intervention to reduce CDI as well as the key considerations for
      implementing such an intervention successfully. Intensive care units in acute care hospitals
      throughout Wisconsin will participate in this stepped wedge cluster randomized controlled
      trial. The specific aims for the proposed study are to: 1) determine the impact of a FQ PPA
      on hospital-onset and healthcare-associated CDI rates and other clinical outcomes compared
      with usual care; and 2) evaluate the implementation of FQ PPA using a systems engineering
      approach. For aim 1, electronic health record data will be used to evaluate the impact of the
      FQ PPA on hospital-onset and healthcare-associated CDI, as well as other important clinical
      outcomes. For aim 2, surveys and interviews with healthcare providers will be used to
      evaluate the contextual, implementation, and work system factors that contribute to
      successful implementation of a FQ PPA intervention. In addition to addressing an urgent need
      to identify effective AS strategies, this study will provide a framework to implement and
      evaluate other interventions for healthcare-acquired infection (HAI) prevention. Regardless
      of the results, the proposed study will generate data, tools and methods with widespread
      applicability for AS initiatives in healthcare-associated infection prevention.
    
  