
    
      Obesity is one of the major public health issues of this century. Over the last decade, the
      prevalence of obesity has increased globally, making it an emerging epidemic and threatening
      the survival of health care systems. Obesity has long been recognized as the major factor
      predisposing to cardio-metabolic diseases.The positive role of structured exercise for
      reducing the mortality and morbidity rates of obese and sedentary adults is well established.
      But exercise engagement is seen to be quite low in obese adults mainly due to lack of time
      and non-adherence to exercise training programs. Current trends are now focusing towards
      another type of exercise regime known as high intensity interval training (HIIT), which is
      composed of repetitive short to long (< 45 sec to 4 min) bouts of high intensity exercise
      alternating with rest or recovery periods. Resistance training can also stimulate changes in
      body composition indices as well as maintain the reduced fat mass after training. Thus
      resistance exercises are recommended as an adjunct for obesity management by reduction in
      risk factors. Hence, this study is designed to determine the effects of high intensity
      interval training in combination with resistance exercises verses moderate intensity
      continuous training on multiple outcome variables including body composition parameters,
      visceral adiposity, lipid profile and myocardial function in overweight and obese adult
      population of Pakistan. Afte r obtaining written informed consent from paricipants, they will
      be screened using 2020 PAR-Q plus and randomly allocated to one of the 2 groups. A
      self-structured demographic sheet would be employed for recording demographics and required
      data including the findings of lab investigations. Then participants will be required to
      undergo all the physical assessment measures such as anthropometric data, 6 minute walk test,
      lipid profile, body composition analysis and echocardiography. Physical activity levels and
      QOL would be assessed by filling IPAQ and SF 36 respectively. Exercise training plans would
      be performed thrice a week on alternate days for a total duration of 10 weeks. All
      measurements (anthropometric, cardiac, blood and body composition analyses) would be
      performed at baseline and later after the 10 weeks intervention period. Exercise intensity
      will be determined by individualized target heart rate zones using Karvonen formula. Strength
      training intensity will be determined based on 1-RM. Necessary adjustments to speed/grade and
      resistance will be made over the course of the intervention to ensure that target heart rate
      zones are achieved at all times. Apart from the exercise programs, a general similar dietary
      guidance by a nutritionist would also be provided to both of the groups to avoid unhealthy
      dietary habits.
    
  