
    
      Critically ill patients are at increased risk of venous thrombosis and embolism from DVT. Low
      molecular weigh heparins such as enoxaparin (clexane) have more favorable pharmacokinetic/
      pharmacodynamic profiles, equivalent or improved efficacy (e.g. in post trauma and orthopedic
      surgery patients) and fewer bleeding complications than low-dose unfractionated heparin.
      These medications are currently recommended for DVT prophylaxis in critically ill patients
      and are usually administered subcutaneously (SQ). The antithrombotic activity of LMWHs
      correlates with peak aFXa levels. However, the the appropriate dose and dosing interval of
      enoxaparin for DVT prophylaxis in critically ill surgical patients has not been established
      and in particular remains unknown for those patients with severe peripheral edema ans/or
      decreased peripheral circulation due to therapy with vasopressors. Several studies have
      recently demonstrated questionable efficacy of standard daily enoxaparin dosing for
      critically ill patients as DVT prophylaxis.

      The current study will be a prospective, randomized, cohort study, conducted at the Shaare
      Zedek Medical Center over a period of 1 year (100 patients). All critically ill patients aged
      ≥18 years with a predicted requirement of mechanical ventilation for >3 days will be
      included. Data collection will be performed anonymously and will include patient demographics
      and admission details, duplex monitoring for DVT and daily recording of APACHE II scores,
      renal function, coagulation profile and overall dose of vasopressors.

      Patients will be randomized to receive enoxaparin in accordance three DVT prophylaxis
      protocols- IV by weight, SQ by weight or SQ 40mg x1/day (standard). Blood samples for the
      evaluation of aFXa will be drawn twice daily for peak and trough activity over a period of 5
      days. No further changes will be made in the standard therapy. Patient outcomes and
      occurrence of adverse events will be recorded. The principle outcome variable will be
      achievement of target peak and trough levels of aFXa during the 5 day study period.
    
  