
    
      This is an open-label, single-center, single-treatment prospective evaluation of the ThermiRF
      device in the treatment of submental skin laxity. The purpose of this prospective study is to
      determine the effectiveness and safety of the ThermiRF device in achieving overall submental
      lift.

      In this study, "Lift" is defined as a ≥ 20 mm2 lift of the submental area after the ThermiRF
      treatment.

      A total of 70 male and female healthy volunteers between the age of 35 and 65 will be
      considered for this study. Subjects who sign the informed consent form and meet all entry
      criteria will be enrolled in this study and will be assigned a unique number/code to preserve
      confidentiality.

      A total of six study visits are planned as described below:

        -  Visit 1: Screening visit - (Day 1)

        -  Visit 2: Single Treatment visit

        -  Visit 3: Day 30 safety assessment (± 7 to 14 days)

        -  Visit 4: Day 60 safety and Image capture for validation exercise (± 7 to 14 days)

        -  Visit 5: Day 90 safety and effectiveness follow-up visit (± 7 to 14 days)

        -  Visit 6: Day 180 safety and effectiveness follow-up visit - (± 7 to 14 days)

      Photo images (2D and 3D) will be collected at Visits 1, Visit 4 (on first 30 subjects only),
      and at Visits 5 and 6 using a standard camera (2D) and the Vectra system (3D). The purpose of
      the photos are to quantitatively and qualitative evaluate treatment effectiveness using
      objective and subjective assessments to measure physical changes to the skin's microstructure
      and aesthetic skin features over time.

      A skin elasticity assessment using the Cutomer will be collected at Visits 1 (screening), 5
      (Day 90) and 6 (Day 180) to assess if any biomechanical changes of the skin occurred as a
      result of the ThermiRF treatment.

      Safety assessments will be collected using the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) a 10-point scale,
      and adverse events reports (observed or reported).

      The overall study duration is approximately 12 months (i.e., 5-6 month recruitment period and
      6 month study visits).
    
  