
    
      For people infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), alcohol use increases the risk of
      hepatocellular carcinoma and progressive liver fibrosis, which can lead to cirrhosis and
      liver-related mortality. Integrated models of care that incorporate treatment for alcohol
      use, substance use, and mental health comorbidities have been called for, but few empirically
      tested models exist.

      In an R21 study, we developed and manualized an integrated behavioral-medical treatment model
      for patients with HCV who consume alcohol. Investigators successfully implemented a
      standardized alcohol screening in a liver clinic using the Alcohol Use Disorders
      Identification Test (AUDIT) instrument; recruited 60 patients; retained participants in group
      and individual therapy; integrated care between an addictions therapist and medical
      providers; and achieved an 85% six-month interview response rate. The alcohol abstinence rate
      improved from 0% at baseline to 44% at 6 months. Mean Addiction Severity Index scores were
      reduced by 50% for alcohol from .24 to .12, and decreased for drug use from .05 to .03. The
      percentage of heavy drinkers decreased from 47% to 24% (Proeschold-Bell et al., 2011).

      This study will conduct a randomized controlled trial that compares medical
      provider-delivered brief alcohol counseling plus our on-site six-month integrated treatment
      to brief alcohol counseling plus outside alcohol treatment referral in 279 HCV-infected
      patients with qualifying AUDIT alcohol scores at baseline. Participants in both arms will be
      treated at the Duke and UNC Liver Clinics and the Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
      Outcome variables will be assessed at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months. The aims are to 1)
      evaluate alcohol abstinence; 2) determine differences in secondary outcomes between study
      arms; and 3) conduct a cost effectiveness analysis. Investigators hypothesize that the
      intervention will significantly improve alcohol abstinence rates and significantly decrease
      relapse rates compared to the comparison. Investigators further hypothesize that intervention
      participants will report fewer drinks per week than comparison participants, have fewer
      positive drug screens than comparison participants, and meet the $50,000 per quality-adjusted
      life year gained standard established in the health economics literature.
    
  