
    
      Introduction to Trials within Cohorts (TwiCs) design:

      With "Utrecht Prostate Cohort for cancer treatment intervention studies and long term
      evaluation"(UPC) the investigators aim to: (1) develop an ongoing observational database with
      short- and long-term clinical and patient-reported outcomes during and after treatment for
      newly diagnosed prostate cancer. (2) Provide a cohort for multiple randomized controlled
      trials for evaluation of new treatment interventions for prostate cancer. The initial
      collaborating centers in the UPC study are the University Medical Center (UMC) Utrecht and
      the St. Antonius Hospital Nieuwegein both regional tertiary referral centers, covering the
      total spectrum of prostate cancer care. All patients with newly diagnosed histologically
      proven prostate cancer presenting at the UMC Utrecht or the St. Antonius Hospital Nieuwegein
      are eligible for participation in UPC.

      The investigators will implement a cohort-based trial infrastructure following the TwiCs
      design. The TwiCs design is an efficient alternative to the classic randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) and is considered particularly suitable for evaluation of image guided
      interventions. In TwiCs, prospective cohorts or registries serve as facilities for
      simultaneous and randomised evaluation of multiple interventions for the same condition. The
      basis of the TwiCs is a large prospective observational cohort of patients with the condition
      of interest (e.g. prostate cancer), who (in principle) undergo standard treatment and for
      whom relevant short and long term outcome measures are captured. For each new intervention,
      all eligible patients within the cohort are identified. Some of these eligible patients will
      be randomly selected and offered the new intervention. The outcomes of these randomly
      selected patients are then compared to those of the eligible patients receiving usual care.
      The same process can be repeated (simultaneously) for other experimental interventions.
      Advantages of the TwiCs are its ability to facilitate multiple randomised evaluations, the
      improved comparability between trials and the patient-centred informed consent procedure.
      Higher numbers of eligible patients are expected to be enrolled in studies, improving
      generalisability of results. Also, the cohorts can serve as patient pools from which patients
      can be selected for the R-IDEAL (Radiotherapy-Idea, Development, Exploration, Assessment, and
      Long-term evaluation) stage 2a technical development studies, and as registries for long term
      follow-up studies.

      In the Utrecht region, the investigators have set up multiple cohorts according to the TwiCs
      design, in which over 4000 patients have been enrolled, and in which four trials and dozens
      of technical development and observational studies are running.
    
  