
    
      The investigator assessed the device position and location of the interface between rectum
      and prostate weekly during the course of treatment. This information was obtained using a
      conebeam CT scan on the treatment couch prior to a regularly scheduled radiation treatment.
      The conebeam CT scan is a standard tool for monitoring patient position and radiation
      treatment accuracy. Prior to each radiation treatment, the patient was placed in a vaclock
      immobilization device, then aligned with room lasers to skin tattoos. On board portal imaging
      was then employed using the KvKv match technique to place isocenter as simulated. For intact
      prostate treatment, alignment was made to implanted gold fiducial markers. For post
      prostatectomy patients, the alignment was to pelvic bony anatomy. After patient alignment was
      complete, a conebeam CT scan was obtained. The position of the anterior rectal wall and the
      interface between prostate and rectum was compared to the position of these structures at the
      time of simulation. Measurement was taken in the midline of the prostate gland between its
      base and apex of the maximum deviation of the rectum prostate interface from its position at
      the time of simulation. For post prostatectomy patients, a measurement was taken of the
      maximum deviation from simulation of interface between the rectum and the prostate
      bed/bladder. These measurements were recorded weekly by the treating radiation oncologist on
      the Physician Data Sheet.

      The difficulty of device insertion, positioning and inflation was recorded daily by the
      treating personnel based on a scale in the PIDS Daily Radiation Therapist Questionnaire, from
      1(none) to 5(unable to insert). These results were summarized by the clinical study
      coordinators on the PIDS Radiation Therapist Summary.

      Patient expression of discomfort during device placement was recorded daily by treating
      personnel based on a scale in the PIDS Daily Radiation Therapist Questionnaire, from 1(none)
      to 5(intolerable). These responses will be summarized by the clinical study coordinators on
      the PIDS Radiation Therapist Summary.
    
  