
    
      The primary hypothesis is that, after an initial 150 mg eq. loading dose in the deltoid
      muscle followed by either deltoid or gluteal injections in patients with schizophrenia,
      paliperidone palmitate (25, 100, or 150 mg eq.) is superior to placebo as measured by the
      change in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS) total score over a
      13-week period.This is a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group,
      multicenter, dose-response study of men and women who have a Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) diagnosis of schizophrenia. The secondary
      objectives are to: Assess the benefits in personal and social functioning (key secondary
      endpoint) associated with the use of paliperidone palmitate compared with placebo, Assess the
      global improvement in severity of illness associated with the use of paliperidone palmitate
      compared with placebo, Assess the dose-response and exposure-response relationship of
      paliperidone palmitate The study includes a screening period of up to 7 days and a 13 week
      double-blind treatment period. The screening period includes washout of disallowed
      psychotropic medications. Subjects without source documentation of previous exposure to at
      least 2 doses of oral risperidone, or paliperidone ER, or one dose of i.m. RISPERDAL CONSTA,
      or paliperidone palmitate will be given 4 to 6 days of paliperidone ER 6 mg/day for
      tolerability testing. Patients who have source documentation of previous exposure to the
      above medications and are currently taking another antipsychotic regimen will continue their
      current treatment through Day -1. At the beginning of the double-blind treatment period,
      subjects will be randomly assigned in equal numbers to 1 of 4 treatment groups (an initial
      loading dose of 150 mg eq. of paliperidone palmitate given by deltoid injection followed by 3
      fixed i.m. doses of paliperidone palmitate [25, 100, or 150 mg eq.] on Days 8, 36, and 64 or
      placebo given in the same manner). Note: The choice of the injection site (deltoid or
      gluteal) for all remaining injections after the initial loading dose will be at the
      discretion of the investigator. The entire study, including the screening period, will last
      approximately 14 weeks.Samples for pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation will be collected at
      designated time points. Effectiveness and safety will be evaluated periodically throughout
      the study. A pharmacogenomic blood sample (10 mL) will be collected from patients who give
      separate written informed consent for this part of the study (where local regulations
      permit). This will allow for pharmacogenomic research, as necessary. Participation in
      pharmacogenomic research is optional. Approximately 105 to 115 mL of whole blood will be
      collected during the study. Patients randomly assigned to paliperidone palmitate will receive
      i.m. injections of paliperidone palmitate (150 mg eq. deltoid injection of paliperidone
      palmitate on Day 1, followed by 25, 100, or 150 mg eq. of paliperidone palmitate i.m. on Days
      8, 36, and 64). Patients randomly assigned to placebo will receive a deltoid injection of
      placebo on Day 1 followed by placebo on Days 8, 36, and 64.
    
  