
    
      The study was conducted in two parts (Part 1 and 2) which were not performed sequentially. In
      Part 1, 26 subjects were dosed in a fasted condition and in Part 2, 25 subjects were dosed in
      a fed condition. Each part comprised of a pre-study screen, followed by 2 treatment periods
      (1 and 2) and a post-study follow-up.

      Screening assessments (for Parts 1 and 2) were conducted within the 28 days before the first
      administration of a study intervention. Eligible participants were asked to return for the 2
      treatment periods. Continued eligibility was confirmed pre-dose for each treatment period.

      Part 1 (fasted state): Treatment Periods: Eligible participants received a single dose of
      each study intervention over 2 treatment periods (1 per treatment period). Each treatment
      period was approximately 1.5 days in duration. Participants arrived at the Clinical Unit on
      Day -1 and dexamethasone 1 mg was administrated at approximately 22:00 hours and then again
      at approximately 06:00 and 12:00 of Day 0 of each treatment period to suppress endogenous
      cortisol production. The study intervention was administered at approximately 08:00 on Day 0
      in the fasted state (after an overnight fast of at least 10 hours). Participants were
      discharged following the 12-hour post-dose blood sampling and consumption of a snack (Day 0).

      Part 2 (fed state): The same procedures were followed as for Part 1 except that study
      interventions were administered in a fed condition (30 minutes after the start of a
      standardised high-fat breakfast). PK samples in both study parts were collected pre-dose and
      up to 12 hours post-dose (19 samples for each treatment period) for measurement of cortisol
      levels. Safety was evaluated throughout the study. There was at least a 7-day washout period
      (up to a maximum of 14 days) between dose administrations. After completion of both study
      periods, participants were to return 7±2 days later for a final follow-up visit.
    
  