
    
      This is a phase II, open-label, multicenter study of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody
      consolidation for 20 patients with diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL)
      achieving a partial response (PR), an unconfirmed complete response (CRu), or complete
      response (CR) following 6-8 cycles of first-line cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine,
      and prednisone (CHOP) chemotherapy. Although the majority of patients entered in previous
      Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody studies had low-grade or transformed low-grade NHL, 15 patients
      with de novo intermediate-grade NHL have been treated. Patients will undergo two dosing
      phases of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody.

      In the first phase, termed the "dosimetric dose," patients will receive an infusion of
      unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) over 60 minutes followed by a 30-minute infusion
      (including a 10-minute flush) of Anti-B1 Antibody (35 mg) that contains 5 mCi of Iodine-131.
      Whole body gamma camera scans will be obtained on Day 0; Day 2, 3, or 4; and Day 6 or 7
      following the dosimetric dose. Using the dosimetric data from the three imaging time points,
      a patient-specific dose of Iodine-131 will be calculated to deliver the desired total body
      dose of radiotherapy. In the second phase, termed the "therapeutic dose," patients will
      receive a 60-minute infusion of unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) followed by a 30-minute
      infusion (including a 10-minute flush) of 35 mg Anti-B1 Antibody labeled with a
      patient-specific dose of Iodine-131 calculated to deliver a 75 cGy total body radiation dose
      . Patients who have platelet counts of 100,000-149,999 cells/mm3 will receive 65 cGy and
      patients who are obese will be dosed based upon 137% of their lean body mass. Patients will
      be treated with saturated solution potassium iodide (SSKI), Lugol's solution, or potassium
      iodide tablets starting at least 24 hours prior to the first infusion of the Iodine-131
      Anti-B1 Antibody (i.e., dosimetric dose) and continuing for 14 days following the last
      infusion of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody (i.e., therapeutic dose).

      The primary endpoint of this study is to determine the incidence of Grade IV hematologic
      toxicity following Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody consolidation for patients with diffuse large
      B-cell NHL who achieved a response (PR, CRu, CR) following first-line CHOP chemotherapy. The
      secondary efficacy endpoints are to determine the complete response rate, duration of
      response, duration of complete response, progression-free survival, and time to treatment
      failure. The pharmacokinetic endpoint is to determine the total body residence time following
      the dosimetric dose. The secondary safety endpoints are to determine the incidence of adverse
      experiences, hematologic toxicity (e.g., nadir, time to nadir, and time to recovery), use of
      supportive care, percent of patients converting to human anti-murine antibody (HAMA)
      positivity, and survival.
    
  