
    
      A cross-sectional study to compare the pharmacokinetics of Sino-implant (II) during four
      years of use and Jadelle during five years of use by Kenyan women. The active ingredient in
      both implants is levonorgestrel (LNG) which is a synthetic progestin that has been used in
      combined oral contraceptives and in progestin-only pills for more than 30 years.

      Population: A total of 280 women between the ages of 18 to 44 years who are currently using
      Sino-implant (II) or Jadelle contraceptive implants will be enrolled in one of six cohorts of
      women:

      Cohort 1: (n=20 Sino-implant (II), n=20 Jadelle) women enrolled 1-3 months before their
      6-month insertion anniversary.

      Cohort 2: (n=20 Sino-implant (II), n=20 Jadelle) women enrolled 1-3 months before their
      12-month insertion anniversary.

      Cohort 3: (n=20 Sino-implant (II), n=20 Jadelle) women enrolled 1-3 months before their
      24-month insertion anniversary.

      Cohort 4: (n=20 Sino-implant (II), n=20 Jadelle) women enrolled 1-3 months before their
      36-month insertion anniversary.

      Cohort 5: (n=40 Sino-implant (II), n=40 Jadelle) women enrolled 1-3 months before their
      48-month insertion anniversary.

      Cohort 6: (n=40 Jadelle) women enrolled 2-6 months before their 60-month insertion
      anniversary.

      Women in all cohorts will be followed for up to 6 months.

      Study Duration: Up to 6 months of participant recruitment and up to 6 months elapsed after
      the baseline visit for the second study visits. 15 months total in the field including
      training, study initiation, recruitment, follow-up, and close-out.

      Two blood samples spaced 2 to 6 months apart will be drawn from each woman for hormone
      measurements.

      Primary Objective: To compare total and free levonorgestrel (LNG) plasma concentrations at
      four years of Sino-implant (II) use to total and free LNG plasma concentrations at five years
      of Jadelle use in Kenyan women

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To compare total and free LNG plasma concentrations at four years of Sino-implant (II)
           use to total and free LNG plasma concentrations at four years of Jadelle use

        2. To characterize the total and free LNG plasma concentration-time profiles over four
           years following Sino-implant (II) and over five years following Jadelle insertion

        3. To characterize the sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) serum concentration-time profile
           over four years following Sino-implant (II) and over five years following Jadelle
           insertion
    
  