
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among postmenopausal women. Growing
      evidence exists that hormone replacement therapy (HRT) may reduce cardiovascular disease and
      mortality. This has led to the use of postmenopausal HRT for primary prevention of heart
      disease, however it remains unresolved which women are likely to benefit most from this
      clinical approach. This is a complicated question because many potential mechanisms are
      involved by which hormone therapy (HRT) may confer cardioprotection. The Postmenopausal
      Estrogen/Progestins Intervention (PEPI) trial examined the relative impact of four regimens
      of hormone therapy on a range of cardiovascular disease risk factors (e.g. lipids, blood
      pressure, insulin/glucose, hemostasis factors). The trial was well conducted; its data have
      been thoroughly edited and have yielded a series of important publications. To date, however,
      publications have focused on average effects without a thorough exploration of the range of,
      and interplay among, the various effects across the 875 enrolled in the trial.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study extended the analysis of PEPI data by: 1) characterizing the distributions of
      responses to hormone therapy with respect to risk factors for cardiovascular disease
      (lipids/lipoproteins, blood pressure, insulin/glucose, hemostasis factors); 2) examining the
      multivariate patterns of treatment effects among these cardiovascular risk factors and on
      other outcomes (symptomatology, bone, endometrial); 3) examining clinical and demographic
      factors that may affect these relationships and, in doing so, characterizing women who may
      vary with respect to their "sensitivity" to the separate effects of estrogen and progestin
      therapy; 4) examining closely patterns of adherence and their relationship to response. An
      experienced team of statisticians/epidemiologists conducted and planned to publish results
      from these analyses.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  