
    
      Mental disorders account for approximately 30% of the non-fatal disease burden in Australia,
      with the most prevalent disorders of depression, anxiety and substance use disorders
      experienced by 18% of the population in any single year. These disorders are significantly
      more common in young adulthood than at any other stage in the lifespan. Despite the
      availability of effective treatments for many disorders, this high susceptibility in young
      people is coupled with low rates of seeking professional help. As elite athletes have been
      found to have less positive attitudes towards seeking help for mental health issues, and they
      are most often young adults themselves, they may be even less likely than non-athletes to
      utilise professional services. Although there is a strong relationship between exercise and
      positive mental health, the prevalence of mental disorders in elite athletes is currently not
      known. A literature review of the general literature on help seeking and a series of focus
      groups with elite athletes from the Australian Institute of Sport conducted by the current
      research group in 2008, suggested that help-seeking by these athletes might be increased by
      improving their knowledge about mental health, reducing stigma, and providing feedback about
      the symptoms of common mental disorders.

      The current project was designed to test these possibilities utilising an online format. The
      Elite Athlete Mental health Strategy (TEAMS) project comprises two phases: (1) a large scale
      survey of the mental health status of elite athletes; (2) a randomised controlled trial of
      the effectiveness of three interventions designed to increase help seeking attitudes and help
      seeking behaviours related to mental disorders in elite athletes. These three interventions
      are: destigmatisation and mental health literacy; feedback; and a help-seeking list of
      resources. The study aims to compare the effectiveness of these three interventions relative
      to each other and a control condition.
    
  