
    
      Our study is an open, multicenter, randomized, parallel-group, controlled trial. This study
      will include obese pregnant women recruited in 11 French university hospitals. Patients will
      be randomized into two-parallel groups. One group underwent the electronic-personalized
      program (the interventional group) and the other underwent standard care (the control group).
      Due to the intervention by itself, a blind study would not be achievable.

      Intervention group (the electronic-personalized program) The intervention will be presented
      as a comprehensive dietary and lifestyle intervention called "e-PPOP-ID" (electronic
      Personalized Programmed for Obesity in Pregnancy to Improve Delivery), including a
      combination of dietary, exercise, and behavioral strategies delivered on a web site.

      The intervention will start at the latest by 20 weeks of pregnancy throughout the pregnancy
      and 8 weeks post-partum.

      Pregnant women of the intervention group will be given an access to a personalized patient
      centric e-health platform. The platform we be specifically designed for this program. Various
      modules of this platform will be activated:

      - An e-learning program: An e-Learning module will propose personalized content to each
      patient. Before the program, patients have to fill in questionnaires about food consumption
      (FFQ), Eating behavior (TFEQ) and physical activity (IPAQ). The answers of these
      questionnaires will be taken into account to define the e-learning lessons that patients must
      follow.Multi educational supports such as videos, fact sheets, quiz will be integrated into
      this program. Patient will be motivated to validate their program thanks to a reward system
      (access to new content by earning stars) and their knowledge can be estimated thanks to a
      quiz system.

      Dieticians and adapted physical education teachers will develop the content.These lessons
      will include nutritional needs, motivational and behavioral advices, recipes, and movies of
      exercises easily achievable. The objective e-learning program is to limit weight gain by
      encouraging to healthy balance of carbohydrates, fat, protein, reducing high-energy foods
      intake (refined carbohydrates and saturated fats), increasing intake of fruits and vegetables
      and also by encouraging to physical activity. A second evaluation at around the 30th
      gestational weeks will allow adapting the lessons of the e-learning program, according to the
      progress of patients.

      A Social network:

      The platform will propose various social networking tools that can link the patient together
      or link the patient with the care team. Using a pseudo, patient will be able to connect
      together and interact with various tools such as a secured instant message system, a secured
      videoconference and a forum.

      Motivation concepts Pregnant women will receive emails, which will encourage them to log in
      website and follow an e-learning lessons.A newsletter will be sent every month and will link
      to the new contents of the web site.Adhesion of program will be measured monthly by
      self-questionnaire of satisfaction and by measuring the time spent on the website including
      the forum.

      Control group (Standard care):

      The control group will receive standard care with oral information about the goal of
      nutritional needs during pregnancy and gestational weight gain guidelines according to BMI.
    
  