
    
      Asthma is a chronic highly prevalent condition, which results from inflammation and
      hyper-responsiveness of the airways resulting in variable airway limitation and symptoms of
      wheeze, cough, breathlessness and chest tightness. There is no cure for asthma, but the use
      of simple inhaler treatments can keep the symptoms under control. However, if uncontrolled,
      asthma can be life-threatening. Most deaths related to asthma are preventable if the
      condition is managed using the right treatment plan and inhaler technique.

      In the UK, an estimated 4.3 million adults (1 in 12) receive treatment for asthma costing the
      NHS around £3 billion annually in direct and indirect care. Asthma accounts for approximately
      60,000 hospital admissions per year. The NRAD states that a high proportion of patient
      morbidity is directly related to poor management. The annual 2016 asthma survey reported that
      82% of asthma suffers said their asthma was poorly controlled. Those with uncontrolled asthma
      were almost twice as likely to be admitted to hospital. In the UK seven out of ten people
      with asthma received care that failed to meet basic quality standards with 30-70% reported as
      not taking their asthma medication as prescribed. Additionally, a significant proportion of
      patients do not use their inhalers as prescribed and demonstrate poor inhaler technique.

      Since the arrival of COVID-19, it has never been more important for asthma suffers to ensure
      they are following their prescribed treatment plan. COVID-19 is a highly infectious virus
      that primarily affects the respiratory system, meaning those with asthma are at greater risk
      of severe complications. Maintaining consistent infection prevention practices and social
      distancing are key to minimising the risk of contracting the virus. However, social
      distancing and required 'lockdown' has impacted on routine clinic appointments, highlighting
      a lack of an alternative remote self-management system to support patients during this
      pandemic.

      Systematic reviews have shown that despite the heterogenous interventions, technology enabled
      healthcare can improve process outcomes such as patient knowledge, self-management skills,
      improvement in inhaler technique and increased use of preventer medication. However, to date
      studies have shown an inconsistent effect on clinical outcomes such as symptoms, lung
      function, SABA use and quality of life. The use of technology enabled healthcare in asthma
      care has not identified significant harms or instances in which it was less effective than
      conventional care and results were encouraging enough to suggest further analysis of digital
      models of care.

      Prior to COVID-19, the NHS model of care included a once annual asthma review. This has
      raised concerns that the full picture of asthma control may not be captured and is generally
      limited to the period around that review which is a fraction of the time people are living
      with asthma. Healthcare professionals aim to deliver best care and promote good asthma
      self-management, but this can be complex and time-consuming and so often not possible in the
      given time for primary care appointments, leading to adverse outcomes and variations in care.

      Opportunities to address variations in care were identified in the NRAD. These included
      improving risk stratification to distinguish between those with asthma requiring minimal
      support through an annual review, and those who require closer monitoring throughout the
      year. Addressing safer prescribing to highlight those who have been prescribed excessive
      quantities of SABA inhalers, improving systems to arrange follow up, raising the quality of
      medical records and enabling systems to support asthma self-management.

      In 2015, Asthma UK conducted a large survey to explore both asthma patients and healthcare
      professionals' views on mobile health (mHealth) requirements. They found that two-thirds of
      adult asthma sufferers had a smartphone suggesting that with the increasing presence of
      technology in homes, remote monitoring is becoming an alternative health service delivery
      option. The reported showed that almost three-quarters of patients would value an mHealth
      device to support asthma monitoring, and almost half would consider a system for use as part
      of an asthma action plan, to offer advice on medication and when to seek medical attention.
      Additionally, three-quarters of healthcare professionals stated an mHealth system which
      monitored asthma symptoms and provide asthma action plans would be beneficial.

      Digital healthcare interventions are now more important than ever. They are able to support
      healthcare services to remotely deliver patient-centered care, facilitate timely access to
      health advice and medications, promote self-monitoring and medication compliance, and educate
      patients on trigger avoidance.

      Evidence has shown that self-managed education, incorporating personalised asthma action
      plans improves health outcomes for people with asthma and reduces the use of healthcare
      resources particularly emergency department visits and hospital admissions. Furthermore, it
      can improve markers of asthma control, including reduced symptoms and has a positive effect
      on quality of life.
    
  