
    
      Over 9.3 million adults over the age of 60 are afflicted with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis
      (OA) characterized by radiographic findings and consistent knee pain or stiffness.
      Furthermore, our research has indicated that reduced strength is a risk factor for incident
      symptomatic knee OA and progressive knee OA in women.1, 3 In light of this finding, there is
      a need to increase quadriceps strength to attenuate worsening of this disease. Studies and
      practice have long indicated that high intensity resistance training is the most efficient
      means of eliciting skeletal muscle hypertrophy and strength gains.2, 4 The American College
      of Sports Medicine as well as the National Strength and Conditioning Association have
      indicated that a resistance training intensity of greater than 65% of the one-repetition
      maximum (1 RM) is the minimum intensity needed to achieve desired muscle hypertrophy and
      strength gains.2, 4 This is problematic for those suffering from symptomatic knee OA. Loading
      an already painful joint at 65% of (1 RM) would be poorly tolerated and possibly injurious
      for an individual already suffering knee pain and stiffness during activities of daily
      living. With the inability to perform the exercises prescribed to elicit the necessary
      strength gains, knee OA sufferers find themselves unable to alleviate debilitating pain that
      can result in significant decreases in quality of life. Fortunately, a method of training,
      called partial blood flow restriction (PBFR), may offer older adults and particularly those
      with knee OA, the ability to develop the strength gains necessary to attenuate disease
      progression without requiring deleterious joint loading. There is mounting evidence that this
      training modality serves as a stimulator of muscle growth even when performed at relatively
      low intensities.

      PBFR was developed in Japan. Its basic principles involve the restriction of blood flow to
      the exercising muscle with the purpose of increasing muscle mass. However, participants are
      able to elicit similar strength gains performing exercises at, for example, only 30% of 1RM
      to those attained through conventional high intensity resistance training. Current PBFR
      training methods are the result of 40 years of research and development.5 Recent studies have
      demonstrated efficacy and some mechanisms for the effect of PBFR training eliciting
      significant isometric and isokinetic strength gains as well as increasing ability of adults
      to perform functional tasks.6 Exercising at only 30% 1RM, PBFR training may benefit older
      adults suffering from knee OA by enabling development of the strength necessary to protect
      against disease worsening while avoiding the need to load the joint at deleterious levels.

      This study is a follow-up study to IRB#201101711 that we completed earlier this year. That
      study demonstrated tolerance and safety of the protocol. However, the increases in strength
      were of a smaller magnitude than we hoped to elicit. The protocol for this follow-up study is
      very similar to the prior study. We have made some changes in an effort to maintain
      tolerability and safety, while hopefully eliciting a greater clinical benefit. Specifically,
      we have reduced the study duration from 9 to 4 weeks and have selected a more efficient
      exercise protocol that will both reduce subject burden while also halving the length of time
      that the PBFR cuffs will be worn for each exercise session. The prior study was too gentle to
      strengthen the quadriceps muscles, so we have increased the resistance from 15% of their
      maximum to 30% of their maximum. This is still low intensity compared with usual weight
      lifting that would be at >65%. We believe that these changes will increase benefit to
      participants while reducing the time burden.

      Literature cited

        1. Segal NA, Torner JC, Felson D, Niu J, Sharma L, Lewis CE et al. Effect of thigh strength
           on incident radiographic and symptomatic knee osteoarthritis in a longitudinal cohort.
           Arthritis Rheum 2009;61(9):1210-7.

        2. Abe T, Kearns CF, Sato Y. Muscle size and strength are increased following walk training
           with restricted venous blood flow from the leg muscle, Kaatsu-walk training. J Appl
           Physiol 2006;100(5):1460-6.

        3. Segal NA, Glass NA, Torner J, Yang M, Felson DT, Sharma L et al. Quadriceps weakness
           predicts risk for knee joint space narrowing in women in the MOST cohort. Osteoarthritis
           Cartilage 2010;18(6):769-75.

        4. Abe T, Kearns CF, Manso Filho HC, Sato Y, McKeever KH. Muscle, tendon, and somatotropin
           responses to the restriction of muscle blood flow induced by KAATSU-walk training.
           Equine Vet J Suppl 2006(36):345-8.

        5. Sato Y. The history and future of KAATSU Training. Int J KAATSU Training Research
           2005;1:1-5.

        6. Fry CS, Glynn EL, Drummond MJ, Timmerman KL, Fujita S, Abe T et al. Blood flow
           restriction exercise stimulates mTORC1 signaling and muscle protein synthesis in older
           men. J Appl Physiol;108(5):1199-209.

        7. Takarada Y, Takazawa H, Ishii N. Applications of vascular occlusion diminish disuse
           atrophy of knee extensor muscles. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000;32(12):2035-9.

        8. Takano H, Morita T, Iida H, Asada K, Kato M, Uno K et al. Hemodynamic and hormonal
           responses to a short-term low-intensity resistance exercise with the reduction of muscle
           blood flow. Eur J Appl Physiol 2005;95(1):65-73.

        9. Fujita S, Abe T, Drummond MJ, Cadenas JG, Dreyer HC, Sato Y et al. Blood flow
           restriction during low-intensity resistance exercise increases S6K1 phosphorylation and
           muscle protein synthesis. J Appl Physiol 2007;103(3):903-10.

       10. Iida H, Kurano M, Takano H, Kubota N, Morita T, Meguro K et al. Hemodynamic and
           neurohumoral responses to the restriction of femoral blood flow by KAATSU in healthy
           subjects. Eur J Appl Physiol 2007;100(3):275-85.

       11. Cook SB, Clark RC, Ploutz-Snyder LL. Effects of Exercise Load and Blood-Flow Restriction
           on Skeletal Muscle Function. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007.
    
  