
    
      Background:

        -  Central nervous system toxicity is a recognized side effect of certain cancer therapies,
           particularly cranial irradiation, intrathecal therapy and systemic high-dose
           chemotherapy.

        -  The pathophysiologic mechanisms are not well-defined and clinical manifestations vary.
           Previous studies defining MRI changes and correlating these with neurocognitive
           deficiencies have been inconsistent.

        -  Recent advances in brain imaging may help to better define neurotoxic effects. (1)H-NMRS
           is a noninvasive method of obtaining in vivo biochemical information from the brain. It
           has been used to study patients with CNS disorders, including neuronal disorders.

      Objective:

      -To identify specific patterns of brain metabolites that are associated with therapy-related
      neurotoxicity using (1)H-NMRS in cancer patients who are receiving or have received
      potentially neurotoxic therapy.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with brain tumors or patients receiving high-dose systemic chemotherapy,
      intrathecal chemotherapy (lumbar puncture or intra-Ommaya), or cranial radiation therapy OR
      patients with documented or suspected clinical neurotoxicity presumed to be caused by
      treatment for cancer.

      Design:

        -  In order to identify metabolite profiles that may be associated with neurotoxicity, NMRS
           data will be collected in a cross-sectional manner from patients at various stages of
           treatment and longitudinally throughout the course of therapy.

        -  NMRS studies will be performed on patients entered on this study at any or all of the
           following times: prior to therapy, immediately after the first cycle of therapy, prior
           to subsequent cycles of therapy, or after completion of all therapy.

        -  Neurotoxicity will also be evaluated by neuropsychological testing.
    
  