
    
      Introduction DVT is a multidisciplinary disease, mainly as consequence of surgical or
      clinical conditions, and the acute pulmonary embolism and the post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS)
      are the most serious complications.

      The incidence of deep venous thrombosis of the lower limbs in the population is from 0.2 to
      0.7 cases per 1,000 inhabitants/year and in Brazil an estimated incidence of 0.6 cases/1000
      inhabitants/year has been estimated.

      Risk factors for DVT include: advanced age, history of immobilization or prolonged bed rest
      during hospitalization, obesity, smoking, recent surgery, previous VTE episodes, cancer,
      major or lower limb trauma, cancer therapy, acute infectious disease, heart failure,
      respiratory insufficiency, contraceptive use or hormone replacement therapy, pregnancy or
      postpartum, stroke with motor deficit, family history of VTE (thrombophilia).

      The clinical diagnosis of DVT, based on physical examination only, is imprecise and
      insensitive and only one-third or less of the clinical suspicions are confirmed by imaging
      tests.

      The primary goals of DVT treatment are to prevent and / or treat their complications.
      Anticoagulant therapy is efficacious but associated to some risk of bleeding. Mechanical
      prophylactic measures (ambulation and use of elastic stockings with gradual compression) are
      important in high risk patients and in cases with contraindication of anticoagulants.

      Although well known, epidemiological data on this disease may have some particularities
      related to geographic regions. Data from registries in USA and Europe has shown some
      differences in demographic profile, risk factors and treatments.

      Few epidemiological data regarding real world panorama of this disease in South America and
      Brazil is available in the literature.

      So, the objective of this was to evaluate demographic data, diagnostic methods and and
      treatment of deep vein thrombosis in the real world in public university hospitals in Brazil.

      Methods

        1. Population of patients The Registries of the Universities Hospitals (RHEUNI) in Brazil
           have been registry consecutive patients with deep venous thrombosis that was started on
           July 2013, with a prospective collection of epidemiological data of patients referred to
           five public university hospitals in the state of São Paulo (Base Hospital of São José do
           Rio Preto Medical School , Clinics Hospital Ribeirão Preto Medical School of São Paulo
           University, Clinics Hospital of Campinas University, Clinics Hospital of Botucatu
           Medical School of the Paulista State University, Clinics Hospital of Marília Medical
           School). This study was approved in the ethics committees of all institutions. An
           informed consent form was signed by the patient after explaining the purpose of the
           study.

           Inclusion criteria are as follows: patients with venous thrombosis in any site, male or
           female, regardless of age, with first episode or recurrent episodes and with or without
           pulmonary embolism.

           There are no exclusion criteria.

        2. Patients registration Patients has been performed in planned digital spreadsheets and
           loaded in a computer program for statistical analysis (Epi-Info). Every single completed
           worksheets will be exported to Excel worksheet for statistical analysis.

           The main outcomes to be reviewed are: demographic characteristics (age, sex and color),
           main risk factors for DVT and time of clinical history collected from consecutive
           patients referred for those Hospitals. The main symptoms and signs reported by patients,
           the sectors affected by thrombosis, as well as the diagnostic tools employed were
           registered.

        3. Worksheet form The recorded characteristics and backgrounds of patients with venous
           thrombosis include: age, gender, and main clinics or surgical risk factors. In addition,
           the main signs and symptoms and the sectors affected by thrombosis will be reported, and
           the diagnostic tools employed.

           The use of various anticoagulants for the treatment of venous thrombosis and
           complications related mainly to bleeding will be analyzed.

        4. Responsibilities of researchers and institutions The principal investigators and
           co-participants are committed to maintain the project along time with accurate
           information and to participate in quarterly meetings of the RHEUNI group to analyze the
           progress of the project and to publish the results.

           The project has no external financial support and there is no conflicts of interest of
           any researcher.

        5. Statistical analysis The analyzes will include the sociodemographic characteristics of
           patients with deep venous thrombosis. The projected number of cases during the study
           period is approximately 800 patients. All analyzes will be conducted using Microsoft
           Excel.

      The objective of the study is to evaluate the demographic data and the most common clinical
      characteristics of patients with deep venous thrombosis in public hospitals, their main
      predisposing factors, the most commonly used diagnostic tests and the treatments performed.
      The participating hospitals have common characteristics: they are large public university
      hospitals with a significant number of patients hospitalized and trained by new angiologists
      and vascular surgeons in the Sao Paulo State. This study will represent a significant sample
      of deep venous thrombosis and its main risk factors and treatments performed so that this
      disease can be prevented in some hospital and post-discharge situations in an attempt to
      reduce its incidence. Treatment in our real world in most cases is not possible to be
      performed outpatient initially due to socio-economic conditions of patients and difficulty in
      acquiring the new oral anticoagulants.
    
  