
    
      The aims of the proposed feasibility study are to assess whether a low-energy meal
      replacement plan (MRP) in patients with HFpEF and T2D:

      1. Is acceptable to an older, co-morbid, multi-ethnic population

      The secondary objectives are to assess whether a low-energy MRP in patients with HFpEF and
      T2D may be:

        1. associated with improved symptoms

        2. likely to lead to favourable cardiovascular reverse remodelling

        3. likely to improve functional capacity and quality of life

        4. associated with favourable reductions in cardiovascular biomarkers

        5. associated with increased physical activity

        6. associated with favourable cardiovascular outcomes

      All patients will undergo the following assessments at baseline, 12-weeks and 12 months
      (following MRP):

        1. Anthropometry: height, weight, BMI.

        2. Haemodynamics: resting heart rate and blood pressure.

        3. 6-minute walk test +/- cardiopulmonary exercise test (if able to perform)

        4. CMR: contrast enhanced, stress perfusion CMR

        5. MLWHFQ

        6. WHODAS 2.0 (12-item version)

        7. Fasting blood test: full blood count, urea and electrolytes, HbA1c, fasting glucose,
           BNP, high-sensitivity troponin I, insulin and C-peptide. Plasma (≈35mL) will be stored
           for future biomarker analysis including metabolomics.

        8. Urinalysis for proteinuria and urine protein/creatinine ratio.

        9. Body composition; dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scanning.

      12. At the end of the 12-week intervention, participants will be invited to a semi-structured
      interview to explore qualitative aspects of the study to guide future trial design.

      13. At 12 months attendance at cardiac rehabilitation will be reviewed.

      The MRP provided by Cambridge Weight Plan® contains ~810 kcal/day (30% protein, 50%
      carbohydrate, 20% fat). The diet will be stopped, and a maintenance diet re-introduced once
      50% excess body weight has been lost, or by 12 weeks, whichever comes first.
    
  