
    
      LNSC will be administered as follows: up to three cycles of 20 to 40 seconds each directed at
      the bulkiest aspect of the tumor. During each cycle, a surface area of approximately 2 to 3
      cm2 is targeted. Up to three sites are treated during each session. Tissue thawing is
      verified between cycles by waiting at least 60 seconds before re-treatment, and by observing
      a return to baseline color of the tissue and complete disappearance of ice crystals after
      reperfusion. After the procedure is completed, patients will be monitored in the recovery
      unit for at least 30 minutes. Patients will be discharged after monitoring if they meet the
      endoscopy unit's standard discharge criteria.

      Cryotherapy dose frequency intervals

        1. Two LNSC sessions (patient 1, 2, and 3): 2 sessions of LNSC administered at 2-week
           intervals, followed by concurrent chemoradiation for 5 weeks.

        2. Three LNSC sessions (patients 4, 5, and 6): 2 sessions of LNSC administered at 2-week
           intervals, followed by concurrent chemoradiation for 5 weeks. During week 4 of
           chemoradiation, they will receive a session of LNSC.

        3. Four LNSC sessions (patients 7, 8, and 9): 2 sessions of LNSC administered at 2-week
           intervals, followed by concurrent chemoradiation for 5 weeks. During week 2 and week 4
           of chemoradiation, they will receive LNSC (i.e. - 2 sessions during chemoradiation).

             -  No DLTs: If no patient develops a DLT, then the investigators will enroll an
                additional 3 patients to receive 4 LNSC sessions as described earlier, in order to
                confirm safety.

             -  1 DLT: If 1 of 3 patients develops a DLT, then the investigators will enroll 3
                additional patients to receive LNSC at that dose. If any of the additionally
                enrolled patients develop a DLT, the investigators will enroll 3 patients at the
                previous dose, to confirm safety of the lower dose frequency.

             -  2 DLTs: At a given dose frequency interval, if 2 of 3 patients develop a DLT, then
                the investigators will enroll 3 patients at the previous dose, to confirm safety of
                the lower dose frequency.

      Definition of Adverse Events (AEs) and Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) We will define adverse
      AEs based on the American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) lexicon (Appendix 2).
      The relationship of the AE to LNSC will be classified using the following 4 categories:
      definitely related, likely related, unlikely related, and definitely not related. DLT will be
      defined as any severe or fatal adverse event that is definitely or likely related to the
      cryotherapy procedure (i.e. - unplanned admission > 10 nights, intensive care unit admission
      > 1 night, surgery for an adverse event, permanent disability due to an adverse event, or
      death). A member of the study team will contact patients and review their medical records 48
      hours after the procedure, and 1 week after the procedure to assess for mild, moderate, and
      severe adverse events (AEs). In addition to recording any AEs, the study coordinator will
      contact a physician investigator if any AEs are reported in order to direct appropriate
      clinical management. An independent data safety monitoring (DSM) committee will review AEs
      every 3 months for the duration of the study to determine whether the AE was definitely or
      likely related to the LNSC procedure. Additionally, if a serious adverse event (SAE) is
      reported, then the DSM will meet within one week to determine if the SAE represents a DLT.

      Tissue morphology, flow cytometry, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) The investigators will
      obtain peripheral blood and 6 mucosal biopsies (2 mm X 2 mm) immediately prior to the first
      and second session of cryotherapy, and at the end of chemoradiation. The investigators will
      obtain half the biopsies from the center, and half the biopsies from the periphery of the
      tumor. If the patient proceeds directly to surgery following chemoradiation without
      endoscopy, then the investigators will obtain archival tissue from the explant specimen. The
      investigators will place 2 biopsies in 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) for TILs analysis (1 center
      and 1 periphery), 2 biopsies in 4% PFA for IHC analysis (1 center and 1 periphery), and 2
      biopsies for exploratory analyses/backup. To assess for evidence of immunogenic cell death,
      the investigators will perform IHC on biopsy specimens for CRT, and ELISA on peripheral blood
      for HMBG1. A pathologist blinded to patient demographics, and treatment allocation will grade
      overall inflammation using standard criteria and as sparse, moderate, or pronounced TILs. To
      assess the immune infiltrate, the investigators will construct tissue microarray (TMA) blocks
      and analyze in an automated immunostainer for antibodies against the following antigens: CD3,
      CD8, CD45R0/FoxP3, and Pan-CK.

      Other Data Collection Baseline variables: Baseline variables will include age, gender,
      ethnicity, tumor histology and TNM stage, location and length of tumor, presence or absence
      of critical organ invasion (i.e. - aorta, trachea, heart, and vertebral body), ECOG
      performance status, baseline Mellow-Pinkas dysphagia score, and a validated measure of
      quality of life in esophageal cancer, the EORTC QLQ-OES18.

      Assessment of pathologic/clinical complete response: At the completion of neo-adjuvant
      chemoradiation, results of the re-staging PET-CT and surgical explant will be abstracted to
      document presence or absence of a pathologic complete response. As is standard protocol at
      our institutions, patients who do not undergo surgery will undergo upper endoscopy with
      biopsies along with PET-CT to assess for the presence or absence of a clinical complete
      response.

      Assessment of palliation efficacy: A member of the study team will contact each patient at
      1-week after each LNSC procedure to update the Mellow-Pinkas dysphagia score and EORTC
      QLQ-OES18. The investigators will also document if there was any need for an esophageal
      stent, enteral feeding tube, or parenteral nutrition support during chemoradiation.
    
  