
    
      Iodinated contrast media (CM) are an essential component of contemporary imaging and
      interventional studies. Although CM are generally well tolerated, they have been causally
      linked to acute kidney injury known as contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), the third leading
      cause of acute kidney injury in hospitalized patients. Preexisting renal impairment, diabetes
      mellitus, advanced age, congestive heart failure, or large volumes and repeated use of CM
      have been identified as risk factors for CIN. CIN is the consequence of CM-induced local
      renal ischemia in combination with direct toxic effects to renal tubular cells. Subsequent
      inflammation may cause further tissue damage in the reperfusion period. Apart from
      intravenous hydration preventive strategies for CIN are lacking.

      The complement system consists of several circulating proteins that are implicated in the
      first-line defence against pathogens and in the removal of dying cells. Following renal
      ischemia activation of the lectin pathway of complement in particular has been associated
      with local tissue damage in the kidney. Conestat alfa is a recombinant human C1 esterase
      inhibitor, which inhibits activation of the complement system and is licensed in Europe and
      USA for the treatment of a hereditary condition (hereditary angioedema). Conestat alfa
      markedly reduced tissue damage in experimental models of renal ischemia and reperfusion
      injury, but has not been investigated in human ischemia.

      The Recombinant Human C1 Esterase Inhibitor in the Prevention of Contrast-induced Nephropathy
      in High-risk Subjects (PROTECT) Study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind
      single-center trial that will assess the effect of prophylactic administration of Conestat
      alfa on the degree of acute kidney injury subjects undergoing elective coronary angiography.
      Patient with an estimated glomerular filtration rate <=50 ml/min/1.73 m2 and at least one
      additional risk factor for CIN will be enrolled and randomly assigned to 1) Conestat alfa at
      50 U/kg given as intravenous injection immediately before and 4 hours after coronary
      angiography or 2) placebo (sodium chloride). All patients will receive standard intravenous
      hydration with isotonic saline. Surrogate markers of kidney injury including serum creatinine
      and cystatin C and urinary Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and TIMP2 *
      Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7) will be assessed over a 48 hours time
      period. In addition, increases in troponin T, a marker of cardiac damage, will be assessed.
      Patients will be followed for thromboembolic, anaphylactic and a composite endpoint of
      cardiovascular and renal events over a 12 week period.

      The primary outcome measure is peak change in urinary Neutrophil gelatinase-associated
      lipocalin within 48 hours after elective coronary angiography.

      Total hydration and contrast media volume will be recorded. Serum C1 esterase inhibitor
      levels immediately before and 10 minutes after administration of Conestat alfa or placebo
      will be assessed.
    
  