
    
      Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a condition mainly caused by the rupture of intracranial
      aneurysms. The estimated prevalence of intracranial aneurysms in the general population is
      1-2%, with an annual incidence of aneurysm rupture causing subarachnoid hemorrhage estimated
      around 1% in Norway. The mortality rates for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) are as
      high as 35%, and for the survivors the condition represents a significant morbidity with
      long-term cognitive impairment and other challenges. With a mean age of 51-55 years at
      presentation, the burden, both for the patients themselves and on health care resources, is
      substantial.

      Thus, the risk assessment and management of patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms
      (UIA) represents a substantial challenge. The number of patients with incidentally discovered
      cerebral aneurysms is rapidly growing with the increasing use of non-invasive intracranial
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Therapy options are endovascular coiling, neurosurgical
      clipping, or observation. To decide whether to perform a potentially harmful prophylactic
      procedure or not, better tools to predict the risk of rupture in the given individual are
      required.

      Some risk factors, both for the development of an intracranial aneurysm and for the rupture
      leading to hemorrhage are identified, such as hypertension, age and smoking. Recent research
      has shown that obesity and hypercholesterolemia is surprisingly associated with an apparent
      lower risk of aSAH. However, underlying body composition and dyslipidemic patterns has not
      yet been explored. Increased knowledge of predictors for aneurysm rupture is required, both
      to improve the patient care and the decision-making concerning the neurosurgical prevention
      of aSAH.

      In the RAPID project, the investigators aim to identify potential new risk factors for the
      rupture of intracranial aneurysms by comparing the lipid and lipoprotein profile and the body
      mass composition in patients with UIA and aSAH.

      Direct-segmental multisegmental bioimpedance analysis (DSM-BIA) is a valid tool for the
      assessment of total body and segmental composition and has shown excellent agreements when
      compared with dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Body composition will be analysed
      within day 2 after intervention or surgery using a DSM-BIA scanner (InBody S10, BioSpace Ltd,
      Seoul, South Korea).

      Lipids will be measured enzymatically in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) plasma/serum
      on a Hitachi 917 system (Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Mannheim, Germany) using the triacylglycerol
      (GPO-PAP), cholesterol (CHOD-PAP), HDL-cholesterol plus and LDL-cholesterol plus kit from
      Roche Diagnostics, and the non-esterifies fatty acid (NEFA FD) kit and the phospholipids kit
      (Phospholipids FS) from "DiaSys Diagnostic Systems GmbH" (Holzheim, Germany). Glucose will be
      measured in EDTA-plasma using the Gluco-quant Glucose/HK (GLU) kit from Roche. The total
      fatty acid composition in EDTA-plasma will be analysed using gas chromatography/mass
      spectrometry (GC/MS).

      Lipoprotein particle size analysis will be performed by proton nuclear magnetic resonance
      (NMR) spectroscopy. Particle concentrations of lipoproteins of different sizes will be
      calculated from the measured amplitudes of their spectroscopically lipid methyl group NMR
      signals. Lipoprotein particle size will be derived from the sum of diameter of each subclass
      multiplied by its relative mass percentage based on the amplitude of its methyl NMR signal.
      Particle size analysis will be performed by the Norwegian University of Science and
      Technology (NTNU).
    
  