
    
      Acute mountain sickness (AMS) is a well-known disorder in sojourners to high altitude
      (>2000m) characterized by headache, nausea and tiredness, akin to hangover-like symptoms. The
      Lake Louise criteria for AMS was primarily developed to allow uniformity in comparing the
      prevalence of AMS in different high altitude regions.

      Proper acclimatization by gradual ascent to high altitude is the best means of prevention of
      AMS. However there may be instances when rapid ascents may be necessary. Acetazolamide is the
      best known drug for the prevention of AMS. Because of its well-known side effects like
      tingling sensation in the fingers and toes and its potential sulpha allergy (acetazolamide is
      a sulpha-based drug) problems, alternative drugs in the prevention of AMS have been sought.
      Recently two randomized controlled trials have shown the usefulness of ibuprofen 600 mg tid
      orally in the prevention of AMS.

      The exact mechanism causing AMS is unknown although evidence points to a process in the
      central nervous system. The mechanism of headache, the main feature in most AMS patients, is
      probably multifactorial with various chemical and mechanical factors activating a final
      common pathway, the trigeminovascular system. Triggering factors associated with high
      altitude hypoxia leading to AMS may include arachidonic acid metabolites amongst others such
      as serotonin, histamine, and nitric oxide. The response in AMS prevention to non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and steroids provides indirect evidence of arachidonic acid
      pathway and inflammation in the genesis of AMS.

      But in contrast, the role of drugs such as acetaminophen which primarily provide analgesia by
      blunting the meningovascular receptors known to mediate nociception is unknown in the
      prevention of AMS. Crucially if acetaminophen can prevent AMS the gastric irritation and
      possible gastrointestinal bleeding which are well known side effects of ibuprofen would not
      be encountered. In addition acetaminophen like ibuprofen and (unlike acetazolamide) is easily
      available over the counter.

      Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that acetaminophen in adequate dosage ( 1 g tid)
      will be as effective as ibuprofen ( 600 mg tid) in the prevention of AMS.

      Western trekkers will be randomly administered either acetaminophen or ibuprofen in a double
      blind fashion at 4300m where the investigators will enroll the participants. Then, at 5000 m
      at Lobuje after 48 to 96 hours the investigators will re-examine with the Lake Louise
      Questionnaire (LLQ) to see their AMS status. The investigators will also check the pulse
      oximeter.

      Sample Size:

      With a variable alpha 5%, power 80%, control 34% (based on previous studies) and experimental
      group 18%, the sample size arrived at (using
      http://www.sealedenvelope.com/power/binary-superiority/ ) was 115 per arm, a total of 230
      participants. With a 20 % drop out the final number the investigators require is 288
      participants.
    
  