
    
      I. INTRODUCTION Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a progressive cholestatic liver
      disease characterized by multifocal strictures of intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile ducts,
      which frequently leads to biliary cirrhosis and liver failure. The aetiology of PSC is
      unknown but is thought to be (auto)immune-mediated. Nevertheless, in a number of randomized
      controlled trials a clear benefit of treatment with various immunosuppressive agents, such as
      D-penicillamine, methotrexate, corticosteroids or nicotine, could not be demonstrated.
      Although treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) improves serum liver tests and is
      prescribed on a large scale for PSC patients, this therapeutic modality may have no
      beneficial effect on the course of the disease.

      70 - 90% of patients with PSC have concurrent inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), mostly
      ulcerative colitis. Conversely, 7% of patients with IBD have PSC. The close association
      between inflammatory bowel disease and PSC suggests that substances originating from the
      inflamed gut may damage the liver and biliary tree. Bacterial products may act as toxic
      proinflammatory agents. N-formyl L-methionine L-leucine L-tyrosine is a peptide produced by
      enteric flora. When this peptide was introduced into the colon of rats with colitis, it was
      absorbed, underwent enterohepatic circulation, and appeared undegraded in bile. Histologic
      changes in the livers of the rats resembled those in PSC.

      Probiotics are beneficial bacteria that are used to redress the bacterial composition of the
      enteric flora which may be altered in disease. Beneficial effects of probiotics have already
      been described in diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, pouchitis and non-alcoholic
      fatty liver disease. Probiotic bacteria have also been shown to counteract inflammatory
      processes by enhancing the degradation of enteral antigens, reducing the secretion of
      inflammatory mediators, thereby modifying in a beneficial way the balance between pro- and
      anti-inflammatory mediators, and stabilizing gut barrier functions. These effects may benefit
      PSC patients.

      Our hypothesis is that administration of probiotics may improve the composition of the
      enteric flora and subsequently decrease the release of substances that may be toxic and
      harmful for the liver and biliary tree in PSC patients. Furthermore, immunological
      alterations induced by treatment with probiotics may have positive effects in PSC.

      II. AIM OF THE STUDY Primary aim: assessment of the effects of treatment with probiotics on
      serum liver tests.

      Secondary aim: assessment of the effects of treatment with probiotics on fatigue and
      pruritus.

      III. DESIGN OF THE STUDY Double-blind randomized cross-over pilot study. Eligible patients
      will be randomized to treatment with probiotics or placebo for a period of 12 weeks. After a
      wash-out period of 4 weeks, placebo-treated patients will receive verum and vice versa for
      another period of 12 weeks.

      Dosage of concurrent medication for PSC (UDCA, immunosuppressives) will remain the same
      during the entire study period.

      Patients who are being treated with antibiotics during the study period for more than 1 week
      will be withdrawn from the study.
    
  