
    
      Introduction: Sedentary behaviour is risk factor for developing many health conditions.
      People with mental health difficulties can be more sedentary and live 10 years fewer than
      other populations. Implementation intentions support people to turn intentions into action,
      and Volitional Help-Sheets are a tool which helps people to form implementation intentions,
      by identifying critical situations and linking these to potential solutions. The feasibility
      and acceptability of using a Volitional Help-Sheet to help people using secondary and
      tertiary care mental health services to reduce sedentary behaviour will be evaluated. If
      Volitional Help-Sheets are feasible and acceptable to use in this population, this will
      justify further research in this area, as improving physical and psychological health could
      increase life expectancy.

      Design: The study includes two timepoints: baseline and follow up (four weeks post baseline).
      Participant characteristics/demographics collected at baseline. At both baseline and follow
      up, all participants will be asked to complete measures of sedentary behaviour, physical
      activity, well-being, motivation and mental health. Participants will be randomised to one of
      two groups. Participants in Group 1, the control group, will receive the Volitional
      Help-Sheet as a psychoeducational self-help sheet, but not form implementation intentions.
      Participants in Group 2, the experimental condition, will use the Volitional Help-Sheet to
      form implementation intentions. Participants will then complete an acceptability and
      feasibility measure. At follow up, participants will repeat baseline measures.

      Sample size: Participants will be current service users, recruited from NHS based secondary
      and tertiary care mental health services. The recruitment of a minimum of 24 participants and
      a maximum of 32 participants would be considered a feasible two-armed study.

      Recruitment: Adults: 18years+, motivated to decrease sedentary behaviour (demonstrated by
      choosing to make contact with the researcher to indicate an interest in participation in the
      study), has capacity to consent to study, currently receiving support from any secondary or
      tertiary care mental health service and English language ability sufficient to be able to
      meet the requirements of the study.

      Procedure: Recruitment posters will be displayed in clinical areas as part of recruitment.
      Care teams can advise interested participants on how to contact the researcher and support
      this if required. Participant information sheets will be disseminated to interested parties.
      Where a service user has informed the researcher of their interest in participating in the
      study, they will be offered a detailed participant information sheet and consent to contact
      forms outlining the study, the expected benefits and commitment required, and informed
      consent forms. Interested participants will be assessed for capacity to consent and
      eligibility and will begin the randomisation procedure upon booking the baseline assessment
      appointment. All members of the research team have experience of obtaining informed consent
      in research and clinical roles.

      Participants will be block randomised (sampling without replacement) in blocks of four and
      stratified according to clinical service using an online program, into either a control group
      (group 1) or an experimental arm (group 2). Participants in Group 1 (control arm) will
      receive a Volitional Help-Sheet with an instruction to tick all situations in which they are
      tempted not to be active, and tick all solutions to overcome these. Participants in Group 2
      (experimental arm) will use the Volitional Help-Sheet to form implementation intentions by
      linking situations in which they are tempted not to be physically active, with solutions to
      overcome these. Researchers will be unblinded, however the participants and those external to
      the research team where involved will remain blind to the group allocated.

      Outcomes and analysis: The main study hypothesis is that forming implementation intentions
      using the Volitional Help-Sheet will be considered acceptable to the participants involved in
      the study, and that forming implementation intentions using the Volitional Help-Sheet will be
      considered feasible to use within a diverse range of NHS settings. An exploratory hypothesis
      is also that the increase in activity will be significantly greater in the treatment group
      than the control group. Quantitative analysis will be used to evaluate the feasibility and
      acceptability of using a Volitional Help-Sheet to help people using secondary and tertiary
      care mental health services to form implementation intentions, with the aim of a reduction in
      sedentary behaviour.
    
  