
    
      1. Objectives (include all primary and secondary objectives)

           Primary objective - To study and more fully describe the full spectrum of procedures
           performed using an EBUS bronchoscope outside of EBUS-TBNA.

        2. Background (briefly describe pre-clinical and clinical data, current experience with
           procedures, drug or device, and any other relevant information to justify the research)

           There currently exists only anecdotal evidence and individual reports of the use of EBUS
           bronchoscopes in the performance of non-EBUS-TBNA procedures. Given the full size
           working channel through which all standard bronchoscopic tools are able to pass, the
           EBUS bronchoscope has been reported to have been used in the performance of other
           procedures such as BAL, TBBx, EBBx and airway brushing. Frequently during bronchoscopic
           procedures in which EBUS-TBNA is used to sample lymph nodes within the hilum and
           mediastinum there exists a need to perform other procedures including but not limited to
           those listed above. In these cases, the EBUS bronchoscope is removed and exchanged for a
           standard video bronchoscope often times dirtying the scope for only a single procedure.
           We routinely use EBUS bronchoscopy in our daily practice as interventional
           pulmonologists and would like to study the use of these bronchoscopes in the performance
           of procedures other than TBNA perhaps in an effort to more fully understand the benefits
           and limitations associated with the use of an EBUS bronchoscope during conventional
           video bronchoscopy.

        3. Study Procedures

             1. Study design

                We plan to collect the data for all clinically indicated procedures using an EBUS
                bronchoscope over a twelve month time frame in the JHH outpatient endoscopy suite.
                No procedures will be performed for research purposes. No additional procedures
                will be performed outside the scope of standard practice.

             2. Study duration and number of study visits required of research participants. 12
                month study duration, no research visits will be required.

             3. Justification of why participants will not receive routine care or will have
                current therapy stopped.

                All patients will receive routine standard of care.

             4. Justification for inclusion of a placebo or non-treatment group. The study is aimed
                at analyzing the data generated by clinically indicated procedures thus no placebo
                or non-treatment group has been included in the study.

        4. Drugs/ Substances/ Devices

           a. The rationale for choosing the drug and dose or for choosing the device to be used.

           The rationale for studying the EBUS bronchoscope and its application to non-TBNA
           procedures is to study the actual use of the scopes as well as to ascertain whether an
           EBUS scope is able to perform all bronchoscopic procedures thus decreasing the need for
           extra bronchoscopes and decreasing cleaning costs and wear on the devices.

        5. Benefits a. Description of the probable benefits for the participant and for society.
           There will be no direct benefit to the participants but society may benefit the medical
           society if EBUS bronchoscopes are shown to be able to perform the full range of
           bronchoscopic procedures as there may be decreased costs to the medical system as well
           as potential reduction in procedure time by eliminating the need to exchange scopes mid
           procedure.
    
  