
    
      Kenyan families experience persistently high rates of maternal and neonatal morbidity and
      mortality, which disproportionately affects women with low educational attainment and income
      and those who live far from health services. Key proven interventions include prevention of
      pregnancy and birth spacing, early entry to antenatal care, and facility delivery. However,
      creative, cost-effective interventions are urgently needed to link particularly vulnerable
      populations with these important health services. Previous research has shown that equipping
      community health volunteers with a tool as simple as a urine pregnancy test and training to
      provide post-test counseling is effective in improving linkages to antenatal care and family
      planning services. The investigators' proposal includes a multi-phase process to collect
      qualitative data through a needs assessment, use community input to develop and implement a
      pilot study assessing the ability of CHV-based provision of urine pregnancy tests with
      CHV-provided and phone-based post-test counseling to link women with antenatal care and
      family planning services, and collect qualitative program evaluation data. This will provide
      much-needed information for how to effectively utilize and strengthen CHVs as part of a
      sustainable reproductive health care delivery system to improve maternal and neonatal
      mortality.

      Expected outcomes include important qualitative data regarding the needs and preferences of
      women and CHVs to improve reproductive health services. Additionally, the investigators will
      perform a quantitative comparison of CHV-provided and phone-based post-test counseling to
      inform further research projects and CHV services. The investigators will plan to publish
      this clinical research in international peer-reviewed journals and to host community events
      to share the results of the study. The investigators anticipate that the outcomes from this
      pilot research will allow them to apply for research funding for expansion of this
      intervention throughout the catchment area to evaluate its effects on key population health
      outcomes, including maternal and neonatal mortality.
    
  