
    
      BACKGROUND: Aerobic exercise has been shown to improve physical fitness and quality of life
      (QoL) in breast cancer survivors receiving chemotherapy but no study to date has examined the
      addition of resistance exercise to aerobic exercise in this population. Resistance exercise
      has proven to be an important adjunct to aerobic exercise in the cardiac rehabilitation
      population although few trials have controlled for the total volume of exercise.

      PURPOSE: The primary purpose of the present trial is to compare the effects of a combined
      aerobic and resistance exercise program (COMB) to a standard moderate volume of aerobic
      exercise (STAN) and a higher volume of aerobic exercise (HIGH) that controls for the total
      volume of exercise in the COMB arm.

      METHODS: The study will be a prospective, three-armed, randomized controlled trial conducted
      in Edmonton (coordinating center), Ottawa, and Vancouver. Participants will be 300 breast
      cancer survivors scheduled to receive adjuvant chemotherapy. All three exercise groups will
      be asked to perform supervised exercise 3 days/week for the length of their chemotherapy
      treatment. The STAN group will be asked to perform approximately 500 kilocalories/week of
      self-selected aerobic activities (e.g., treadmill, cycle ergometer, elliptical). This arm of
      the trial is considered standard care based on the emerging consensus of recent systematic
      reviews and recommendations from major cancer agencies. The HIGH group will be asked to
      complete approximately 1,000 kilocalories/week of self-selected aerobic activities. The COMB
      group will be asked to complete 1,000 kilocalories/week split equally between aerobic and
      resistance exercise. The primary endpoint in the trial will be change in physical functioning
      between baseline and post intervention as assessed by the physical functioning subscale of
      the Short Form (SF) 36 scale. Secondary endpoints will include cardiorespiratory fitness
      (maximal treadmill test), muscular strength (8 repetition maximum tests), muscular endurance
      (standard load test at 50% of estimated baseline maximum), body composition (DEXA scans),
      psychological distress, sleep quality, exercise adherence, and chemotherapy completion rates.

      RELEVANCE: An important issue for breast cancer survivors receiving chemotherapy is whether
      there is any advantage to increasing the volume of aerobic exercise or adding resistance
      exercise to a standard aerobic exercise program. If there is an advantage, then it is
      important that breast cancer survivors receive this optimal exercise prescription to maximize
      their ability to cope with their chemotherapy treatments and maintain their physical function
      and QoL during this difficult time.
    
  