
    
      Native Americans are 50% more likely to be obese compared with non-Hispanic Whites and are
      twice as likely to be diagnosed with diabetes. Obesity and poor diet quality are major risk
      factors for developing Type II diabetes, and Native Americans are disproportionately impacted
      by poor physical health outcomes. The investigators propose to develop a culturally-relevant
      micronutrient-dense plant-rich (mNDPR) dietary protocol, which will then be used in a pilot,
      randomized-controlled trial (RCT) to test the effectiveness of improving health and wellness
      of Native American employees of Twin Arrows Casino. This study will train and employ Native
      American students of Northern Arizona University (NAU) to implement the protocol and serve as
      Lifestyle coaches for the intervention. It is hypothesized that the protocol will be
      effective in (i) improving anthropometric measures (weight, waist circumference),
      cardiometabolic measures (cholesterol, triglycerides, blood glucose, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c),
      fasting insulin, hsCRP, IgF-1, and blood pressure), and wellness measures (anxiety, stress,
      sleep quality, depressive symptoms, and mood); and (ii) reducing healthcare costs in Native
      American employees of Twin Arrows Casino over a 1- year period. Consistent with the specified
      aims of the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities, this project will
      address health and wellness issues in an underserved population that is disproportionately
      affected by obesity and related diseases. Consistent with the specified objectives of the
      Academic Enhancement Research Award, this project will significantly increase research
      opportunities for students in the Health Sciences, providing the expertise and experience
      needed to develop skills and advance their careers. Employees of the Twin Arrows Casino will
      be randomly assigned to a 12-week in-person experimental group or a wait-list control group
      that will be assigned a start-date 12 weeks after the experimental group. Both groups will
      undergo the same measures of health and wellness at study week 0 (baseline) and week 13
      (post-intervention for the experimental group). During week 26, the experimental group will
      undergo follow-up diet analysis and the wait-list control will undergo all measures of health
      and wellness. Healthcare utilization data will be collected at week 52 for both groups.
      Statistically significant differences between the intervention and control at the end of the
      first 12 weeks, as well as differences between baseline and post-intervention outcomes for
      both groups, will demonstrate the effectiveness of this program in reducing risk factors for
      obesity and related diseases in Native American employees. Health-care costs of both groups
      will also be evaluated and significant differences will suggest cost-effectiveness of the
      program.
    
  