
    
      Phase 1: Retrospective data collection/analysis All Lexiscan and exercise MPI images on
      patients performed for clinical indications in calendar year 2010 who had subsequent coronary
      angiogram within 3 months after index MPI will be retrieved for review by two experts. We
      will identify different types of RV uptake and RV overload during stress as well as presence
      or absence of these changes on resting images. Analysis will include increased RV uptake,
      enlargement, hypertrophy, thinning of RV and flattening of the interventricular septum.
      Diagnostic performance (sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy) of the identified
      pathological RV phenotypes in identifying severe and extensive disease will be evaluated by
      comparison with contrary angiograms. Comparison of the set of parameters identifying
      pathological RV changes, identifying normal and abnormal values of these novel ancillary
      markers, as well as assessing their diagnostic accuracy in patients with suspected and known
      CAD during vasodilator stress versus exercise stress MPI will be done.

      Phase 2: Prospective data validation Patients referred for the Lexiscan stress MPI will be
      followed prospectively after obtaining an informed consent. All comers after June 1 2012 will
      be included. Prediction of coronary artery disease will be performed by applying the
      previously derived pathological RV criteria on the prospective stress MPIs. 2D-Echocardiogram
      will be performed for all the patients who do not have an Echocardiogram performed for
      clinical indication within 1 month of their index Lexiscan stress MPI. We will also include
      100 patients referred for the exercise stress MPI who will serve as controls.

      All patients will be prospectively followed up for a total of 12 months for the following
      prognostic end points:

        1. Hard cardiac events (cardiac death or MI);

        2. Total (all-cause) mortality;

        3. Cardiovascular hospitalization rate. Cardiac death (CD) will be defined as death
           attributable to any cardiac cause (eg, lethal arrhythmia, myocardial infarction [MI], or
           pump failure) as confirmed by review of death certificate and medical records.
    
  