
    
      Third molar surgery is the most common surgical procedure in dentistry. A comfortable, fast
      postoperative return to daily activities has increased the need to control inflammation and
      its signs and symptoms, such as pain and edema. Anti-inflammatories and analgesics have been
      used for this purpose, but they are not exempt from adverse effects, such as allergies and
      chronic gastritis, not to mention the medicine costs. The association between low level laser
      and auricular acupuncture can be an alternative when conventional drugs are contraindicated
      or to reduce the quantity of these postoperative medications. Among the advantages, we can
      mention the low risk of side effects, low cost and simplicity of application. The objective
      of this study is to evaluate the efficiency of low level laser at auriculotherapy points in
      reducing postoperative pain in lower third molar surgery. Eighty bilateral, symmetrical lower
      third molars surgeries will be performed in 40 healthy patients. Each patient will be his or
      her own control, through a split-mouth technique. Immediately after surgery, each side of the
      patient's mouth will be randomly treated with different regimens in a double-blind design:
      low level laser in auricular acupuncture points or simulation of its use (contralateral
      side). This regimen will be repeated at 24 and 48 hours after surgery. All patients will
      receive the same medication (paracetamol) and will be oriented to take it only if they have
      pain. Neither the surgeon nor the patients know the assigned treatment. The primary variable
      is the post-operative pain assessed by visual analog scale, and the secondary variables are
      trismus, edema, local temperature. Dysphagia and presence of infection (systemic temperature,
      lymphadenopathy) will also be evaluated. These variables will be assessed at baseline, 24
      hours, 48 hours and seven days after surgery. All adverse effects will be recorded. The blood
      samples for analysis of systemic inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, interleukin 1, interleukin 6
      and interleukin 8) will be assessed at baseline and 24 hours after surgery.
    
  