
    
      Objectives: Methylphenidate (MPH) is highly effective in controlling the symptoms of
      attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but some children with ADHD either do not
      respond to, or do not tolerate, treatment. Dextromethorphan (DM) is a neuroprotective agent
      which has been used in the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. This clinical trial had
      examined the effect of DM on the use of MPH in the children with ADHD.

      Methods: This randomized double-blind clinical trial had evaluated 44 male outpatients, aged
      between 6 and 12 years, with a diagnosis of ADHD. The study subjects were randomly assigned
      into one of the two groups: receiving MPH alone (15-60 mg per day) or MPH plus DM (30-60 mg
      per day) for 8 weeks. Assessments, comprising the Chinese version of the Child Behavior
      Checklist (CBCL-C) scale and the Swanson, Nolan and Pelham Questionnaire (SNAP)-IV rating
      tests conducted by parents and the serum cytokines measured by microarray and enzyme-linked
      immunosorband assay (ELISA), were compared between groups at baseline and at 8 weeks after
      the medication was started.

      Results: There were a significant decrease at the mean scores of both CBCL-C and SNAP-IV
      scales after 8 weeks of treatment, but no significant differences between MPH and MPH+DM
      groups. Compared with the MPH-only group, the mean scores of some psychometric parameters
      reported on the CBCL-C and SNAP-IV scales regarding time effects as well as the attention
      problems on the CBCL-C scale regarding group effect were significantly higher in the DM+MPH
      group. Although there were no significant differences in the levels of various serum
      cytokines between groups, the subjects in the DM-MPH group had relatively fewer and lower
      levels of adverse effects. Significant interactions were found between the
      withdrawn/depression item reported on the CBCL-C scale and tumor necrosis factor α (ခTNF-α)
      (p = 0.027), as well as between thought problems item on the CBCL-C and TNF-α (p = 0.028) in
      subjects who had received DM+MPH treatment.

      Conclusion: Following the trial, DM+MPH was not superior to MPH alone for the treatment of
      children with ADHD, yet DM may potentially have negative effects on ADHD symptoms when
      combined with MPH.
    
  