
    
      Following consent, the patients will answer the questions in the screening questionnaire and
      this data will be collected. Patients that do not screen out of the study (i.e. meet all
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria) will continue with the study.
      Individuals who meet the exclusion criteria will not continue.

      Study participants will be asked to go to the Rehabilitation Therapies clinic on the lower
      level of the main hospital for a one time visit. The visit will take approximately three to
      six hours.

      During the visit, height and weight will be measured. Circumference measurements of the arms
      and legs will also be measured with a measuring tape. Bioimpedance analysis of the limb will
      be performed to assess the fluid content in the limbs.

      Pain Ease numbing spray will have been applied to three injection sites on the affected arm
      or leg. 0.1ml of 0.25% Indocyanine green (ICG) dye will then be injected into the distal arm
      or leg at three separate sites: two interdigital injections and one injection in the volar
      wrist or posterior to the medial malleolus.

      An immediate scan will be acquired using an ICG lymphography device. The scan will take
      approximately five minutes to complete. The data from this image will be considered baseline.
      This image is part of the patient's normal care at our institution and would be done even if
      the subject was not in this study.

      The participant will then use the Nu-Step exercise machine for five minutes at a rate of
      perceived exertion (RPE) of 12-13. Heart rate will be monitored during the exercise with a
      pulse oximeter. After five minutes, a delayed scan will be performed with the NOVADAQ SPY
      Elite System and data will be recorded. The participant will continue to exercise for five
      minutes at an RPE of 12-13 and be scanned after every five minutes until the scans show no
      change in lymph pattern after two consecutive scans. The patient will be undergoing scanning
      and be exercising for a maximum of one hour.

      Limb circumference measurements and bioimpedance scans will be repeated after exercise has
      been completed. The scan will be repeated every 1 hour until the normal 6-hour scan to
      monitor for further changes in the lymphatic pattern.

      A post-intervention questionnaire will then be provided to the participant to complete
      discussing their exercise experience that day during the study, their previous ICG
      experiences, and their preference between this protocol and the current scanning process.

      During the study, the subject will be told when he/she is being photographed/recorded. The
      injections and scans are clinically-indicated and would occur whether the individual was in
      the study or not. The initial and last scans are clinically indicated to determine disease
      status. 3) clarify how the follow-up survey is completed via email
    
  