
    
      At baseline, the prescreened subjects will present to the clinical site for baseline
      examinations (oral exam, plaque, gingivitis and gingival bleeding assessments) having
      refrained from oral hygiene for at least 12 hours, but no more than 18 hours and from eating
      for at least 2 hours prior to that examination. After the baseline oral examinations, and
      assessment of other inclusion/exclusion criteria, qualifying subjects will be randomly
      assigned to one of the three treatment groups. Immediately following this randomization, all
      subjects will begin their regimen of brushing with a manual toothbrush while two of the
      groups will also receive an experimental interdental cleaning device to use either with water
      or with an assigned mouthrinse following the label instructions described on the experimental
      device label. Subjects who are assigned to the negative control group will use the manual
      toothbrush and provided toothpaste as their sole mean of oral hygiene. Subjects assigned to
      the Device-only control group will brush with a manual toothbrush and use the Experimental
      Interdental Cleaning Device with water. Finally, those subjects randomized to the test group
      will brush with a manual toothbrush and use the experimental interdental cleaning device in
      combination with a marketed antiseptic mouthrinse.

      Subjects will brush twice-a-day and if assigned, will use the experimental interdental
      cleaning device once-a-day for 4 weeks, post-brushing, according to instructions given by the
      study personnel. The first oral hygiene procedure will be conducted under supervision of
      study personnel at the research site. All other study material usage will be unsupervised and
      the subjects will be required to maintain a Diary Card to document daily oral hygiene
      routine. Compliance will be evaluated at each visit by reviewing the subject diaries and,
      when applicable, by weighing residual volumes of returned mouthrinse.

      Subjects will refrain from the use of any interdental cleaning device, unless assigned by the
      randomization schedule (i.e., not to use dental floss, toothpick, etc), unless it is used to
      remove impacted food between the teeth, during the course of the study. No other oral hygiene
      procedures will be permitted, including teeth cleaning or dental work except for an
      emergency.

      At the two and four-week visits, the Modified Gingival Index (MGI), the Bleeding Index (BI)
      and the Turesky modification of the Quigley-Hein Plaque Index (PI) will be scored and the
      oral tissue examinations performed. At the two and four-week visits, subjects will not have
      used their test materials for at least 12 hours, but no more than 18 hours.
    
  