
    
      Many women quit smoking during pregnancy, but postpartum relapse rates are high,
      approximately, 50-80% (Van't Hof, et al). The majority of women who quit smoking during
      pregnancy resume smoking within the first 3 months postpartum (McBride, et al). The
      environmental risks of tobacco smoke on the newborn child can lead to acute respiratory
      infections, bronchitis, pneumonia, and SIDS. Several studies have tried to identify reasons
      for the high rates of relapse. Postpartum relapse has been attributed to decreased
      self-efficacy, the lack of effective coping strategies to resist temptation to smoke, and
      weight concerns (McBride, et al). Addictive behaviors such as smoking are learned behavioral
      means of coping. By learning new rules for dealing with problems, a behavior can be modified
      or unlearned. Physical exercise, when combined with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) as a
      smoking cessation treatment, is useful in the maintenance of smoking cessation in women.
      Yoga, as a form of exercise, has been shown to promote the desire to stop smoking and enhance
      subjective well-being and mood. Though untested in postpartum relapse prevention, yoga
      practice, when coupled with CBT, may address both mood and physiologic postpartum sensations
      that may be associated with the prevention of smoking relapse. Women are more apt to decrease
      or even stop smoking during pregnancy, and if successful in sustaining cessation, are likely
      to live longer.

      This randomized exploratory pilot study will use a controlled parallel group design using
      smoking cessation yoga intervention and cognitive behavioral therapy. The study will include
      a total of 30 participants aged 18-45 years. Smoking status will be identified by self-report
      and carbon monoxide testing at enrollment. At randomization and following time points,
      smoking status will be identified by self-report and confirmed by carbon monoxide testing.
    
  