
    
      All mothers with a pregnancy affected by twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) who are
      referred to the St. Louis Fetal Care Institute (FCI) will be evaluated for enrollment over a
      two year period. The women who have severe findings that indicate a need for fetal
      intervention or who had demise of one fetus due to TTTS will be approached at FCI to discuss
      the study. Once the baby(ies) is/are born, written consent for the infant's participation
      will be obtained.

      FCI and Cardinal Glennon Children's Medical Center have an established protocol for TTTS.
      Fetuses affected by TTTS under fetal MRI and echocardiogram at the time of diagnosis (if time
      permits before intervention) and again at 32 weeks of gestation. The infants receive a
      postnatal MRI at term corrected gestational age (>37 weeks of gestation). This may be done as
      an inpatient if they are still hospitalized at Cardinal Glennon, or as an outpatient if their
      birth hospitalization was at a different hospital, or if they are discharged to home prior to
      37 weeks of age. They also receive a postnatal echocardiogram, which may be done during the
      birth hospitalization, or at the time of their outpatient MRI appointment. All of the infants
      are followed at 4-6 months of age for physical therapy evaluation, and if there are concerns,
      they return 4 months later for a repeat physical therapy evaluation. Bayley Scales of Infant
      Development (BSID-III) evaluations are performed by a child psychologist at 15-18 months
      corrected age, and again between 2-3 years of age. At any time in this process, if there are
      concerns about developmental progress, home therapy services are prescribed to help improve
      outcomes.

      This protocol of evaluations results in a total of 3-5 follow-up appointments for each infant
      after initial hospital discharge, and are all standard of care at the investigators hospital.

      MRI provides more detailed information than ultrasound in diagnosing hypoxic ischemic brain
      damage both prenatally and postnatally (1,2). Ultrasound has low sensitivity to detect
      non-hemorrhagic brain injuries, and studies have shown that only 14-27% of infants with
      cerebral injury on MRI had any abnormalities seen on head ultrasound(3,4).

      Studies in premature infants have shown a correlation between MRI findings at term corrected
      age and neurodevelopmental outcomes. A grading scale has been proposed by Woodward and Inder
      to assess the degree of white and gray matter injury on MRI(5-7). After multivariate
      adjustment, this scale showed that increasing severity of white matter abnormalities was
      associated with increased risks of severe motor delay and cerebral palsy (5). The presence of
      any white matter abnormalities was found to be more sensitive at identifying children who had
      neurodevelopmental impairments than ultrasound findings of intraventricular hemorrhage or
      periventricular leukomalacia(5). Furthermore, most children with a normal or only mildly
      abnormal MRI were free of severe impairments at 2 years of age(5).

      If infants at highest risk of neurodevelopmental delays could be identified earlier and more
      accurately, these infants could be monitored more closely and earlier interventions could be
      administered. This would potentially result in better long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes
      for these high-risk children. However, there is currently no correlative data between MRI
      findings and long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes in the survivors of TTTS.
    
  