
    
      Eligible patients will be approached and if the patient (or surrogate decision maker) is
      interested, then consent will be obtained for participation in the study. The patient will
      then be randomly assigned to receive usual care (continuous feeds) or intervention
      (intermittent feeds, see details below). Randomization will occur via simple block
      randomization within the REDCap software. Group assignment will not be revealed to the
      clinical team until the decision to feed the patient has occurred and the actual feeding
      order is entered. When the clinical team decides to initiate enteral nutrition, they will
      place a nutrition consult order for tube feed recommendations. Nutrition consult will place
      recommendations for both continuous feeding and for intermittent schedule, including enteral
      nutrition formula and dosing. Prior to feeds being started, the patient's randomization
      status will be revealed to the clinical team. The covering provider will then place the order
      for enteral nutrition according to the nutritionist's recommendations for the correct feeding
      schedule.

      For patients randomized to continuous feeds, their enteral nutrition will be ordered and
      delivered as per usual care and standard MICU procedure. Nutritionist will provide
      recommendations for initiation rate, up titration schedule, and maintenance dosing to be
      delivered continuously over 24 hours. Under usual care of ICU patients, our clinical
      nutritionists provide a specified formula, a specified calorie goal, and a suggested
      titration rate. This is typically 20 mL per hour to start with an increase in rate of 20 mL
      per hour every 6 to 8 hours until the goal rate is achieved. Typical goal rates are in the
      range of 60 to 80 mL per hour for 24 hours per day.

      For patients randomized to the intervention group (intermittent feeds), they will receive
      their enteral nutrition according to a research protocol schedule. This will involve the
      total recommended feed volume divided into four equal volume "meals." These will be delivered
      at a rate of 400 cc/hr at 8:00, 12:00, 16:00, and 20:00. The up-titration schedule will be as
      follows: first meal will be 100 mL, and the volume of each meal thereafter will be increased
      by 100mL until patient is at goal volume (typically between 300 and 450 mL). There are no
      formula or diets that are inappropriate to be administered on an intermittent feed schedule.
      The intervention will not change formula selection or total calorie goals. It will only
      change the schedule of feeding. For all patients, regardless of feeding schedule, the
      Kangaroo E-Pump will be used to deliver enteral nutrition, and the above rate and volume
      parameters can be programmed in.

      There will be no change in delivery of enteral free water or medications. This schedule will
      be determined by nursing and clinical care team, as is the current standard of care. To
      assure correct ordering of intermittent feeds and the insulin prior to each meal, an EPIC
      orderset with prepopulated instructions will be developed.

      If there are no signs of or clinical concerns for intolerance, patients will continue to
      receive enteral nutrition according to assigned schedule until they are extubated or until
      enteral nutrition is discontinued.
    
  