
    
      The investigators proposed this pilot study to assist us in determining the feasibility of
      conducting a definitive multicenter randomized trial across Canada.

      Rationale:

      The rationale for this study includes: (1) TACO is the leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality due to transfusion; (2) risk factors for TACO include older age, renal dysfunction
      and positive fluid balance; (3) furosemide is a diuretic commonly prescribed for fluid
      overload; (4) furosemide can decrease pulmonary artery pressures; and (5) clinical
      uncertainty as to the effect of furosemide in preventing TACO. The investigators will enroll
      80 patients in this pilot study at two centers.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that 80 patients can be enrolled in the trial within a 2-month
      period

      Justification:

      If pre-transfusion that furosemide decreases the rate of TACO with red blood cell
      transfusion, clinical practice worldwide would change. Over 800,000 patients in Canada
      receive a blood transfusion annually and many are at high risk for TACO and may benefit from
      this simple, low-cost intervention. This intervention could easily be generalizable
      worldwide. There are practical challenges related to patient recruitment, adherence to trial
      protocol and data collection, all of which the TACO-BEL Pilot Trial will seek to measure.

      Objectives:

      The primary outcome of this trial is to determine the feasibility of performing a large
      multi-centre, randomized, placebo-controlled trial with concealed allocation and blinded
      outcome assessment, adequately powered to determine a clinically significant effect of
      pre-transfusion furosemide on the incidence of transfusion-associated circulatory overload.

      Primary outcome measure is the number of patients enrolled within a two-month period

      Secondary feasibility outcome measures include:

        1. Proportion of patients screened meeting eligibility criteria

        2. Proportion of eligible patients consenting to participate

        3. Proportion of consenting patients receiving the allocated treatment

        4. Proportion of treated patients completing follow-up assessment

        5. Proportion of patients in which blinding was maintained throughout study

      Research Method:

      Patients meeting inclusion criteria will be identified by reviewing transfusion orders
      received by the blood transfusion laboratory or by referral from ordering physicians; these
      patients will then be approached by study personnel to obtain pre-transfusion informed
      consent. Randomization will be performed by pharmacy at the time of drug preparation. The
      randomization code will be generated in random blocks of 4 to 6, stratified by center, and
      renal function at time of randomization (creatinine clearance < 60 and ≥ 60 mL/min) using a
      computer based randomization program.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be administered a bolus dose of 20mg furosemide (20mg/2mL) intravenously within
      60 minutes prior to the start of the red blood cell transfusion. Patients randomized to
      placebo will be administered an equal volume of normal saline intravenously immediately
      within 60 minutes prior to the start of the red blood cell transfusion.
    
  