
    
      PAST CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

      A phase III trial of Optune® (200 kHz) as monotherapy compared to active chemotherapy in
      recurrent glioblastoma patients showed TTFields to be equivalent to active chemotherapy in
      extending survival, associated with minimal toxicity, good quality of life, and activity
      within the brain (14% response rate). In addition, a phase III trial of Optune® combined with
      maintenance temozolomide compared to maintenance temozolomide alone has shown that combined
      therapy led to a significant improvement in both progression free survival and overall
      survival in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma without the addition of high grade
      toxicity and without decline in quality of life.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TRIAL:

      All patients included in this trial are newly diagnosed GBM patients who underwent a biopsy
      or surgery. In addition, all patients must meet all eligibility criteria.

      Eligible patients will be enrolled to receive Radiotherapy(RT)/Temozolomide/NovoTTF-200A
      followed by maintenance TMZ and NovoTTF-200A.

      Baseline tests will be performed, The patients will be treated continuously with the device
      until second progression. They will possibly receive a second line treatment that can be one
      of the following: re-operation, local radiotherapy (gamma-knife), a second line of
      chemotherapy or a combination of the above.

      NovoTTF-200A treatment will consist of wearing four electrically insulated electrode arrays
      on the head. Electrode array placement will require shaving of the scalp before and
      frequently during the treatment. After an initial short visit to the clinic for training and
      monitoring, patients will be released to continue treatment at home where they can maintain
      their regular daily routine.

      During RT, patients will be seen twice a week and the arrays will be removed to inspect the
      skin condition. In addition during the trial, patients will need to return once every month
      to the clinic where an examination by a physician and a routine laboratory examinations will
      be done. These routine visits will continue for as long as the patient's disease is not
      progressing for the second time under the study treatment. If such occurs, patients will need
      to return once per month for two more months to the clinic for similar follow up
      examinations.

      During the visits to the clinic patients will be examined physically and neurologically.
      Additionally, routine blood tests will be performed. A routine MRI of the head will be
      performed at baseline and every second month thereafter, until second progression. After this
      follow up plan, patients will be contacted once per month by telephone to answer basic
      questions about their health status.

      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND:

      Electric fields exert forces on electric charges similar to the way a magnet exerts forces on
      metallic particles within a magnetic field. These forces cause movement and rotation of
      electrically charged biological building blocks, much like the alignment of metallic
      particles seen along the lines of force radiating outwards from a magnet.

      Electric fields can also cause muscles to twitch and if strong enough may heat tissues.
      TTFields are alternating electric fields of low intensity. This means that they change their
      direction repetitively many times a second. Since they change direction very rapidly (200
      thousand times a second), they do not cause muscles to twitch, nor do they have any effects
      on other electrically activated tissues in the body (brain, nerves and heart). Since the
      intensities of TTFields in the body are very low, they do not cause heating.

      The breakthrough finding made by Novocure was that finely tuned alternating fields of very
      low intensity, now termed TTFields (Tumor Treating Fields), cause a significant slowing in
      the growth of cancer cells. Due to the unique geometric shape of cancer cells when they are
      multiplying, TTFields cause electrically-charged cellular components of these cells to change
      their location within the dividing cell, disrupting their normal function and ultimately
      leading to cell death. In addition, cancer cells also contain miniature building blocks which
      act as tiny motors in moving essential parts of the cells from place to place. TTFields
      interfere with the normal orientation of these tiny motors related to other cellular
      components since they are electrically-charged as well. As a result of these two effects,
      tumor cell division is slowed, results in cellular death or reverses after continuous
      exposure to TTFields.

      Other cells in the body (normal healthy tissues) are affected much less than cancer cells
      since they multiply at a much slower rate if at all. In addition TTFields can be directed to
      a certain part of the body, leaving sensitive areas out of their reach. Finally, the
      frequency of TTFields applied to each type of cancer is specific and may not damage normally
      dividing cells in healthy tissues.
    
  