
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the complete pathological response rate in women with poor-risk early breast
           cancer treated with neoadjuvant sequential epirubicin, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel
           with vs without gemcitabine.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on prognostic factors in these patients.

        -  Correlate molecular profiles, specific gene mutations, and genomic and gene expression
           changes with clinical outcome in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the health economics associated with this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      estrogen-receptor status (negative vs greater than 10% positive cells), HER-2 status
      (positive vs negative), tumor size (30-50 mm vs greater than 50 mm), and clinical involvement
      of axillary nodes (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Neoadjuvant sequential chemotherapy:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive epirubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1. Treatment
                repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 3
                hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive paclitaxel as in arm I followed by epirubicin and
                cyclophosphamide as in arm I.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive epirubicin and cyclophosphamide as in arm I followed by
                paclitaxel as in arm I and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8.
                Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses.

             -  Arm IV: Patients receive paclitaxel as in arm I and gemcitabine as in arm III
                followed by epirubicin and cyclophosphamide as in arm I.

        -  Surgery: After completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients in all arms undergo
           definitive surgery.

      Tumor tissue is removed from a subset of patients during serial biopsies. Molecular and
      genetic profiling, mutation analysis, and comparative genomic analysis is performed on the
      tissue samples.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after 4 courses of chemotherapy, after the
      completion of chemotherapy, after surgery, and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years and then every 3 months for 3 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800 patients (200 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  