
    
      Evidence shows independent associations between hyperuricaemia and the risk of hypertension,
      myocardial infarction, chronic kidney disease (CKD), type 2 diabetes, heart failure, and
      metabolic syndrome, including obesity Furthermore, gout, an inflammatory arthritis caused by
      deposition of monosodium urate crystals in joints, is associated with an increased risk of
      all-cause death, as well as cardiovascular (CV) death.

      Hyperuricaemia is a prerequisite for development of gout, thus linking high levels of sUA to
      gout and to poor outcomes. However, the causal relationship between hyperuricaemia / gout and
      the aforementioned diseases and outcomes remains to be proven.

      Uric acid transporter 1 (URAT1) is responsible for reabsorption of uric acid (UA in the
      proximal tubule. Inhibition of URAT1 results in increased urinary excretion of UA.

      Verinurad (RDEA3170) is a novel URAT1 inhibitor in Phase 2 development for chronic kidney
      disease and heart failure.

      Verinurad combined with the xanthine oxidase (XO)inhibitor (XOI) febuxostat or allopurinol
      has been shown to lower sUA in patients with recurrent gout in Phase 2 studies by up to 80%..

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the effects of treatment with verinurad and
      allopurinol, allopurinol alone, and placebo on UACR at 6 months.

      In this study, change in UACR at 6 months of treatment is the primary endpoint for the
      efficacy evaluation of treatment with the combination of verinurad and allopurinol vs.
      placebo.

      A key secondary objective is evaluation of verinurad plus allopurinol on the reduction in
      UACR at 12 months.

      Further, standard safety parameters such as adverse event (AEs), serious adverse event
      (SAEs), and laboratory evaluations will be employed to assess the safety profile of the study
      drugs.

      Verinurad, allopurinol and oxypurinol plasma concentrations over time will also be measured.

      The study will recruit patients with Chronic Kidney Disease and Hyperuricaemia.
    
  