
    
      The endothelial dysfunction is a pathologic process characterized by impaired endothelial
      nitric oxide (NO) signaling and metabolism leading to decreased vascular response to
      vasodilation. Cardiac surgical patients affected by multiple cardiovascular risk factors
      (e.g., hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia) commonly present with endothelial dysfunction
      due to a chronic unbalance of the redox state caused by an increased oxidative stress.
      Moreover, the use of cardiopulmonary bypass, the hemolysis, the ischemia and the inflammation
      associated with the surgery magnifies the oxidative stress, which has been shown to
      contribute to post-operative complications. In order to decrease oxidative stress, several
      antioxidant drugs and vitamins have been trialed with marginal health benefits.

      Recently, different research groups reported that NO delivered during cardiac surgery
      improved outcomes both in children and adults. Nitric oxide decreased the incidence and the
      severity of postoperative acute kidney injury, the extension of infarction size, the duration
      of mechanical ventilation, the length of stay and the use of rescue therapies as
      postoperative venous-arterial extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation.

      The exogenous administration of NO has been shown to prevent the scavenging of endogenous NO
      by inactivating the highly oxidative-reactive ferrous plasma oxy-hemoglobin to ferric
      met-hemoglobin. Our group is conducting a randomized controlled trial at Massachusetts
      General Hospital (Boston, USA) in patients with signs and symptoms of endothelial
      dysfunction, undergoing cardiac surgery requiring prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass and
      randomized to receive NO or placebo. However, the mechanisms underlying the effects of NO
      admistration on plasmatic redox equilibrium have still to be determined. The aim of this
      ancillary study is (I) to determine the changes of redox state in the plasma of surgical
      patients receiving either 80 ppm of NO (study group) or Nitrogen (placebo group). (II) To
      evaluate whether the degree of change in redox state is associated to postoperative
      complication.
    
  