
    
      The Partridge Foundation has funded the Wills Eye Hospital Glaucoma Research Center for the
      project: Comparison Study of Glaucoma Eye Care Follow-up Adherence in a High-Risk Population
      to continue follow-up eye care for those who received a glaucoma diagnosis during the 2010
      Center for Disease Control and Prevention funded cooperative agreement: Improving Access to
      Eye Care among High-Risk Persons for Glaucoma in Philadelphia Project. The project aims to
      determine the effectiveness of a patient -centered health care delivery system focused on
      improving follow-up adherence in patients diagnosed with glaucoma.

      There are approximately 700 potentially eligible persons from the 39 community sites, and of
      that the investigators hope to enroll 250 into 1 of four groups. Eligible participants have
      participated in the community-based comprehensive eye examination, have received a diagnosis
      of glaucoma-suspect or any type of glaucoma, including open angle glaucoma, chronic angle
      closure glaucoma, ocular hypertension, anatomically narrow-angle, pigmentary glaucoma, low
      tension glaucoma, or pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (identified using International
      Classification of Diseases (ICD)-9 codes), are recommended for follow-up care and have
      attended their Center for Disease Control and Prevention 6-month follow-up visit, are willing
      and able to give informed consent and participate for 1 year, any have undergone laser
      therapy. Excluded subjects are unwilling to attend randomized site for follow-up visits or
      prefers to continue follow-up eye care with their personal ophthalmologists.

      Over the course of 1 year, a 6-person team comprised of one attending physician; project
      managers and community health educations, ophthalmic technician, and patient navigators will
      complete a baseline visit, baseline assessment and 2-3 follow-up visits in community and
      office-based locations. A leased Wills Eye van will transport the intervention team and all
      necessary equipment to the site. The equipment will occupy a designated location at each site
      for 1 to 2 days per month, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., with at least 15 eye examinations performed
      each day. The same team will see participants who are randomized to the Wills Eye Glaucoma
      Research Center location.

      Participants randomized to receiving help in patient navigation protocol at the community and
      office-based locations will receive more individualized care than others such as assistance
      with scheduling; a confirmation letter, text or email; a personal phone call the day before
      the appointment; and assistance with rescheduling appointments as needed and will
      consistently arrange transportation to appointments as needed, provide materials, and
      accompany study participants to their follow-up appointments at Wills Eye. Patient
      navigators, ocular technicians, and physicians will also communicate with family members
      regarding recommended follow-up visits, medication refills, and laser-therapy
      recommendations, as needed.

      Participants randomized to usual care protocol at the office-based location will receive a
      phone number to call and schedule an appointment. Prior to the follow-up visit, participants
      in the usual-care group who have scheduled an appointment will receive an automated phone
      call similar to the standard appointment-reminding procedure commonly used at the Wills Eye
      Hospital. If participants do not show-up for their appointment that will be documented.
      Participants in the usual-care group will receive any necessary interpretation services,
      educational materials, and referrals to cataract surgery or other eye-care services, as
      needed. The intervention team will assure that participants with literacy issues can
      understand all information. This group is a realistic choice currently available for patients
      and thus will be used to compare with the patient navigator protocol.
    
  