
    
      Antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) is due to pathogenic antibodies produced by the donor
      (donor-specific antibodies, DSA) that are directed against Human Leukocyte Antigens (HLA) or
      other antigens (non HLA) of the graft. ABMR is currently the leading cause of long-term
      kidney allograft failure. Histological lesions of microvascular inflammation (MVI) are the
      hallmark criteria of ABMR according to the 2019 Banff classification. Lack of reproducibility
      in the scoring of MVI by pathologists is still an issue of the diagnosis of ABMR in routine
      practice, while the understood pathophysiological mechanisms of MVI (anti-HLA DSA, DSA
      against non HLA antigens and/or NK cell-mediated) are poorly assessed in practice, possibly
      explaining the wide variability of treatment efficacy. In a prior study, we confirmed the
      value of mass spectrometry for the analysis of the glomerular proteome during ABMR, compared
      to the one of stable grafts, from FFPE biopsies. We identified 82 proteins, particularly
      involved in leukocyte activation and the interferons pathways, in accordance with
      transcriptomic approaches. Five proteins were validated by immunohistochemistry.

      We now propose to analyze kidney allograft FFPE biopsies of 92 patients by mass spectrometry,
      including 32 with MVI (with and without anti-HLA DSA) and 60 with relevant differential
      diagnoses. The main objective is to assess the diagnostic performances of tissue proteic
      signatures designed by machine-learning methods for the diagnosis of microvascular
      inflammation, the reference standard being the 2019 Banff classification. One of the
      secondary objectives includes the comparison of the protein profile of MVI with and without
      anti-HLA DSA, but also the proteomic analysis of 60 urine samples from the same population,
      in order to assess the performances of mass spectrometry in the non-invasive diagnosis of MVI
      in kidney transplantation.
    
  