
    
      Objective:

      The long-term goal is to provide new insight into the effect of long-lasting sequence
      movements (sequence effect) by investigating de novo and advanced Parkinson's disease (PD)
      patients with an objective measurement. Our central hypothesis is that sequence effect is
      caused by depressed excitability of the motor cortex, and is partially associated with
      dopaminergic deficiency. Specifically, the aims of this study are to show that the sequence
      effect is more severe in advanced PD than in de novo PD and to evaluate the extent of
      improvement by levodopa and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and to show
      the correlation of fatigue.

      Study Population:

      Twelve de novo PD patients and 12 age- and sex-matched advanced PD patients.

      Design:

      We will compare objectively measured sequence effect with a modified Purdue pegboard, a
      computer-based device, in de novo and advanced PD patients. The modified Purdue Pegboard will
      detect start and stop times for individual peg insertion and for the task in its entirety.
      The sequence effect in this protocol is detected by the progressive changes of time intervals
      per peg insertion during the testing session. A time interval is defined as the period
      between the start and stop times for individual peg insertion. We will conduct a
      placebo-controlled, four-way crossover study to determine the beneficial effect of levodopa
      and rTMS on the sequence effect in de novo and advanced PD. The four interventions are:
      levodopa and rTMS; levodopa and sham; placebo and rTMS; and placebo and sham. A replicated 4
      periods and four intervention-Latin Square design will be used for the crossover design.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome will be the difference between two time intervals, individual 1st and 8th
      peg insertion time, in 1st run (8-consecutive peg insertions) with right hand, which will be
      compared between de novo PD and advanced PD. The secondary outcomes are: (a) the difference
      in progressive changes of six time values for six runs; (b) the beneficial effect of levodopa
      and rTMS on sequence effect; and (c) correlation between the time intervals of first and
      eighth peg insertion and the scores of two subjective fatigue scales, i.e., Fatigue Severity
      Scale (FSS) and Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI).
    
  