
    
      We obtained approval to conduct this non-comparative, interventional, retrospective case
      series from the Duke University Institutional Review Board. We used an established database
      of patients with uveitis and the operative reports from a single surgeon (GJJ) to identify
      all consecutive patients who underwent diagnostic pars plana vitrectomy from January 1989 to
      June 2006. We excluded patients with acute postoperative or traumatic endophthalmitis from
      this study. Cases were included if intraocular vitreous specimens were obtained for
      diagnostic testing. After identifying 150 patients, we reviewed the medical records of these
      individuals as previously described.

      Patient demographic data and clinical history were recorded at the time of initial visit. A
      complete ophthalmic history and examination were performed by a single examiner (GJJ). The
      examination included slit-lamp biomicroscopy and dilated fundus examination with indirect
      ophthalmoscopy. Anterior segment inflammation was graded using the system described by Hogan
      and colleagues. The system previously described by Nussenblatt et.al. was used to grade
      vitreous opacity. Fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography, and ultrasonography
      were performed as indicated. A differential diagnosis was compiled for each case, based on
      clinic findings. Additional laboratory tests were ordered depending on the constellation of
      clinical history, exam findings, and results of previous ancillary testing. Anti-inflammatory
      therapy was initiated in an empiric or diagnosis-specific manner, and the clinical response
      was followed carefully.

      Diagnostic vitrectomy was performed on eyes with intermediate, posterior, or panuveitis in
      which an etiology could not be characterized by clinical examination, laboratory, and/or
      ancillary testing. In addition, diagnostic vitrectomy was performed on eyes that did not
      adequately respond to empirical therapy, or those in which intraocular malignancy or
      infection was suspected. Therapeutic vitrectomy was performed in conjunction with diagnostic
      vitrectomy when clinically indicated, for example to repair retinal detachment, to remove
      epiretinal membranes, to decrease vitreous opacity, or to insert an intraocular sustained
      drug-delivery implant.

      In this study, vitreous samples were collected in the operating room using a standardized
      technique which has been previously reported. Briefly, three-port, 20-gauge pars plana
      vitrectomy instrumentation was utilized. An infusion line was inserted into one sclerotomy
      and secured to the globe. A second sclerotomy was made, and a fiberoptic light pipe was
      immediately inserted to minimize vitreous egress. A third sclerotomy was created, and the
      vitreous cutter was inserted. To obtain an undiluted vitreous sample, the vitreous was cut
      mechanically with the vitreous cutter, while the assistant surgeon simultaneously manually
      aspirated the vitreous. The tip of the vitreous cutter was viewed at all times with the
      wide-field viewing system during the procedure. After sufficient undiluted sample was
      obtained, infusion fluid was allowed to enter the eye and a diluted vitreous sample was
      obtained in a similar manner. The samples were personally carried to the clinical
      laboratories by the operating surgeon. Vitreous fluid analysis was guided by clinical
      suspicion based on the pre-operative differential diagnosis and the intraoperative posterior
      segment appearance. Cytopathology was used to identify granulomatous inflammation or tumor
      cells. A thin-prep was prepared, processed through a membrane filter apparatus (Millipore
      Corp, Bedford, MA) and then stained with Papanicolaou stain. Gram stain, KOH preparation and
      culture were used to diagnose intraocular infection. Where appropriate, instructions were
      given to the clinical laboratory for specific sample processing (e.g., suspected slow-growing
      bacterium, such as Propionibacterium acnes or suspected fungal infection). Genomic
      amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed at the University of Colorado
      (Boulder, CO), or Texas Children's Hospital (Houston, TX) to test for the presence of Herpes
      simplex virus, Herpes zoster virus, and cytomegalovirus. PCR was performed for Toxoplasma
      gondii at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation (Palo Alto, CA) as previously described. Toxocara
      canis antibody levels were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) at the
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Atlanta, GA). For Toxoplasma gondii and Toxocara
      canis, simultaneous serum samples were also collected and sent to the respective
      laboratories.

      The final diagnosis was based upon the results of the directed diagnostic testing of the
      vitreous sample. A positive diagnostic vitrectomy result was based upon the identification of
      a specific etiologic agent through the testing modalities previously described. Sarcoidosis
      is a diagnosis of exclusion without a known etiologic agent. There are no definitive
      laboratory tests that unequivocally confirm a diagnosis of sarcoid. Therefore, a diagnostic
      specimen was deemed positive for sarcoid-related inflammation if the following criteria were
      satisfied: 1) if all other vitreous testing was negative 2) if the clinical features were
      such that sarcoidosis was included in the differential diagnosis based on pre-operative
      clinical appearance, and 3) if the cytopathology specimen was consistent with a pattern of
      sarcoid-related inflammation such as non-caseating granuloma formation, as established by the
      cytopathologist.
    
  