
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be assigned to 1 of 3 groups based on when
      you joined the study.

      Group 1:

      If you are assigned to Group 1, you will take part in a focus group where you will be asked
      what you would want in a web-based program designed to improve the communication of health
      and health history information among family members affected by Lynch syndrome. You will also
      fill out a questionnaire with questions about your demographics (age, race, marital status)
      and your medical history. This visit should take about 1 hour to complete.

      Group 2:

      If you are assigned to Group 2, you will come to the Behavioral Research and Treatment Center
      (BRTC) at MD Anderson to use the initial version of the My Family Garden website. My Family
      Garden is designed to teach new ways of communicating about Lynch Syndrome and about other
      issues related to the disease (such as risks associated with the disease, etc.). You will be
      instructed on how to use the program by the study staff. After you use the website, you will
      have an interview where you will provide feedback on your session. You will be asked
      questions about your feelings about the website and about any possible improvements that
      could be made to the website. You will also fill out a questionnaire called the Website
      Analysis and MeasureMent Inventory (WAMMI) which is designed help rate websites. You will
      also fill out the demographics questionnaire described above.

      You will be given the option of completing the WAMMI and demographics questionnaire at the
      BRTC after your session or at your home. If you choose to complete them at home, you will be
      provided with a self-addressed, postage-paid envelope so you can mail the questionnaires back
      to the study staff.

      This visit should take about 90 minutes to complete.

      Group 3:

      If you are assigned to Group 3, you will use the final version of the My Family Garden
      website. This final version will include changes from the web designers after feedback has
      been given from the previous groups in this study.

      After you use the website, you will have an interview where you will provide feedback on your
      session. You will be asked questions about your feelings about the website and about any
      possible improvements that could be made to the website. You will also fill out the WAMMI
      questionnaire and demographics questionnaire described above.

      You will be given the option of coming to the BRTC at MD Anderson to use the My Family Garden
      computer program or using the program from your home. If you choose to use My Family Garden
      from your home, you will be given a secure, password-protected hyperlink via e-mail to access
      the program. You will be instructed on how to use the program by the study staff either in
      person or over the phone. If you use the program from your home, the study staff will give
      the interview over the phone. If you complete the questionnaire at your home, you will be
      provided with a self-addressed, postage-paid envelope so you can mail it back to the study
      staff.

      Whether it is completed at MD Anderson or at home, this visit should last about 90 minutes.

      Audiotapes:

      All focus groups and interviews will be audiotaped. The audiotapes collected during the
      course of this study will be stored in locked file cabinets in a locked office and will be
      destroyed after 5 years.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you have completed the study procedures
      described above.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 49 participants will be enrolled in this study. All participants will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  