
    
      Study Protocol

      The overall study design is open, as participants are explicitly required to identify a
      specific light tint that they perceive as affecting the annoyance or intrusiveness of their
      tinnitus. An element of an active control is provided by reference to changes reported with a
      self-selected tint referenced against white light. The a priori assumption is that with this
      optically defined white light, the reported changes in tinnitus will remain as zero. The
      following is a protocol outline of the trial as experienced by participants. All trial data
      is anonymised with hard copies securely held at the trial site.

      Invitation to participate and seeking consent

      First Visit:

      Questionnaires and Screening for identifying Tinnitus patients reporting their whose
      perception of tinnitus is changed by tinted light .

      Trial Questionnaires Following consent to take part in the study, at the first visit the
      participant completes two questionnaires. This provides relevant baseline demographics,
      history of general health tinnitus and hearing. The second questionnaire is the Oregon
      Tinnitus Functional Index (TFI) to assess the impact of tinnitus on the participant's life.

      Light Test Screening:

      Identification of Tints Affecting Tinnitus Perception The following all take place in a sound
      proof room at the Leicester Royal Infirmary in which the participant is comfortably seated
      during the session.

      After an explanation of what will be asked of them, the patient is asked to provide Tinnitus
      Annoyance and Tinnitus Loudness VAS values to serve as baseline measurements.

      The only sources of illumination during the experimental procedure are from the Light
      Emitting Diode (LED) lamp in front of the patient and indirect low level ambient illumination
      from a laptop screen. The laptop screen is viewed by the experimenter and its display cannot
      be seen by the participant.

      The LED lamp consists of three banks of Red, Green and Blue (RGB) LEDs under direct manual
      and computer control. The Lamp head projects down onto an A4 sized platen that forms the base
      of the lamp. On this platen base, an A4 sheet of white paper is illuminated by the calibrated
      output of the RGB LED.

      The participant is then comfortably seated and asked to look at the default setting of white
      illuminated by the calibrated LED lamp. This is at a distance of about 45-50 cm. The
      participant then controls the colour output of the LED lamp by varying three independent
      manual dials, one each for the Red, Green and Blue LEDs to produce a very wide range of light
      tints. A demonstration and practice with explanation by the experimenter is provided prior to
      commencing this procedure.

      During the screening procedure, the patient is asked to report if any of the tints they see
      appears to improve their tinnitus. The individual RGB values for each tint reported by the
      participant are recorded by the experimenter.

      The degree of improvement is estimated by the patient reporting Tinnitus Annoyance and
      Loudness VAS ratings as described below and a Clinical Global Index (CGI) value as described
      below.

      If they do identify one or more tinnitus ameliorating tints, then they are invited to
      replicate this again and the settings return to the default optical white. The RGB dials do
      not have any calibration marking, but are connected to a laptop that monitors the colour
      space generated.

      This is under experimenter control. The individual RGB values for each tint reported by the
      participant are again recorded by the experimenter along with the two Tinnitus VAS and a CGI
      value.

      The experimenter also establishes if the chosen tint can be replicated independently under
      computer control by gradually changing the RGB values to replicate the tint(s) along with the
      recording of VAS and CGI values as described above.

      Importantly, no verbal feedback by the experimenter about tint choice is given and the only
      guide assumed to be active in tint choice is effect on the participants tinnitus.

      Once replication has been established at the first screening session the participant is then
      invited to attend a further three sessions to provide evidence of stability of longer term
      effect necessary to demonstrate efficacy.

      Second to Fourth Visit: Estimating Efficacy On these visits, the participant is invited back
      into the soundproof room and is seated comfortably in front of the LED lamp.

      At the start of the second session, patients are asked to provide their baseline VAS ratings
      for tinnitus loudness and annoyance. At this second visit, the patient is then invited to
      choose what they consider to be their optimal tint fro improving their tinnitus as they did
      at the first visit.

      The optimal tint affecting their tinnitus is then replicated by both the patient and
      independently by the experimenter.

      Once they have confirmed their optimal choice, the setting is noted by the experimenter for
      presentation.

      The patient is then presented with three sets of visual stimulus condition to assess
      efficacy.

      Low level ambient lighting: - Under low level illumination patients will be asked to provide
      VAS and CGI ratings for their tinnitus on three occasions over 10 minutes at 0,5 and 10 mins.
      These values are recorded by the experimenter.

      Optimal tint - Patients will view their optimal light tint presented for 20 minutes and asked
      to provide VAS and CGI ratings on three occasions at 5, 10 and 15 mins. At 0 and 20 mins,
      i.e. just before and just after the optimal tint is presented, they are asked to provide
      these values under conditions of low ambient illumination. These values are recorded by the
      experimenter.

      White Light - After a few minutes interval, patients are asked to repeat the above procedure
      but whilst viewing white light that serves as an active comparator. These values are recorded
      by the experimenter.

      The third and fourth visits are ideally spaced at two weekly intervals, but timings of the
      visits are arranged to fit with the lifestyle and commitments of the patients.

      At these visits, the patients are again invited to provide VAS and CGI scores to the three
      illumination conditions described above.

      Once a full set of data from the four visits has been obtained, the patient has completed
      their participation in the trial. The VAS and CGI measurements obtained are then further
      processed to return primary and secondary outcome measures for each patient at the end of
      their participation in the trial.
    
  