
    
      As the COVID-19 pandemic accelerates, cases have grown exponentially around the world. Other
      countries' experience suggests that 5-16% of COVID-19 in-patients will undergo prolonged
      intensive care with 50-70% needing mechanical ventilation(MV) threatening to overwhelm
      hospital capacity. ARDS has no effective treatment besides supportive care, the use of
      ventilation strategies encompassing low tidal volumes that limit trans-pulmonary pressures,
      and prone positioning in severe disease. Most current trials in clinicaltrials.gov for
      COVID-19-induced ARDS aim at modulating the inflammatory response or test anti-viral drugs.
      Sarilumab and tocilizumab that block IL-6 effects are being tested in RCT for patients
      hospitalized with severe COVID-19 (NCT04317092, NCT04322773, NCT04327388). The World Health
      Organization international trial SOLIDARITY will test remdesivir; chloroquine +
      hydroxychloroquine; lopinavir + ritonavir; and lopinavir + ritonavir and interferon-beta
      (NCT04321616). Yet studies targeting the coagulation system, which is intrinsically
      intertwined with the inflammatory response are lacking.

      A consistent finding in ARDS is the deposition of fibrin in the airspaces and lung
      parenchyma, along with fibrin-platelet microthrombi in the pulmonary vasculature, which
      contribute to the development of progressive respiratory dysfunction and right heart failure.
      Similar to pathologic findings of ARDS, microthrombi have now been observed in lung specimens
      from patients infected with COVID-19.

      Inappropriate activation of the clotting system in ARDS results from enhanced activation and
      propagation of clot formation as well as suppression of fibrinolysis. Our group has shown
      that low fibrinolysis is associated with ARDS. Studies starting decades ago have demonstrated
      the systemic and local effects of dysfunctional coagulation in ARDS, specifically related to
      fibrin. This occurs largely because of excessive amounts of tissue factor that is produced by
      alveolar epithelial cells and activated alveolar macrophages, and high levels of plasminogen
      activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) produced and released by endothelial cells. Consistent with
      this, generalized derangements of the hemostatic system with prolongation of the prothrombin
      time, elevated D-dimer and fibrin degradation products have been reported in severely ill
      COVID-19 patients, particularly in non-survivors. These laboratory findings, in combination
      with the large clot burden seen in the pulmonary microvasculature, mirrors what is seen in
      human sepsis, experimental endotoxemia, and massive tissue trauma. Targeting the coagulation
      and fibrinolytic systems to improve the treatment of ARDS has been proposed for at least the
      past two decades. In particular, the use of plasminogen activators to limit ARDS progression
      and reduce ARDS-induced death has received strong support from animal models, and a phase 1
      human clinical trial. In 2001, Hardaway and colleagues showed that administration of either
      urokinase or streptokinase to patients with terminal ARDS reduced the expected mortality from
      100% to 70% with no adverse bleeding events. Importantly, the majority of patients who
      ultimately succumbed died from renal or hepatic failure, rather than pulmonary failure.

      Consideration of therapies that are widely available but not recognized for this indication
      and traditionally considered "high-risk" such as fibrinolytic agents is warranted in this
      unprecedented public health emergency, since the risk of adverse events from tPA is far
      outweighed by the extremely high risk of death in the patient's meeting the eligibility
      criteria for this trial. While the prior studies by Hardaway et al evaluating fibrinolytic
      therapy for treatment of ARDS used urokinase and streptokinase, the more contemporary
      approach to thrombolytic therapy involves the use of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA)
      due to higher efficacy of clot lysis with comparable bleeding risk to the other fibrinolytic
      agents.
    
  