
    
      Seasonal vaccination against influenza is recommended for NHS staff. , To increase
      vaccination rates, NHS England put forth a Commissioning for Quality and Innovation goal for
      the 2018/2019 season of 75%. University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust (UHB) wants
      its vaccination rate to surpass this target. Since staff get infected outside of the hospital
      and from patients staff vaccination does not provide significant 'herd immunity'

      To reach past targets, every September UHB already invites staff to take up the vaccination,
      and regularly reminds staff that have not yet vaccinated to do so. The current protocol
      describes a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in which staff will be sent a different letter
      when first invited to receive vaccination, and we will compare the proportion of staff that
      go on to vaccinate after receiving each type of letter..

      To conduct the RCT the research team will design four letter styles. One factor will
      emphasize an authority figure inviting staff to vaccinate (the Chief Executive, who is also a
      doctor). The other factor will emphasize a competitive social norm describing vaccination
      rates in peer hospitals, including Addenbrooke's, Cambridge University Hospitals (which has
      exemplary rates) see appendix A and across American hospitals (which also have high rates).
      Letters will be sent to staff in the first week in October by UHB's communications team and
      they will be disseminated in a randomized fashion.

      The UoW's role in this study is to advise the study's design and write-up the project for
      publication. UHB will approve the reminders, send the reminders, retrieve the data, and
      analyse the data. No individual-level data will be transferred across organizations. All
      individual-level data will be managed by authorized UHB employees, e.g., a UHB statistician
      will randomize staff to receive different reminders and analyze the data, and UHB's
      communication team to disseminate the reminders.
    
  