
    
      Idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) are a great concern in acquired muscle illnesses. An
      appropriate and rapid diagnosis is necessary, because morbidity and mortality are high and as
      a specific treatment is needed (corticosteroids, immunosuppressant, and "biotherapies").

      Currently the use of muscle MRI in departments managing IIM is common. In absence of
      recommendations fixing their place in the diagnostic phase, the practices observed are
      extremely heterogeneous. Some systematically order a muscle MRI for patients suspected to
      suffer from IIM, others hold this examination for patients selected according to non defined
      criteria, and others sometimes use MRI to follow-up patients. This practices diversity well
      reflects the lack of data in the literature, making it impossible to appreciate the real
      contribution of this test. The results published in the great majority of studies are
      obtained with patients whose IIM diagnosis is already established. The diagnostic accuracy of
      muscle MRI in real conditions of clinical practice is thus unknown for patients having a
      simple suspicion of IIM.

      Primary scientific aim: Evaluation of diagnostic accuracy of muscle MRI (in terms of
      sensitivity, specificity, predictive positive value and predictive negative value) for
      patients who are suspected to suffer from IIM.

      Secondary scientific aim: Comparison of two diagnostic strategies: MRI-oriented muscle biopsy
      versus non MRI-oriented muscle biopsy.

      Gold standard: muscle biopsy Index test: whole body MRI, STIR and T1 sequences Patients and
      setting of diagnosis tests: Screening will be realized on any patient suspected to suffer
      from inflammatory and addressed for muscle biopsy in one of the participating reference
      centres for neuro-muscular disorders. -Evaluate if RMI is efficiency to reduce false negative
      results during a second biopsy.

        -  Evaluation of reproducibility inter-observers and intra-observers of interpretations of
           RMI.

        -  Evaluation of reproducibility inter-observers and intra-observers of muscles biopsy
           interpretations according with the European neuro muscular classification ENMC.

      Study calendar :

        -  Including 130 patients during 24 months

        -  RMI interpretations are realised immediately after RMI exam without informing the
           investigator.

        -  Procedures of anonymisation of the double reading are done every 03 months.

             -  V1 = inclusion visit Information and non-opposition of patient Collection of
                demographic, clinical and biological data

             -  V2 = muscle MRI

             -  V3 = muscle biopsy

             -  One year after V1, collection of the final established diagnosis and compare it to
                the investigator results
    
  