
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Blood pressure measurements in childhood and young adulthood are less predictive of future
      levels than those taken in middle age. In part, this may be due to the fact that
      within-person variability appears to make up a larger proportion of total variability in
      childhood than adulthood. Previous work on an NHLBI supported grant indicated that repeated
      blood pressure measurements and visits led to higher childhood tracking correlations over a
      period of three years.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Follow-up data were used as well as multiple visits which reduced the large within-person
      variability of blood pressure measurements and improved the tracking correlations. In
      addition, 'true' or 'corrected' tracking correlations were provided by eliminating the
      effects of random measurement error. The effects were examined of time-varying covariates on
      both the observed and true tracking correlations. Besides computing tracking correlations,
      predictive values were computed for young adult blood pressure given childhood levels. This
      was the probability that a young adult's true blood pressure was above a specific cutpoint
      conditional on childhood blood pressure. These values were validated using data from the Fels
      Longitudinal Study, which included serial blood pressure measurements over the age range in
      the study. The prediction models were also derived including terms for covariates such as
      age, sex, height and weight. From these models nomograms were constructed which were useful
      to physicians for prognostic purposes. Thus, because of the unique multiple-visit approach
      used in these data, the effect of random measurement error was eliminated. These methodologic
      improvements strengthened the usefulness of blood pressure screening in childhood to detect
      those at high risk of developing hypertension.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  