
    
      After thorough diagnosis and recording of the patient's perceived preoperative pain using the
      numeric rating scale (NRS), which should be zero. Patients with single rooted necrotic teeth
      will be randomly divided into two groups for endodontic treatment in a single visit:

      Group LAI (in which laser activated irrigation will be done) and group PUI (in which passive
      ultrasonic irrigation will be done).

      The teeth are anesthetized and isolation is done. the clamp, tooth crown and rubber dam are
      disinfected using 2.5% sodium hypochlorite and 30% hydrogen peroxide then sodium thiosulphate
      to neutralize their effects.

      Removal of caries and defective restorations is done, followed by access cavity preparation
      using round burs and fine tapered stones. then the first microbiological sample is taken
      using paper points. Afterwards root canal preparation is done using Protaper Next files and
      irrigation is done using 2.5% sodium hypochlorite and a 30 -gauge side vented needle.

      After chemomechanical preparation of the canal, the second microbiological sample is taken,
      afterwards the canals are filled with sodium hypochlorite and according to the group, the
      following is done:

      In group LAI: the 200 micrometer fibre of the diode laser device enters the root canal and
      the device is activated at a setting of 980 nm and 1.5 Watts for 5 seconds, repeated 4 times
      with a 10 seconds gap in between.

      In group PUI: the ultrasonic device is activated inside the canal using a passive non cutting
      tip and kept activated for 1 minute.

      Then, irrigation with saline solution is done then the third microbiological sample is taken,
      afterwards obturation is done and temporization. the patient is referred to the restorative
      dentistry clinic to complete the restoration of his tooth.

      The patient is instructed to record his pain at 6,12,24 and 48 hours postoperatively and the
      microbiological samples are analyzed
    
  