
    
      Nausea and nomiting of Pregnancy (NVP) affects up to 80% of pregnant women . Severe NVP is
      one of the most common indications for hospital admission among pregnant women, with typical
      stays of between 3 and 4 days . Onset of NVP is in the first trimester. It typically starts
      between the fourth and seventh weeks of gestation, peaks in approximately the ninth week and
      resolves by the 20th week in 90% of women. If the initial onset is after 10+6 weeks of
      gestation, other causes need to be considered There is a broad spectrum of nausea and
      vomiting of pregnancy (NVP) severity, ranging from mild, occasional nausea to severe,
      intractable vomiting requiring hospitalisation (hyperemesis gravidarum). Hyperemesis
      gravidarum(HG) is defined severe, protracted nausea and vomiting associated with weight loss
      of more than 5% of prepregnancy weight, dehydration and electrolyte imbalances. The exact
      underlying pathophysiology is unknown, but etiology is believed to be multifactorial,
      including endocrine, gastrointestinal and environmental factors.5 Risk factors include lower
      maternal age, primigravidity, lower socioeconomic background and non-smoking status.

      Admission for hyperemesis gravidarum depends on clinical impression by the attending or
      referring physician. There is a need for classification the severity of NVP to restrict
      admission to those who need admission. An objective and validated index of nausea and
      vomiting such as the Pregnancy-Unique Quantification of Emesis (PUQE) score may be used for
      this purpose.

      This questionnaire contains three questions regarding the time-span of nausea, vomiting and
      retching respectively, as well as one question assessing the global psychological and
      physical quality of life (QOL). Initially the questionnaire evaluated symptoms during last 12
      hours, but it has been modified to encompass 24 hours as well as the whole of first trimester
      of pregnancy The PUQE questionnaire was used in several studies to assess the effect of
      antiemetic treatments for emesis and hyperemesis . In this study, the role of PUQE in
      evaluating need for inpatient admission will be studied. Also, the response to treatment
      inside the hospital will be assessed
    
  