
    
      GERD is a prevalent condition worldwide, estimated to be around 20-30 % in North America.
      Obesity is rapidly increasing with an estimated prevalence of 66% in the adult population in
      the United States. GERD symptoms are common in the obese population with data showing weekly
      GERD symptoms in 34.6% and erosive esophagitis 26.9% in people with BMI > 30 Kg/m^2. Reflux
      is associated with complications such as esophagitis, Barrett's Esophagus and ultimately
      esophageal adenocarcinoma. Presently, bariatric interventions are the only sustainable method
      to address morbid obesity and its resulting comorbidities. There are endoscopic and surgical
      bariatric interventions. Bariatric surgery has been shown to be an effective and efficient
      means of achieving significant weight loss in obese individuals. One of the most common
      restrictive surgeries includes laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG). Although very effective
      for treating obesity, some of these surgeries might cause deleterious effects regarding GERD,
      due to anatomical modifications. LSG can increase the incidence of GERD, which may be
      explained from the changes in the angle of His and by increasing intragastric pressure.
      Pharmacological therapy with proton pump inhibitors (PPI), H2 blockers and lifestyle changes
      are first line forms of treatment utilized to control the symptoms related to GERD. However,
      patients who use pharmacological treatment experience reduction in quality of life and seek
      alternative options. Refractory GERD is defined by lack of symptom control on maximum dose of
      PPI therapy. Moreover, due to the anatomical changes associated with bariatric surgeries, the
      traditional surgical and endoscopic techniques (TIF, Nissen Fundoplication) used to treat
      GERD in the general population are not suitable for these patients. With the current trend of
      an increase of bariatric surgery and thus GERD that arises after these surgeries, new
      innovative techniques to treat GERD are needed, especially in PPI averse or non-responsive
      patients. Cardia Band Ligation Anti-reflux (CLEAR) procedure utilizes multiple band ligations
      at the cardia in a 270-degree fashion, resulting in tissue necrosis and scar formation,
      narrowing the GE junction and enhancing the flap valve system. The investigators will perform
      CLEAR by placing 4 bands at the GEJ. The investigators hypothesized that CLEAR can be a safe
      and efficient intervention to improve post bariatric GERD.
    
  