
    
      Study design: international, multicenter double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical
      study in parallel groups.

      The study will enroll patients of either gender aged from 6 months to 6 years old with
      clinical manifestations of ARVI within the first days after the onset of the disease.
      Patients will be included evenly (1:1 ratio) in accordance with the age group: 6 months - 3
      years 11 months 29 days; 4 years - 6 years 11 months 29 days. Signed information sheet for
      parents/adopters (inform consent form) will be obtained from all participant's parents/
      adopters prior to the screening procedures. Medical history, thermometry, patient examination
      by the doctor, assesment of ARVI symptoms severity and nasopharyngeal swabswill be performed
      at screening visit (Day 1).

      If the inclusion criteria are met and exclusion criteria are absent, the patient is included
      in the study.

      Nasopharyngeal swabs will be analyzed by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain
      reaction (RT-PCR) to identify the most common respiratory viruses, including (1) Influenza A
      virus; (2) Influenza B virus; (3) Influenza A (H1N1)pdm; (4) Human metapneumovirus; (5) Human
      respiratory syncytial virus; (6) Human rhinovirus; (7) Human adenovirus; (8) Human bocavirus;
      (9) Human parainfluenza virus 1; (10) Human parainfluenza virus 2; (11) Human parainfluenza
      virus 3; (12) Human parainfluenza virus 4; (13) Human coronavirus OC43; (14) Human
      coronavirus 229E; (15) Human coronavirus HKU1; (16) Human coronavirus NL63.

      The patients are randomized into one of two groups: the 1st group patients will take
      Ergoferon according to the dosage regimen for 5 days; the 2nd group patients will take
      Placebo according to the dosage regimen of Ergoferon for 5 days. Patient's parents/ adoptive
      parents are provided with diares, where daily in the morning and at hight they record oral
      temperature (measured by a digital thermometer provided by Sponsor), symptoms of ARVI
      (according to the 4-points scale), administered drug and concomitant therapy. The doctors
      instruct parents/ adoptive parents how to fill in the diaries; the first scores of ARVI
      symptoms severity and oral temperature are made by doctors together with the parents/adoptive
      parents.

      Patients are observed up for 14 days (screening and randomization - up to 1 day, therapy for
      5 days, follow-up from 6 to 10 days; delayed telephone "visit" - on day 14).

      During the observation period, two visits are planned (at home or at the medical center) on
      day 3 (Visit 2) and day 6 (Visit 3). If patients still have any symptoms of ARVI/
      complications of ARVI, then an additional (unscheduled) Visit 4 is provided on Day 10 of the
      observation (at the medical center). During Visits 2, 3 (4), doctors carry out an physical
      examination, record dynamics of ARVI symptoms and concomitant therapy, check patient's
      diaries, which parents/adoptive parents return back at Visit 3 or 4. At Visit 3 (after 5 days
      of therapy) compliance with the treatment is additionally assessed. A "telephone visit"
      (Visit 5, Day 14 ± 1) is carried out to interview parents about the patient's condition,
      presence/ absence of complications, and possible use of antibiotics.

      During the study, symptomatic therapy and therapy for underlying chronic conditions are
      allowed with the exception of the drugs indicated in the section "Prohibited Concomitant
      Therapy".
    
  