
    
      In the presence of infection, normal immune and physiologic responses act in concert to
      eradicate pathogens. When these responses are inappropriately regulated, sepsis develops.
      Sepsis is characterized by systemic manifestations of infection. The diagnosis is made by
      identifying at least 2 of the components of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome
      (SIRS), based on four clinical and laboratory criteria: respiratory rate, tachycardia,
      temperature, and leukocyte level in the presence of a documented infection. The presence of
      acute organ dysfunction in this setting defines severe sepsis, and hypotension that is not
      reversed with fluid administration defines the entity of septic shock. Severe sepsis as well
      as its most severe form, septic shock, are significant global health concerns, afflicting
      millions of patients worldwide, increasing in incidence, and having an associated mortality
      rate of >25%. In the United States alone, an estimated 750,000 people develop sepsis or
      severe sepsis each year, and sepsis/septic shock is the 11th leading illness leading to
      mortality in the US. The annual cost burden of sepsis is estimated to be more than $17
      billion. For these reasons, clinical investigators interested in sepsis have directed efforts
      toward identifying a biomarker that would be useful in making an early diagnosis of sepsis.
      In addition to early diagnosis, biomarkers for prognosis have been sought to guide severity
      assessment and to guide more personalized treatment of individual patients.

      Endothelial Activation in Sepsis Endothelial activation occurs early in systemic infections
      and is an adaptive response, allowing leukocyte migration to sites of microbial invasion. In
      sepsis, however, endothelial activation is excessive and poses the following risks: harm via
      tissue damage due to excessive leukocyte recruitment, disseminated intravascular coagulation
      (DIC) relating to loss of endothelial anticoagulant properties, apoptotic death of
      endothelial cells, and loss of microvascular barrier function. The dysfunctional endothelial
      barrier leads to vascular leak and tissue edema, hallmarks of sepsis. This loss of
      endothelial barrier function is linked to increased morbidity and mortality in animal models
      of sepsis.

      Endothelial Microparticles Microparticles are intact vesicles of a size 0.2-2.0 μm which are
      released from plasma membranes of multiple cell types in the setting of cell injury,
      activation, and/or apoptosis. In healthy individuals, microparticles found in the plasma are
      derived from platelets, erythrocytes, leukocytes, and endothelial cells. EMPS generally
      circulate at a relatively low level and reflect normal endothelial cell turnover. Elevated
      circulating levels of EMPs can be identified in a number of illnesses including sickle cell
      disease, immune-mediated thrombotic syndromes such as antiphospholipid syndrome and
      heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, diabetes, chronic renal failure, acute coronary syndrome,
      stroke, venous thromboembolic disease, metabolic syndrome, severe hypertension, paroxysmal
      nocturnal hemoglobinuria, and multiple sclerosis. The functional roles that may be played by
      endothelial microparticles are diverse and include neutrophil activation, chemotactic
      attraction of leukocytes, platelet aggregation, generation of thrombin (in vitro) and
      superoxide anions, stimulation of endothelial proliferation, induction of angiogenesis, MMP-2
      and MMP-9 expression enabling vascular invasion of the basement membrane, and carrying of
      endothelial proteins and protein C.

      Given the importance of the endothelium in the pathogenesis of sepsis, we propose to examine
      the role of endothelial-derived microparticles (EMPs) as a biomarker in sepsis.
    
  