
    
      Transradial approach (TRA) for cardiac catheterization and percutaneous coronary
      interventions (PCI) is increasingly being used worldwide in both elective and emergency
      procedures because it reduces net adverse clinical events, through a reduction in major
      bleeding and all-cause mortality, when compared to transfemoral approach. However, radial
      artery occlusion (RAO) after the procedure (the incidence of which varies from 1% to 10%)
      remains one of the major limitations of TRA.

      The aim of the study is to assess the superiority of verapamil versus heparin in the access
      success during transradial percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI).

      METHODS Patients referred to the cath-lab of the Cardiovascular Institute of the University
      Hospital of Ferrara, Italy, for coronary angiography were randomized in 2 groups with a
      computer-generated random sequence. The study is double-blind. In the first group, patients
      received intravenous heparin (5000 UI) immediately after a 6 F sheath insertion. In the
      second group, patients received Verapamil (5 mg) immediately after a 6 F sheath insertion. If
      after the start of the procedure a radial artery spasm (RAS) occurs, the operators can choose
      to use bail-out a local vasodilator therapy. After sheath removal, hemostasis was obtained
      using a TR band (Terumo corporation, Tokyo, Japan) with a plethysmography-guided patent
      hemostasis technique. Radial artery patency was evaluated at 24 hours (early RAO) and 30 days
      after the procedure (late RAO) by ultrasound.

      The aim of the study is to demonstrate that verapamil administration is superior to heparin
      administration in the reduction of the combined endpoint (occurrence of radial artery
      occlusion (early RAO), access site complication, radial artery spasm (RAS) requiring local
      bailout use of vasodilatator)

      RAO will be assessed by ultrasonography by independent expert reviewer blinded to
      randomization

      The investigators defined access site complication the following items:

        -  local haematoma superficial <5 cm from access site;

        -  haematoma with moderate muscle infiltration <10 cm;

        -  forearm haematoma and muscular infiltration below the elbow;

        -  haematoma and muscular infiltration above the elbow;

        -  ischemic threat (compartmental syndrome);

        -  radial artery dissection during the procedure;

      The investigators defined radial artery spasm any spasm occurring during the procedure
      requiring the administration of local vasodilatators to allow the procedure
    
  