
    
      An individual's health is affected not only by access to health care but also by a number of
      determinants such as income and education. Individuals with low incomes are not as healthy as
      those with higher incomes. Thus it seems important to explore possible avenues for improving
      the health of low income individuals with an eye toward ameliorating the complicated
      determinants of health status, aside from health insurance. Many countries in the
      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) are currently developing public
      policy to address this issue. In the U.S., however with its market based economy, the
      likelihood of adopting this public policy approach is small. Given that reality, is it
      possible to explore other avenues such as designing employee benefit packages with the aim of
      ameliorating the socio-economic determinants of health?

      Objective: The goal of this project is to explore the feasibility of designing employee
      benefits in a manner that may improve their health, by ascertaining the perspectives and
      preferences of low income employees regarding employee benefits designed to ameliorate the
      social determinants of health. Four hundred male and female low-income individuals recruited
      from clinical, community, and employment settings will participate in small group exercises
      in which a facilitated discussion will take place using a previously tested group decision
      tool (CHAT: Choosing Health plans All Together) that has been modified for this project. Data
      will be anonymously collected regarding socio-demographic characteristics, attitudes toward
      health, preferences for possible employee benefits and assessment of the exercise. Group
      discussions will be audio-taped. Data will be analyzed quantitatively to determine
      preferences of employee benefits and socio-demographic factors associated with these
      preferences. Discussions will undergo qualitative analysis go explore the underlying reasons
      for participant preferences. Participants will receive $75 dollars as compensation for their
      participation unless they participate during working hours.

      Risks and Benefits: Given the anonymous nature of the data collection we anticipate no risks
      other than those entailed in discussion of poor health outcomes associated with lack of
      insurance and low income. Participants may benefit from learning about factors that improves
      health status.

      Outcome and Meaning to the Field: Study results will yield information about what employee
      benefits would be of utmost priority to low income employees. This is unique information that
      may contribute to efforts to find affordable strategies for ameliorating the socio-economic
      determinants of health for the low-income working population in the US.
    
  