
    
      Currently, there are about 100,000 people aged 65 years and older who are suffering from
      clinically diagnosed dementia in Hong Kong (HK). With an ageing population, this number will
      increase to 280,000 by 2036. Most dementia elderly live in community dwellings, such as
      nursing homes and elderly day care centers. Dementia is the major cause of disability and
      dependency in elderly people. It poses a significant burden on caregivers, families, and the
      public healthcare system. Patients with dementia not only have a wide range of cognitive
      impairment, including progressive memory loss, increasing difficulty in communication and
      language, concentration and attention, reasoning and judgment, but also develop a variety of
      frailty-related symptoms, mainly including physical and psychological frailty, such as
      musculoskeletal deterioration, neurological disorders, sleep, emotional, and even psychotic
      symptoms. The overall purpose of the management of community-dwelling dementia elderly is to
      reduce dementia- and frailty-caused adverse outcomes that increase disability, dependency,
      hospitalization, and long-term care admission. However, there is a dearth of effective
      interventions improving the quality of life of community dwelling elderly with dementia. The
      development of holistic management strategies that not only prevent and slow cognitive
      deterioration, but also reduce various other symptoms is therefore highly desired.

      Acupuncture has been widely used in the local clinical practice. Numerous studies have shown
      the benefits of acupuncture in reducing cognitive deterioration in patients with cognitive
      impairment and dementia and animal models. Acupuncture is also effective in improving
      physical disability, rigidity, gait, and postural balance in aging adults with stroke and
      Parkinson's disease. A large body of evidence further confirms the effectiveness of various
      acupuncture regimens in treating pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance, anxiety, and depression.
      On the other hand, it is well demonstrated that, as a convenient therapy, acupressure has
      particular benefits in alleviating sleep disturbance, anxiety, depression, and agitation in
      elderly with dementia. Acupressure also has positive effects on the recovery of motor
      function and daily activities of stroke patients. These studies suggest that a combination of
      acupuncture and acupressure could produce greater and broader benefits for the elderly with
      dementia.

      Most recently, we have completed three clinical trials that evaluated the efficacy of
      acupuncture treatment of vascular dementia; stroke-caused cognitive deterioration , and
      chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairment. All these trials have consistently revealed that
      acupuncture was effective in alleviating cognitive impairment. We also have shown the
      effectiveness of a caregiver-performed acupressure on the general quality of life in frail
      older people and self-administered acupressure for insomnia disorder. The caregiver-performed
      acupressure protocol is called 'Comfy Acupressure for the Elderly (CAE)' and demonstration
      video is accessible at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pAqNIZPKmnM. Furthermore, our several
      studies have confirmed the efficacy of acupuncture in improving major depression ; insomnia
      and anxiety, poststroke depression and movement disability. Meanwhile, we have developed a
      novel acupuncture mode called comprehensive acupuncture therapy (CAT) that consists of dense
      frontal acupoints with additional electrical stimulation and multiple body acupoints. The
      efficacy of CAT has been well proven in our previous studies.

      These studies have led us to hypothesize that CAT, CAE, and a combination of both as a
      holistic intervention could produce additive and even synergistic effects than routine care
      in improving cognitive impairment, frailty-related disability and dependency as well as
      comorbid symptoms in aged people with dementia.

      The working hypothesis is that CAT, CAE, and a combination of both (CAT+CAE) could produce
      better management outcomes than routine care in improving cognitive impairment,
      frailty-related disability and dependency as well as comorbid symptoms of community-dwelling
      aged people with dementia. To test this hypothesis, an assessor-blinded, randomized
      controlled trial will be conducted to examine whether CAT+CAE could produce greater and
      broader improvement than routine care and even than CAT and CAE alone in improving cognitive
      deterioration and comorbid symptoms in community-dwelling elderly with dementia.
    
  