
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the failure-free survival (FFS) rate in patients with newly diagnosed low-risk
           rhabdomyosarcoma of embryonal or botryoid subtype meeting criteria for group I after
           treatment with dactinomycin and vincristine with or without radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the FFS rate in these patients meeting criteria for group II after treatment
           with dactinomycin, vincristine, and cyclophosphamide with or without radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the FFS rate in patients with ectomesenchymomas containing
           rhabdomyosarcomatous elements (embryonal histiotype) who receive one of the above
           treatments.

        -  Determine new molecular markers specific to embryonal and botryoid tumor histologies
           which are of diagnostic and prognostic significance in patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups, depending on histology and site of disease.

        -  Group I (favorable tumor site, negative lymph nodes, stage 1, clinical group I, IIA, or
           III (orbit only), node negative [N0] OR unfavorable tumor site, negative or unknown
           lymph nodes, stage 2, clinical group I): Patients receive vincristine IV over 1 minute
           weekly for 8 weeks and dactinomycin IV over 1 minute once every 3 weeks for 4 doses.
           Treatment repeats every 12 weeks for 4 courses. Radiotherapy is administered to patients
           with clinical group II or III disease on weeks 3-8.

        -  Group II (favorable tumor site, positive lymph nodes, stage 1, clinical group III (orbit
           only), node positive [N1] OR favorable tumor site except orbit, any lymph nodes, stage
           1, clinical group III OR unfavorable tumor site, stage 2, clinical group II OR
           unfavorable tumor site, stage 3, clinical group I or II): Patients receive vincristine
           and dactinomycin as in group I. Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60
           minutes and filgrastim (G-CSF) or sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously once daily
           beginning 24 hours after completion of chemotherapy and continuing for 10 days or until
           blood counts recover. Radiotherapy is administered on weeks 3-8, 12-17, or 28-33, if
           clinically indicated as in group I.

      Patients are followed every 3-4 months for 3 years (4 years after diagnosis), every 6 months
      for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 254 patients for group I will be accrued for this study within
      6 years. Approximately 12 patients per year will be accrued for group II.
    
  