
    
      Twenty Rhode Island high schools agreed to participate in the study. A Multiattribute Utility
      Measurement Approach (Graham, Flay, Johnson, Hansen, & Collins, 1984) was used to ensure that
      schools assigned to the intervention and comparison conditions were approximately equivalent
      on school size, student ethnicity, socioeconomic status (SES, percent receiving free or
      reduced-price lunch), attendance, mobility, truancy, dropout, and standardized test
      performance. The most similar schools were paired, and one school within each pair was
      randomly assigned to intervention, and the other to comparison.

      The intervention trial was launched in the Fall of 2009. Both the intervention and comparison
      groups completed a computerized baseline assessment and two follow-up assessments
      approximately 6 and 12 months later-in the Spring and Fall of 2010. Students assigned to the
      intervention condition completed their first Teen Choices intervention session immediately
      following their baseline assessment. The second and third intervention sessions were
      administered at approximately 1 and 2 months follow-up. Students assigned to the comparison
      condition completed an alternative evidence-based online TTM-based intervention, Health In
      Motion, which targets physical activity, screen time, and healthy eating for obesity
      prevention (Mauriello et al., 2010). Health In Motion sessions were administered following
      the baseline, 6-month, and 12-month assessments to increase the benefits of study
      participation for comparison schools and students. Online assessment and intervention
      sessions were overseen by project research assistants with the assistance of school
      personnel.

      Dating violence outcomes at one year follow-up were were examined in intervention and
      comparison participants who completed the final assessment and were exposed to risk for
      dating violence-that is, students who had experienced or perpetrated emotional or physical
      dating violence in the year prior to the study, who were current daters at baseline, or who
      dated during the follow-up period. Peer violence outcomes were examined in participants who
      completed the final assessment and were not exposed to risk for dating violence.
    
  