
    
      Aluminium phosphide (AlP) is an inorganic phosphide. It is used as a fumigant to protect
      stored grains from insects, rodents and other pests.It is a solid fumigant widely used in
      Egypt as a grain preservative. Its tablets are commonly used due to their low cost, high
      efficacy, and availability .

      Toxic effects of AlP are related to phosphine gas release when AlP comes in contact with
      moisture or gastric acidity. Phosphine gas is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal
      tract and lungs inhibiting cytochrome-c oxidase and oxidative phosphorylation which results
      in adenosine triphosphate depletion and resulting cellualr death.

      The direct toxic effects of phosphine on cardiac myocytes, fluid loss and adrenal gland can
      induce profound circulatory collapse. Phosphides and phosphine can exert a direct corrosive
      effect on body tissues.

      Toxic manifestations usually appear rapidly upon phosphide exposure. Impaired myocardial
      contractility, fluid loss, pulmonary edema, metabolic acidosis and acute renal failure are
      the most frequent manifestations. Disseminated intravascular coagulation and hepatic necrosis
      may also occur. Patients generally die due to multi-organ failure .However, myocardial
      damage- induced cardiovascular collapse is reported to be the primary cause of death.

      Severity of manifestations depends on different factors such as dose, exposure route, and
      time delay before treatment initiation. Diagnosis is based on history of exposure, garlic
      odor of the breath, suggestive clinical manifestations and detection of phosphine gas in
      gastric aspirate or breath.

      Treatment of acute AlP toxicity is mainly supportive as there is no specific antidote since
      the exact mechanism of toxicity is still unknown. The most important factor is resuscitation
      of shock. Many researches are directed towards finding a specific treatment for this fatal
      poison.

      Trimetadizine is described as the first cytoprotective anti-ischemic agent developed. It has
      a protective of the myocardium due to its preservation of oxidative metabolism. It improves
      myocardial glucose utilization through inhibition of long-chain 3-ketoacyl CoA thiolase
      activity, which results in a reduction in fatty acid oxidation and a stimulation of glucose
      oxidation .

      Trimetadizine reduces the tissue accumulation of malonyldialdehyde, the lipid peroxidation
      index, and the sodium influx related to activation of the Na+ -K + pump. Moreover, it lack of
      haemodynamic effects. These effects result in a decrease in the cellular accumulation of
      calcium and improved intracellular ATP levels).

      Oral administration of the anti-ischaemic drug trimetazidine, was tried in a case report of
      occupational inhalation exposure to phosphine gas from AlP. It was temporally associated with
      clinical improvement.
    
  