
    
      Rationale: Colon cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related death world wide.

      Although patients presenting with early disease (stage I-III) can be cured, prognosis varies
      from 90% in stage I to 50-80% in stage II and III. Therefore, prevention of metastases after
      early disease is of utmost importance. Extensive studies of the Wnt signal cascade have
      elucidated its role in colorectal cancer development and proliferation. Several well-known
      targets of the Wnt-cascade, like DKK1, APCDD1 and AXIN2, serve as feedback inhibitors and
      likely prevent pathway hyperactivation. Therefore, loss of these control mechanisms, for
      example due to repression of Wnt targets by CpG island methylation, serves as a potent
      proliferative signal. Recently, we identified a subset of colon cancers that are typified by
      CpG island methylation of specific Wnt target genes and have a poor prognosis. Moreover, in
      preclinical studies we showed that derepression of Wnt-targets by the demethylating agent
      decitabine resulted in tumor growth suppression. Thus, derepression of Wnt targets may
      provide a novel target for therapy. Objectives: The primary objective of the study is to
      assess in patients with primary colon cancer whether short-course pre-operative treatment
      with decitabine can increase Wnt target gene expression as measured in resected tumors
      compared to pretreatment biopsies. The secondary objective of the study is to assess in
      patients with primary colon cancer whether short-course pre-operative treatment with
      decitabine can revert CpG methylation and induce more favorable tumor characteristics as
      measured in resected tumors compared to pretreatment biopsies. The tertiary objective is to
      compare changes in Wnt target gene expression, CpG methylation and tumor characteristics for
      Wnt methylated and nonmethylated tumors as measured in resected tumors compared to
      pretreatment biopsies and identify new stratification markers.

      Study design: Interventional study.

      Study population:

      Patients > 18 yr old with histopathologically proven or high suspicion of colon cancer.

      Intervention: In patients with proven colon cancer, five extra biopsies will be taken from
      the tumour during endoscopy to determine CpG methylation of Wnt target genes in fresh tumor
      samples. Next, these patients will pre-operatively receive decitabine as a single intravenous
      infusion at a dose of 45 mg/m2 over 6 hr. After resection, Wnt target gene expression and CpG
      methylation of Wnt target genes will again be determined in fresh tumor samples.

      Main study parameters: The primary study parameter is Wnt target gene expression (APCDD1,
      AXIN2, DKK1, LGR5 and ASCL2). Secondary study parameters are Wnt target and CIMP gene
      methylation, beta-catenin localization, proliferation (Ki-67), apoptosis (TUNEL and M30
      assay) and tumor differentiation.
    
  