
    
      We suggest performing a prospective randomized pilot trial comparing RYGB without concomitant
      cholecystectomy with RYGB with concomitant cholecystectomy for patients with absence of
      gallstones in preoperative ultrasound. Patients with ultrasonographically confirmed
      gallstones in the gallbladder undergo concomitant cholecystectomy at time of RYGB and are
      excluded from the study.Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized according
      to a randomization list generated by the CRC of the University Hospital of Geneva. The
      randomization envelops will be opened by the study staff at the appropriate time prior to the
      scheduling of gastric bypass after subject selection. The randomization assignment insert
      will contain information specifying whether the cholecystectomy will be performed or not
      during gastric bypass procedure.

      A total of 90 consecutive obese patients attending the Unit of Visceral Surgery of the
      University Hospital of Geneva who meet the criteria for bariatric surgery and where the
      preoperative ultrasound confirms absence of gallstones will be recruited for the study.

      A prospective open randomized pilot study design will be used. At 6 follow-up visits (at
      discharge, 1 ,3 ,6 ,12 and 18 months post-surgery), patients will be evaluated.

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current version of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP or ISO EN 14155 as wella s all national legal and
      regulatory requirements, the LPth (Loi sur les produits thérapeutiques 812.21) and the OClin
      (Ordonnance sur les essais cliniques des produits thérapeutiques 812.214.2).

      Description of surgical technique One optical trocar, three 12 mm trocars and one 5 mm trocar
      are placed. No additional trocar has to be placed for concomitant cholecystectomy. The
      intervention will start with the cholecystectomy laparoscopically. A small gastric pouch
      (around 20-30 cc) is created using blue cartridge staplers. A standard robotic RYGB with a 75
      cm biliary limb and a 150 cm antecolic alimentary limb is performed. A hand-sewn
      gastrojejunal and jejunojejunal anastomois are performed, using a single layer running suture
      of Vicryl 2.0.

      Data Collection:

      Pre-Operative demographic data and other variables will be collected at baseline and at some
      of the 6 follow-up points (at discharge, 1,3,6,12,18 months):

      Ultrasound, Patient Demographics and pre-Operative History will be collected, including:
      Gender, age on admission for operation, BMI, Height, Weight, ASA score, history of abdominal
      surgery, co- morbidities (Type 2 diabetes requiring Insulin or oral medication), Hypertension
      requiring medication, Coronary heart disease, including history of myocardial infarction,
      angina pectoris, coronary artery surgery Pulmonary comorbidities including history of
      pulmonary embolism, Sleep Apnea Tobacco use, Medication used by patient, Systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, Fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, laboratory findings, QOL
      using the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire

      Intra-Operative Assessment: Intra-Operative data such as complications (organ lesion,
      bleeding, conversion), operative time, docking times, estimated blood loss will be collected

      Post-Operative Assessment: From surgery to discharge, the following patient information will
      be collected: complications according to Clavien/Dindo Classification system, re- operation,
      re-admission, length of hospital stay

      Our hypothesis is that the approach without cholecystectomy would be superior in terms of a
      decrease of perioperative adverse events and postoperative complications, as well as lenght
      of operation, lenght of hospital stay, overall costs with a very low risk of biliary
      complication in the follow up.
    
  