
    
      The purpose of the 6-month micro-randomized Trial (MRT) is to optimize a just-in-time
      adaptive intervention (JITAI) for dietary lapses by evaluating the effects of 4 theory-driven
      interventions on the proximal outcome of dietary lapse as compared to active and inactive
      comparators. The proposed JITAI has been extensively piloted, and will now be executed using
      a well-known NIH-funded mobile platform (PiLR Health). Prior to commencement of the main
      trial, a small group of participants will be recruited to iteratively pilot the
      below-described procedures for 3 months. These data are for piloting/testing only and will
      not be used in the analysis of primary outcomes. Participants in the main trial (N=159) will
      receive 3 months of online behavioral obesity treatment (BOT) + JITAI followed by 3 months of
      JITAI-only. The MRT includes sequential randomization to intervention options each time the
      JITAI identifies heightened lapse risk. The primary outcome is dietary lapse (assessed via
      repeated surveys called ecological momentary assessments [EMA]). The secondary outcome is
      objectively-measured eating characteristics (via wrist-watch device at assessments). The
      investigators will also assess contextual moderators (i.e., location, time of day, active
      BOT/follow-up, trigger type) for the study's exploratory aim. JITAI engagement, satisfaction,
      and weight will be used for descriptive purposes.

      Participants will be recruited on a rolling basis (~6-7 participants/month) until the target
      N=159 is reached. Participants will be recruited via advertisements in local media (e.g.
      newspapers, radio) and targeted online advertising (e.g., Google AdWords); flyers and
      advertisements posted in waiting rooms and exam rooms in primary care offices, informational
      materials made available as part of the health and wellness program for employees in the
      Lifespan heath system and hospital network (an approach used in a previous trials); and
      direct mailings. Minority participation will be increased via ads in newspapers with high
      circulation in minority communities. Recruitment flyers will also be sent to agencies serving
      minority groups. The investigators will use online advertisements on local websites that are
      popular with men and minority groups. The investigators consistently find that these
      approaches maximize minority and male recruitment.

      All following procedures described will be offered both in-person at the research center, or
      remotely via the video chat forum Zoom. The remote option is in response to the COVID-19
      pandemic. Participants who choose to attend in-person assessments will use self-report
      screening procedures consistent with hospital policy to ensure that the participant has not
      been recently or is currently ill. Rigorous sanitization procedures will be used for
      equipment and office space pre- and post-assessment.

      Interested individuals will be initially screened for eligibility via REDCap, a Lifespan
      secure website. If a participant appears to be eligible based on their survey responses, they
      will receive a follow-up call from the research team to confirm eligibility, describe the
      study in more detail, and schedule an orientation meeting. If they are not eligible, they
      will receive a message indicating that they are not eligible for the study and directed to
      contact us if they wish to receive referrals for other weight loss programs. Those who are
      eligible will be invited to an orientation, either in-person at the research center or via
      the online video chat forum Zoom, where the study will be described and informed consent
      obtained. Individuals who decide to complete the orientation via Zoom will be sent a consent
      form to their home address before the call. Only after the consent form is signed and
      returned will any further study procedures be completed. If consent is not given, participant
      contact information will be immediately removed from the system. After consent is obtained,
      participants will complete baseline questionnaires, either by paper surveys or using
      Lifespan's secure REDCap website, and they will complete self-reported logs of what they eat
      and drink and EMA for 1 week before their baseline assessment. If a participant elects to use
      a paper questionnaire and does not wish to be present at the research center, the
      questionnaire will be sent to the participant's home address. Participants must complete >70%
      of EMA surveys and 7 days of dietary self-monitoring to move forward with the remainder of
      study procedures.

      Following consent and successful completion of baseline procedures, participants will attend
      a "kick-off" session (either in-person or remotely) to assist them in using the intervention
      tools. Participants will be given access to an online BOT (described further in the
      Intervention section) for 3 months, with an additional 3-month no treatment follow-up. They
      will also be asked to use the JITAI for the entire 6-month study period. The JITAI operates
      through PiLR Health, and will utilize ecological momentary assessment (EMA) to repeatedly
      assess lapse triggers and dietary lapses. The EMA survey responses are immediately uploaded
      to a HIPAA-compliant server, where a previously-validated predictive algorithm determines if
      the participant may be at risk for a lapse based on what they reported. When a participant is
      determined to be at risk for a lapse after completing an EMA survey, the PiLR Health system
      server will micro-randomize the delivery of intervention. The randomization is independent of
      prior randomizations and the participants' responses to previously delivered interventions
      for lapse. Based on the investigator's prior research developing this JITAI, the algorithm
      predicts heightened states of lapse risk approximately once per day. The once/day estimate is
      representative of an average across participants and the investigators have demonstrated
      there is substantial individual variability to these data; heightened states of lapse risk
      can range from 2.75/week to 12/week and fluctuate over time. As such, while the estimated
      average is once per day, the prediction algorithm within the proposed JITAI ensures that
      intervention is provided in exact moments of individual need - which is not static within or
      between individuals - thus reducing participant burden and improving potency of intervention.
      The study methods are therefore a considerable improvement to providing general daily
      reminders. Based on these data, intervention options will be randomized an average of 180
      times for each participant. The theory-driven intervention conditions, which have empirical
      support, include: (a) education to promote awareness of lapse triggers; (b) self-efficacy;
      (c) motivation; & (d) self-regulation skills. Given the primary aim of comparing the
      immediate, proximal effect of intervention (as compared to no intervention), interventions
      will be randomized based on the following probabilities: 0.4 no intervention (inactive
      control), 0.12 to generic risk alerts (active control), 0.12 to Enhanced Education, 0.12 to
      Self-efficacy, 0.12 to Autonomous Motivation, and 0.12 to Self-regulation. As such, a given
      participant will receive no intervention at approximately 72 randomization points over the
      study and 107 (~21-22 each) randomization points will be divided equally among the remaining
      5 intervention options. All JITAI interventions are described in the Intervention section

      In addition to data they are providing through the JITAI, participants will complete 3 total
      assessments with a research assistant (who does not need to be blinded due to sequential
      randomization) at baseline, 3, and 6 months. During the baseline assessment, height, weight,
      demographic information and weight history will be collected either by a study staff,
      cellular scale, or self-report. Objective data collection will be the priority, so if a
      participant elects to attend their assessment via Zoom, cellular scales may be mailed to the
      participant's home address. Participants will be asked to wear a wrist-watch device (called
      an Actigraph) to measure eating behavior for two weeks following the baseline appointment.
      The participant will be given the Actigraph device in-person during the baseline assessment,
      or by mail to their home address if they choose to attend the assessment via Zoom (the device
      will be mailed back to the study team or dropped off in-person). Also, during the baseline
      assessment, participants will be provided with a calorie and physical activity goal, overview
      of the program, and tutorial for using the smartphone app and online program. The
      participants will be asked to complete similar assessments at 3 months and 6 months.
    
  