
    
      Hypotheses Primary Hypothesis: Compared to ICA, a diagnostic strategy algorithm using CTA for
      patients with HF of unknown etiology or where the definition of coronary anatomy is required
      for diagnosis and management, will result in a reduction in downstream resource utilization
      and per patient cost.

      Secondary Hypotheses: I) Compared to standard care, a strategy that uses CTA will achieve: a)
      similar composite clinical events (CCE), quality of life (QoL), major adverse cardiac events
      (MACE); b) a lower rate of procedure related complications (death, MI, stroke, vascular
      complications, severe allergic reactions; contrast nephropathy); c) a lower rate of normal
      ICA. II) Using patient-based analysis and vessel-based analysis, CTA has very good agreement
      with ICA among patients with HF in the CTA arm who proceed to ICA.

      Objectives The primary objective is to understand the role of CTA in patients with HF of
      unknown etiology. We propose a prospective randomized study of 250 patients to examine the
      potential impact of CTA compared to ICAon resource utilization and health care costs in
      patients with HF with unknown CAD status.

      Secondary objectives are to: compare CCE, QoL and MACE in the CTA and ICA arms. Radiation
      exposure and safety in both groups will also be assessed.

      Trial design The proposed trial is a multicentre randomized controlled trial of 250 patients.
      In addition, a retrospective review of the current CTA and ICA databases at the University of
      Ottawa Heart Institute will be conducted to identify an additional cohort of patients
      (200-400) where the imaging modality decision has already been made. These patients are not
      eligible for randomization, but will be entered into a registry.

      Trial interventions - Randomization All HF patients requiring investigation to determine the
      etiology of HF (ischemic versus non-ischemic) will be screened for the study. Patients will
      be randomized to the investigation arm CTA or ICA. Patients will be stratified according to
      recruitment site and pre-test probability for obstructive CAD. A stratified block (varying
      sizes) randomization scheme will be used. Within each strata, patients will be randomized
      with varying block sizes into the two study groups. A central randomization scheme
      (envelope), which will ensure concealment, will be used and the local research co-ordinator
      will perform patient assignments. The randomization scheme will be generated by a
      statistician using a SAS macro.
    
  