
    
      The number of patients in the United States with multiple chronic conditions (MCC) is
      growing. Many patients with poorly controlled MCC also have unhealthy behaviors, mental
      health challenges, and unmet social needs. Medical management of MCC may have limited benefit
      if patients are struggling to address these basic life needs. Health systems and communities
      increasingly recognize the need to address these issues and are experimenting with and
      investing in new models for connecting patients with needed services. Yet primary care
      clinicians, whose regular contact with patients makes them more familiar with patients'
      needs, are often not included in these systems. Responding to the Special Emphasis Notice
      NOT-HS-16-013, Optimizing Care for People Living with MCC through the Development of Enhanced
      Care Planning, the investigators propose a clinician-level randomized controlled trial to
      study how primary care clinicians can participate in these community and hospital solutions
      and whether doing so is effective in controlling MCC. This study will build on the Centers
      for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)-funded Accountable Health Community (AHC) in
      Richmond, Virginia. Sixty clinicians in the Virginia Ambulatory Care Outcomes Research
      Network (ACORN) will be matched by age and sex and randomized to usual care (control
      condition) or enhanced care planning with clinical-community linkage support (intervention).
      From the electronic health record (EHR), clinicians will identify all patients with MCC,
      including cardiovascular disease or risks, diabetes, obesity, or depression. A baseline
      assessment will be mailed to 50 randomly selected patients; 10 respondents per clinician (600
      patients total) with uncontrolled MCC will be randomly selected, with over-sampling of
      minorities. The intervention includes two components. First, an enhanced care planning tool
      called My Own Health Report (MOHR) will screen patients for health behavior, mental health,
      and social needs. Clinical navigator support will help patients prioritize needs, create care
      plans based on preferences, and write a personal narrative to guide the care team. Patients
      will update care plans quarterly. Second, community-clinical linkage support will include
      community resource registries, personnel to span settings (clinical navigators, community
      health workers), and care team coordination tools (sharing MOHR content, secure messaging,
      and virtual visits). The investigators will compare patient-level intervention and control
      outcomes to assess improvements in MCC outcomes (primary outcome) and self-reported PROMIS-29
      measures (physical health, mental health, social wellbeing) six months and two years
      post-enrollment. the investigators will also conduct a mixed-methods, multilevel assessment
      of person-, family-, community-, and system-level contextual influences on implementation and
      effectiveness. Data sources will include EHR and MOHR data, chart reviews, patient surveys,
      field notes, and semi-structured interviews of patients, clinicians, and community
      stakeholders. If effective, this study will help inform efforts by primary care clinicians to
      participate in the growing number of AHC-like systems as a strategy to better control MCC.
    
  