
    
      Obesity is a complex, multifactorial pathology that has major public health importance.
      Lifestyle modification is the cornerstone of all obesity treatments, including surgery.
      Throughout the non-surgical treatment options, high-intensity, on-site comprehensive
      lifestyle intervention has demonstrated the best efficacy in obtaining weight loss, but with
      a risk of progressive weight regain, after 6 months (1). In obese adults, bariatric surgery
      produces greater weight loss and weight loss maintenance than the conventional medical
      treatment and lifestyle intervention (1).

      There is no consensus on whether combining these two approaches (i.e. high-intensity, on-site
      comprehensive lifestyle intervention and bariatric surgery) results in enhanced weight loss
      or more sustainable outcomes. The present randomized trial aims to answer this question.

      Patients preparing for bariatric surgery will be randomized between two groups. The first
      group will receive the usual care as recommended by the French Health Authority ("Haute
      Autorité de santé"), including 6 months of endocrine and nutritional follow-up and
      educational intervention. The second group will receive a high-intensity, 4 weeks on-site
      comprehensive lifestyle intervention, including prescription of a moderately reduced-calorie
      diet, a program of increased physical activity, and behavioral management. The patients from
      both groups will then be operated on and followed for at least 2 years. Complete work-up,
      including clinical examination, comorbidity assessment, MRI of the liver, thigh and abdominal
      fat, 6 minutes' walk test, quality of life questionnaires will be performed at the begging of
      the follow-up, after the preparation (usual care or intensive) and 2 years after surgery.
      Clinical and biological assessment will be performed regularly after surgery, and technical
      details from the bariatric interventions will be analyzed in order to assess the eventual
      facilitation of the gestures in the intervention group.
    
  