
    
      Transporting acute-care patients who require mechanical ventilation within a hospital can be
      fraught with hazards. Prior studies have revealed a high level of transport-associated
      complications including episodes of hypertension, hypoxemia, respiratory arrest, and death
      (1). In many institutions, the preferred method of transporting intubated patients is to use
      manual ventilation with a resuscitator bag, an approach that fully occupies one member of the
      transport team. Using a transport ventilator involves taking an intubated patient who has
      been placed on one ventilator and switching the patient to the transport ventilator; until
      now, transport ventilators had not been designed to match the capabilities of the more
      robustly engineered critical care ventilators.

      The use of noninvasive ventilation (NIV) to treat patients with COPD exacerbations and other
      forms of respiratory failure has increased because of its demonstrated efficacy in reducing
      the need for intubation as well as morbidity and mortality (2). None of the ventilators
      usually used for noninvasive ventilation was designed for in-patient transport.

      Currently, the standard of care in this institution is to transport intubated patients
      receiving mechanical ventilation by using a manual resuscitation bag and to transport
      patients receiving NIV by placing the patient on oxygen therapy without ventilatory support.

      The VersaMed iVent ventilator was designed to treat respiratory failure in the acute care
      setting. The device is suitable for patients who are intubated as well as for patients
      receiving noninvasive ventilation, has a backup battery so that it can function during
      transport, and has been approved by the FDA for invasive and noninvasive mechanical
      ventilation. This device permits continuity of mechanical ventilation virtually regardless of
      patient status.

      We propose to evaluate the utility of the VersaMed iVent ventilator in the acute care
      setting, hypothesizing that, in comparison to the standard approach, the use of the VersaMed
      will facilitate transport, reduce transport-associated complications, and provide equivalent
      ventilatory support and transport-success rates for both intubated patients and patients
      receiving NIV.

      References

        1. Braman SS, Dunn SM, Amico CA, Millman RP. Complications of intrahospital transport in
           critically ill patients. Ann Intern Med 1987; 107:469-73.

        2. Mehta S, Hill NS. Noninvasive ventilation-state of the art. Am J Respir Crit Care Med
           2001; Feb; 163(2):540-77.
    
  