
    
      The prognosis of patients with heart failure and preserved ejection fraction (HF-PEF),
      defined by the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (hospital re-admissions,
      emergency room visits, functional decline and mortality), depends on multiple factors such as
      Frailty, comorbidities, BP values, hemodynamic parameters and the baseline functional
      capacity. Correct definition of these prognostic factors may help define more effective
      management strategies This is a Prospective observational cohort study, aimed to identify
      prognostic factors of readmission for heart failure or death in patients with HF-PEF.

      Patients with stable HF-PEF will be included monitoring will be by telephone or personal
      interview every 3 months for at least one year.Specific data on HF will be collected directly
      from the patient, or from the computerized medical record, with the objective of determining
      different aspects of HF.

      An echocardiogram performed 6 months before inclusion in the case of known HF, or up to 3
      months after inclusion, will be considered valid. Parameters collected will include ejection
      fraction, dimensions of the atrium and ventricle and variables of diastolic dysfunction. (
      The procedures for BP measurement, will be according to the ESH/ESC 2018 guidelines, All
      patients included in the study should have a 12 lead rest EKG performed at study inclusion.
      Data will be required on renal function (creatinine and glomerular filtration rate and
      microalbuminuria), lipid parameters (cholesterol: total, HDLc, LDLc,), baseline glucose,
      glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), liver biology (GOT, GPT, GGT), albumin and prealbumin, blood
      cell count, Ferritin and Transferrin saturation rate, natriuretic peptides.

      In some centres blood sample will be collected to a further evaluation of biomarkers.

      24-hour ABPM will be made using validated devices, ABPM device should be programmed to take
      measurements every 30 minutes . Patients will be instructed in their use. Periods of activity
      and rest will be pre-determined in short windows: In addition, the duration of ABPM (hours),
      the percentage of valid readings, and the mean SBP/DBP values during periods of activity,
      rest and in 24 hours will be recorded. Records with a duration <24 hours, those without one
      good reading per hour and those with <70% of satisfactory readings will be excluded. ABPM
      will be performed at baseline and at the final visit HBPM should be done by a trained
      individual (the patient or anyone else), with equipment validated, calibrated and provided
      with memory.

      Only validated semiautomatic oscillometric arm cuff devices are recommended for these
      measurements. The functional status will be determined using the Barthel index, Cognitive
      impairment will be tested following the Montreal Cognitive Assessment with local adaptations.

      The diagnosis of frailty will be made using the Short Physical Performance Battery In a
      subset of centres a 24H ambulatory ECG recording will be performed using a standard recording
      unit and automatically analyzed by a PC-based Holter system.
    
  