
    
      1. Name of Investigational Products Huangkui capsule

        2. Trial Topic A Randomized, Double-blinded, Parallel, controlled, Multicenter Clinical
           Trial ofHuangkui Capsule in Treating Type II Diabetic Nephropathy (DKD)

        3. Trial Objectives Primary objective: To evaluate HuangKui capsule efficacy for treatment
           of type II diabetes ACR.

           Secondary objective: To evaluate the efficacy of HuangKui capsule on 24-hour urinary
           protein changes、reduce PCR-increase eGFR, improve micro-inflammatory state, and
           improving Traditional Chinese medicine clinical efficacy.

        4. Trial Design Designed as a block randomized, double-blinded, parallel controlled,
           multi-center clinical tria 4.1 Multi-center: The trial is proposed to be conducted in
           the department of Nephrology or Endocrinology of nine hospitals simultaneously.

           4.2 Randomization:Using stratified block randomized design. The randomization numbers
           were generated with SAS statistical software.

           4.3 Arms: The study subjects were divided into 3 arms: Huangkui arm, controlled arm and
           combined treatment arm.

           4.4 Estimation of subject numbers

           This study was based on the main indicator ACR to calculate the sample size, according
           to the clinical protocol:

           ①The change of ACR of Irbesartan combined with Huangkui capsule is superior than
           Irbesartan monotherapy.

           ②The changes of ACR in the monotherapy group were significantly lower than those in the
           irbesartan monotherapy group According to the experience of clinical treatment, it was
           found that the change of ACR was about 12.85mg / g before treatment with Irbesartan
           combined with Huangkui capsule group and 6.50mg / g before and after treatment with
           Irbesartan group, and α = 0.05 (bilateral (1-β) = 80%, the standard deviation of the
           change value before and after ACR treatment with irbesartan combined with Huangkui
           capsule group was 17.18, Check the sample size calculation formula The number of samples
           in each group was calculated as n western medicine group = n combined treatment group =
           110 cases.

           Another group based on the clinical treatment experience to take the standard deviation
           of 17.18, take α = 0.025 (unilateral test), β = 0.2, that is, the degree of control
           (1-β) = 80% of the case, the non-inferior boundary value of 6.50mg / g, according to the
           non-inferior test sample size calculation formula, The number of samples in each group
           was calculated as n western medicine group = n Chinese traditional treatment group = 110
           cases.According to the program requirements, the three groups were designed to be 1: 1:
           1, taking into account the blanding method and 20% rejection rate. ultimately a total of
           414 cases included in the case, each group of 138 cases.

           4.5 Blinding: double-blinding. Blinding will be conducted by statisticians as two levels
           of blinding. Level 1 Blinding: blinding of the investigational products. The
           investigational products and comparative products use unified packaging; level 2
           blinding: the blinding of the packaging box of investigational products.

        5. Diagnostic criteria The etiology of Diabetic nephropathy is kidney damage, referred to
           DN in the past (diabetic nephropathy). But in 2007, the American Foundation for Kidney
           Disease (NKF) developed guidelines for the life quality of kidney disease (NKF / KDOQI).
           The guidelines recommend that DKD (diabetic kidney disease) instead of DN. In 2014, the
           American Diabetes Association (ADA) and NKF reached a consensus that DKD referred to the
           chronic kidney disease caused by diabetes, including glomerular filtration rate (GFR)
           which is less than 60ml.min-1.1.73m-2 or urine white Protein / creatinine ratio (ACR) is
           higher than 30 mg / g for more than 3 months,associated with diabetic retinopathy.

           During having diagnosis, if one of the following circumstances happened, we should
           consider its CKD is caused by (1) no diabetic retinopathy; (2) GFR lower or decreased
           rapidly; (3) a sharp increase in proteinuria or nephrotic syndrome; (4) refractory
           hypertension; (5) urinary sediment activity;(6) symptoms or signs of other systemic
           diseases; (7) glomerular filtration rate decreased by more than 30% within 2-3 months
           after initiation of treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) or
           angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARB).

           5.2 Table of TCM symptom/signs Diagnostic dosage It is refer to "Clinical research
           guidelines of new drug of Traditional Chinese Medicine "(2002 version), which published
           by China Medical Science andTechnology Press

        6. Treatment options 6.1 Basic treatment 6.1.1 Anti-hypotensive We can choose
           antihypertensive drugs Monotherapy or combined controling blood pressure expect ACEI and
           ARB, control blood pressure in 160 / 90mmHg the following 6.1.2 Anti-hypoglycemic We can
           use oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin for hypoglycemic, so that glycosylated
           hemoglobin ≤ 8.5%.

           6.1.3 Anti-hypolipidemic We can choose to use statins or fibrates lipid-lowering drugs.
           6.1.4 Diet control Patients with edema should limit the salt and water, daily sodium
           intake <5g; high protein diet increased glomerular hyperperfusion, high filtration, and
           therefore advocated the principle of high quality low-protein diet. Protein intake
           should be a high biological value of animal protein-based, early protein intake should
           be limited to 1g/（kg•d） 6.2 Investigational products Huangkui Capsule: produced by SZYY
           Group Pharmaceutical Limited, Jiangsu, 0.5g×30 capsules/box Placebo that simulates
           Huangkui capsule: produced by SZYY Group Pharmaceutical Limited, 0.5g×30 capsules/box
           Irbesartan tablets: produced by Sanofi (Hangzhou) Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 150mg×7
           capsules/box Placebo that simulates Irbesartan tablets: produced by SZYY Group
           Pharmaceutical Limited, Jiangsu, 150mg×7 capsules/box 6.3 Trial process 6.3.1 Treatment
           for observation period The subjects who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized
           into three groups at a 1:1:1 ratio.

           Test group: Placebo drug that simulates Irbesartan tablets 150mg /qd, oral dose;
           Huangkui Capsule 2.5g/tid, oral dose.

           Control group: irbesartan tablets 150mg /qd, oral dose; Placebo drug that simulates
           Huangkui capsule 2.5g/tid, oral dose.

           Combined treatment group: irbesartan tablets 150mg /qd, oral dose; Huangkui Capsule
           2.5g/tid, oral dose.

           6.3.2 period of treatment Treatment observation period is 24 weeks, follow-up points:
           Week 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24.

           6.4 Concomitant medications During the import period and throughout the treatment, do
           not use the RAS blockers (ARB or ACEI) other than the investigational product irbesartan
           and Potassium-sparing diuretics, Calcium dobesilate, Aldehyde-containing starch, or
           other Chinese medicine which can reduce proteinuria.

           If other medicines have been used before the trial, the subjects can continue to use
           them. The use of these medicines should be recorded.

           6.5 ACR Detection Specimens: one - time morning urine (after 5:00); Urinary creatinine
           detection method: enzyme kinetics; urinary albumin detection method : immune
           turbidimetric method. 6.6 PCR detection Specimens: 24h urine Urine creatinine detection
           method: Enzyme kinetic method Urine protein detection method: dye binding method PCR =
           urinary protein / creatinine

        7. Efficacy endpoint 7.1 Efficacy endpoint 7.1.1 Primary endpoints ACR baseline changes and
           changes in the rate 7.1.2 Secondary endpoints （1）24-hour urinary protein quantification
           baseline changes and changes in the rate （2）PCR baseline changes and changing rate
           （3）Glomerular filtration rate (eGFR)baseline changes （4）High sensitivity C - reactive
           protein baseline values （5）TCM syndromes Efficacy endpoint Changes and the rate change
           before and after treatment. [Time point: baseline,12-weeks treatment,24-weeks treatment]

           7.2 Efficacy endpoint Evaluation endpoints 7.2.1 The ACR change rate ( refer to "Guiding
           principles of clinical research on the treatment of chronic nephritis with traditional
           Chinese medicine", 2002 version; The State Administration of Traditional Chinese
           Medicine in 1987 to develop the Efficacy endpoint of chronic glomerulonephritis standard
           ) Complete remission: ACR is less than 30mg/g; Markedly effective: ACR decreased more
           than 50% before treatment Effective: ACR decreased more than 30%-50% before treatment
           Invalid: those who did not meet these targets. 7.2.2 Efficacy endpoint for TCM syndrome
           Changes in value and rate before and after treatment before and after treatment [Time
           point: baseline,12-weeks treatment,24-weeks treatment]

        8. Safety Evaluation endpoints 8.1 Vital signs, such as such as body temperature, pulse,
           breathing, blood pressure and so on.

           8.2 Blood, urine routine test, liver function test(ALB、ALT、AST), renal function
           test(Bun、SCr, UA、eGFR), electrocardiogram, blood potassium, blood sugar; Adverse
           events/adverse reactions.

        9. Statistical Methods All statistical calculations were carried out using SAS v9.3
           statistical analysis software, hypothesis testing are used bilateral test, unless
           otherwise specified, the overall comparison between the test level = 0.05.

      Statistical analysis includes：Three groups of subjects enrolled No., drop out and excluded
      cases, demographic and other baseline characteristics, compliance, efficacy analysis and
      safety analysis.

      For quantitative data, we conduct descriptive statistical analysis with cases, averages,
      standard deviation, minimum, median, maximum, upper quartile (Q1), lower quartile (Q3) and
      95% confidence interval (95% CI). Comparisons between treatment groups were performed using
      either an analysis of variance or a Wilcoxon rank sum test. If the influence of covariates is
      taken into account, a general linear model (GLM) is used.

      Descriptive statistical analysis of qualitative data is given in terms of the number of cases
      and their percentages. Count data were compared between each treatment group, using x2 test,
      Fisher exact probability method; grade data in each treatment group or between groups before
      and after treatment comparison analysis, Wilcoxon rank sum test. If the effects of the center
      or other factors are taken into account, a CMH x2 test or Logistic regression is used.
    
  