
    
      The I-PASS Study was initiated in response to mounting evidence that communication and
      handoff failures are a root cause of two-thirds of "sentinel events" - serious, often fatal,
      preventable adverse events in hospitals. The Agency on Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)
      and Joint Commission have identified improving handoffs in care as a priority in nationwide
      efforts to improve patient safety. Research on handoff tools and processes has identified
      team training, introduction of verbal mnemonics, and use of written or computerized tools as
      strategies to improve handoffs and reduce medical errors. This study was designed to evaluate
      the effect of a resident handoff bundle (RHB) comprised of these three strategies in
      addressing medical errors, verbal and written miscommunications, and resident workflow and
      satisfaction.

      The US Department of Health and Human Services granted $3 million in funding, with additional
      support provided by member institutional and private foundations. A total of nine hospitals
      in the United States and Canada will serve as data collection sites for the study (see list
      below). Staggered six-month waves of baseline data collection of medical errors and resident
      workflow, satisfaction, and miscommunications began in January 2010. Each site has a
      six-month wash-in period to implement the RHB intervention before embarking upon an
      additional six months of post-intervention data collection. Analysis and dissemination will
      begin upon completion of data collection at the last wave of sites in April 2013.

      Study Sites:

      Children's Hospital Boston (Boston, MA) - Coordinating Site Brigham and Women's Hospital
      (Boston, MA) - Data Coordinating Center

      Lucile Packard Children's Hospital (Palo Alto, CA) UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital (San
      Francisco, CA) OHSU Doernbecher Children's Hospital (Portland, OR) Primary Children's Medical
      Center (Salt Lake City, UT) St. Louis Children's Hospital (St. Louis, MO) Cincinnati
      Children's Hospital Medical Center (Cincinnati, OH) Hospital for Sick Children (Toronto, ON)
      National Capital Consortium (Washington, DC) St. Christopher's Hospital for Children
      (Philadelphia, PA)

      Study Leadership:

      Principal Investigator: Christopher Landrigan, MD, MPH Project Leader: Amy Starmer, MD, MPH
    
  