
    
      Nonmyeloablative allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplants are currently being
      investigated in phase I/II trials assessing engraftment, efficacy, and toxicity at a number
      of transplant centers. Our ongoing protocol for patients with severe congenital anemias,
      particularly sickle cell disease (SCD), and an HLA-matched sibling donor has had excellent
      preliminary results. None of the patients who engrafted had sickle-related events or any
      evidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD). There was no significant toxicity associated
      with the conditioning regimen.

      Our main limitation has been a lack of HLA-matched sibling donors in the majority of
      patients. We performed a study in which patients with severe SCD who lacked a suitable donor
      underwent a search for a matched unrelated donor or umbilical cord donor. The vast majority
      of patients were not found to have an appropriate alternative donor. We therefore seek to
      develop a safe nonmyeloablative regimen to be applied to the haploidentical setting so that
      family members can serve as donors and greatly expand the donor pool.

      In this protocol, we propose PBSC transplantation in patients with SCD and thalassemia,
      considered at high risk for complications from or ineligible for standard bone marrow
      transplantation, with allogeneic peripheral blood stem cells from a haploidentical donor
      using a novel immunosuppressive regimen without myeloablation in an attempt to further
      decrease the transplant-related morbidity/mortality. The low intensity nonmyeloablative
      conditioning regimen will consist of a relatively low radiation dose for therapeutic
      radiation, Alemtuzumab (Campath ), Sirolimus (Rapamune ), and Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan ) as
      a strategy to provide adequate immunosuppression to allow sufficient engraftment for clinical
      remission with a lower risk of GVHD development. T-cell replete, donor-derived, granulocyte
      colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized PBSC will be used to establish hematopoietic and
      lymphoid reconstitution.

      The primary endpoint of this study is the percentage of patients who have sustained donor
      type hemoglobin without significant GVHD for patients with SCD, or who are
      transfusion-independent and without significant GVHD for patients with thalassemia. Other
      endpoints include degree of donor-host chimerism necessary for long term graft survival and
      disease amelioration, incidence of acute and chronic GVHD, incidence of graft rejection,
      transplant-related morbidity, as well as disease-free and overall survival.
    
  