
    
      The edupression.com® self-help app is an evidence-based low-level psychosocial intervention,
      which a can be used as as monotherapy as first-line treatment in mild to moderate depressive
      patients or as complimentary treatment independent of previous therapy response or depression
      severity. The two foundations of edupression.com® are evidence-based psychoeducation with CBT
      elements, as well as self-monitoring in the mood chart. Evidence for the efficacy of this
      approach stems from a large body of literature regarding eHealth (healthcare services
      provided electronically via the internet) applications in depression.

      This study's aim is to investigate edupression.com®'s capability to improve the illness
      course directly by reducing depressive symptoms (primary objective) and indirectly by
      fostering illness perception and daily functioning. The reduction of relapse risk and other
      preventive effects expected from other studies are beyond the time frame of this study.
      Beyond the evaluation of edupression.com®, this study could elucidate the general role of
      psychoeducation and mood tracking in online mental health to improve depression symptoms and
      adherence.

      Objectives: The primary objective is to test the clinical efficacy (at least 50% symptom
      reduction over a 3-month period) of edupression.com® in mild to moderate unipolar depressed
      patients.

      Study Design: The study design of this clinical trial is consistent with a monocentric,
      prospective, longitudinal, randomized controlled clinical trial. Patients, currently
      diagnosed with a mild to moderate major depressive episode (MDE) will be invited to use the
      digital self-help programme.

      Following the inclusion procedure, patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to two
      different treatment arms (A vs. B). Participants of the intervention arm will get full access
      to the edupression.com® website, while participants of the control arm will get access to a
      control version of edupression.com® limited to medically useful tips, that have not been
      shown to be effective in improving depressive symptoms in randomized controlled trials
      (RCTs).
    
  