
    
      I. SPECIFIC AIMS

        1. To measure and calculate Z Scores of cardiac structures and function using 3-DE in a
           large cohort of healthy infants, children, and adolescents.

        2. To investigate the utility of 3-DE in infants, children and adolescents with congenital
           and acquired heart disease.

      II. BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Congenital heart disease (CHD)is one of the most common congenital malformations and is
      associated with significant mortality and morbidity. Acquired heart diseases are also common
      and have significant impact on the health of the young. As the therapeutic strategies are
      evolving, reliable non-invasive methods to image the cardiovascular system and quantitatively
      assess cardiac function with accuracy and reproducibility are pivotal to define the natural
      history, to evaluate the results of intervention and to assess long-term
      outcome.Three-dimensional echocardiography (3-DE) has important clinical applications to CHD.
      Because of growth throughout childhood,interpretation of these measurements requires
      normalization of the dimensions of cardiac structures to the size of the body. This is
      commonly done by the calculation of Z scores for the measurement of interest. Currently
      available normative data in the medical literature are limited to one-dimensional and
      two-dimensional echocardiography measurements only.

      In this study, we will generate normative data of the 3-DE measurements for cardiac structure
      and function in a large cohort of healthy infants, children,and adolescents. We will also
      investigate the utility of 3DE for assessing the cardiovascular structures and cardiac
      function for congenital and acquired heart disease.

      III. DESIGN AND METHODS

      A. Subjects:

      A total of 800 study subjects will be enrolled in the study after approval by the
      Institutional Review Board. Echocardiography data will be prospectively collected. The
      subjects will be divided into 5 groups:

      Group 1. (n=300) Patients with normal cardiac anatomy and function by echocardiography.

      Group 2. (n=300) Patients with various congenital heart diseases.

      Group 3. (n=100) Patients with sickle cell disease and at risk for ventricular remodeling and
      pulmonary hypertension.

      Group 4. (n=50) Patients with Duchenne and muscular dystrophy at risk for ventricular
      remodeling and dysfunction.

      Group 5. (n=50) Patients with Marfan syndrome or the aortic disease.

      B. Procedure:

      Before the study, heart rate and blood pressures will be obtained for each study subject. The
      subjects will be placed in a left recumbent position and ECG attached. After a complete
      conventional echocardiographic assessment of each subject, real-time 3-DE /Doppler study will
      be performed with 3-DE system. The 3-DE study will take about 30 minutes. After each study,
      all data will be saved and processed off line. Indication for the clinical echocardiogram
      will include cardiac murmur, syncope or chest pain but with a normal echocardiogram. Informed
      consent will be obtained from each patient and legal representatives after a full explanation
      of the procedure.

        1. Conventional echocardiography All patients will undergo a complete 2- dimensional, color
           flow Doppler, and spectral Doppler examination. Examination will be performed using a
           commercially available ultrasound system (IE33 system, Philips, Andover, Mass). All
           measurements will be made offline using a computer workstation(Xcelera,Philips Medical
           Systems,Andover,MA). All measurements will be made according to American Society of
           Echocardiography protocol. For any given structure, measurement will be made if
           excellent and unambiguous views were available.

        2. Transthoracic 3-DE The 3-DE/Doppler studies will be performed using the IE33 (Philips,
           Andover, MA,USA) ultrasound machine with X3-1 or X7-2 matrix-array transducers. The X7-2
           matrix-array transducer is a new tool and particularly well suited for small children.
           The patient will be in a decubitus position. Image acquisition will be performed from an
           apical window with the LV as the region of interest based on international
           recommendations. To encompass the complete LV into the 3D dataset, a full volume scan
           will acquire in harmonic mode from four R-wave triggered subvolumes. This scan will
           carried out during an end-expiratory breath hold a few seconds when possible. The 3D
           dataset will be stored in a DICOM format on a CD-ROM and transferred to separate
           workstations for off-line data analysis.

      C. Image off-line analysis

        1. QLAB Semiautomated Border Detection Method:A semiautomated border detection biplane LV
           volume analysis was performed using off-line QLAB version 8.0 software (Philips). The LV
           end-diastolic volume (EDV) and end-systolic volume (ESV) (smallest LV volume) frames are
           identified.On both of these end-diastolic and end-systolic frames,five identification
           points are marked: the septal, lateral, anterior, and inferior mitral annulus and the
           apex (from either one of the views). Then the software automatically delineates the LV
           endocardial border and, by sequential analysis, creates a LV mathematical model or
           "cast" that represents the LV cavity.

        2. TomTec Semiautomated Method:LV volume analysis will be performed off-line using TomTec
           4D LV-Analysis software. TomTec requires triplane manual tracing of the endocardial
           border after which the software selects a fitting geometric model and the total LV
           endocardial border is automatically delineated with possible manual corrections. Based
           on the six initial contours, a spatiotemporal interpolation model (like a pulsating
           balloon) is created by rotational and temporal interpolation of these contours.
           According to the initial balloon, the algorithm starts to detect the endocardial border
           continuously in the entire 4D dataset (without large gaps due to interpolation), like
           deforming the balloon in the LV until it best fits the walls in each frame. Adjustments
           can be made manually after this step in oblique, sagittal, and coronal planes.
           Subsequently, a final reconstruction of the LV model and a time-volume curve are
           created. LV-EDV and LV-ESV are the largest and smallest volume, respectively, from this
           time-volume curve.

      D. Data Analysis

      All numerical values are expressed as mean +/- standard deviation. The real- time 3-DE
      measurements will be compared with other clinical data and measurements, such as cardiac
      catheterization or magnetic resonance imaging. Statistical significance will be defined as
      P<0.05. All statistical analyzes will be done using SAS for Windows version9.1 and Microsoft
      Excel (Microsoft Office 2007) for all analysis.
    
  