
    
      OBJECTIVE:

        1. Determine if bilateral Pedunculo-Pontine Nucleus (PPN) Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) will
           improve gait and balance problems in Parkinson Disease (PD) patients whose other disease
           features have responded to bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS and medications

        2. Determine if bilateral PPN DBS will improve swallowing function in Parkinson Disease
           patients treated with bilateral STN DBS and medication

        3. Obtain electrophysiological data related to PPN

        4. Obtain data related to the physiological relationship of the STN and PPN

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Three (3) subjects with clinically diagnosed PD who have undergone bilateral STN DBS at least
      one year prior to enrollment, who continue to have gait and balance disturbance.

      DESIGN:

      Pilot study of 3 patients with clinically diagnosed PD who have undergone bilateral STN DBS
      at least one year prior to enrollment. Baseline evaluation will include neurologic clinical
      evaluation, postural and gait physiologic and clinical assessment, brain imaging, and video
      swallow evaluation. The patients will undergo the surgical procedure (bilateral PPN DBS
      implant) in the Clinical Center (CC). Electrode recordings will be obtained from the implant
      site within the first week post-operatively from an externalized lead, then the second
      surgical stage (pulse generator implant) will take place, also in the Clinical Center. The
      patients will undergo programming to optimal parameters and appropriate follow-up, and the
      outcome measures will be assessed at 1 week and 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post-surgery.
      Recruitment will be staggered and at least 4 weeks will be required between different
      patients beginning the study. Recruitment will be halted if major unexpected side-effects
      occur causing concern about the welfare of patients.

      This study is to serve as the basis for an extended, larger study, which would be properly
      powered to answer the clinical research questions. The efficacy criterion for translation
      into a larger study will be 30% improvement in the primary outcome in 2 out of the 3
      patients. In addition, we will obtain valuable and for the most part novel data regarding the
      electrophysiologic properties of the PPN and the complex interactions between basal ganglia
      (BG) components in the parkinsonian state and the response to DBS. The data obtained in this
      study will inform the design, selection and treatment paradigms in future larger studies.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      Primary:

        -  Change in the amount of time needed to complete a standardized timed up and go (TUG)
           study at 6 months post-surgery on stimulation

        -  Change in the amount of time needed to complete a standardized timed up and go (TUG)
           study at 6 months post-surgery on stimulation, compared to off stimulation.

      Secondary:

        -  Change in time needed to complete the TUG study at 1, 3 and 12 months post-surgery on
           stimulation

        -  UPDRS part III score and UPDRS part III points 27-30 at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months on
           stimulation

        -  Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ 31) quality of life questionnaire at 6 months

        -  Change in static and dynamic posturography outcome parameters at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months
           on stimulation

        -  Number of adverse events during the follow-up period

        -  Change in timed and non-timed variables of swallowing function at 6 months

        -  Recorded physiologic function of PPN with STN stimulator off and on at rest and during
           gait

        -  Changes in the patient global impression of change at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. All the
           outcome measures are assessed on best medical therapy..
    
  