
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate a internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)
      system as a method of treating patients with tinnitus. Tinnitus is a common symptom that is
      defined as the perception of the sound in the ears without any external source. It is often
      described by the patients as ringing or a buzzing sound, alone or more often as a mixture of
      sounds. This symptom afflicts 10 to 15% of the adult population. It usually does not bother
      patients significantly; however about 10% of the patients will suffer severe problems which
      include insomnia, anxiety, depression and other emotional problems. The various forms of
      treatment for tinnitus that have been tested in properly controlled trials can be classified
      as pharmacological, sound therapy and psychological. In clinical trials, no pharmacological
      agent has been shown to have lasting effect on the presence or severity of tinnitus. Despite
      numerous available treatments for tinnitus, it is rarely curable and the sufferer must use
      coping strategies to decrease the distress.

      CBT is a psychological treatment that has emerged as consistently beneficial in terms of
      affecting overall well-being and reducing the level of tinnitus-related annoyance. CBT is a
      form of psychotherapy for tinnitus that intends to measure and improve the affected
      individual's reaction to tinnitus. It does not eliminate the auditory perception, but reduces
      or corrects negative responses to tinnitus. CBT identifies negative automatic thought and
      determines its validity with the patient. It intends to modify negative automatic thoughts to
      more positive and realistic ones. Using this method, the patients with tinnitus can function
      better despite the presence of tinnitus.

      One of the problems with CBT is the shortage of clinicians who are specialized in CBT for
      tinnitus. For this reason, some programs have been developed which utilize guided or
      therapist-supported self-help approach. Internet based CBT have been developed for patients
      with tinnitus in several studies. Anderson and colleagues in Sweden compared pre and post
      therapeutic effect of CBT in 117 participants with tinnitus duration of more than 6 months.
      All subjects had been offered the CBT program and 96 provided outcome measures.
      Tinnitus-related distress, depression, and diary ratings of annoyance decreased
      significantly. Also in comparison to a control group, they found out that these patients
      showed an improvement of at least 50% on the Tinnitus Reaction Questionnaire. They concluded
      that CBT via the Internet can help individuals decrease annoyance associated with tinnitus.
      In another study by Kaldo et.al., they evaluated the difference between internet-based CBT
      and group-based CBT. The subjects in internet treatment consumed less therapist time and it
      was 1.7 times as cost-effective as the group treatment. However some studies support the
      utilization of self-help methods for treatment of tinnitus, but there are still some problems
      with using these methods such as accessibility to internet, knowledge of the patients on
      using computers and internet, interactivity and user friendly structure of the software that
      is used for the program and time management of the patients for practicing methods and
      exercises embedded in this program. By correcting and rectifying these 3 of 25 issues,
      internet-based self-help programs will better serve the patients with their cost-effective
      and time saving benefits. Currently there is no web-based CBT for the treatment of tinnitus
      available.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate an internet-based CBT course for the treatment of
      tinnitus. Adult patients (18+ years) with moderate-to-severe tinnitus (see additional
      Inclusion Criteria) will be selected for enrollment and will take pre-course surveys and
      undergo tinnitus-specific audiometry testing. The 8-week course will be completed by the
      patients online, at home. Following completion of the course, enrollees will repeat the
      surveys and tinnitus-specific audiometry tests.
    
  