
    
      This feasibility study will use a single-site, parallel group evaluator blind RCT. Subjects
      (N=40) will be randomly assigned to the experimental (HIPPER n=20) or control (n=20)
      groups.The experimental group will receive the interactive online HIPPER intervention
      consists of 10 modules (2 hrs/module) supported by phone access to Trainers. The control
      group is usual practice consisting of 2 x 2 hr small group educational sessions. Feasibility
      indicators (i.e. recruitment and retention; trainer and subject burden; safety; intervention
      administration/adherence; perceived benefit) will be evaluated as binary outcomes against
      pre-set parameters reflecting viability for a multi-site large-scale RCT. The primary
      clinical outcome of interest when assessing effect size for the eventual RCT is the Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale-Anxiety. Secondary clinical outcomes include measures of pain,
      function, self-efficacy, environmental setup, physical activity and health related quality of
      life.

      Upon successful screening/enrollment and baseline data collection (T1) the Study Coordinator
      will contact the statistician by telephone or email and obtain group assignment within 48
      hours. Subjects will be randomized using a 1:1 allocation ratio between groups. A central
      computerized randomization process will be designed by the statistician, with an undisclosed
      block size. Subject contact information will be forwarded to the appropriate group Trainer.
      To address bias, subjects will be instructed not to discuss their program and Testers will
      reinforce this point at each session. T1 data will be collected at our clinic while the
      follow up data collected 7-10 days prior to surgery (T2), 30 (T3) and 90 days (T4)
      post-surgery.

      The findings from the study will be summarized and mailed to each participant upon study
      completion. HIPPER and control group assessments will be held at GF Strong Rehabilitation
      Centre and at subject's homes.

      The outcome will lead to the refinement of the design protocol in order to robustly evaluate
      a contemporary, standardized, and geographically accessible prehabilitation education
      program. Ultimately, HIPPER may be found to have significant individual and social (health
      system level) benefits.
    
  