
    
      Despite an overall reduction of child mortality in LMICs, acutely-ill undernourished children
      continue to have a greatly elevated risk of death, both during hospitalisation and following
      discharge. However, we currently lack robust evidence for their management. Factors
      underlying the risks of mortality may relate to the acute illness itself, to children's
      longer term health trajectories, or to the home nutritional and care environment. The
      ultimate goal of the CHAIN Network is to identify and prioritize actionable intervention
      targets to reduce mortality among acutely ill undernourished children.

      CHAIN's initial aim is to better understand the characteristics that determine increased risk
      of mortality in this vulnerable population, whether biological (related to infection,
      immunity and metabolism), nutritional (intake and anthropometry), health system factors
      (affecting management and discharge) or behavioural (community/caregiver interactions). CHAIN
      brings clinicians and scientists together from a variety of high-burden settings in Africa
      and South Asia. CHAIN will establish prospective cohorts of acutely ill young children across
      different geographies with differing population, social and environmental characteristics
      (stunted vs. wasting, rural vs. urban and presence of risk factors such as malaria and HIV).

      Eight sites will be involved, including three hospitals in Kenya (Kilifi County, Migori
      County and Mbagathi District), two in Bangladesh (Matlab and the icddr,b Dhaka), and one in
      each of Uganda (Mulago), Malawi (Queen Elizabeth Community Hospital), Pakistan (Civil
      Hospital Karachi) and in West Africa (TBA). Site will enroll children at admission to
      hospital, and assess their clinical, social and economic status at admission, during
      hospitalisation, at discharge and during follow up for 180 days after discharge. The sites
      will also enrol children from the community to determine community norms (where ill and
      undernourished children would be expected to typically recover to). Protocols and procedures
      will be carefully harmonised across sites.

      Children aged 2 months to 2 years admitted to hospital will be considered for inclusion and
      enrolment stratified by nutritional status. Following informed consent, baseline data of
      prognostic importance, including demographic and social information, a detailed clinical
      examination, anthropometry and measurement of vital signs, including pulse oximetry, will be
      collected using a standard proforma. A research blood sample will be collected together with
      the routine clinical blood draw to minimize the patient's discomfort. Rectal swabs and faecal
      sample will also be obtained from all children.

      During admission, care will be provided according to WHO and national guidelines. Children
      will be reviewed daily and clinical features, progress and treatment received recorded on a
      structured case report form. In the event of death in hospital, a standard audit
      questionnaire will be completed. During admission, primary caregivers, usually the mother,
      will be interviewed screened for mental health problems. At discharge, anthropometry, a
      clinical assessment and blood, rectal swab and whole stool collected. Families will be linked
      with chronic care services where needed.

      A home visit will be conducted for all participants, the GPS location recorded. Information
      homestead infrastructure, water and sanitation, population, livelihood, child care and
      socioeconomic characteristics. Children will be followed up at 45, 90 and 180 days after
      discharge. A health questionnaire will document health and social events, and dietary intake.
      Anthropometry, and faecal and blood samples collected.

      Caregivers will be asked to attend the study hospital should the caregiver believes they may
      require hospitalisation. Study participants who are re-admitted to hospital will undergo
      standardised clinical assessment including history, examination and sample collection. In the
      event of death occurring outside the study hospital, a standard verbal autopsy (VA) will be
      completed by trained staff within 28 days of becoming aware of a death. VAs along with all
      available information will be used to ascribe causes of death.

      Community participants will be invited to the study clinic for assessment. Following informed
      consent, they will have a clinical examination, anthropometry, blood and stool samples as
      children who are admitted. Children requiring non-urgent medical care will be eligible for
      inclusion as community participants but will be given basic treatment in the study clinic
      and/or referred to appropriate treatment centres. Study staff will refer community
      participants with incomplete vaccination or requiring care for chronic conditions as needed.

      Several domains of exposure will be assessed: demographic, nutrition and metabolism; acute
      and chronic conditions; community-acquired and nosocomial infections (including antimicrobial
      resistance); gut function & dysbiosis; inflammation; responses to treatment; and the home
      care environment.

      Successful design of an intervention package to address post-discharge child mortality will
      require attention social and economic agency and vulnerability, access and interactions with
      health services, and ethical considerations. A qualitative sub-study will examine these
      factors in context in rural and urban sites in Kenya and Bangladesh to identify critical
      social limitations and potential approaches to intervention. These data will inform the
      network's development, piloting, and implementation of interventions.

      Additional sub-studies at a subset of sites will also examine in more detail the diagnosis
      and role of TB; and changes in functional immune responses; body composition and
      neurodevelopment during follow up.
    
  