
    
      Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer is associated with a high recurrence rate. As a result,
      clinical guidelines mandate prophylactic treatment in all patients who experience tumor
      recurrence after the initial resection. This is in contrast to newly diagnosed patients in
      whom prophylactic intravesical treatment is usually not required. Intravesical prophylaxis
      consists of weekly intravesical administration of either bacillus Calemtte-Guerin of
      cytotoxic agents including mitomycin C. This is referred to as induction of therapy followed
      by various maintenance protocols for periods between 6 months and 3 years duration. These
      recommendations stand in addition to a single perioperative dose of chemotherapy which is the
      subject of our research. Consequently, the observed risk reduction for a given patient
      receiving both a solitary perioperative dose of chemotherapy and additional doses thereafter
      is the combination of both regimens. To avoid possible bias from induction and maintenance
      therapy, we decided to include in this phase II trial only newly diagnosed patients with
      small, superficial-looking tumors who would receive only immediate post resection
      chemotherapy and would not require subsequent chemotherapy treatment.

      Intervention drugs Two NaCl in sterile distilled water solutions will be used. Normal saline
      comes at a 0.9% concertation as opposed to hypersal with a 3% concertation volume by volume.
      Both solutions are colorless fluids and both will come as 40ml doses in pre-loaded syringes.
      All instillation syringes will be coded and the key will be kept concealed by our study
      coordinator assuring complete double blinding.

      Intervention All included patients will undergo a routine TURBT. The number, greatest
      diameter and site of intravesical tumors will be recorded. Upon documented complete resection
      blood samples for serum sodium will be drawn from all patients . Participants will then
      receive a 40 ml intravesical instillation of either Hypersal or normal saline and the
      catheter will be plugged for 60-90 minutes. After that the catheter will be opened and
      allowed to drain into a urine bag and blood samples for sodium will be taken again. Patient
      symptoms and postoperative complications will be recorded using the same instruments used in
      the previous Phase I trial.

      Randomization Patients will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to receive either intravesical
      solution using a table of random numbers between 0-1.0. All patients with an allocated number
      <0.5 will receive normal saline whereas all with a number of 0.5-1.0 will receive hypersal.
      Treatment allocations will be determined by the study coordinator before the TURBT and
      analyses of endpoints will be based on intention to treat.
    
  