
    
      Patients with severe subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) present platelet and coagulation
      dysfunctions immediately after the stroke, at least two weeks after the onset of SAH. These
      alterations have been implicated in the presentation of delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI),
      vasospasm, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and long-term neurological deterioration. The temporal
      presentation of the platelet dysfunction and coagulation has not consistently been
      established, nor have they been assessed with tests for specific platelet receptors.
      Objective. Primary: To document the platelet function and coagulation, in constant and fixed
      periods after the stroke onset, in patients with severe SAH, Hunt and Hess 4-5, Fisher 4.
      Secondary: Relationship between the patterns of hemostasis and coagulation and the presence
      of vasospasm, DCI and DVT. Method. Prospective, cohort study that will include (calculated
      sample size) 50 patients with severe SAH, recruited in the first 6 hours after the onset of
      symptoms. Twenty healthy volunteers (already recruited) will constitute the control group.
      Platelet function will be studied by platelet count, von Willebrand factor level, platelet
      function assay (PFA-100), and platelet ROTEM for specific stimulation of platelet receptors
      (ARATEM, ADPTEM, TRAPTEM). The coagulation will be investigated by conventional coagulation
      study, ROTEM EXTEM, ROTEM FIBTEM and factor XIII. In the group with SAH, blood samples will
      be drawn into the first 6 hours after the onset of symptoms (t0), in the period of 8 - 10
      days after the stroke (t1) - period of maximum incidence of TBI and DVT - and 14- 16 days
      after the stroke (t2) in order to evaluate the late degree of coagulation alterations.
      Baseline values (t0) will be compared between subjects with HSA and the control group
      (intersubjects comparisons.). On the other hand, significant changes of the hemostasis and
      coagulation values among the times t0, t1 and t2 in the HAS group, will be also investigated
      (intra-subjects comparisons). Additionally, the relationship between the hemostasis and
      coagulation values evaluated at any of the specified time and the clinical outcome, as
      assessed by the presence of DCI, vasospasm, DVT or neurological deterioration at 3 months of
      follow-up (mRs> 3), will be also investigated
    
  