
    
      In France, Mycobacterium xenopi is the second non-tuberculous mycobacteria responsible of
      pulmonary infections. There are few data in the literature regarding its treatment apart from
      two small randomized trials (42 and 34 patients, respectively) and a French retrospective
      study (136 patients). So, we decided to conduct a prospective randomized multicenter study to
      evaluate two treatment regimens for Mycobacterium xenopi pulmonary infection in 6-months
      sputum conversion.

      Main objective: To determine the 6-months sputum conversion rate with a clarithromycin or
      moxifloxacin containing regimen in patients with M.xenopi pulmonary infections according to
      ATS / IDSA 2007 criteria.

      Secondary Objectives: To compare the rate of sputum conversion after 3 and 6 months of
      treatment the clinical and radiological outcome and the 12 months mortality.

      primary endpoint : Result of culture of respiratory samples 6 months after starting
      treatment.Culture samples taken 6 months after starting treatment against M. xenopi is either
      positive (presence of M. xenopi colonies with or without smear positive) or negative with
      smear and culture negative (see data collection and measurement methods).

      Study plan: Any patient with at least one positive pulmonary M. xenopi sample may be
      eligible. If the patient underwent ATS / IDSA 2007 criteria of M. xenopi pulmonary infection
      (after clinical , radiological and microbiological evaluation), in the absence of exclusion
      criteria, the patient will be randomized to one of the two treatment arms (rifampicin+
      ethambutol + clarithromycin or rifampicin + ethambutol + moxifloxacin). A clinical,
      radiological, microbiological and pharmacological monitoring will be done for each randomized
      patient. The recommended treatment duration is 12 months after conversion with a maximum
      duration of 18 months.

      Number of patients required: This is a prospective randomized study with 2 parallel groups.
      The primary endpoint is considered for the whole study population. For an α risk of 5%, an
      accuracy of 10%, an expected conversion rate of 70% a total of 80 patients is required . For
      a 15% rate of non evaluable patients (died, lost of follow-up) we need to include 92
      patients.

      Study Duration: Inclusion for 24 months with a minimum follow-up of 6 months (to meet the
      main objective), and if possible a follow-up of 12 months per patient to meet the overall
      objectives of the study.

      Prospects: To establish new treatment recommendations for M.xenopi pulmonary infection, based
      on microbiological and clinical efficacy criteria and tolerance criteria.
    
  