
    
      3 groups of patients will be included in this prospective study: opioid naïve, those using
      opioids at the time of surgery (opioid tolerant), and those with a history of opioid use, but
      who are not currently on opioids (tolerant history). The FDA guidelines will be used to
      define the opioid tolerant patients as a patient taking, for 1 week or longer, at least 60 mg
      oral morphine /day; 25 ug transdermal fentanyl/hour; 30 mg oral oxycodone /day; 8 mg oral
      hydromorphone /day; 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day, or an equianalgesic dose of any other opioid.

      Patients will be recruited based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria (see below).
      Patients eligible for the study will be identified in the population seen by orthopedic
      surgeons practicing at UPMC Shadyside Hospital and recruited at the pre-surgery clinic by the
      research coordinator or PI. Study patients will be asked to sign the informed consent form at
      that time. Pre-operative pain socres, dose and duration of pre-operative opioid consumption
      will be collected. Knee function (Knee Society score and the functional scores) will be
      recorded. Data collection will be performed by the research coordinator or PI.

      All study patients will receive pre-operative femoral and sciatic nerve block catheters under
      ultrasound guidance. This is the standard care for postoperative pain control. Once nerve
      block catheters are placed, research study will be performed to determined the LA potency
      prior to surgery using the up-down approach, to avoid the confound of post-operative pain.
      Femoral nerve catheters will be initially dosed with 10 ml, 0.5% ropivacaine. This dose (50
      mg) is to produce a complete block in 50% of the patients based on previous studies (7). This
      is the standard dose of LA provided through femoral nerve catheters.

      The following approaches to increase and decrease the dose of ropivacaine are part of
      research procedures:

      After the completion of the initial catheter bolus, sensory and motor blocks will be
      evaluated every 2 min for the first 10 min after injection, and then every 5 min until 30 min
      after injection. Sensory block is assessed by evaluating the presence and absence of response
      to thermal stimulation applied to the central sensory region of the blocked nerve. Thermal
      stimulation will be delivered with a 5 X 5 mm contact thermode (Medoc, Minneapolis, MN). Two
      different heat ramps are used to preferentially activate A-delta or C-fiber primary
      afferents. As previously reported, rises in temperature of < 2 °C/s activates C-fiber
      afferents, whereas heat ramps > 2 °C/s results in activation of A-delta primary afferents
      (8). Fast (3.4 °C/s) and slow (1.0 °C/s) heat ramps are used to increase temperatures from a
      35 °C holding temperature to a plateau of 50°C. The plateau temperature is maintained for 10
      and 5 s for the fast and slow heat ramps, respectively. The sequence of fast and slow heat
      stimulation is applied with a three-minute interval between trials to avoid sensitization.
      Nociceptive block will be confirmed with a pin prick test . Motor block is assessed by the
      MRC (Muscle Function Council) scale (0, no active contraction; 5 the normal power) of
      quadriceps muscles. Effective blocks are defined as complete loss of a thermal sensation at
      fast and slow ramp tests with MRC scale =0.

      Each patient's response to the block determine the LA doses for the subsequent patient. Each
      time, the delivered LA volumes will remain at 10 ml. The doses to be tested on subsequent
      patients include 100mg, 75 mg, 25 mg and 10 mg ropivacaine. For example, when effective block
      is achieved within 30 min after the initial injection of 10 ml, 50 mg ropivacaine, the next
      patient will receive 25 mg ropivacaine. Conversely, when effective block is not observed, the
      next patient will receive 75 mg of ropivacaine. After the tests, necessary additional LA will
      be given to the patients to achieve the final LA dose of 100 mg, which should produce
      complete block in 99% of the patients (ED99). Response probability is estimated for each LA
      dose and fit to a probit model function. The resulting probability function yields continuous
      estimates of the response probabilities over the full dose range. From this curve, it is
      possible to determine the ropivacaine doses needed to produce a complete block in 50% (ED50),
      95%(ED95) and 99%(ED99) of the subjects. The nerve block procedures and the data collection
      will be performed by the fellows of AIPPS (Acute Interventional Perioperative Pain Service),
      who are blind to the which group the study patients belong to. The study will be performed at
      the SDS (Same Day Surgery), Shadyside hospital. It will take 30-45 min to complete the study,
      which allows ample time for surgery preparations.

      After completion of the study, patients will receive standard intra- and post-operative care.
      Intra-operative pain management will consist of acetaminophen (i.v. 1000 mg), fentanyl
      boluses (total <500 mcg) and/or dilaudid boluses (total < 5 mg). Post-operative pain
      management will be supplemented with acetaminophen (1000mg, q6h), and oxycodone (5/10 mg,
      q4h, p.r.n). Nerve block catheter infusions and boluses (bupivacaine 0.0625% 5 ml/h for
      femoral block, and bupivacaine 0.03%, 3 ml/h for sciatic block) will start in PACU by nursing
      staff, who are blind to the study. VAS pain scores and motor function assessment will be
      recorded every hour in the PACU, and every four hours in the in-patient floor by the research
      coordinator or PI. Postoperative pain will be managed by the AIPPS team, who is blind to the
      study. Both femoral and sciatic nerve block infusions will be stopped on post-operative day
      3.

      Synovial tissue will be collected intraoperatively by research coordinator for analysis of
      the Na+ channel subunit expression. The synovial tissue, which would be discarded as medical
      waste, will be transferred to BST(Biomedical Science Tower)w1405 (Dr. Michael S. Gold's lab)
      for analysis. The lab technician, who will be performing the analysis, is blind to the study.
    
  