
    
      Background: Previous studies document that 75% of traumatic amputees in low-income countries
      develop incapacitating chronic pain syndromes. With the present level of rehabilitation
      service, amputees have to wait 4-6 months for postoperative prosthesis fitting.

      Hypothesis: Immediate postoperative prosthesis fitting reduce chronic pain and improves
      function in trans-tibial amputees.

      Reference population: Traumatic amputees living in low-income and low-resource communities.

      Study population: Adult patients with trans-tibial amputations in rural districts of
      Battambang Province, Cambodia.

      Study design: A semi-cross over controlled study. Supplement:longitudinal qualitative studies
      of subsets.

      Main variables for quantitative study:

        -  Outcome indicators:Self-rated pain (VAS). Self-rated function (VAS). Pain (clinical
           exam). Gait analysis.

        -  Variables: Preinjury morbidity and socioeconomical status. Injury severity (RTS, ISS).
           Prehospital and hospital analgesia. Postoperative infection. Amputation stump quality
           (clinical rating).

      Sampling: Given test power =0.8, significance level =0.05, sequential analysis of results, an
      estimate of 15 patients will be included in each study group. The sample may be modified due
      to sequential analysis (see below).

      Intervention: A mobile rural workshop takes molds and adapt temporary tuber-ischii bearing
      prosthesis made of local materials. The prosthesis is fitted at the time of amputation wound
      closure (5 - 15 days post-injury), and patients mobilized on walking aids. Control group
      patients comprise of transtibial amputees managed at neighboring hospitals not being served
      by the actual rehab workshop. Control patients leave hospital with walking aids without
      prosthesis. Data are gathered by rehab team (surgeon and prosthesis technician) at point
      zero, 1 month postoperation, 3 months postoperation. End-point for evaluation is 6 months
      post-op. Patients decide freely to cross-over on pain indications.

      Statistical analysis: Sequential design with positive and negative stopping rules. Outcome
      variables at end-point are reported for groups of 3 patients to statistician(Prof. Stig
      Larsen, University of Oslo) who gives stop orders.

      Ethical considerations: If ITP proves favorable, the study results will be used to expand the
      rural rehab service to include control districts as well. This makes the use of control
      groups in the actual study legitimate. Also optional cross-over prevents against inflicting
      unnecessary discomfort in study patients. The study is approved by the local health
      authorities and Norwegian Committee for Research Ethics. The system for data filing and
      protection is approved by Norwegian Social Science Data Services, Bergen.

      Publication: Authorship will be set according to Vancouver regulations.
    
  