
    
      Background and Significance: The pediatric visceral solid organ transplant patient
      experiences significant hemodynamic changes and anemia during the process of transplantation.
      These changes occur as a result of several factors: 1) Concomitant high output cardiac
      failure found with liver failure causes an increased sensitivity to modest decreases in
      intravascular volume resulting in hypotension and shock; 2) Patients may experience
      significant blood loss [2 to 6 times circulating blood volume] during the operative period;
      3) Replenishment of intravascular volume based on intermittent hgb measurements, estimates of
      blood loss and hemodynamic insufficiency leads to prolongation of anemia and/or development
      of polycythemia. Continuous monitoring of hgb and PVI should prove superior to current
      procedure to determine intravascular volume depletion, anemia and prevent polycythemia. Based
      on the findings of this study, an intraoperative treatment algorithm can be developed for the
      efficacious and judicious use of blood products and fluids during resuscitation and improved
      perioperative management of the pediatric transplant patient.

      Specific Aims: 1) Determine the severity, time of onset, and duration of PVI variability
      consistent with hypovolemia in relation to organ explantation, vascular clamping, reperfusion
      of newly transplanted organ(s) and bleeding events. 2) Determine the severity, time of onset,
      and duration of anemia (hgb < 8 gm/dL) and polycythemia (hgb > 13 gm/dL) in relation to these
      events. 3) Determine if the administration of blood products, crystalloid, and colloid
      solutions based on subjective assessment of hemodynamic indices, blood loss and intermittent
      hemoglobin measurement leads to inappropriate intraoperative resuscitation .

      Preliminary Data: Episodic hemoglobin sampling during transplantation in 13 pediatric
      patients at NMC revealed the following: anemic values occurred in 69% (9/13) of the patients,
      with 38% (5/13) of those having 3 or more anemic values (lowest hgb: 1.7g/dL); polycythemic
      values occurred in 13% (2/13) of the patients (highest hgb: 14.8g/ dL). All patients
      displayed hypotension during the operative period despite having CVP measurements that
      matched pre-transplant values. During a recent introductory session for the Masimo Rainbow
      SET monitor and sensor probe, a toddler undergoing liver, small bowel, and pancreas
      transplant was observed and hemoglobin values were noted from both the Masimo monitor and
      conventional episodic blood sampling. Values obtained from both sources simultaneously
      revealed ≤ 1 g/dL discrepancy between the measurement methods in 100% of the values.

      Research Protocol: Twenty-one subjects ≤18 years of age undergoing solid organ transplant,
      will be monitored during the intraoperative period transcutaneously for continuous PVI and
      hgb. Data collection will also include continuous CVP and MAP, significant operative events,
      concurrent blood loss, fluid administration, and conventional episodic Hgb sampling. Data
      from the hospital monitoring system will be time synchronized with Masimo derived
      measurements. The research team will coordinate recording of all events in the
      intra-operative period using standardized case report forms. Anesthesiologist and transplant
      team are blinded to Masimo data. Continuous Hgb and PVI will not be used to determine
      clinical treatment. The expected duration of this study will be two years based on the
      average number of pediatric solid organ transplant procedures participated in by the
      Anesthesiology Department at The Nebraska Medical Center.
    
  