
    
      We intend to observe up to 350 patients with chronic HCV infection who have successfully
      eradiated HCV following therapy with direct acting antiviral agents and describe the
      clinical, virological, laboratory, histological and immunological outcomes following
      eradication of HCV. Subjects will be recruited from two sources: 1) subjects who have already
      achieved SVR with a DAA only regimen and who have undergone a liver biopsy within five years
      prior to therapy and no history of hepatic decompensation or hepatocellular carcinoma and 2)
      treatment na(SqrRoot) ve or experienced who have failed a prior treatment (including
      DAA-experienced) who are willing to undergo a pre-treatment liver biopsy. Subjects yet to
      achieve SVR with evidence of clinical cirrhosis will undergo a transjugular liver biopsy with
      measurement of portal pressures in lieu of the percutaneous liver biopsy. Subjects yet to
      achieve an SVR will receive 12 weeks of therapy with sofosbuvir/velapatasvir fixed dose
      combination. Subjects who have attained a SVR (or upon achieving an SVR) will undergo a
      thorough medical evaluation, laboratory testing, transient elastography and hepatic
      ultrasound. Thereafter, subjects will be followed prospectively every 24 weeks for liver
      decompensation (ascites, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal
      hemorrhage), hepatocellular carcinoma, liver-related mortality and all-cause mortality.
      During each study visit, subjects will be questioned on the development of these adverse
      outcomes. In addition, blood will be drawn for the assessment of routine blood tests,
      quantitative viral biomarker levels, serological response markers and immune cell functional
      status. Blood, urine and stool will be collected and stored for exploratory biomarker
      development. Transient elastography will be performed annually in all subjects. For subjects
      with cirrhosis, esophagogastroduodenoscopy will be performed annually and imaging every 24
      weeks. At the end of 240 weeks, all subjects will be admitted to undergo a liver biopsy to
      assess the stage of liver fibrosis. In subjects with cirrhosis at study entry, the liver
      biopsy will be performed by the transjugular route with hepatic venous pressure measurements.
      The primary goal of the study will be to describe the natural history of viral eradication
      following treatment with direct acting antiviral agents, to identify predictors of adverse
      outcomes after sustained viral eradication and regression of fibrosis/cirrhosis.
    
  