
    
      Previous research has found that lowering patients' out-of-pocket costs has a positive impact
      on health service utilization, risk factor control and patient-reported health for many
      chronic diseases, including diabetes, hypertension, HIV and asthma. Among patients with
      chronic disease, medication adherence was inversely associated with hospitalization rates and
      total healthcare costs, and these relationships were far stronger for diabetes than for any
      other chronic disease. A recent meta-analysis of eight observational studies showed that
      adherence with diabetes medications is associated reduction in cardiovascular events,
      all-cause mortality and all-cause hospitalization. However, virtually all of this previous
      research has been observational. Only one rigorous intervention study has examined the impact
      of reducing patient borne drug costs on clinical outcomes. The outcome of this study showed
      that free medications led to health outcome improvements and a trend towards lower costs.

      The goal of this research project is to determine the impact of providing drug coverage to
      uninsured individuals with one of the most costly chronic diseases, type 2 diabetes. The
      ultimate goal is to evaluate if lowering out-of-pocket drug costs for uninsured patients is
      effective and cost-effective to reduce disease morbidity and mortality. Will policy
      intervention to reduce patients' drug costs would actually translate into improvements in
      their health outcomes? What impact a universal program would have on overall drug
      utilization? What total budget impact such a program might have? What extent the cost savings
      accrued from improving health outcomes might offset the program's implementation costs.
      Answering these questions will provide essential evidence to inform decision making for a
      national publicly-funded pharmacare program.

      It will demonstrate how medication utilization changes when access improves, and will
      identify if barriers to utilization other than affordability exist. Crucially, the economic
      analyses will help policy makers understand the budget impact and cost-effectiveness of a
      pharmacare intervention. Thus, this research will provide vital information for policy makers
      crafting a program to provide free drugs to all uninsured Canadians with chronic disease.
      Such a program is anticipated to have a positive impact on patient experience: to improve
      health equity and access for vulnerable patients; to facilitate greater medication adherence;
      and to enhance shared decision-making between patients and their clinicians for effective
      self-management care paths. The ultimate impact of this research will be evidence for the
      cost effectiveness or even cost savings of a drug insurance program aimed at the improving
      access to medications for disadvantaged patients who are currently uninsured.
    
  