
    
      Currently, 1 in 25 adults in the USA regularly uses prescription opioids. Now described as a
      healthcare crisis, increased prescription opioid use is linked with greater healthcare
      utilization and its associated negative costs. Prescription opioid use leads to increased
      mortality due to unintentional overdose, misuse and abuse, transition into illicit opioid
      use, decreased pain thresholds, and widespread neuropathic pain. In addition, opioid- induced
      hyperalgesia is a dangerous and paradoxical condition wherein patients on opioids develop
      increased super- heightened pain. In the USA, the increase in prescription opioid use has
      followed a similar trajectory of the incidence of overdose due to prescription and illicit
      opioids. Sadly, even with this drastic escalation in opioid use, there has been no change in
      the rate or severity of chronic pain conditions.

      Quantitative analysis of cutaneous innervation of the epidermis provides an indication of the
      health of peripheral sensory axons. Studies in various pain conditions (e.g., painful
      diabetic neuropathy, painful chemotherapy-induced neuropathy, and fibromyalgia) suggest
      changes in epidermal innervation may underlie pain in the feet and hands. Our preclinical
      studies reveal that changes in epidermal axons play a key role in the development of pain.
      Here, we postulate that chronic opioid use in patients with chronic pain due to non- cancer
      conditions 1) contributes to detrimental changes in epidermal axons, 2) works against
      pain-relieving actions of opioids to reduce pain, and 3) is possibly linked to opioid-induced
      hyperalgesia.

      Our short-term goals are to determine if epidermal axons are altered in patients taking
      opioid therapy for chronic non-cancer pain, and if epidermal axonal changes predict
      heightened pain sensitivity. This pilot study will test whether changes in epidermal axons
      are "dose-dependent" in patients taking low-dose, moderate-dose, or high-dose opioid therapy.
      Our long-term goals will determine whether dose-reduction or cessation of opioids can reverse
      axonal changes, or whether these adverse chances can be prevented with other medications. Our
      central hypothesis is that patients on opioid therapy for chronic non-cancer pain will
      exhibit elevated epidermal axon densities, and these elevations are accompanied with
      hyperalgesia and allodynia.

      Aim 1: Do patients on long-term opioid therapy have abnormal intraepidermal nerve fiber
      (IENF) density? We hypothesize that patients taking chronic opioids for non-cancer pain
      conditions will exhibit abnormal epidermal nerve fiber density compared to chronic pain
      patients not taking opioid therapy and healthy controls. We will recruit 20 patients with
      chronic pain due to non-cancer conditions on opioid therapy, 20 patients with chronic pain
      not taking opioid therapy, and 20 healthy controls and perform a skin biopsy on the ankle.
      The skin biopsy will then be assessed to ascertain IENF density and compared to normative
      density values for sex and age. Next, we will compare quantitative measurements of IENF
      density to total daily oral morphine equivalents (OME) taken by the patients. We hypothesize
      that higher daily opioid consumption will correlate with abnormalities in epidermal
      innervation.

      Aim 2: Do patients on long-term opioid therapy have heightened cutaneous pain sensitivity
      that correlates with IENF density? We will perform quantitative sensory testing (QST) in all
      patient cohorts to objectively assess pain sensitivity. Patients will undergo QST for
      pressure pain threshold, temporal summation, and conditioned pain modulation. We will
      determine whether heightened pain sensitivity, as evidenced by reduced pressure pain
      thresholds, increased temporal summation, and reduced conditioned pain modulation, is
      associated with altered IENF from skin biopsies. We hypothesize that heightened pain
      sensitivity will correlate with reductions in epidermal innervation and that higher daily
      opioid consumption in chronic pain patients will correlate with abnormalities in epidermal
      innervation and altered QST parameters.
    
  