
    
      2.3.4 Long technical protocol summary Title: Chemoprevention with monthly IPTp with
      dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for malaria in HIV-infected pregnant participants on daily
      cotrimoxazole in Kenya and Malawi: a multi-centre placebo-controlled trial(IMPROVE-2).

      Background and rationale: In malaria-endemic Africa, HIV and malaria conspire to increase the
      risks of adverse pregnancy outcomes. For HIV-infected pregnant women, WHO recommends daily
      cotrimoxazole (CTX) for chemoprevention for malaria and prophylaxis against opportunistic
      infection. However, there is cross-resistance with SP, and high levels of antifolate
      resistance threaten the antimalarial effect of CTX. Recent trials in HIV-infected pregnant
      women who received daily CTX plus IPTp with mefloquine, suggested that chemoprevention with
      an effective antimalarial markedly reduces the risk of malaria compared to daily CTX alone.
      However, mefloquine was not well tolerated. The long-acting combination of
      dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) is well tolerated and has shown great promise as IPTp in
      HIV-negative women in East-Africa. Chemoprevention with monthly DP has also been explored in
      HIV-infected women on daily CTX in Uganda. Unfortunately, the study was inconclusive as
      malaria transmission was too low. Furthermore, a clinically relevant drug-drug interaction
      between DP and efavirenz (EFV) was found to reduce DP drug levels. Following the
      recommendation from WHO, many countries in Africa are transitioning from EFV-based to
      dolutegravir (DTG) based combination antiretroviral therapy (cARTs). WHO now recommends
      DTG-based cARTS as the preferred first-line cART regimen in the 2nd and 3rd trimester of
      pregnancy. No such drug-drug interaction is expected between DTG and DP. We will therefore
      assess the safety and efficacy of malaria chemoprevention with monthly DP in HIV-infected
      women on daily CTX and DTG-based cARTs. We will therefore assess the safety and efficacy of
      malaria chemoprevention with monthly IPTp with DP in women on daily CTX and DTG-based cARTs
      and daily CTX.

      Overall aim: To provide WHO with evidence on whether monthly IPTp-DP can improve current
      policies to control malaria in HIV-infected pregnant women on daily CTX in areas with high
      levels of parasite resistance and malaria in East and Southern Africa.

      Primary objective: To determine if monthly IPTp-DP in HIV-infected pregnant women receiving
      daily CTX is safe and superior to daily CTX-alone for controlling malaria infection in areas
      with high antifolates resistance to SP and CTX in Malawi and Kenya.

      Hypotheses: Monthly IPTp-DP in women receiving daily CTX is superior to daily CTX-alone in
      controlling malaria infection during pregnancy in HIV infected women on antiretroviral
      therapy.

      Overview Study Design: This multi-centre trial will be conducted in antenatal clinics in 8
      hospitals in Kenya and Malawi located in areas with high prevalence of HIV and malaria and
      with high anti-folate resistance of the malaria parasite. These are the same sites where the
      sister trial in HIV-uninfected women (all gravidae) is being conducted in Kenya and Malawi
      (IMPROVE trial: NCT03208179). Overall, 898 (449 per arm) HIV-infected pregnant women who are
      16 to 28 weeks pregnant assessed by ultrasound dating, will be randomised to receive one of
      the two interventions. Permuted block randomisation stratified by site (i.e. hospital) and
      HIV-status (known-positive and newly-diagnosed) will be used. Allocation concealment will be
      ensured by using sequentially numbered, sealed, opaque envelopes. The study will include
      pharmacokinetic studies and cardiac monitoring in a sub group of women. Other components
      include molecular marker studies of antimalarial resistance. We will also look at the impact
      on biomarkers of placental function and trans-placental antibody transfer and multi-pathogen
      neonatal cell mediated immune responses.

      Study Interventions: Daily CTX for all trial participants receiving cARTs in addition to: a)
      monthly-DP ('CTX-DP'), or b) monthly DP-placebo ('CTX-alone') (control).

      Follow-up procedures: Monthly visits during pregnancy, and then at delivery. Mother and
      newborn follow-up at 7 days and 6-8 weeks post-partum.

      Primary outcome: The cumulative incidence of malaria infection detected from 2 weeks after
      the first day of the first dose of the first course to delivery inclusive, defined as the
      presence of peripheral (maternal) or placental (maternal) Plasmodium infection detected by
      either molecular diagnostics (henceforth referred to as PCR), microscopy, RDT or placental
      histology (active infection).

      Sample size: 898 (449 per arm), allowing for 20% loss to follow-up. Data Analysis:
      Log-binomial regression will be used to analyse the primary outcome, controlled for site and
      gravidity.

      Primary partner institutions: KEMRI, Kenya; College of Medicine, University of Malawi,
      Malawi; Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (LSTM); London School of Hygiene and Tropical
      Medicine (LSHTM); US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); University of Bergen,
      Norway.

      Funding: Joint Global Health Trials Scheme, Medical Research Council/Wellcome Trust/DFID, UK;
      and the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP).

      Sponsor: Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (LSTM); Pembroke Place, Liverpool L3 5QA, UK,
      Phone: +44 0151 7053794; Email: lstmgov@lstmed.ac.uk.
    
  