
    
      The present study will be a three-arm, open (partly blind) blind, randomized intervention
      trial in Nigerian children (12-36 months of age). Recruitment will take place in Ijora-Badia
      community in Apapa-Iganmu Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Lagos, South-West Nigeria.
      Ijora-Badia community has the highest burden of under-nutrition; In addition, it consists
      predominantly of low to middle socioeconomic status population, which is nationally
      representative, thus making it an ideal choice for this study. All families that are
      permanent residents of Ijora-Badia and have children aged 12-36 months will be invited to
      participate in the study. Before screening and recruitment will take place, parents or legal
      guardians of all potential candidates (toddlers) will be fully informed about the study,
      requirements and procedures. This means that at the day of screening, recruitment and
      enrolment, 10-20 children per day, fulfilling inclusion criteria, will be directly assigned
      to one of the three study groups when a written informed consent is obtained from the parents
      or legal guardians.

      At the day of screening and recruitment, mothers will be required to bring their child to the
      clinic. At this initial screening toddlers will be evaluated to assess their eligibility for
      participation to the study according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria (i.e.
      anthropometric measurements, blood collection for the assessment of haemoglobin levels and
      information collected by parents). Those toddlers meeting all inclusion criteria will be
      considered as eligible and will be randomised to one of the three study groups. Prior to the
      initiation of the intervention, all eligible study participants will be dewormed (medicine,
      brand, dosage). Baseline measurements will take place that same day, and after 6 months of
      intervention: anthropometric measurement, a cognitive test (30 minutes), and venous blood
      sampling (8 ml). For food and nutrient intake indices, and faecal sampling, a proper planning
      will be made, to be sure that it takes place within 3 days following baseline measurements.

      The three groups will be given a multi-micronutrient fortified growing-up milk, in amounts of
      200, 400 or 600 ml per day. In case of 400 and 600 ml, the portions (200 ml each) will be
      spread during the day. Airtight packed portions of milk powder sachets will be delivered
      weekly at the families by field monitors who also provide instructions for use as well as
      collect empty sachets for a compliance check. Consumption of test product will start as soon
      as all baseline examinations and samples have been completed and collected, and will last for
      6 months.

      Prior to the initiation of the screening and recruitment phase, the study protocol will have
      to be approved by the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital Research/Ethics Committee, and
      has to be registered in an acknowledged trial register.
    
  