
    
      The success of combination antiretroviral therapy heralded a revolution in the management of
      patients with HIV in the mid-1990s. Increasingly, severe treatment-associated metabolic side
      effects have been observed and linked to premature coronary artery disease. This effect has
      been described among many regimens containing protease inhibitors (PIs) as well as
      non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs).

      Raltegravir is a novel HIV-1 integrase inhibitor which in a comparison study with efavirenz
      has been shown to be potent and efficacious in suppression of the HIV-1. Minimal side effects
      were reported which mainly included nausea, headache, dizziness, diarrhea, and insomnia.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Patients with elevated lipid levels while on combination antiretroviral therapy with PIs
           or NNRTIs will experience an improvement in lipid levels after switching their PI or
           NNRTI to a raltegravir based regimen.

        2. Raltegravir will be safe and well tolerated.

        3. Raltegravir will have similar antiretroviral activity compared with the prior regimen.

      Primary Objective:

      To demonstrate an improvement in triglycerides or LDL in subjects switched to raltegravir
      from PIs or NNRTIs at 2 months, 3 months, and 6 months after study entry.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To assess the immunologic and virologic outcomes in subjects switched to raltegravir from PIs
      or NNRTIs at 2, 3, and 6 months after entry.

      Study Design:

      This will be a single arm study where subjects will be given the option to switch from their
      current regimen to raltegravir at 400mg twice daily.

      Primary endpoint: Change from baseline LDL and change from baseline triglycerides at 3
      months, adjusted for BMI and smoking status.

      The subjects' plasma viral load before and after switching will be compared with a paired t
      test at each time point.

      The subjects' CD4+ T cell count will be compared with a paired t test before and after
      switching.
    
  