
    
      With the gradual aging of Chinese population and continuous development of economy and
      society, the incidence of cardiovascular disease and the number of patients have increased
      rapidly. The National Heart Center has reported that the number of patients with clinically
      diagnosed cardiovascular disease in China has reached 290 million in 2016 (240 million in
      2014). Cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death in humans, accounting for
      nearly 60% of all deaths worldwide. The updated data from World Health Organization (WHO) in
      2008 have shown that atherosclerosis and hypertension are the major diseases of the
      cardiovascular system. Therefore, early detection of arteriosclerosis, timely treatment and
      early evaluation of therapeutic efficacy are of great significance for the overall control
      and reduction of the incidence and mortality of cardiovascular disease.

      Carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT) is often used to evaluate early atherosclerosis,
      but IMT reflects the change of vascular wall structure. In the early stage of
      atherosclerosis, the changes of vascular elasticity and resistance occur earlier than those
      of arterial wall thickening. Therefore, accurate evaluation of vascular function plays an
      important role in the early diagnosis of atherosclerosis.

      Basic and clinical studies and clinical data have shown that pulse wave velocity (PWV) is a
      reliable index for early evaluation of atherosclerosis. The blood is pumped from the left
      ventricle during systole, and travels along the arterial system to form pulse wave. Its
      propagation velocity between two fixed points is the PWV. Atherosclerosis leads to the
      increased PWV. The detection of PWV can accurately reflect the distensibility and stiffness
      of arterial wall, thereby early detecting atherosclerosis.

      There are three main methods for non-invasive pulse wave measurement: Photoelectric sensor is
      used to measure and record photoplethysmography signal. Pressure sensor is utilized to record
      pressure wave signals produced by arterial pulsation on the body surface. Ultrasonic Doppler
      sensor is applied to collect photoplethysmography signal. Photoelectric sensor acquisition
      system is difficult to distinguish the pulse waves between the large artery and the capillary
      arteriole, cannot detect the signal of the deep aorta, is easily affected by the electrical
      signals of perivascular tissue, and has not been widely used in the clinic. Pressure sensor
      can be used to collect pressure wave signals, such as brachial-ankle pulse wave. This method
      has relatively low cost, is often used in clinic, but cannot directly get the pulse wave form
      and the distance of blood vessel, has many influencing factors and low accuracy. Ultrasonic
      Doppler technique, such as Echo Tracking and QSA, can reveal deep vein pulse waveforms.
      However, limited by the traditional ultrasonic processing platform, signal acquisition and
      formula calculation are complex, and the repeatability is poor. Therefore, the clinical
      application value is limited. It is urgent to establish a new, simple and precise method for
      the detection of PWV.
    
  