
    
      MyHeart Counts Cardiovascular Health Study is a smartphone-based mobile cardiovascular health
      research study. The study will utilize the mobile health capabilities of smartphones and
      wearables to assess daily activity measures of the general public and compare these to
      measures of cardiovascular health - risk factors and fitness. How people divide their time
      among exercise, sedentary behavior, and sleep all affect cardiovascular health, yet these
      largely go unmeasured. With the advancement in phone sensors and wearables these factors are
      now more straightforward to gather and measure. The use of smartphones by a large segment of
      the population allows for data collection on an unprecedented scale. The investigators aim to
      amass activity and cardiovascular health data on thousands of participants as well as provide
      much more quantitative data on type,duration, and intensity of daily activities. The MyHeart
      Counts Cardiovascular Health mobile application provides a platform for the investigation of
      methods aimed to aid participants in increasing heart healthy activities. The overall goal of
      the study is to develop an extensive source of data which will inform future cardiovascular
      health guidelines.

      In the second phase of the MyHeart Counts Cardiovascular Health Study (Randomized Assessment
      of Physical Activity Prompts In A Large Ambulatory Population) the investigators will conduct
      a randomized controlled clinical trial of four different physical activity prompts
      (intervention) and their effect on increasing physical activity in the study population as
      measured by change in step count.

      Of note to supplement the activity data the investigators will ask participants who have
      completed a genetic analysis to share their that data with the MyHeart Counts Cardiovascular
      Health Study research team. The investigators believe the opportunity to overlay activity,
      heart risk and genetic data for participants is a great tool for discovery.
    
  