
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), which is defined as an elevation in pulmonary arterial
      pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance, is a severe hemodynamic abnormality common to a
      variety of diseases and syndromes. Elevation in pulmonary arterial pressure causes an
      increase in right ventricular afterload, impairing right ventricular function and ultimately
      leading to inactivity and death. The goal of PAH treatment is to lengthen survival time, to
      ameliorate symptoms of PAH and to improve quality of life (QOL).

      Remodulin (treprostinil sodium), a prostacyclin analog, possesses potent pulmonary and
      systemic vasodilatory and platelet anti-aggregatory actions in vitro and in vivo. Remodulin
      is an approved pharmacotherapy for PAH delivered as either a continuous subcutaneous infusion
      or intravenous infusion. Ventavis (iloprost)is an inhaled prostacyclin analogue with similar
      properties to Remodulin. In December 2004, Ventavis was approved for use in the United States
      by the FDA for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (WHO Group I) for patients
      with NYHA III or IV symptoms.

      As the PAH community gains experience with the use of inhaled Ventavis, questions have arisen
      as to how to transition a patient on inhaled Ventavis to Remodulin in the presence of
      worsening symptoms or at a patient's request related to dissatisfaction with the frequency of
      daily treatments. This study will examine effects of switching from Ventavis to IV Remodulin
      and compare changes in exercise capacity, safety, HRQOL and treatment satisfactions.

      Participation will last up to 12 weeks. Study procedures include routine blood tests, medical
      history, physical exams, disease evaluation, exercise tests and patient questionnaires.
      Participates will have 4 clinic visits during the study and will spend at least one night in
      the hospital.
    
  