
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) was the 4th leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality worldwide in 2012 and represents an important public health challenge that is both
      preventable and treatable. COPD is characterized by persistent airflow limitation that is
      usually progressive and associated with an enhanced chronic inflammatory response in the
      airways and the lung to noxious particles or gases.

      The pathophysiological hallmark of COPD is an expiratory air flow limitation. During
      exercise, increasing ventilatory demands can induce premature airway closure by forced
      expiration leading to air trapping and further leading to lung hyperinflation. Dynamic
      hyperinflation (DH) during exercise contributes to increased end expiratory lung volume
      (EELV), reduces inspiratory capacity (IC), and increases the mechanical load on inspiratory
      muscles leading to dyspnea, exercise intolerance, limited physical activity, and thus to a
      poor quality of life in COPD patients. In addition, abnormal lung mechanical function during
      dynamic hyperinflation leads to increased sensation of dyspnea, which is the disparity
      between respiratory drive and the respiratory mechanical response. Abnormal controls of blood
      chemicals and of vasculature factors also aggravate the sensation of dyspnea.

      The autonomic dysfunction (AD) that occurs in the patients with COPD is evident as an
      inability of heart rate to reach an appropriate level during exercise (chronotropic
      incompetence; CI). There is also a prolonged heart rate recovery (HRR) at the end of exercise
      which may contribute to increase dyspnea sensations and increased mortality rate in COPD.

      Expiratory flow retardation when breathing with a positive expiratory pressure (PEP) device
      is the one of various techniques to manage dyspnea in COPD. Most studies using a PEP device
      have focused on investigating the effects of PEP to reduce lung hyperinflation, reduce
      dyspnea, and increase exercise capacity. Only one study of Martin and Devenport, has examined
      the effects of PEP breathing during the recovery periods after exercise and found that
      following 6 minutes sub-maximal treadmill walking, 6 breath exhalation against a 10 cmH2O
      threshold PEP reduced dyspnea and increased HRR. Oxygen pulse saturation (SpO2) was also
      increased within 2 minutes although there was no statistical significant between groups.
    
  