
    
      Around 30% of patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) are affected by hypoxemic
      Acute Respiratory Failure (hARF). The primary supportive treatment in hypoxemic patients is
      oxygen therapy, which is commonly delivered through nasal prongs or masks. New devices, able
      to deliver high-flow gas through a nasal cannula (HFNC), have been recently made available.
      HFNC delivers heated and humidified gas up to 60 L/min, with a fraction of inspired oxygen
      (FiO2) ranging from 0.21 to 1, via a wide bore soft nasal prong. Warming and humidification
      of the inspired gas prevent the adverse effects of cool dry gases on the airway epithelium
      and facilitate expectoration. HFNC also washes out exhaled carbon dioxide (CO2) from the
      pharyngeal dead space. HFNC has been shown an effective means to deliver oxygen therapy in
      many clinical conditions.

      In healthy subject during spontaneous unassisted breathing, end-expiratory pharyngeal
      pressure is about 0.3 and 0.8 cmH2O, with open and closed mouth, respectively. Compared to
      unassisted spontaneous breathing, HFNC generates greater pharyngeal pressure during
      expiration, while in the course of inspiration it drops to zero, which limits the
      effectiveness of HFNC in patients with lung edema and/or collapse. By recruiting lung
      atelectatic regions, reducing venous admixture and decreasing the inspiratory effort,
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is likely more effective in these instances.
      Compared to noninvasive ventilation by application of an inspiratory pressure support, CPAP
      offers several advantages, which include ease of use and lack of patient-ventilator
      asynchrony.

      CPAP may be applied either through mask or helmet. This latter is better tolerated than
      facial masks and allows more prolonged continuous CPAP application. When applying CPAP by
      helmet, however, heating and humidification of the inhaled gas is problematic because of
      condensation of water inside the interface, so called "fog effect". Moreover, in patients
      receiving CPAP by helmet some re-breathing occurs.

      To overcome these limitations and combine the beneficial effects of HFNC and CPAP, the
      investigators designed a new device combining HFNC and helmet CPAP.

      Recently, this combination was shown to be capable to provide a stable CPAP and effective CO2
      washout from the upper airways with negligible CO2 re-breathing. Nonetheless, because of the
      complex interplay between CPAP and HFNC, the amount of truly applied airway pressure,
      diaphragm function and temperature inside the helmet might be affected to some extent. In 14
      adult healthy volunteers, we found that adding HFNC to CPAP (as referenced to CPAP), 1) did
      not importantly alter either the pre-set airway pressure during inspiration or temperature
      inside the helmet; 2) increased expiratory airway pressure proportionally to the flow
      administered by HFNC, but to a lower extent than HFNC alone (as referenced to spontaneous
      breathing); 3) determined only slight modifications of the respiratory drive (as assessed
      through diaphragm ultrasound), compared to CPAP alone, 4) did not cause "fog effect" inside
      the helmet and 5) did not worsen comfort. We therefore suggested that adding heated
      humidified air through nasal cannula at a flow of 30 L/min during CPAP would probably be the
      best setting to be applied in patients with hypoxemic acute respiratory failure.

      In patients with hARF, the use of noninvasive respiratory support (CPAP and non-invasive
      ventilation) is still debated. Patients receiving oxygen therapy, HFNC or CPAP/NIV maintain
      spontaneous breathing, which allows avoidance of sedation, thus limiting diaphragm
      dysfunction and delirium, permits easier mobilisation and prevents infections and
      ICU-acquired weakness. However, the maintenance of spontaneous breathing in patients with
      damaged lungs and high respiratory drive may result in global/regional pressure/volume
      changes possibly aggravating initial lung injury. This condition has been defined as patient
      self-inflicted lung injury (P-SILI). Indeed, respiratory drive is increased in patients with
      hARF. The high respiratory effort is one of the major determinants of increased
      transpulmonary pressure (Pl), which is the pressure acting across the lung. Pl represents the
      pressure alveoli are exposed to, and is considered among the most important determinants of
      P-SILI. Therefore, the reduction of Pl, across a decrease of the respiratory effort, might be
      advantageous in patients with hARF.

      Investigators have therefore designed this pilot physiologic randomized cross-over study to
      investigate if, in patients with hARF, HFNC+CPAP reduces the respiratory effort, as compared
      to HFNC and CPAP (first outcome). Furthermore, we will assess the diaphragm activation, as
      assessed with ultrasound, gas exchange and patient's comfort among different settings
      (secondary outcomes).
    
  