
    
      Topical mitomycin C has been used as an adjunct drug to endoscopic treatment of
      aero-digestive strictures. There has been some case reports and case series of this
      application in esophageal strictures in children, with good results. Nevertheless, it lacks a
      controlled clinical trial to access the efficacy of the mitomycin C in this context.

      This study aims to evaluate mitomycin C as an adjunct to endoscopic treatment of esophageal
      strictures.

      This is a crossover placebo-controlled single-blind clinical trial.

      Patients: Subjects up to 18 year-old, with esophageal stricture requiring endoscopic
      dilation, either due to dysphagia or by stricture preventing passage of the endoscope.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  peptic esophageal stricture

        -  post-surgical esophageal stricture

        -  caustic esophageal stricture

      The patient will be randomized by one treatment group, either A or B.

        -  A. during the first endoscopic procedure it will be applied of topical mitomycin C over
           the esophageal mucosa after dilation, then the second procedure (in two weeks) will be
           performed as a standard dilation, without mitomycin C.

        -  B. the first procedure will be performed in a standard way, and after two weeks, in the
           second procedure mytomicin-C will be spread over the esophageal mucosa.

      The allocation will not be informed to the patient. At the end of the study protocol, the
      patients will be clinically evaluated and the dilation program will continue on discretion of
      the assistant doctor. The target esophageal bore is 11 mm (or 12.8 mm if age above 5 yrs).

      Mitomycin C will be applied over the esophageal mucosa in the site of stricture after
      dilation with a cotton pledget soaked in solution (0.4mg/ml) by three minutes. The pledget
      will he held over the mucosa with a biopsy forceps.

      Clinical evaluation. Dysphagia will be evaluated by a structured questionnaire, using a
      Likert scale. The patient will answer the questionnaire daily.

      Main outcome measure: Number of days with improved symptom (dysphagia) after a session.
    
  