
    
      Approximately 50% of persons aged 65 years and older drink alcohol. Older persons are
      particularly susceptible to adverse consequences of drinking such as falls, depression, sleep
      disorders, stomach upset, hypertension, and alcohol/drug interactions. This is because of
      age-related changes in the body that affect how older persons react to alcohol and also
      because of the age-associated increases in illness and medication use.

      In the current project we aim to see if screening and brief advice given to older risky
      drinkers in a physician's office followed by up to 3 health education phone calls may reduce
      their risks associated with alcohol use. We plan to use a newly developed and tested measure,
      the Comorbidity Alcohol Risk Evaluation Tool (CARET), to screen for older persons (aged 55
      and older) whose use of alcohol alone or in combination with their illnesses, symptoms, and
      medication use may be causing them harm, or increasing their risk for harm. Persons whose
      responses on the CARET indicate they might be risky drinkers will be randomized to receive
      either a brief intervention to reduce their risks or usual care.

      The intervention will have the following components:

      A) At the time of the recruitment visit, all intervention group patients will receive:

        1. A personalized risk report;

        2. An educational booklet titled "Healthy Drinking as You Age";

        3. A drinking diary;

        4. Brief advice to reduce their drinking by their physicians;

      B) After the recruitment visit, all intervention group patients will receive up to 3
      telephone calls from a health educator. After each call, intervention group patients may
      choose to receive a letter updating their health risks. Also, at the conclusion of their
      interaction with the health educator, they may choose to have a letter summarizing the calls
      sent to their physician.

      At the time of the recruitment visit, control group patients will receive a booklet on a
      variety of healthy behaviors titled "Healthy Living as You Age." Both control and
      intervention group patients will receive a telephone call from a research associate 3 months
      and 12 months after initial enrollment in the study to administer the CARET again.

      We will analyze our results to look for differences between the intervention and control
      groups at 12 months in the a) proportions of them identified as risky drinkers by the CARET;
      b) the amount they drink; c) the numbers of risks identifying those persons who are still
      risky drinkers and d) the difference in their expectations regarding aging.
    
  