
    
      Study Description:

      Psoriasis is a Th17 linked inflammatory disease and we find that the vitamin B3 analogue
      nicotinamide riboside (NR) blunts Th1 and Th17 activation in ex-vivo na(SqrRoot) ve and
      differentiated T cells from control and psoriasis subjects. These findings supported the
      proposal of the following hypothesis. Supplementation with NR will blunt systemic immune
      activation in mild/moderate psoriasis.

      Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the effect of NR on Th17 biology

        2. Explore the effect of NR on neutrophils, specifically lowdensity granulocytes

        3. Evaluate whether NR modulates keratinocyte activation in skin lesions in psoriatic
           subjects

        4. Evaluate the effect of NR on HDL regulated reverse cholesterol transport and lipid
           composition

      Endpoints:

      The primary outcome will be the change in the TH17 cell cytokine IL-17 secretion in response
      to T-cell differentiation comparing the baseline versus NR or placebo. The comparisons will
      be performed using paired two-tailed Student t-tests. Significance will be tested at

      the 0.05 alpha level in this pilot study.

      Secondary outcomes are:

        1. Evaluate the effect of NR on the T cell transcriptome

        2. Explore the effect of NR on low-density granulocytes and neutrophils

        3. Evaluate whether NR modulates keratinocyte activation in skin lesions in psoriatic
           subjects

        4. Evaluate the effect of NR on HDL regulated reverse cholesterol transport and lipid
           composition by NMR spectroscopy

      Study Population:

      Up to 40 male and female subjects of all races between the ages of 18-70 years with
      mild-moderate psoriasis who live locally will be screened.

      Phase:

      N/A

      Description of Sites/Facilities:

      Enrollment and study visits will take place at the NIH Clinical Center or via telehealth
      visits.

      Enrolling Participants:

      Psoriatic Subjects

      Description of Study Intervention:

      Nicotinamide Riboside Chloride 500mg or placebo twice daily by mouth for 28 days.

      Study Duration:

      3 years

      Participant Duration:

      5-7 weeks
    
  