
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertriglyceridemia is emerging as an important predictor of atherosclerosis, and recent
      evidence suggests related phenotypes of triglycerides (TGs), such as TG remnant particles and
      small lactate dehydrogenase (LDL) particles, are particularly atherogenic. There is
      considerable variation in the response of TGs and related phenotypes to the environment.

      The study is in response to a Request for Applications (RFA) entitled " Interaction of Genes
      and Environment in Shaping Risk Factors for Heart, Lung, Blood, and Sleep Disorders". The RFA
      was released in October, 2001.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Measurements will be collected before and after a dietary fat challenge to assess
      postprandial TGs and related atherogenic phenotypes (VLDL TGs, chylomicron TGs, TG remnant
      particles, high-density lipoprotein(HDL) and low density lipids (LDL) particle sizes, total
      cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C). In families with 2 or more members in a sibship with high TGs
      (>= 130 mg/dl), the authors will conduct a short-term, placebo-controlled, randomized trial
      of fenofibrate in all willing and eligible family members (anticipated sample size = 1,200).
      A two-period crossover design will be executed with a 2-week washout between two 3-week
      treatment periods (placebo or micronized fenofibrate, 160 mg). About 1,000 family members
      have a Marshfield genome marker set available as part of national Heart Lung and Blood
      (NHLBI) FHS; the remaining 1,400 will be typed using the same marker set. They will conduct
      genome-wide linkage analyses using state-of-the-art methods to localize novel genetic loci
      contributing to TG response in the context of fat loading and fenofibrate treatment. They
      will type 15 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in ten candidate genes known to
      contribute to the response of TGs to dietary fat and fenofibrate, and create haplotypes for
      association studies. They will use combinatorial partitioning methods and neural networks to
      test association of the individual SNPs and haplotypes with response to the two environmental
      interventions. The identification of genetic loci that predict TG response in the presence of
      two disparate contexts, fat loading and fibrate therapy, may provide insights into genetic
      pathways (a) predisposing to hypertriglyceridemia, ultimately leading to avenues for primary
      prevention, and (b) predicting response to TG lowering, leading to new drug targets for
      hypertriglyceridemia.
    
  