
    
      REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a parasomnia characterized by dream enactment behaviors
      and REM sleep without muscle atonia (excessive EMG activity) during REM sleep.Increasing
      studies revealed that iRBD eventually converts to α-synucleinopathy, such as Parkinson's
      disease (PD), dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), and multiple system atrophy (MSA). Recent
      studies reported that over 80% of patients with iRBD eventually developed neurodegeneration
      at a mean interval of 14 years after iRBD onset or diagnosed. Thus, iRBD is regarded as a
      precursor of α-synucleinopathies. In addition to iRBD, a large series of other non-motor
      symptoms also present before the emergence of typical motor symptoms of PD, including
      autonomic dysfunction, olfactory loss, color vision impairment, neurocognitive
      impairment,neuroimaging of dopamine dysfunction, daytime sleepiness, and psychiatric
      disorders. In recent years, several longitudinal studies have found that patients with iRBD
      with a higher rate of these markers may have a faster progression of neurodegeneration. On
      the other hand, a variety of external risk factors of PD including environmental toxic
      exposure, lifestyle factors, and some medications have long been recognized, which affect
      numerous fundamental cellular processes by interaction with genetic predisposition.

      However, several knowledge gaps still need further studies to uncover. First, few studies
      have explored the predictive value of dynamic change of biomarkers in prodromal stage of PD.
      Second, few previous prospective studies also employed a control group to compare the change
      of these prodromal markers between patients and healthy controls over time. Third, as some of
      previous studies employed a retrospective study design, potential recall bias may contaminate
      the results. Moreover, the sample sizes of most previous studies investigating biomarkers
      were relative small (n < 80) and follow-up durations in most study are relatively short,
      which may have limited the statistical power to detect the risk factors with mild to moderate
      effect size. Finally, as previous reported longitudinal studies of iRBD mainly focused on
      Caucasian or other ethnic groups, there is only limited data about neurodegenerative
      biomarkers in Chinese iRBD. In conclusion, prospective longitudinal studies with larger
      sample size, regular follow-up, and relative long follow-up duration are needed to better map
      the progression of neurodegeneration.
    
  