
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of a large field image-guided IMRT, using
      helical tomotherapy, when given in combination with IV busulfan and VP-16 as a preparative
      regimen for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) from an HLA-identical
      sibling in patients with advanced myeloid malignancies. (Phase I) II. To describe the
      toxicities at each dose level studied. (Phase I) III. To estimate the radiation doses to the
      whole body, normal organs, and bone marrow through serial imaging studies following the
      administration of IMRT. (Phase I) IV. To estimate the overall survival probability,
      disease-free survival probability, and relapse rate associated with this preparative regimen.
      (Phase II) V. To characterize the treatment related mortality and toxicity profile
      (early/late) associated with this regimen. (Phase II) VI. To descriptively compare the
      outcomes of patients treated on this protocol to a comparable patient population conditioned
      with whole-body radiotherapy. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      followed by a phase II study.

      PREPARATIVE CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive busulfan IV once daily over 2 hours on days -15
      and -13 and then every 6 hours on days -12 to -9. Patients also receive etoposide IV on day
      -3. Patients undergo image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy using helical
      tomotherapy on days -8 to -5.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation or
      bone marrow transplantation on day 0.

      GRAFT-VS-HOST DISEASE (GVHD) PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive GVHD prophylaxis that excludes
      methotrexate.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year and then
      annually for 2 years thereafter.
    
  