
    
      This study was a randomized interventional clinical study, conducted over six months (May to
      October 2016) in different Jordanian cities, where most of Syrian refugees reside. Clinics
      which are specialized for Syrian refugees were approached by the clinical pharmacist
      (researcher) in order to meet Syrian refugees, recruit eligible participants and arrange for
      their first home visits. An informed consent form was signed by all participants who accepted
      to participate. Participants were then randomized into intervention and control groups using
      a predetermined list obtained by the computer randomization program (www.randomizer.org). The
      study was single - blinded, hence, participants were not informed of the group they were
      randomized into, but they were informed that they would have been in either of two study
      groups. The first group would have received the medication management review (MMR) service
      during the study period, while the to the other group directly after the study was completed
      (after three months' time). Appointments were arranged at the physicians' clinics for all
      participants to be visited by the clinical pharmacist at their homes. At the baseline home
      visit, the clinical pharmacist documented participants' demographics, acute and chronic
      medical problems, history of present diseases, past medical history, lifestyle, family
      history, allergies, vital signs, physical examination information, diagnostic test data, lab
      results, current medications and issues related to the short and long term management of the
      patient .

      The MMR service was completed following verification of collected baseline data. The home
      visits were planned not to exceed one hour. During these visits, self-completed
      questionnaires were completed by the participants, evaluating their adherence and knowledge
      about their chronic medications. The clinical pharmacist identified and documented the
      treatment-related problems (TRPs) for each patient in both groups at baseline. The physician
      was identified based on the participant's reported clinic and on participant's choice when
      more than one physician was visited by the participant. Following receipt of the letter,
      physicians addressed the recommendations and returned the letter to the pharmacist showing
      approved and rejected recommendations. Participants were called by the pharmacist to visit
      the physician and have the approved recommendations applied. Counselling and education were
      delivered to participants in the intervention group regarding their illnesses, knowledge of
      medications and adherence to their treatment. Three months post baseline, new appointments
      were arranged through a phone call by the clinical pharmacist, and all participants were
      revisited at home. Data needed to assess TRPs where recollected (as was done at baseline),
      plus the adherence and knowledge about chronic medications' questionnaires was completed for
      all participants. At the end of the study, control group participants received the MMR and
      pharmacist counselling service exactly as was delivered to the intervention group
      participants at baseline. For the purpose of data documentation and evaluation, the adherence
      to medication questionnaire and the knowledge about chronic medications were used. Data were
      coded then entered into the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS), version 20.
      Continuous variables were expressed as mean ± standard deviation . Differences within the
      same group were detected using paired sample t-test for continuous variables. Group
      differences (between the intervention and control groups) were detected using the independent
      sample t-test or Mann Whitney U-test (based on the normality of data following testing) for
      continuous variables. Categorical data were expressed as proportion (%) and analysed using
      Chi-square test. A probability value of < 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant
      for all analysis's tests.
    
  