
    
      Over 2 million Canadians have suffered from social anxiety disorder (SAD) at some point in
      their lives. This disorder is characterized by a strong fear of negative evaluation in social
      situations and is associated with significant impairment in social interactions,
      educational/occupational achievement, and life satisfaction. Despite the fact that
      efficacious treatments have been developed and evaluated, both treatment effectiveness and
      treatment seeking behaviour remain below optimal levels. Combined with the many barriers to
      treatment (i.e., cost, stigma, access), researchers are investigating self-help modalities as
      an alternative to conventional psychotherapy.

      The Defusion App is based on content from Fleming & Kocovski's (2013) self-help book "The
      Mindfulness & Acceptance Workbook for Social Anxiety & Shyness." Specifically, the app
      teaches users about the tendency of socially anxious individuals to fuse with their anxious
      thoughts (i.e., cognitive fusion), and strategies to reduce it.

      In this experimental research study, a smartphone app designed to help with social anxiety
      and shyness will be evaluated for both effectiveness and frequency of use. The objectives
      will be to determine whether participants use the app, and whether use of the app is
      associated with a reduction in social anxiety.

      Preliminary evidence has indicated that smartphone apps for mental health are associated with
      promising results. It is expected that the use of the app in the present research will be
      associated with reductions in social anxiety symptom severity and a greater use of cognitive
      defusion strategies.

      The participants will be a community sample of individuals interested in seeking help with
      social anxiety and shyness as recruited by the use of posters around the Wilfrid Laurier
      University campus and in the community, as well as online.
    
  