
    
      TMC649128 will be investigated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection. This is a
      Phase I, first in humans (no clinical studies have been performed to date), double-blind
      (neither the participant nor investigator knows whether they receive active or placebo),
      randomized (study medication is assigned by chance), placebo-controlled study to examine the
      safety, tolerability, and blood and plasma pharmacokinetics of increasing single oral doses
      of TMC649128. The single dose escalation will consist of 6 sessions (Sessions I to IV) in 6
      panels (Panels 1 to 6) of 9 healthy adult volunteers each. The dose of TMC649128 will be
      consecutively escalated. In each session, 6 participants will receive TMC649128 and 3
      participants will receive placebo, all with standard meals. Each session will have a
      staggered approach, ie, the first 4 participants will be dosed, followed by at least a
      72-hour safety review and if no acute effects are observed, the remaining 5 participants will
      be dosed. The main focus of the trial is the determination of safety and tolerability of
      TMC649128 after single oral doses in fed conditions in healthy volunteers, but also the
      determination of the pharmacokinetic characteristics (level-profile of TMC649128 over time in
      the blood stream and urine). This evaluation requires multiple blood samples from Day 1 to
      Day 4. Safety assessments (blood and urine tests, blood pressure, pulse, electrocardiogram,
      and physical examination) will follow a different schedule and will be performed during each
      session, up to 4 weeks after the last administration. Safety and tolerability evaluations
      will be recorded at regular intervals throughout the trial. The single dose escalation will
      consist of 6 sessions in 6 panels of 9 healthy adult volunteers each. The dose of TMC649128
      will be consecutively escalated.
    
  