
    
      This is a single centre trial designed to investigate the benefit, if any, of 12 month
      metformin XL 2000mg/day treatment on left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in 64 nondiabetic
      participants with Ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and insulin resistance (IR) and/or
      prediabetes.

      Participants will be seen on seven occasions: screening, baseline/randomisation, 2 weeks post
      randomisation, month 1, month 4, month 8 and final month 12, during which vital signs and
      safety bloods will be performed. There will also be three telephone visits at: month 2, month
      6 and month 10.

      At a screening visit an initial history will be performed following informed consent.
      Participants will then undergo an echocardiogram (a painless ultrasound scan of the heart) in
      the Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Ninewells Hospital, Dundee. Blood pressure will be
      recorded and blood tests to determine fasting insulin resistance index (FIRI), prediabetes
      and routine safety, prior to metformin administration, will be performed.

      Participants who meet all inclusion criteria will return for the randomisation visit within 4
      weeks of screening where a Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging (cMRI) scan will be performed
      followed by randomisation to either Metformin XL or placebo in a double blind, randomised
      fashion. Also, at this visit endothelial function tests will be performed to assess
      peripheral blood vessels in the forearm, central obesity will be quantified using waist
      circumference and waist to hip ratio (WHR) and study specific blood sampling performed (with
      participant consent).

      At the final visit or early withdrawal the following will be performed: vital signs, safety
      bloods, study specific bloods (with participant consent), echocardiography, endothelial
      function tests and cMRI.

      In the active arm, therapy will be metformin XL in an initial dose of 1000mg/day (metformin
      XL 500mg x2/day). Participants will continue on Metformin XL 500mg x2/day for two weeks,
      following safety blood checks this dose will be increased to 2000 mg/day. If the higher dose
      cannot be tolerated it will be reduced to 1000mg/day (or stopped if not tolerated).

      The target dose of metformin XL at 2000mg/day was chosen based on a previous study of
      metformin in nondiabetic heart failure patients with IR, this study demonstrated a beneficial
      effect of metformin on insulin resistance, weight reduction and an improvement in submaximal
      exercise. The study used the immediate release form of metformin (target of 1000 mg x2/day)
      which was associated with significant gastrointestinal side effects resulting in 13%
      withdrawal of study medication. For this reason we have selected metformin XR due to improved
      gastrointestinal tolerability.
    
  