
    
      Uterine sarcomas are rare tumors with an incidence of 1.7/100 000 women per year, including
      20% of endometrial stromal sarcomas (ESS). Patients with low grade ESS (LGESS) have a good
      prognosis with a 5-year overall survival rates ranging from 66 to 98%, depending on the stage
      of the disease.

      Majority of LGESS report estrogen receptor (ER) and/or progesterone receptor positive and a
      chromosomal translocation with JAZF1-SUZ12.

      Based on the current European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO)guidelines, the standard
      treatment for patients with early/non metastatic ESS is total hysterectomy plus or less
      bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. The use of hormonal therapy (HT) for advanced or metastatic
      disease is recommended based on retrospective data from small series providing evidence that
      HT have an anti-tumor activity on LGESS. HT includes aromatase inhibitors (AI), progestins
      and gonadotrophin-releasing hormone.

      Very few data are available in this rare disease, but retrospective analyses show that AI may
      provide response rates of 46 to 67% in metastatic LGESS patients (7% complete response, 60%
      partial response), with a mean duration of response of 24 months.

      Even if AI are effective and well tolerated, chronical mild to moderate (grade 1-2)
      side-effects (arthritis, hot-flashes, osteoporosis, hypercholesterolemia, cardiac events)
      have a negative impact on patient's well-being because of the treatment long term duration
      and need to be balanced in such long term survival.

      To date, the question of the optimal duration of HT in LGESS is still pending. The
      investigator propose an open-label, randomized, multicenter phase II study aiming at
      determining the feasibility of interruption of AI in patients with locally advanced or
      metastatic LGESS after long term stabilization or response to AI. The study will use a
      sequential bayesian design allowing for continuous monitoring of the main efficacy outcome,
      thus leading to a smaller more informative trial, and specifically tied to decision making.
      This design is particularly suited to characterize efficacy signals in the context of a very
      rare pathology. Moreover JAZF1-JJAZ1 fusion gene is not identified in all LGESS.

      Ancillary studies will provide precious data aiming at:

        -  Identifying predictive factors of prolonged response to HT or late resistance (Next
           Generation Sequencing and Comparative Genome Hybridization).

        -  Evaluating sociobehavioral (only for French sites) of patients by following
           questionnaire: Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory (ZTPI) , Functional, Communicative
           and Critical Health Literacy/ 14-item Health Literacy Scale (FCCHL/HLS14), VICAN, Fear
           of Cancer Recurrence (FCR) and Patient-Generated Index (PGI).
    
  