
    
      Background:

      Traumatic brain injury (TBI, "head injury) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality
      worldwide (Hyder et al., 2007). During the first four decades of life, trauma is the leading
      cause of death and TBI is involved in at least half the number of cases (Jennett, 1996). In
      the UK, 1,500 per 100,000 of the population (total 1 million) attend Accident and Emergency
      Departments with a head injury per year. Of these, around 135,000 people are admitted each
      year and there are an estimated 500,000 people (aged 16 - 74) with long term disabilities as
      a direct result of TBI (Headway, 2016). Approximately 10 per 100,000 per year die from head
      injury (Jennett and MacMillan, 1981, Hutchinson et al., 1998).

      The major determinant of outcome from TBI is the severity of the primary injury, which is
      irreversible. However, primary injury invariably leads to the activation of cellular and
      molecular cascades which mediate further secondary injury that evolve over the ensuing hours
      and days (Masel and DeWitt, 2010) and are therefore amenable to therapeutic intervention.
      These molecular cascades can lead to brain swelling within the confines of a fixed
      intracranial compartment, leading to increased intracranial pressure (ICP) and compromising
      cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) (Werner and Engelhard, 2007). The control of ICP and
      maintenance of CPP has been the bedrock of neurointensive care management of TBI for several
      decades, however, a recent multicenter randomised clinical trial could not show a long-term
      favorable outcome with ICP guided therapy (Carney et al., 2012).

      The Neuro Critical Care Unit (NCCU) in Cambridge is a world leader in TBI monitoring and
      routinely employs multi-modal monitoring comprising of ICP, brain tissue oxygen and
      microdialysis monitoring, in every TBI patient. Conceptually, microdialysis monitoring is an
      attractive method of assessing tissue biochemistry as it provides a direct measure of
      metabolic substrates at the cellular level at which energy failure occurs. Specifically, the
      microdialysis derived measure Lactate/Pyruvate Ratio (LPR) is a measure of cellular redox
      state and therefore the balance between aerobic and anaerobic metabolism. To date, studies in
      the literature have focused on demonstrating that individual monitoring parameters e.g.
      microdialysis derived LPR>25 correlate with an unfavorable outcome in multivariate analyses
      (Sarrafzadeh et al., 2000, Timofeev et al., 2011).

      One reason that an ICP monitoring trial has not been proven to deliver improved outcome is
      that there are several alternative routes to neuronal injury include insufficient oxygen
      delivery (Nortje and Gupta, 2006), diffusion barrier within tissues (Smielewski et al.,
      2002), tissue hypoglycaemia (Vespa et al., 2003) and mitochondrial dysfunction (Verweij et
      al., 2000). Our understanding of these pathophysiological mechanisms has been greatly
      advanced by the use of multi-modality monitoring including direct measurement of brain tissue
      oxygen and cerebral microdialysis. In theory, these pathophysiological states could be
      treated using treatment of ICP lowering therapy, augmenting cerebral perfusion pressure
      (CPP), increasing oxygen delivery and augmenting glucose delivery. Though, we currently don't
      know the best way to combine these treatments and they are often used together making
      independent analysis difficult. Moreover, there is currently no approved therapy for
      mitochondrial dysfunction, and while some claim that mitochondrial dysfunction is imminent in
      increased LPR (Nordstrom et al., 2016), the reality is more complex as there will be
      conditions that are treatable with an increased LPR, but these states need to be better
      established for clinicians in order to accurately guide treatment (Lazaridis and Robertson,
      2016). Previous implementations of guidelines in TBI have shown to improve care and reduce
      health related cost, something we hope to achieve with our established clinical protocol
      (Faul et al., 2007).

      Overall research design

      We propose a treatment algorithm exploring how a standardised clinical protocol that
      incorporates multi-modality monitoring parameters (intracranial pressure, brain tissue oxygen
      and microdialysis parameters) can be systematically and rigorously applied in a traumatic
      brain injury (TBI) patient cohort with deranged brain chemistry (LPR >25).

      Our principal outcome metric is the ability for the protocol to improve the LPR, as well as
      to see how many patients that may be stratified into any of the suggest treatment categories
      (see below).

      Interventions and assessments

      Following inclusion, patients will be monitored using the standard clinical monitoring for
      sedated and ventilated TBI patients which includes an Intracranial Pressure (ICP) monitor
      device, a brain tissue oxygen monitor (PbO2) and microdialysis to assess brain biochemistry
      (Le Roux et al., 2014, Hutchinson et al., 2015). While ICP and PbO2 are measured continually,
      microdialysis samples are measured hourly. If a derangement in LPR is identified (LPR>25),
      patients will have an increase in monitoring frequency to every 30 minutes. Our primary
      measure of deranged energy generation at the cellular level is a LPR>25. This threshold has
      been shown to relate to an unfavourable long-term outcome (Timofeev et al., 2011, Stein et
      al., 2012). If the LPR>25 on two consecutive samples (to avoid spurious or transient
      derangements) it will trigger specific treatment strategies depending on the other
      contemporaneous monitoring modalities. After each intervention, two consecutive microdialysis
      samples will be taken to confirm whether LPR has been corrected or whether a further step in
      the protocol needs to be taken. The sequence of interventions has been chosen on the basis of
      the strength of association of each intervention with LPR in the existing literature
      (Hutchinson et al., 2015).

      STAGE 1: Correction of Intracranial Hypertension; ICP corrected to <20mmHg Raised ICP
      compromises delivery of both substrate and oxygen to the injured brain, by reducing Cerebral
      Perfusion Pressure) and is in itself an independent predictor of poor outcome (Marmarou et
      al., 1991, Bratton et al., 2007b). In the acute setting we will use hypertonic saline (100ml
      5% saline by central venous bolus) as a rapid means of reducing ICP (Marko, 2012). This will
      be followed by an escalation of ICP control measures using our established ICP protocol
      (Helmy et al., 2007).

      STAGE 2: Ensure sufficient Oxygenation; increase PbO2>15mmHg

      Increased LPR can reflect ischaemia and in the first instance we will ensure that there is
      adequate oxygenation by increasing the PbO2>15mmHg. This threshold of PbO2 has been
      recognised as physiological in the literature (van den Brink et al., 2000). There are two
      possible limitations to oxygen availability to brain tissue recognised in TBI:

        1. Inadequate oxygen delivery (DO2(brain)=Cerebral Blood Flow (CBF) x Oxygen Capacity in
           Blood) Firstly, we will ensure adequate haemoglobin concentration (>8g/dl) within the
           blood and normovolemia to ensure adequate oxygen carrying capacity. Cerebral perfusion
           pressure (CPP) is monitored as a surrogate of CBF and is usually maintained at around
           60-80 mmHg using vasopressors in the NCCU. The CPP target will be based on the
           autoregulatory parameters of the individual patient utilising ICM+ software. The
           pressure reactivity index (PRx), is a measure of the ability of the cerebral vasculature
           to autoregulate to differing CPP (Czosnyka et al., 1997). Keeping the patient's CPP in
           this autoregulatory range has been show in observational studies to improve outcome
           (Aries et al., 2012, Needham et al., 2016). If the PRx is >0.3, we will increase the CPP
           by 10-20 mmHg (to a maximum of 80mmHg as per the upper threshold suggested in the BTF
           guidelines) (Bratton et al., 2007a).

        2. Diffusion Barrier Even with adequate oxygen delivery, microcirculatory collapse at the
           capillary level can lead to tissue hypoxia (Menon et al., 2004). In this circumstance,
           increasing the partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood (PaO2) can increase the
           gradient between oxygen within the blood and the brain tissue and drive oxygen into the
           tissues (Reinert et al., 2003). This will be achieved by increasing the fractional
           inspired oxygen (FiO2) by 40% to a maximum FiO2 of 80%.

      STAGE 3: Ensure adequate metabolic substrate delivery; increase brain glucose >1.0 mmol/L
      Glucose is the primary biochemical substrate in order to generate pyruvate through
      glycolysis. Brain tissue hypoglycaemia, measured using microdialysis, has been shown to be
      common following TBI, and is correlated with an unfavourable outcome (Stein et al., 2012). If
      brain tissue glucose levels falls <1.0 mmol/L, we will increase plasma glucose to 7-10
      mmol/L, as lower levels have been shown to correlate to brain tissue hypoglacemia (Oddo et
      al., 2008), using 50% dextrose. Glucose manipulation has previously been demonstrated to
      improve LPR (Oddo et al., 2008).

      STAGE 4: Persistent LPR>25 despite all monitoring modalities normalized; consider
      mitochondrial dysfunction The mitochondria are the site of oxidative phosphorylation within
      cells generating Adenine-Tri-Phosphate (ATP) in the presence of oxygen and suitable
      biochemical substrate (typically pyruvate) in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. It has been
      empirically demonstrated that following TBI, even in the presence of adequate oxygenation and
      glucose the mitochondria are incapable of utilising these substrates for energy
      generation(Verweij et al., 2000). In this circumstance, limited amounts of ATP are generated
      through anaerobic pathways generating lactate as a byproduct, thus increasing the LPR. In
      this case, LP ratio is increased, but with an a normal pyruvate concentration (>70mmol/l). In
      this circumstance there are no accepted pharmacological therapies although in the literature
      both succinate, a component of the tricarboxcylic acid cycle (Ehinger et al., 2016), and
      Cyclosporin A, a calcineurin inhibitor, (Mbye et al., 2009) have shown potential efficacy
      against mitochondrial dysfunction, and Cyclosporin A has a proven safety profile in TBI
      patients (Mazzeo et al., 2009). It will be up to the treating physician to decide if they
      wish to consider novel neuroprotective agents or metabolic substrates that have shown
      promising results in the treatment of mitochondrial dysfunction.

      Sampling strategies and data collection

      Multimodality monitoring parameters are collected in the neuro-critical care unit (NCCU) in
      real time, including ICP, CPP (PRx) and PbO2 as well as potential treatments provided.
      Microdialysis parameters, including the brain metabolites glucose, pyruvate, lactate,
      glycerol and glutamate, will be sampled every 30 minutes by research nurses in the NCCU. When
      intracranial monitoring is not deemed necessary anymore, it will be discontinued as per
      conventional management. The number of interventions that the patient receives and any
      deviation from the protocol will be recorded.
    
  