
    
      High mammographic density (HMD) is the strongest risk factor for non-familial breast cancer
      apart from age and gender. Studies of sisters and twins suggest that approximately 67% of the
      variation in density is attributable to common genetic factors. However, to date, efforts to
      identify genetic determinants of HMD have achieved limited success. We and others (Boyd et al
      Lancet Oncol 2009) postulate that this lack of progress in identifying genetic determinants
      of density is related to a failure to study younger women and misclassification of density.
      As women age, their breast tissues undergo atrophy, which is manifested radiologically as a
      decrease in mammographic density, resulting in a convergence of density values and a masking
      of inter-person variation. This protocol is intended to demonstrate the feasibility of
      methods that we plan to use in a full-scale analysis of mammographic density among women
      under age 50 years who receive care at the University of Vermont, Fletcher Allen Health Care
      (FAHC) and have been followed through the Vermont Breast Cancer Surveillance System (VBCSS).

      The study capitalizes on infrastructure that has been established through the BREAST Stamp
      project that is being carried out in two phases: phase one is a feasibility study:
      specifically, we propose to demonstrate that we can use a mailing to collect Oragene tube
      format saliva collection kits as a source of germline DNA and a short self-administered
      questionnaire. We have completed the phase one feasibility portion of the protocol, which
      targeted 200 women by mail. As of January 25, 2011, of the 200 that were mailed invitations,
      195 women were contacted (5 subjects forms were returned because of bad addresses), and 106
      women enrolled. We are currently analyzing data from this feasibility study to determine
      participation rates, quality of completed questionnaires and saliva samples, and frequencies
      and distributions of key risk factors and demographics of participants. This collection of
      specimens and data will be used to inform the launch of phase two, the full-scale study to
      identify determinants of mammographic volumetric density among 10,000 women less than 50
      years of age for whom raw images and density data are already collected.
    
  