
    
      Invasive aspergillosis is a fungal disease which is increasing in incidence with the increase
      in immunocompromised persons in our population. Persons with prolonged neutropenia secondary
      to cytotoxic chemotherapies are at the highest risk for acute aspergillosis. Patients
      undergoing bone marrow transplantation, receiving prolonged corticosteroid or other
      immunosuppressive therapies, and persons with HIV infection and AIDS are also at risk. Even
      with antifungal therapy, aspergillosis in its acute invasive forms has a high mortality. In
      bone marrow transplantation patients and in those whose infection involves the brain, this
      mortality is greater than 90%. Amphotericin B, in its conventional form, is the current
      standard treatment for this disease. Response to therapy with amphotericin B usually ranges
      between 20-60% in most studies. The higher response rates are usually seen in those patients
      who can tolerate this agent for at least 14 days. Because of its nephrotoxicity and other
      adverse effects, alternatives to conventional amphotericin B have been sought. These
      currently include liposomal forms of amphotericin B and itraconazole. Although these forms
      show a decrease in adverse effects, the efficacy of these drugs has not been shown to be
      equivalent to conventional amphotericin B.

      Voriconazole is an investigational antifungal drug currently being brought to phase III
      trials in the U.S. This azole has been shown active against Aspergillus sp. in vitro, and in
      animal models and early human trials to be effective against aspergillosis. It has been shown
      to be well-tolerated and is available in an intravenous and oral formulation.

      This study will evaluate the efficacy, safety, and toleration of voriconazole compared to
      conventional therapy with amphotericin B as primary treatment of acute invasive aspergillosis
      in immunocompromised patients. Although the original protocol allows enrollment of subjects
      older than 12 years old we do not expect to enroll patients younger than 18 years old.
      Patients will be randomized to open-labelled therapy with voriconazole or amphotericin B in a
      one-to-one ratio.
    
  