
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether men with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) high risk
      prostate cancer who are in the lower 2/3 of Decipher genomic risk (=< 0.8) can be treated
      with 12 months androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) plus radiation therapy (RT) instead of 24
      months ADT+RT and experience non-inferior metastasis-free survival. (De-intensification
      study) II. To determine whether men with NCCN high risk prostate cancer who are in the upper
      1/3 of Decipher genomic risk (> 0.8) or have node-positive disease by conventional imaging
      (magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] or computed tomography [CT] scan) will have a superior
      metastasis-free survival (MFS) through treatment intensification with apalutamide and
      abiraterone acetate with prednisone added to the standard of RT plus 24 month ADT.
      (Intensification study)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS) between the standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT)
      and either the de intensification (RT plus 12 months of ADT) or intensification arm (RT plus
      24 months of ADT plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate with prednisone).
      (De-intensification and intensification studies) II. To compare time to prostate specific
      antigen (PSA) failure or start of salvage treatment between the standard of care (RT plus 24
      months of ADT) and either the de-intensification arm (RT plus 12 months of ADT) or
      intensification arm (RT plus 24 months of ADT plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate with
      prednisone). (De-intensification and intensification studies) III. To compare PSA
      failure-free survival with non-castrate testosterone and no additional therapies between the
      standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and either the de-intensification arm (RT plus 12
      months of ADT) or intensification arm (RT plus 24 months of ADT plus apalutamide and
      abiraterone acetate with prednisone). (De-intensification and intensification studies) IV. To
      compare MFS judged based on either standard or molecular imaging between the standard of care
      (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and either the de-intensification arm (RT plus 12 months of ADT)
      or intensification arm (RT plus 24 months of ADT plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate
      with prednisone). (De-intensification and intensification studies) V. To compare prostate
      cancer-specific mortality between the standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and either
      the de-intensification arm (RT plus 12 months of ADT) or intensification arm (RT plus 24
      months of ADT plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate with prednisone). (De-intensification
      and intensification studies) VI. To compare testosterone levels at the time of PSA failure
      and metastases between the standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and either the
      de-intensification arm (RT plus 12 months of ADT) or intensification arm (RT plus 24 months
      of ADT plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate with prednisone). (De-intensification and
      intensification studies) VII. To compare time to testosterone recovery (defined as a T > 200)
      between the standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and either the de-intensification arm
      (RT plus 12 months of ADT) or intensification arm (RT plus 24 months of ADT plus apalutamide
      and abiraterone acetate with prednisone). (De-intensification and intensification studies)
      VIII. To compare adverse events, both clinician-reported using Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 and patient-reported using patient reported
      outcome (PRO)-CTCAE items, between the standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and either
      the de-intensification arm (RT plus 12 months of ADT) or intensification arm (RT plus 24
      months of ADT plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate with prednisone). (De-intensification
      and intensification studies)

      CORRELATIVE STUDIES OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare extra-prostatic uptake on the positron emission tomography (PET)-CT between the
      standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and intensification arm (RT plus 24 months of ADT
      plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate with prednisone). (Intensification study)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare changes in cardio-metabolic markers, including body mass index, and waist
      circumference, between the standard of care (RT plus 24 months of ADT) and either the
      de-intensification arm (RT plus 12 months of ADT) or intensification arm (RT plus 24 months
      of ADT plus apalutamide and abiraterone acetate with prednisone). (De-intensification and
      intensification studies) II. To determine a machine learning/artificial intelligence
      algorithm for radiotherapy quality assurance. (De-intensification and Intensification
      studies) III. To perform future translational correlative studies using biological and
      imaging data. (De-intensification and intensification studies)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

      DE-INTENSIFICATION STUDY (DECIPHER SCORE =< 0.8):

      ARM I: Patients undergo radiation therapy (RT) over 4-9 weeks and receive ADT (consisting of
      either leuprolide, goserelin, triptorelin, degarelix, buserelin or histrelin and bicalutamide
      or flutamide) for 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo RT over 4-9 weeks and receive ADT (consisting of either leuprolide,
      goserelin, triptorelin, degarelix, buserelin or histrelin and bicalutamide or flutamide) for
      12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      INTENSIFICATION STUDY (DECIPHER SCORE > 0.8 OR NODE POSITIVE):

      ARM III: Patients undergo RT over 4-9 weeks and receive ADT (consisting of either leuprolide,
      goserelin, triptorelin, degarelix, buserelin or histrelin and bicalutamide or flutamide) for
      24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IV: Patients undergo RT over 4-9 weeks and receive ADT (consisting of either leuprolide,
      goserelin, triptorelin, degarelix, buserelin or histrelin) for 24 months in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive apalutamide, abiraterone
      acetate and prednisone orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment repeats every 90 days for up to
      8 cycles (24 months) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually.
    
  