
    
      PRE-SCREENING: Participants expressing interest in this study will be interviewed to
      determine if eligibility criteria to participate in this study are met. If that is the case,
      the participant will then be invited to attend the familiarization and study session and
      informed of the need to refrain from alcohol use and keep medication regiment consistent in
      the 24 hours prior to the study appointment.

      FAMILIARIZATION and CONSENT: During this session, the study protocol will be described and a
      written explanation of the study provided to the participant. After any questions have been
      addressed, the participant will sign the informed consent statement. Next, the participant
      will complete demographic and health questionnaires, which will be reviewed by the
      investigators to ensure eligibility criteria are met. If qualified,the participant will
      complete additional questionnaires that ask about pain, other symptoms of the pelvis and
      perineum and about feelings of anxiety and depression. Along with the questionnaires, a
      pelvic and lower extremity secondary screening examination will be performed as described
      below.

      SECONDARY SCREEN and BASELINE TESTING: During the lower extremity screening examination, the
      participant will be asked to bend and straighten their spine, stretch in specific ways with
      the spine and legs and report if these motions provoked discomfort or pain. The pelvic exam
      and baseline testing is to ensure that the participant has pain in the perineum (area that is
      wiped after toileting). This will be tested in 2 ways, one using a sterile cotton tipped swab
      (q-tip test) and the other with a pressure sensing device called an algometer. One trained
      pelvic floor Physical Therapist (PT1) investigator will perform these tests. While
      investigator PT1 waits outside, the participant will undress from the waist down then lay
      under a sheet. PT1 will enter and perform the sensory tests during which the participant's
      pelvic floor and vestibule will be exposed in a similar manner to receiving a gynecologic
      exam. PT1 will use a q-tip to touch specific points around the vaginal opening (vestibule)
      and ask the participant to report any pain on a scale of 0 (none)-10 (worst). Next, a
      pressure algometer will be used to measure the amount of pressure tolerated on the most
      painful q-tip spot. This algometer has a flat disc, the size of a pencil eraser, that is
      covered to ensure cleanliness. Then the participant's lower body will be draped.
      Participant's with provoked pain are eligible to continue; those without are not eligible to
      continue in the study and will be done.

      INTERVENTION and REPEAT BASELINE TESTING: The eligible participants are randomly assigned, by
      participant number, into one of the two testing groups. One group will receive a sham
      thoracic spine manipulation (ThS) and the other, a thoracic spine manipulation (ThM). During
      the thoracic intervention, the participant will lay on their back with arms crossed. The
      second PT (PT2), who is blinded to the results of the pain testing, will position one hand
      along the participant's thoracic spine and the other on the participant's crossed arms to
      apply a posterior motion to the participant's spine. This will be small motion that may be
      done quickly or slowly. After the technique, the participant will continue to rest on their
      back, while PT1 returns to repeat testing of the vestibule with the q-tip and algometer in
      the same manner as previously described. Then participation is finished.
    
  