
    
      The proposed randomized control trial will occur over a three-month period at the Crisis
      Response Centre (CRC) in Winnipeg. The CRC serves as a standalone facility that offers 24/7
      walk in assessment and treatment for adults with mental health crises, as well as referrals
      to mental health services. All individuals who present to the CRC and report any suicidal
      ideation or behaviour within the one week prior to their presentation will be considered
      eligible for the study. Further inclusion and exclusion criteria are outlined in the
      "Eligibility" section. A variety of employees at the CRC will be involved in different roles
      to assist with this research.

      In current practice, all individuals are able to connect with Crisis Clinicians working at
      the CRC both in person and through the use of a telephone call to the Mobile Crisis Unit,
      which provides the capacity for Crisis Clinicians to both talk on the phone to individuals or
      leave the CRC and assess individuals offsite to support them. All individuals who connect
      with Crisis Clinicians in any of these capacities have a Mental Health Assessment (MHA)
      completed by Crisis Clinicians. All Crisis Clinicians are trained specifically in how to
      assess and assist individuals with suicidal thoughts or behaviours, therefore making them
      optimal individuals to assist in this research given their experience to support the safety
      of individuals in crisis.

      Participants who present to the CRC, are deemed appropriate for participation in the study
      based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, and who are otherwise ready for discharge back
      into the community will be consented by the same Crisis Clinician who completed their MHA.
      Participants will be informed that they will receive no less than one and no more than five
      phone calls over the five weeks immediately following the date of their discharge from the
      CRC as part of this study, without informing them of the specific differences between the
      intervention and control groups. Individuals will decide prior to discharge whether they
      would like to participate, and those who choose to participate will provide a phone number
      that they can be contacted at and that messages can be left on.

      Individuals who choose to participate will be randomized to either a control or intervention
      group based on a coin flip done by the Attendants (Front Desk Staff at the CRC). The Crisis
      Clinician will not be involved in the randomization process to prevent allocation bias. Once
      participants are randomized, they will be informed by the Attendants of the exact dates on
      which they should expect phone calls without revealing to the participant what group they
      have been randomized to, thereby blinding the participants. This blinding is possible because
      we have concealed the exact number and nature of phone calls that will occur for the two
      groups. Attendants will update a schedule after randomizing each participant with appointment
      times for all phone calls required for the study.

      On each day, Team Leads will be responsible for reviewing the schedule and allocating all
      required phone calls between themselves and the Crisis Clinicians working that day. Crisis
      Clinicians will attempt to call participants a maximum of three times on the assigned day
      between 0800 and 2200. All Crisis Clinicians are provided with scripts to follow for phone
      calls based on which group they are calling and at what time. If Crisis Clinicians are
      unsuccessful at contacting the participant by the third attempt, they will leave a scripted
      voicemail offering support and encouraging the participant to call back. If at any point
      during phone conversations the Crisis Clinician has concerns about a participant's safety or
      suicide risk, this will be approached in the same way the Clinician would approach anyone who
      calls in to the Mobile Crisis Unit with suicidal ideation or behaviours.

      Crisis Clinicians will record the outcome and content of all phone calls into the electronic
      medical record, including phone calls where they do and do not successfully talk with the
      participant. Throughout the study, Dr. Laura Sutherland will be reviewing the participants'
      electronic medical records with particular attention to mental health diagnoses, visit
      history during the study time, and the notes from all phone calls made. This information will
      be used to analyze all of the data in a deidentified fashion. Crisis Clinicians and Team
      Leads will also keep a daily tally of the total number of individuals considered appropriate
      for the study based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, and how many of these individuals
      decline participation in the study to further inform the analysis.
    
  