
    
      The study protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board and Ethics Committee of
      Royan institute. Prior to the onset of ovarian stimulation, patients will be allocated
      randomly into two groups according to block randomization method. The methodologist will give
      the doctor a code according to the randomization list, which corresponds to the code on the
      drug's box, and the drug box will be delivered to the patient. The COS procedure in all the
      study participate will be same by using a flexible regimen of GnRH antagonist with E2
      priming. In the experimental group, the women received 3 tablet of L-carnitine daily
      (L-carnitine® tablet 1000 mg, Karen Pharmaceutical Company, Iran) from day 2 of the previous
      menstrual cycle until pregnancy test day. The patients in control group will receive 3
      placebo tablets for 8 weeks. All the placebo tablets were produced by Karen company (Tehran,
      Iran), which is approved by the Food and Drug Administration of Iran. The appearance of the
      placebo was indistinguishable in color, shape, size, and smell from L-carnitine tablets.
      Ovarian stimulation will start with a maximum dose of 150 units of rFSH (Gonal -F: Serono
      Laboratories Ltd, Geneva, Switzerlan), from the second or third day of the spontaneous or
      discontinued progesterone menstrual cycle and the monitoring transvaginal ultrasound was
      performed and then if the follicle is observed, start with 13 injections of GnRH antagonist
      (Cetrotide®, 0.25 mg cetrorelix acetate, Serono, Inc) and will be continued until the oocyte
      triggering day. From the seventh day of the cycle, the dose of rFSH will be determined
      according to the rate of ovarian response by vaginal ultrasonography two days in advance. If
      you see at least two follicles 18 mm in size or more, the final stimulation of oocyte
      maturation will be done and 34- 36 hour after that the ovum pickup will be conducted.
      Subsequently ICSI or IVF will be done with standard procedure. The outcome evaluators were
      also blinded to the random allocation process and type of treatment.The primary and secondary
      outcomes were compared between the two groups using appropriate statistical tests.
    
  