
    
      Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is the common cause of maternal death worldwide. It is
      interesting to note that PPH is the most common cause of death in developing country.
      Additionally, PPH is the common cause of maternal cardiac arrest. PPH defined as the amount
      of bleeding more than or equal to 500 ml after vaginal delivery and bleeding of more than or
      equal to 1,000 ml after cesarean delivery. The rate of PPH regardless any route of delivery
      was 2.9-3.2%. Rate of PPH in patients undergoing cesarean delivery was approximately 0.6% -
      3.1%.

      The difference in anesthetic techniques influence the rate of postpartum hemorrhage. Numerous
      studies showed the association between general anesthesia and postpartum hemorrhage in
      patient undergoing cesarean delivery. The outcome showed the odds of PPH in women who had
      cesarean delivery with general anesthesia were 8.15 times higher (95% CI 6.43-10.33) than for
      those who had CS with epidural anesthesia. Likewise, systematic review and meta-analysis
      revealed general anesthesia associated with higher amount of blood loss, but not the
      transfusion rate comparing with regional anesthesia. The decreasing of myometrial uterine
      tone from the usage of inhalational agents (halothane, enflurane, isofurane, sevoflurane, and
      desflurane) from general anesthesia explains this consequence.

      Guidelines recommended the management of PPH after cesarean delivery were launched. World
      Health Organization (WHO) recommendation reported both surgical together with medical
      management (non-surgical) in patients with PPH, which published in the year 2012. The major
      role of anesthesiologists involving in treatment of PPH is medical treatment and blood and
      blood component administration. The novel medical treatment of PPH has been described in
      several literatures including the usage of tranexamic acid and fibrinogen concentrate. The
      World Maternal Antifibrinolytic trial (WOMAN trial) is the large-sample size randomized
      controlled trial publishing in the Lancet in the year 2017. WOMAN trial revealed the
      administration of tranexamic acid in patients with PPH after vaginal or cesarean delivery
      significantly reduced blood loss and decreased maternal mortality rate from bleeding.
      Likewise, Cochrane database systematic review concluded in the year 2018 that intravenous
      tranexamic acid reduced mortality rate due to bleeding in women with PPH, irrespective of
      mode of delivery. The WHO collaborator subsequently launched the update of recommendation
      including the administration of tranexamic acid 1 gram in PPH patients within 3 hours after
      birth.

      Moreover, the rate of ICU admission after postpartum hemorrhage was studied revealing 15 of
      21 patients (71.4%). Of which, 12 patients presented disseminated intravascular coagulation
      (DIC) and 2 cases death (9%). Critically-ill patients deriving from massive hemorrhage from
      PPH also transfusion-related acute lungs injury (TRALI), congestive heart failure, acute
      kidney injury and multiorgan failure.

      In this study, we emphasize in patients underwent cesarean delivery with PPH (intraoperative
      estimated blood loss > 1,000 ml). The primary purpose is to identify the maternal outcomes
      after PPH. The highlighted outcome is the anesthetic management including rate of blood
      transfusion and incidence of patient experiencing massive blood transfusion. The secondary
      purposes of this study are amount of blood loss, causes of PPH and other outcomes that
      related to PPH such as the rate of hysterectomy and postoperative outcome eg. congestive
      heart failure, acute kidney injury and TRALI etc. Additionally, incidence of PPH will be
      studied. Data collection will be made to identify the cause of PPH, anesthetic techniques
      that may related to the amount of hemorrhage, medical treatment for PPH and neonatal
      outcomes. We also aim to obtain the rate of ICU admission and revealed the factors involving
      the ICU admission in PPH patients underwent cesarean delivery.

      The detail of outcomes of PPH in cesarean delivered patients in Siriraj hospital is scared;
      and it has not yet been described in the literature. Therefore, the authors aim to collected
      the data and analyzed the outcomes associated with PPH, in order to report in the literatures
      as well as improving the anesthetic management of intraoperative PPH in our institute.
    
  