
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare local tumor control 4 months after treatment of patients with 4 to 15
      intracranial non-melanoma metastases at the time of enrollment (=< 15 at time of treatment)
      treated with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) versus (vs.) whole brain radiation therapy
      (WBRT) in a prospective randomized trial.

      II. To compare cognitive decline at 4 months defined as a significant decline (5 point
      decrease from baseline based on the reliable change index) in Hopkins Verbal Learning Test -
      Revised (HVLT-R) Total Recall after initial treatment with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)
      versus whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) in patients with 4 to 15 non-melanoma brain
      metastases at the time of enrollment (=< 15 at time of treatment).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine local control and distant tumor control in the brain at 1, 4, 6, 9, and 12
      months post treatment.

      II. To determine overall survival in each treatment arm. III. To assess the pattern of
      neurocognitive change in memory at 1, 4, 6, 9, and 12 months post-treatment as well as
      executive function, attention, processing speed, and upper extremity fine motor dexterity.

      IV. To evaluate the composite neurocognitive function score for both treatment arms.

      V. To assess the pre-treatment factors of age, Karnofsky performance status (KPS), and
      extra-cranial disease in the predictive determination of local and distant control and
      neurocognitive outcome in each treatment arm.

      VI. To assess the correlation between number of lesions and total volume of intracranial
      disease and neurocognitive outcome in each treatment arm.

      VII. To compare time to initiation of systemic therapy from completion of radiotherapy
      between the two treatment arms.

      VIII. To compare number of cycles of systemic therapy delivered following completion of
      radiation treatment in the two treatment arms.

      IX. To document and descriptively compare post-treatment adverse side effects between the two
      treatment arms.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo SRS on day 1.

      ARM II: Patients undergo WBRT 5 days per week (7 days per week for inpatients) for 2 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 4, 6, 9, and 12 months.
    
  