
    
      Differentiation between malignant and benign biliary strictures can be challenging. Accurate
      differentiation of malignant biliary strictures from benign ones is crucial to guide
      management decisions. While a mass lesion involving the bile duct may be observed on imaging
      such as ultrasound (USG), computed tomography (CT), or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in
      patient presenting with obstructive jaundice, early malignancy of the bile duct may often
      present with a ductal stricture without an obvious mass on imaging. Diagnosis of early stage
      malignancy of the bile duct is desirable since the lesion may be amenable to surgical
      resection of curative intent.

      Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is an important diagnostic and
      therapeutic endoscopic technique in patients with obstructive jaundice and a suspected
      biliary stricture. While conventional tissue acquisition techniques such as brush cytology or
      intraductal biopsy of the biliary stricture is often performed during ERCP for tissue
      diagnosis, their sensitivities are suboptimal. The average sensitivities for brush cytology
      and intraductal biopsy were reported to be ~ 59% and ~ 63% respectively.

      When the cause of a biliary stricture remains unclear despite conventional ERCP techniques
      for diagnosis, cholangioscopy is often performed during ERCP to clarify the diagnosis.
      Cholangioscopy performed during ERCP involves passing a small scope (~ 10 French in size)
      through the working channel of the ERCP duodenoscope for direct visualization of the bile
      duct mucosa. This allows an endoscopist to obtain a visual impression (VI) and to perform
      targeted biopsy under direct visualization of the biliary stricture. The VI of a malignant
      biliary stricture is often characterized by the presence of intraductal abnormal tissue
      growth, and dilated, irregular, tortuous tumor vessels. During standard ERCP, cholangioscopy
      can be performed using a 2-operator "mother-baby" system, or a single-operator system. While
      the 2-operator "mother-baby" cholangioscopy technique can provide good image quality of the
      biliary stricture during ERCP, its use has been limited due to the cumbersome nature of the
      procedure requiring 2 endoscopists and the relative fragility of the video cholangioscope.
      Single-operator cholangioscopy (SOC) system, such as the SpyGlass Direct Visualization
      System, on the other hand allows a single operator to perform cholangioscopy during ERCP. In
      a recent meta-analysis of the studies using the optical fiber based SOC in the evaluation of
      indeterminate biliary strictures, the combined sensitivity and specificity of VI were 90% and
      87% respectively, and the combined sensitivity and specificity of cholangioscopy directed
      biopsy were 69% and 98% respectively. The overall incidence of procedure-related adverse
      event (eg, infection, perforation, pancreatitis, etc) was reported to be 7.5% for diagnostic
      SOC during ERCP.

      Despite the promising results of VI using the optical fiber based SOC from prior studies, the
      actual image quality in daily clinical practice is frequently regarded as fair only due to
      the use of a small optical fiber for imaging, and gradual loss of resolution over time from
      optical fiber damage. A SOC with better image quality is needed for better endoscopic
      diagnosis of a biliary stricture.

      Recently, a digital SOC system (SpyGlass Digital System (SpyGlass DS), Boston Scientific,
      USA) has become available and has the potential to further improve the diagnosis of malignant
      and benign biliary strictures. The utility of this digital SOC in the evaluation of biliary
      strictures has not been well studied. We propose this study to evaluate the utility of the
      digital SOC during ERCP in the diagnosis of malignant and benign biliary strictures.
    
  