
    
      Acute kidney injury is a common perioperative complication following liver transplantation
      with an incidence of approximately 55%. Due to the complex physiologic derangements present
      in cirrhotic patients, multiple etiologies and processes may contribute, including chronic
      and acute hepatorenal syndrome, ATN, renal toxic medication administration, microvascular
      circulatory dysfunction from vasopressors, and hypoperfusion from the vasodilatory and
      hypovolemic forms of shock that are common during liver transplantation. While some of the
      risk factors for these causes of AKI can be mitigated, our current area of investigation
      revolves around the modulation of the renin-angiotensin system in the prevention of
      perioperative AKI. In cirrhosis, poor renal blood flow causes an increase in circulating
      levels plasma renin. However, recent studies suggest low levels of angiotensinogen and
      angiotensin 2, which are associated with AKI in cirrhotic patients5 and may contribute to the
      risk of perioperative AKI in liver transplant patients.

      Angiotensin 2 was approved for clinical use as a vasopressor in 2017. The efficacy of
      angiotensin 2 at increasing systemic blood pressure in patients with vasodilatory shock was
      demonstrated by the ATHOS 3 trial. This study found that the addition of angiotensin 2
      increased MAP by close to 10mmHg compared to placebo (12.5 vs 2.9 mmHg p< 0.001) and allowed
      for a decrease in other vasopressor utilization. Post-hoc analysis of the ATHOS-3 trial by
      Tumlin et al demonstrated that patients in vasodilatory shock with AKI had higher rates of
      recovery from AKI and fewer days requiring dialysis than those who did not receive
      angiotensin 2.

      As vasodilatory shock is common among patients undergoing LT, this finding is relevant to our
      patient population. We hypothesize that angiotensin 2 will reduce AKI in patients undergoing
      LT, where vasodilatory shock is also very common.

      Hypothesis: We propose that a relative deficiency of angiotensin 2 predisposes cirrhotic
      patients to develop acute kidney injury following liver transplantation. We hypothesize that
      initiating angiotensin 2 infusion as a short duration infusion during the intra-operative
      period of liver transplant surgery will decrease the incidence of postoperative acute kidney
      injury.

      Aim1: Evaluate the efficacy of Angiotensin 2 to reduce incidence of acute kidney injury (AKI)
      following liver transplantation. Rates of recovery from AKI in patients with septic shock
      have been established in post-hoc analysis of the ATHOS-3 study. With high rates of AKI
      following transplant surgery as well as a patient population with predisposition for AKI in
      part due to a relative angiotensin 2 deficiency, we hope to demonstrate that the addition of
      angiotensin 2 to standard vasopressor regimens during transplant surgery decreases the
      incidence of postoperative AKI.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the safety of angiotensin 2 in cirrhotic patients. While cirrhotic patients
      were included in the two largest studies of synthetic angiotensin 2 (ATHOS-1 and ATHOS-3),
      those with MELD > 40 were excluded, and no specific subgroup analysis was done. While several
      case reports of safe administration of angiotensin 2 in patients with cirrhosis have been
      published, we hope to further investigate its safety during liver transplant surgery. We
      hypothesize that angiotensin 2 can safely be administered in cirrhotic patients
    
  