
    
      BACKGROUND: Urinary tract infection (UTI) is a major public health issue resulting in more
      than 3-million visits to Emergency Departments in the United States each year. As part of the
      diagnostic work up, a sterile urine sample is requested for culture. The preferred urine
      specimen is a "Clean Catch Midstream Urine Sample". When patients are ambulatory and
      competent, this is a self-obtained specimen in a private bathroom. If the urine is not
      collected in a sterile manner the urine sample may be 'contaminated' by bacteria that
      originate from the skin or genital area, and not from the urinary tract. This is often
      described by the clinical laboratory as 'mixed growth bacteria'. A contaminated sample may
      lead to a false-positive urine culture result. In a non-contaminated urine specimen, only a
      single bacterial growth is identified as the source of the infection. Mixed bacterial flora
      with two or more microorganisms makes interpretation of the urine culture more difficult and
      prone to error. The American College of Pathologists has published results of national
      laboratory surveys on Urine Culture Contamination in 1998 and 2008 that document the scope of
      the problem.

      SAMPLE: Adult ambulatory patients in the Emergency Department who have a suspected UTI and
      have a urine culture ordered by a physician. A total of 2000 patients will be enrolled (500
      per group). This is estimated to result in 600 urine samples (150 per group). Written consent
      is not normally required for a self-obtained urine sample. The study will be explained and
      participants will verbally consent or decline to participate, as approved by the
      Institutional Review Board.

      SETTING: Emergency Department of an academic medical center.

      METHOD: This is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 4 groups that compare different
      patient self-cleaning and self-collection methods. All study supplies materials are
      commercially available in the United States. Each participant will be provided with
      study-specific visual aids for male or female participants and their randomly assigned group.
      The four groups are:

      Group 1: Standard moist wipes and standard collection container. Group 2: Silver impregnated
      moist wipes and standard collection container. Group 3: Standard moist wipes and funnel
      collection container. Group 4: Silver impregnated moist wipes and funnel collection
      container. The urine samples will be sent to the Hospital Microbiology Laboratory for
      analysis. Urine samples with a positive leuk-esterase pre-screen will be sent for urine
      culture.

      DATA ANALYSIS:This study is powered to detect a large effect size change in any study groups
      (2. 3. 4) compared with control (group 1). The sample size is sufficient to identify the
      method(s) with the lowest urine sample contamination rate.
    
  