
    
      Our current programme of engagement to healthcare and HCV screening based on on-site dried
      blood spot (DBS) testing has shown to be successful, but with drop-outs in the HCV cascade of
      care due to economic reasons that difficulties travel costs to appointments, unconsciousness
      of disease and low awareness of new direct acting antiviral benefits. In this setting,
      videoconference as a complement to use of serologic scores and dispensing medication outside
      the hospital could be useful to improve adherence and reduce drop-outs by reducing the visits
      to hospital from drug addiction centers (DAC), and promoting direct information regarding
      benefits of been treated with new antivirals free of interferon directly from specialists.

      The hypothesis of the study is that the rate of those diagnosed, fully evaluated of liver
      disease stage, treated and cured will be improved with a lower rate of drop-outs in the
      cascade of care in the telemedicine arm compared with the conventional arm without affecting
      satisfaction in the healthcare assistance process.

      This is a prospective, randomized, study in which subjects attending DAC will be invited to
      participate and sign a consent form.

      Aims:

        -  Evaluation of efficacy (compliance rate with the programme which includes completing
           screening, liver disease evaluation, and treatment)

        -  Evaluation of acceptance (grade of patient satisfaction of the programme)

        -  Evaluation of sustained virological response rate and time to achieve eradication

        -  The adherence rate to follow-up in participants with advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis

        -  To assess factors associated with drop-outs

        -  Cost-effectiveness analysis of the telemedicine programme

      Methodology:

      The investigators have designed a community-based intervention study to evaluate a
      telemedicine based programme versus conventional healthcare to all subjects attending DAC and
      screened for HCV if : a) there is no previous documented HCV antibody request or b) with a
      previous positive HCV antibody test without viral load (RNA) result or positive result
      without treatment or confirmed sustained virological response or c) with a negative HCV
      antibody result tested more than one year ago.

      In the conventional arm participants after the dried blood spot (DBS) testing for viral load
      (RNA) and genotype will be referred to the tertiary care hospital in case of a RNA positive
      result for a one-day appointment for disease stage evaluation with elastography and
      prescription of treatment with DBS after12 weeks of finishing treatment for assessing
      sustained virological response.

      In the interventional arm the hepatologist will real-time videoconference with the
      patient-staff at DAC to discuss the need of DBS for viral load and genotype, evaluation of
      fibrotic stage by serologic scores and if it is the case in known RNA positive cases
      prescription of treatment. If DBS is mandatory the patient will be scheduled for a second
      videoconference to start treatment according to results. Dispensing and custody of treatment
      will be performed at DAC. Follow-up to assess side effects and sustained virological response
      will be also scheduled by videoconference.

      In both arms when advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis has been detected an appointment at the
      tertiary care hospital for hepatocellular carcinoma screening will be scheduled every 6
      months.

      Cost analysis will be performed by investigators to assess medical and non-medical costs and
      satisfaction of the healthcare model by a validated questionnaire. In all the planned
      strategies subjects will be asked to complete a questionnaire that includes demographic
      variables.

      For the present study, a 15% improvement in the efficacy (compliance with the programme) was
      hypothesized in the group of participants receiving the interventional strategy compared to
      the conventional strategy. Taking into account a power of 80%, alpha error of 5% and losses
      of 10% will require 83 participants per group.
    
  