
    
      Colorectal cancer has been recognized as the second most common cause of cancer related death
      in the US (1). Most colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps that progress. Colon
      polyps are usually classified as neoplastic (adenoma and carcinoma) and non-neoplastic (most
      commonly hyperplastic). Standard endoscopic inspection cannot reliably distinguish between
      polyp types. Thus, all visualized polyps during standard colonoscopies are typically removed.
      Since almost half of all polyps are hyperplastic, a large proportion of unnecessary
      polypectomies increase the time, risk, and cost of colonoscopies.

      Various studies have showed improved diagnostic accuracy of different types of polyps when
      broad field techniques such as chromoendoscopy with the use of topical stains were used to
      detect and characterize lesions (2-4). Chromoendoscopy, though an approved method of lesion
      characterization during endoscopic evaluation of colorectal lesions, is time consuming and
      non-standardized. Recently small field techniques such as confocal microscopy and
      endocytoscopy have been introduced enabling visualization of the gastrointestinal tract at a
      cellular level, thus allowing diagnosis and classification of colorectal lesions in vivo.

      Confocal endomicroscopy used along with chromoendoscopy to detect and characterize lesions
      has been studied extensively and reported to have a high accuracy in diagnosing neoplastic
      and nonneoplastic lesions of the gastrointestinal tract (5-12). One of the major limitations
      of the confocal system is the mandatory use of dyes such as topical Acriflavine or
      intravenous Fluorescein. However, there are issues with the application of these dyes; the
      risk of DNA damage with Acriflavine reduced its use. In addition, although intravenous
      fluorescein is FDA approved for diagnostic fluorescein angiography, its gastrointestinal
      application is an off-label indication and considered class IIb by the FDA. The other major
      limitation of the current confocal system is that it requires a dedicated confocal endoscope
      marketed by a single manufacturer. Thus, the use of confocal imaging requires purchase of
      specific confocal endoscopes.

      Endocytoscopy is based on the technology of light-contact microscopy. The current
      endocytoscopy system (ECS) consists of two prototypes; Prototype one gives a low
      magnification (XEC300) with a maximal 450X magnification and field of view of 300X300 um,
      Prototype two provide a high magnification (XEC120) with a maximal 1100X magnification and a
      field of view of 120X120 um. In contrast to confocal endomicroscopy, the endocytoscopes can
      be easily passed through an accessory channel of the conventional therapeutic endoscope. This
      method does not require the use of intravenous contrast agents. Instead, it uses topical
      staining such as methylene blue or crestyl violet, which is applied routinely to facilitate
      visualization and removal of advanced colorectal polyps through endoscopic mucosal resection
      during colonoscopy.

      The endocytoscopy system has only recently been introduced and hence there are very few
      studies reporting its use.

      A prospective study from Japan used endocytoscopy on 113 patients to obtain real time
      histological images in vivo during colonoscopy (13). With the ECS system, it was possible to
      observe lesions at the cellular level, evaluate cellular atypia and distinguish between
      neoplastic and nonneoplastic lesions when compared to histology which was used as the gold
      standard. The correlation between the endocytoscopic and histological diagnosis was
      statistically significant. Eleber et al (14) also reported a sensitivity and specificity of
      79% and 90 %, respectively of the ECS system in diagnosing neoplastic lesions in 28 patients
      with colonic lesions. Furthermore the study by Cipoletta et al (15) demonstrated that the ECS
      system provides real time imaging in vivo with clear visualization of cellular details and
      features of dysplasia of aberrant crypt foci, considered to be the earliest precursor of
      colorectal cancer. In addition Rotondano et al (15) also confirmed high positive predictive
      values for diagnosing hyperplastic polyps as well as dysplastic polyps including low, high
      grade dysplasia as well as invasive cancer.

      A recent systematic review of all published studies also confirmed that endocytoscopy is a
      safe and effective new endoscopic imaging technique to obtain in vivo histology and guided
      biopsies with high diagnostic accuracy (17).

      No associated risks related to the endocystoscopy procedures have been reported in all
      published studies (12-17).

      This specific diagnostic tool of in vivo histology with the use of high resolution
      endocytoscopy system would allow endoscopists to perform targeted biopsies and in some cases
      (if warranted based on the in vivo images) to proceed directly to endoscopic resection of
      lesions. It may also guide assessment of the completeness of the endoscopic intervention with
      detection of any residual neoplastic tissue at the index exam as well as on follow up
      colonoscopy exams. Other potential benefits include elimination of random biopsies for
      surveillance of mucosal disease, elimination of sampling error, limitation of unnecessary
      polypectomies, hence ultimately resulting in cost effectiveness and improved patient
      outcomes.

      In summary, endocytoscopy has the potential to fundamentally change the way endoscopy and
      pathology interact by allowing near histological quality imaging in vivo, without the need,
      risk, and cost of tissue removal.
    
  