
    
      Specific Objectives:

      Describe the cardiopulmonary capacity in elderly people with 65 years old or more, in
      different quartiles of normal range for serum TSH.

      Assess the quality of life, mini mental health status and depression scale in seniors aged 65
      or older, in different quartiles of normal range for serum TSH.

      Quantify the possible effects related to the use of antithyroid drugs in cardiopulmonary
      capacity, quality of life, mini mental health status and depression scale in elderly people
      aged 65 or more, with the initial serum TSH at the lower limit of the normal range (1.0
      milli-International unit/ml) (mIU/ml).

      Justification:

      Despite evidence that in the elderly population the mean serum TSH tends to be higher as
      compared to younger adults, there isn't a curve of normal range of TSH for this specific
      population (more shifted to the right, which would increase the number of diagnoses for
      subclinical hyperthyroidism).

      Thus, elderly individuals, even when classified as euthyroidism, but presenting TSH in the
      normal lower range, may present at a greater risk of cardiovascular disease and therefore,
      may have indication for treatment.

      These findings motivate and justify this study design, which may have great clinical
      relevance in the scientific community for its originality, and important clinical
      applicability.

      Materials and Methods:

      If the patient agrees to participate, an appointment will be scheduled at HUCFF that will be
      made: anamnesis, review of medical records, clinical examination and signing the Informed
      Consent Form (ICF).

      Secondly, they will be guided and directed to: laboratory analysis for serum dosage of TSH
      and free thyroxine (FT4), cardiopulmonary exercise testing and application of the
      questionnaires of quality of life, mini mental health status and depression.

      The study comprised of two parts:

      Phase 1: Sectional:

        -  Analysis of variables.

        -  Sample as a whole and according to the quartiles of the reference range for serum TSH,
           with comparisons between groups.

        -  1st Quartile: TSH: 0.4 to 1.0 mIU / ml.

        -  2nd Quartile: TSH: 1.0 to 2.0 mIU / ml.

        -  3rd Quartile: TSH: 2.0 to 3.0 mIU / ml.

        -  4th Quartile: TSH: 3.0 to 4.0 mIU / ml Phase 2: Clinical uncontrolled. Patients with
           serum TSH initially on the 1st. Quartile (TSH: 0.4 to 1.0 mIU / ml) will receive
           treatment with Methimazole (initial dose of 5mg/day) with the goal of raising the TSH
           values to range between 2.0 and 4.0 mIU / ml (the half upper range of normal).

      After six months with TSH in the target range (2.0 and 4.0 mIU / ml), these patients will be
      subjected to the same examination protocol performed at baseline and assessed to the effects
      of treatment on outcome variables.

      Variables considered in this study:

        -  TSH and FT4

        -  Questionnaire of Quality of life for older adults (WHOQOL-OLD)

        -  Mini-Mental State Examination

        -  Geriatric Depression Scale

        -  Cardiopulmonary exercise testing - cardiopulmonary capacity Variables to be analyzed at
           rest, peak of the exercise and recovery: Heart rate, systolic blood pressure and
           diastolic blood pressure.

      Variables to be assessed at peak effort: pulmonary ventilation, oxygen consumption, carbon
      dioxide production, ventilatory equivalent for oxygen and carbon dioxide, respiratory
      quotient, oxygen pulse, fraction of expired oxygen and carbon dioxide.
    
  