
    
      Most mental health problems begin in childhood and adolescence, but delays in receipt of
      treatment are measured in years to decades. As a result, mental health problems cause a
      disproportionate burden of disability among children and youth compared to adults, and have a
      major impact on life course development. Primary care services can play an important role in
      efforts to prevent and intervene early in the course of child and adolescent mental health
      problems. Primary care services are widely available and offer an opportunity to interact
      simultaneously with children and their parents, treat mental health in the context of medical
      and developmental concerns, and reduce the stigma associated with visiting identifiable
      mental health facilities. While research with adults has shown the feasibility of integrating
      mental health care into primary care settings, and that it reduces the burden of mental
      illnesses, there have been few studies among children and youth and none that address a
      combined task-shifting/stepped care model. In addition, evidence remains lacking that
      integration is feasible in diverse settings, that it improves clinical outcomes, and has the
      potential to be scaled up.

      One essential element of integration is "shifting" first-line mental health engagement and
      treatment tasks to primary care providers. Task shifting requires mental health interventions
      that fit both the local context of primary care services and the local nature of the problems
      seen. To date, most adult and child integration models have targeted single conditions at
      diagnostic levels and relied on additional co-located personnel to provide treatment. To
      achieve goals of prevention and early intervention, integration models for children and youth
      must take into account that the symptoms of emerging child and youth problems often suggest
      multiple possible disorders and can be co-morbid with developmental and parental disorders.
      By definition, emerging problems amenable to early intervention are likely to be
      "subthreshold" and not qualify for treatment in a specialty setting, especially when
      resources are scarce, even though early intervention holds the promise of preventing
      progression.

      The purpose of this trial is to test the effectiveness of adding a child/youth mental health
      component - tailored to fit the context of primary care into an existing collaborative care
      program supporting primary care management of adult mental health problems.

      The trial's specific aims are to conduct an early-stage hybrid effectiveness-implementation
      trial with 45 general practitioners in two cities focusing on:

        1. Whether delivery of tailored interventions by primary care providers results in improved
           child and parent mental health outcomes; and exploring the mechanisms by which the
           interventions achieve those outcomes (which conditions are more likely to be identified
           and treated, which treatments have the greatest uptake by parents and youth)

        2. Whether a coordinated program of training, ongoing coaching, and collaborative care
           results in uptake of the tailored intervention by primary care providers as evidenced by
           treatment provided in primary care and participation in collaborative care through
           consultation and referral.
    
  