
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of reduced-intensity (fludarabine/melphalan)
      haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplantation (Haplo-HCT) followed by post-transplant
      cyclophosphamide (PTCy) in patients with advanced myelofibrosis (MF), as assessed by the
      evaluation of toxicities, including type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and
      duration.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To summarize and evaluate hematologic (neutrophil and platelet) recovery. II. To evaluate
      and describe cytokine release syndrome (CRS) post haploidentical HCT in the setting of
      advanced myelofibrosis, as assessed by grade, frequency, severity, duration and reversibility
      (outcome).

      III. To estimate graft failure-free survival (GFS) at 100-days post-transplant. IV. To
      estimate overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS) and cumulative incidence (CI)
      of relapse/progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100-days, 1-year, and 2-year post
      transplant.

      V. To estimate the cumulative incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), grade
      II-IV, at 100-days post-transplant (per Keystone Consensus modification of the Glucksberg
      criteria).

      VI. To estimate the cumulative incidence of chronic GvHD at 1-year and 2-year post transplant
      (per National Institutes of Health [NIH] Consensus Criteria).

      VII. To characterize the severity and extent of acute and chronic GvHD.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To conduct correlative studies and describe inflammatory cytokine levels and GVHD
      biomarker levels in plasma and T cell differentiation/functions in patients enrolled onto the
      trial.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive melphalan intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day -5, fludarabine IV over
      30-60 minutes on days -5 to -2. Patients undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on day -1 and
      hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) on day 0. Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over
      1-2 hours on days 3 and 4. Starting on day 5, patients receive tacrolimus IV then orally (PO)
      for 6 months followed by a taper, mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice daily (TID) until day 35,
      and glycosylated recombinant human G-CSF AVI-014 (G-CSF) IV daily until absolute neutrophil
      count > 1,500/mm^3 for 3 consecutive days. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
      progression or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 2 years.
    
  