
    
      Objectives

        1. -After a nutritional screening of all patients, evaluate the effectiveness of an
           intervention in patients admitted to a hospital in relationship to disease-related
           malnutrition (DRM) by comparing 3 cohorts: cohort-1: organized intervention to patients
           with DRM or at risk; group 2: intervention on demand by health personnel; Group 3: usual
           care without any explicit intervention. Effectiveness will be evaluated in relation to
           multiple outcomes such as: length of hospital stay of the index admission; and the
           following parameters during admission and until one year after admission, mortality,
           occurrence of complications (mainly infectious, or surgical in surgical patients),
           readmissions, use of health resources after discharge (primary care consultations,
           hospital and emergency consultations), changes in weight during admission and up to one
           year, changes in their health related quality of life (SF-36 and/or EQ-5d) and fragility
           (Barthel I.) from admission to one year after admission.

        2. -Evaluate the cost and cost-effectiveness of those strategies.

        3. - Evaluate in the three groups the evolution of patients in relation to the previous
           parameters of results according to their classification after screening at the time of
           admission to DRM, risk of DRM or no problem of DRM detected.

           Secondary Objectives

        4. - Evaluate the three groups of patients classified according to their level of DRM
           according to their level of fragility and in relation to their evolution during
           admission and up to one year (based on all the outcome parameters indicated above)

        5. - Identify risk factors of worse evolution during hospital admission and up to one year
           of follow up based on the previously described outcome parameters and study the role
           that the DRM level plays as predictor of evolution.

      DESIGN: Prospective cohorts with three branches. SCOPE: Three public hospitals. The first
      center, where the study intervention will be carried out (branch 1), is the Galdakao -
      Usánsolo University Hospital that serves a population of about 300,000 urban inhabitants and
      semi-urban The second center, the University Hospital of Basurto (HUB), where the
      intervention will be carried out by demand (branch 2), serves the population of Bilbao, some
      350,000 urban inhabitants. The third center, Donostia University Hospital (HUD) where there
      will be no specific organized intervention (branch 3), attends the population of San
      Sebastián-Donostia and surrounding areas covering a population of about 400,000 inhabitants
      of urban and semi-urban characteristics. All of them have similar human and technological
      resources being the population that attend similar on sociodemographic and clinical
      characteristics.

      SUBJECTS OF THE STUDY. See detailed information in other sections. SAMPLE SIZE. It is
      estimated at least 10-15% of DRM and up to 30-35% of patients at risk of DRM (with a global
      of almost 40-50%) in the selected pathologies of patients.

      Sample size calculation. We have made the estimates for an alpha error of 0.05 and a power of
      80%. We have chosen the following outcome parameter in which we expect relevant differences
      between branches: we estimate that the average length of stay will decrease from an average
      of 12 days (DS: 5) in the DRM group or at risk without any explicit intervention (HUD) to an
      average of 10 days (DS: 5) in the DRM group or at risk where the intervention will be
      performed (HGU) for which we will need 100 patients by each comparisons group but we will try
      to recruit at least 100 patients from the previous three nutritional groups per center. We
      estimate a percentage of losses in the follow-up of 10-15% so, overall, 350 patients per
      center will be sufficient to meet the objectives and respond to the hypotheses of the study.
      Data from 2017 for each hospital and established patients selection criteria indicate that we
      should have more than those patients admitted by hospital in 12 months.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE SCREENING: all admitted patients of the three centers that meet the
      selection criteria will be evaluated in the first 72 hours after admission and again upon
      discharge (if a patient remained admitted more than one week, this assessment will be
      repeated weekly). The nutritional risk assessment will be done by applying the Malnutrition
      Universal Screening Tool (MUST) and the Global Leadership Initiative on Malnutrition (GLIM)
      questionnaires.

      VARIABLES TO COLLECT: in summary, A.-From the clinical history: Sociodemographic data will be
      collected (age, gender, educational level ..) and clinical data such as: comorbidities, based
      on the Charlson Comorbidity Index , weight, height, health habits, usual treatments (dose,
      number of drugs), diagnosis of admission (Major Diagnostic Categories ICD-10), severity of
      pathology (TNM if pathology tumor), source of admission (emergency vs scheduled), admission
      service. During admission: complications, treatments, procedures and referral to special
      units (ICU,...). Analytical data available (biochemistry and blood cells count, including
      urea, creatinine, glucose, electrolytes, albumin, pre-albumin, lymphocytes, total
      cholesterol, triglycerides, transferrin, and liver function tests). This analytics will be
      obtained in the first 48 hours of admission and in surgical patients before the intervention
      if scheduled. They will be repeated at discharge and weekly in prolonged income.

      Main results of interest: see separate section. B.-Health-related quality of life
      questionnaires: 1.- The patient's functional will be calculated using the Barthel index. 2. -
      General health and utilities: they will be measured by the EuroQol-5d questionnaire, which
      will mainly be used for economic analysis. 3.-SF-36.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS. A descriptive analysis of the entire sample and univariate analysis to
      determine potential variables related to the outcomes of interest will be performed. In the
      multivariable analysis, different models will be used according to the dependent/outcome
      variable of interest. In the case of dichotomous dependent variables (mortality,
      complications, readmissions ...) logistic regression models will be used. For continuous
      dependent variables (changes in HRQoL) generalized linear models will be used; and for
      dependent variables that have other distributions, such as length of stay, Poisson regression
      models will be used. The main comparison will be between the intervention groups (HGU) versus
      intervention by demand (HUB) versus control group (HUD). In all multivariables analyzes, the
      use of a Propensity Score (PS) as an adjustment system for the differences between the
      characteristics of the patients of the three centers will be considered.

      Economic analysis: A cost-effectiveness analysis of the intervention corresponding to the
      first branch will be carried out with respect to the second and third branches. Only medical
      costs associated with medical assistance will be included. The measure for the
      cost-effectiveness analysis will be the incremental cost for each year of life adjusted by
      Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) earned. The QALY will be calculated from the EuroQol-5d-5l
      questionnaire scores, in the baseline moment and one year after admission, and the mortality
      variable up to the year.

      PROBLEMS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY. 1.-As in any study prospective study, main problem is
      the losses in the follow up. To reduce them, patients will be fully informed and a close
      contact will be established during follow-up to all patients. 2.-This project is proposed as
      an intervention study adapted to the current circumstances of the usual clinical care
      practice, which should guarantee a greater feasibility of a subsequent implementation of this
      patient care strategy if our results show its benefits. 3.- The comparability between the
      different cohorts will be guaranteed in the statistical analysis by the adjustment by the
      propensity scores. 4.-The strategy of the study poses an ethical problem since after
      screening in all the centers some of the patients will be identified as with DRM or at risk
      and therefore this will be communicated to the physicians in charge of each patient so that
      they proceed in the way they create timely by writing down their attitude therapy. We will
      collect information about any additional nutritional strategy given to any patient.

      ETHICAL AND CONFIDENTIALITY ASPECTS. The project has been evaluated and approved by the
      research commissions of all the participant centers and approved by the accredited Clinical
      Research Ethics Committee (CEIC) of the Basque Country. EU and Spanish laws on personal data
      protection will be followed, ensuring that patient information data obtained cannot be
      associated with identifiable persons. Study data base will be encrypted and protected to
      assure confidentiality. Only research personal will have access to it with specific
      passwords.
    
  