
    
      MS (Multiple Sclerosis) is the most common neurological disease involving disabilities in
      young adults, with Central Nervous System involvement in both the brain and spinal cord. In a
      recent review, its incidence in the United Kingdom is estimated at 7 new cases per 100,00
      inhabitants per year, with a prevalence of about 100,000 patients. Bowel symptoms, in
      particular constipation and faecal incontinence, affect more than two thirds of MS patients,
      and have a significant impact on patients' quality of life (QoL) by significantly limiting
      their social, occupational and emotional life.

      Recently, bowel management based on Transanal Irrigation (TAI) has also been proposed in
      patients with MS, but TAI efficacy on intestinal transit time and patient's compliance with
      TAI have not been defined yet.

      The primary objective of the study is to assess the prevalence, characteristics, severity and
      impact on the Quality of Life of intestinal disorders in patients who consecutively refer to
      the neurological clinic for the diagnosis and treatment of Multiple Sclerosis at Ferrara
      University Hospital, Italy.

      Secondary objectives are to correlate the severity and characteristics of constipation and
      fecal incontinence with intestinal transit time and the type of faeces evacuated according to
      the Bristol Stool Form Scale; to evaluate the costs in terms of the precautions (diapers,
      traverses, drugs, medicated clysms, etc.) and the time dedicated to the evacuation, and how
      these items change in relation to the use of TAI; and finally, to study the composition of
      the intestinal microbiota in MS patients in relation to the type of bowel characteristics,
      comparing it with the profile of the healthy population of the same region of origin,
      Emilia-Romagna, Italy.

      The study proposed is a monocentric prospective observational study. The study population
      will be composed of patients who will consecutively refer to the Neurological Clinics of the
      University Hospital of Ferrara, Italy for a number of about 150 patients.

      The study will consist of two phases.The first phase will be the selection of eligible
      patients by administering two self-filling questionnaires: PacQol (Patient Assessment of
      Constipation Quality of Life) and NBD (Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score).

      Patients with PacQol score ≥ 32 will be sent to the surgical clinic for the second phase.
      During the latter phase, patients will undergo a number of visits varying from 1 to 4
      depending on the patient's willingness to continue the study. After the illustration of the
      purpose and protocol of the study to the patient, classification of constipation and/or
      faecal incontinence in accordance with the Rome III Diagnostic Criteria will be assessed,
      with consideration of other possible etiopathogenetic factors other than MS. Further
      questionnaires will be filled in to evaluate the disease status (Constipation scoring system
      by Agachan-Wexner, Obstructed defecation score by Altomare, Fecal Incontinente grading scale
      by Jorge-Wexner); if the patient will consent to the continuation of the study, he will be
      given 7-days food diaries, evacuation diaries, radiopaque markers, stool collection container
      and appointment date for plain abdominal X-ray which may coincide with the appointment for
      examination number 2 (visit 2 or 3).

      In particular, radiopaque markers Intestinal Transit Study will be performed according to the
      Bouchoucha procedure revised by Abrahamsson, which involves ingestion of 10 markers for 6
      days at the same time and execution of a plain abdominal X-ray on the 7th day. During this
      week the patient will complete an evacuation diary recording the time and number of
      evacuations, the method of eventual bowel care, the consistency of faeces according to the
      Bristol Scale, any episode of fecal incontinence, the type of hygiene measures in general,
      the number of enemas, diapers, and any other garrison used in relation to the evacuation.

      Patients will be asked to collect a faecal sample in a container during the last week before
      the following inspection at Visit 2.

      During the second visit, the outcome of the plain abdominal X-ray will be discussed, the
      completed diaries will be collected, and the faecal sample will be stored at -20 C° and
      subsequentely sent to the Laboratory of the Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology of the
      University of Bologna, Italy for the analysis of the intestinal microbiome composition.

      Patients with severe NBD impairment will be offered the adoption of TAI as a way to manage
      their own evacuation, replacing any other measure used until that moment (suppositoires,
      enemas) with the exception of the possible intake of macrogols and/or prebiotics and/or
      probiotics which instead can be continued. This treatment will be proposed to all patients
      with severe impairment of intestinal function.

      The TAI training with Peristeen will be carried out at the surgical clinic of the Surgical
      Department of the Ferrara University Hospital, Italy, by the personnel involved in the study,
      usually in a single session, but more sessions may be necessary.

      During the following 4 weeks, patients will continue to use the Peristeen at home according
      to the instructions provided by the training staff collecting a stool sample each week.
      During the last of the four weeks of TAI use patients will repeat the compilation of food
      diaries, evacuation diaries, the radiopaque markers Transit Time, and collection of the stool
      for microbiota analysis. The appointment for the radiography could coincide also in this case
      with the following visit (visit 3 or 4).

      During the last visit the outcome of Transit Time X-ray will be discussed, completed diaries
      and stool samples will be collected, and PAC-QoL questionnaire will be submitted to patients
      who completed the study pathway.

      Patients will be asked about overall satisfaction of TAI treatment with Peristeen by means of
      a numerical assessment from 0 to 10.

      Finally, any comment will be noted as well any events that might be related to TAI irrigation
      with Peristeen will be recorded.

      Patients will undergo a neurological examination 3 months after the start of treatment.

      The whole duration of the study will be of 2 years.
    
  