
    
      Opioids are psychoactive substances (narcotics) primarily used for pain relief by producing
      morphine-like effects. Although regularly prescribed by physicians, opioids (including
      morphine, codeine, and oxycodone) are highly addictive. Opioids block feelings of pain and
      trigger a release of dopamine. Dependence occurs with repeated use, as the parts of the brain
      naturally responsible for releasing dopamine rely on the drug for proper function. When
      avoided, patients quickly experience severe withdrawal symptoms similar to the flu.

      In the United States, millions are prescribed opioids for pain relief. Every day, more than
      115 people die from overdose. The highest among them are people aged 25 to 54 years.
      Addiction treatment costs near $78.5 billion and rising, less than 10% of people in need are
      receiving it.

      Within the orthopaedic trauma population at Grady Healthcare in Atlanta, Georgia, 20% of
      patients report a history of substance abuse, 30% have previously used opioid medications for
      pain, and nearly 25% report taking opioid pain medications up to 1 year after their trauma.
      Trauma patients are particularly at high risk.

      The Christopher Wolf Crusade (CWC) is a 501C3 non-profit providing preventative solutions,
      education, and advocacy for the American opioid epidemic. CWC's primary focus is to introduce
      a behavior-specific intervention at the time of inpatient hospitalization for trauma to
      decrease overall opioid utilization and improve pain control in the post-trauma time period.
      The goal of this study is to introduce Life Care Specialists (LCS) to the healthcare field to
      focus on pain management and addiction prevention for patients. The LCS is a behavior-based
      pain "coach" who educates patients on risks of opioid dependence and offers non-traditional
      non-pharmacologic options for pain control. In addition, the LCS will act as a liaison
      between the patient and the physician to ensure that traditional pharmacologic-based pain
      control regimens are optimized.

      Potential patients will be identified during their initial presentation to Grady Hospital
      during morning trauma board rounds within the first 24 hours of admission. Once the consent
      process is complete, the participants will be referred to the LCS team. Participants will be
      followed in the orthopaedic trauma clinic at routine post-operative intervals (2 weeks, 6
      weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year post-operatively).
    
  