
    
      Background: Cardiac arrest is the leading cause of mortality in Canada, and the overall
      survival rate for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest rarely exceeds 5%. Survivors have a quality
      of life similar to the general population. While bystander CPR can increase survival for
      cardiac arrest victims up to four times, bystander CPR rates remain low in Canada (15%). Many
      Canadian urban communities offer 9-1-1 dispatch-assisted CPR instructions to callers
      reporting a victim in cardiac arrest. Some evidence suggests that agonal breathing can be
      misinterpreted as a sign of life by Dispatch Officers, resulting in the inappropriate
      withholding of dispatch-assisted CPR instructions. Dispatch-assisted CPR instructions are
      recommended by the International Guidelines on Emergency Cardiovascular Care, but their
      ability to improve cardiac arrest survival remains unclear according to a systematic review
      of the literature.

      Objectives: The overall goal of this study is to better understand the factors leading to
      successful dispatch-assisted CPR instructions and to ultimately save more lives of cardiac
      arrest patients. Specific objectives are to: 1) Determine the ability of 9-1-1 dispatchers to
      make the diagnosis of cardiac arrest over the phone; 2) Quantify the frequency and impact of
      perceived agonal breathing on cardiac arrest diagnosis; 3) Measure the frequency with which
      dispatch-assisted CPR instructions can be successfully completed in out-of-hospital cardiac
      arrest cases; and 4) Measure the impact of dispatch-assisted CPR instructions on bystander
      CPR and survival rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

      Methods: We will conduct a before-after, prospective cohort study that evaluates 9-1-1 call
      reporting for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest victims. The study will take place in 19 urban
      communities in Ontario providing dispatch-assisted CPR instructions since April 1st 2004. The
      study population will include all 9-1-1 callers reporting out-of-hospital cardiac arrests for
      which resuscitation was attempted in patients 16-years or older. The dispatch center protocol
      consists of establishing the nature of the emergency before initiating the appropriate level
      of response; this includes asking standardized questions to determine if cardiac arrest is
      present. The Dispatch Officer then offers CPR instructions over the telephone while emergency
      response vehicles are on their way to the location. Standardized data collection tools will
      be used to extract information from: 9-1-1 call recordings, paramedic patient care reports,
      base hospital records, fire medical records, and hospital medical records. All participating
      centers already combine information from various sources in a cardiac arrest registry. The
      following information will be collected: confirmation of cardiac arrest status by the
      Dispatch Officer, presence of apparent agonal breathing, CPR instructions offered to the
      9-1-1 callers, factors influencing the ability of 9-1-1 callers to perform CPR including
      their proximity to the victim's location and their emotional receptiveness to instructions,
      the time interval between the call to 9-1-1 and the initiation of CPR by the bystander.
      Measurements will include the accuracy of cardiac arrest diagnosis, the frequency of
      perceived agonal breathing during cardiac arrest, 9-1-1 caller's ability to receive
      instructions and initiate CPR, bystander CPR rates, and survival to hospital discharge. Data
      analysis for Objective #1 will include sensitivity, specificity and receiver operating
      characteristic curve; Objectives #2 and #3 will be analyzed using descriptive statistics; and
      for Objective #4 univariate, stepwise logistic regression, and time series analysis will be
      performed to control for trends over time and variables otherwise associated with bystander
      CPR and survival rates in 6000 arrest victims.
    
  