
    
      Patients will be screened for eligibility pre-CABG, and informed consent signed before
      randomization. Aspirin 81mg/d will be started within 12 hours of CABG as per routine
      practice. Study medication will be started within 48 hours after CABG if there are no
      contraindications. Patients will be randomized to ticagrelor 90mg bid (no loading dose) or
      placebo bid for 1 year following CABG. Aspirin 81mg/d will be continued for at least 1 year
      post-CABG. Other cardiac medications will be at the discretion of the treating physicians as
      per standard practice.

      Patients will be followed daily during their hospital stay. Outpatient visits will be
      scheduled at 3, 6 and 12 months. There will also be telephone contacts at 1 and 9 months.

      CT Substudy:Patients in the CT angiography substudy(the first 240 enrolled subjects) will
      have a cardiac CT angiogram to evaluate bypass graft patency at 3-month follow-up.Grafts will
      be separately evaluated based upon the conduits used, internal mammary, radial, or saphenous
      vein grafts. Graft patency is defined as contrast filling of the conduit and the coronary
      artery beyond the anastomosis. Grafts with ≥50% stenosis will also be recorded. The location
      of the stenosis will also be recorded (proximal anastomosis, body of graft, or distal
      anastomosis). CT angiograms will be evaluated by 2 interpreters (radiologists or
      cardiologists) blinded to the randomized treatment, and will be reviewed by a 3rd interpreter
      if there are disagreements. If no consensus could be reached among the 3 interpreters, the
      graft will be deemed not analyzable, or be subject to invasive coronary angiography for
      definitive assessment if clinically indicated.

      The primary efficacy endpoint is the composite of all-cause mortality, MI, stroke, or repeat
      revascularization within 1 year following CABG. Secondary endpoints include the individual
      endpoints of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, repeat revascularization.
    
  