
    
      The concurrent chemoradiotherapy has become the standard treatment for patients with
      intermediate or locally advanced rectal cancer. However, the data from prospective trial for
      elderly patients is still lacking.

      The aim of this multicenter phase II study is to evaluate the response rate, local control,
      disease-free survival and treatment-related toxicity of preoperative chemoradiation with
      Raltitrexed for intermediate or locally advanced rectal cancer in the fit elderly aged 70
      years above.

      And all the participants have to be evaluated by comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA).
      Clinical stage was evaluated by chest and abdominal computed tomography, endorectal
      ultrasound, and/or pelvic magnetic resonance imaging.

      5 weeks after the preCRT, the multi-disciplinary team decided the following treatment of
      patients based on imaging evaluation. Surgical resection would be done with a minimum
      interval of 6 weeks after the last radiation. Acute toxicity was evaluated during and within
      2 weeks after CRT. Toxicities were assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0.

      Sample size consideration.It has been calculated that 68 patients will need to be included,
      according to the following assumptions:

      Recruitment period of 24 months. Minimum follow-up period of 24 months. We estimated that 51
      patients were required to test the hypothesis that the 2-year DFS was equal to or greater
      than 78% with 80% power and to reject the hypothesis that the 2-year DFS rate was less than
      63% at a significance level of 5% (one sided).Taking into account that a 5% percentage of
      losses, 20% of patients will refuse surgery, 68 patients are expected to be included in the
      study.

      The interim analysis design. An interim safety evaluation will be carried out when 39
      patients have finished their preoperative CRT. As the tolerance of elderly patients for
      nonhematological toxicities (such as diarrhoea) was often more poor than hematological
      toxicities, we estimated that 39 patients were required to test the hypothesis that the
      nonhematological G3 or higher acute toxicities rate was equal to or less than 21% ( safety
      result of patients aged 70 years or older from ACCOR12/PRODIGE 2 phase III trial) with 80%
      power and to reject the hypothesis that the rate was more than 36% at a significance level of
      10% (one sided). If nonhematological G3 or higher acute toxicites is observed in12 or more
      patients, the H0 hypothesis will be rejected, and the protocal should be re-evaluated.

      Biospecimen Retention. Blood, plasma, feces and tissue (optional). Feces were collected
      before any treatment. Peripheral blood samples of 10-20mL were collected from the patients
      for CTCs analysis, exploration analysis for frailty and tumor marker before and after preCRT,
      before and after surgery, and then on each follow up visit, according to our study protocal.
    
  