
    
      Osteoid Osteoma (OO) is a benign, but painful, bone tumor commonly occurring in children and
      young adults. Definitive treatment options are CT-guided radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and
      less commonly, open surgical resection. RFA is less invasive than surgery, but it still
      requires drilling from the skin through muscle and bone. It also exposes the patient and
      operator to ionizing radiation.

      Magnetic Resonance guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (MR-HIFU) provides precise and
      controlled delivery of focused ultrasound energy inside a lesion using an external
      applicator, without any incisions or drilling. MR-HIFU has been successfully used to treat
      painful bone metastases in adult clinical trials. Several recent reports, including two
      publications from our group, show that MR-HIFU is a feasible and safe treatment for OO.

      MR-HIFU ablation of OO may provide a better alternative to surgical resection or RFA as it is
      completely non-invasive and does not require ionizing radiation. These two qualities of
      MR-HIFU are especially beneficial in growing children and young adults. Furthermore, MR-HIFU
      OO ablation is quick, with expected total procedure time of less than two hours. Such short
      treatments offer additional safety benefits from reduced anesthesia / sedation requirement
      compared to surgery and RFA.

      The investigator's group has performed the first pilot clinical trial in the U.S. to evaluate
      MR-HIFU treatment for painful osteoid osteoma (PI: K.V. Sharma, NCT02349971). This trial
      shows that MR-HIFU ablation is feasible, well tolerated, and can be safely performed in a
      pediatric cohort. Based on these results, the investigators propose a pivotal clinical trial
      designed to evaluate treatment efficacy as the next logical step required for clinical
      translation. The investigators hypothesize that noninvasive and radiation-free MR-HIFU
      ablation for osteoid osteoma will be a clinically effective treatment, with success rate
      comparable to that currently reported for RFA.
    
  