
    
      The instrumental session consisted of the registration of sEMG signals during electrically
      stimulated and voluntary contractions according to a consolidated standardized protocol. The
      investigated muscle is the Anterior Tibial.

      Each subjects sat comfortably on a chair with his/her ankle flexed at 90° degree and knee
      extended; the leg was fixed at 90 degrees, in the isometric brace fixed on a plane (MISO1,
      LISiN Bioengineering Centre, Turin Polytechnic, Italy Torque was measured with a modular
      brace incorporating two independent torque transducers (model TR11, CCT Transducers, Torino,
      Italy).

      The signal from the two torque meters were amplified, summed and displayed by means of a
      visual feedback system, which provided the subject with information regarding the torque
      level produced. Torque signal were stored to be analysed later.

      The sEMG signal of the right Anterior Tibial was investigated with a flexible adhesive linear
      array of 16 electrodes (silver bars 10 mm long, 1 mm diameter, 10 mm apart) in single
      differential (SD) configuration. The optimal position and orientation of the array was
      determined at moderate contraction levels by visual inspection of the signal. It provided
      clear motor unit action potentials with similar propagation in the two directions from the
      neuromuscular junction to the tendons.

      The reference electrode was positioned on the patient's leg. The skin was cleaned by slightly
      abrading it with abrasive gel before positioning the array.

      Since sEMG variables are affected by muscle temperature, the skin temperature was monitored
      with an electronic thermometer throughout the whole examination and was kept between 31.5 C°
      and 32.5 C° 30.

      The protocol consisted in three evaluations: one stimulated contraction and two voluntary
      contractions, according to a standardized protocol.

      The stimulated contraction was executed through a button stimulation electrode (size: 10 mm)
      positioned on the motor point using a monopolar configuration, a frequency of 25 Hz for a
      duration of 30 seconds and a supramaximal stimulation. The motor point was selected as the
      position of the stimulated electrode on the skin where the M-wave showed the maximum
      amplitude for a specified stimulation intensity; the supramaximal stimulation level was
      defined as the current intensity above which there was no significant increase of the
      amplitude of the M-wave or the maximum level tolerated by the subjects.

      A rest period of 10 minutes after stimulation was observed in order to avoid cumulative
      fatigue phenomenon.

      The subject then performed two test-contractions by dorsiflexion of the foot against the
      resistance given by the braces, in order to get acquainted with the procedure and to verify
      the correct posture and position of the array.

      The subject was subsequently asked to produce three maximal voluntary contractions (MVC)
      lasting 3 seconds each with a rest period of 2 minutes in-between. The reference MVC,
      expressed in Nm, was established as the maximum of the three measurements. The last MVC
      measurement was followed by a 10-minute rest period.

      The subject then produced two voluntary contractions each lasting 30 seconds: one contraction
      at 30% MVC and one at 60% MVC with a 5-minute rest in between. A visual biofeedback was used
      to help the subject maintaining the requested contraction level; furthermore, the subjects
      were verbally encouraged to obtain the best outcome during their performance.

      The EMG signals were filtered with a 10-500 Hz bandwidth filter, amplified (EMG 16-16 channel
      amplifiers LISiN Bioengineering Centre Turin Polytechnic). They were sampled at 2048 Hz
      during voluntary contractions and 1024 Hz during electrically elicited contractions. Signals
      were digitised by a 16 bit A/D converter (DAQCARD-6024E National Instruments, Austin, Texas,
      USA) and stored on the disk of a personal computer.

      Signal processing was performed using MATLAB. EMG variables of interest were: mean normalized
      frequency (MNF), average rectified value (ARV) and muscle fibre conduction velocity (CV).
      Spectral (i.e. MNF), amplitude (i.e. ARV) and CV variables were computed with numerical
      algorithms described in previous papers.

      CV was estimated from the consecutive double differential signals showing the best signal
      propagation; MNF and ARV were estimated from the single differential channel in the middle of
      the channels used for CV estimation. Epoch length for EMG variable estimation was 0.5 seconds
      without overlapping.

      A linear regression was used to fit all the scatter graphs of the EMG variables with time.
      The rate of change was defined as the slope of the regression line. The normalized rate of
      change for all variables was defined as the ratio between the slope and the intercept
      (initial value of sEMG variables) expressed as percentage. Physiological myoelectric
      manifestations of muscle fatigue consist in reduction of MNF and CV and increase of ARV.
    
  