
    
      Healthy Community Pilot Project is one of the six Community-based Mental Wellness Project for
      Adolescents and Adults, which aims at enhancing mental well-being of adolescents, adults and
      their families by creating a positive, happy and joyful environment in the community. The
      project is funded by Health Care and Promotion Fund of Food and Health Bureau.

      Healthy Community Pilot Project is organized by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service and
      led by the School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong.The project will organize one
      train-the-trainer workshop to train the service providers from 8-10 NGO service units on the
      concept of sharing, mind and enjoyment (SME), ways of conducting SME family-based physical
      activities and knowledge of adult mental health problem (in particular the mixed anxiety and
      depressive disorder). Two SME family-based physical activities will be held by the NGO
      service providers in collaboration with 3 District Healthy City Committees. Each NGO service
      unit may organize enjoyable SME family-based physical activities according to the needs of
      individual district and to promote positive psychology under the theme of Sharing, Mind and
      Enjoyment. One wisdom sharing session will be organized to members of District Healthy City
      Committees to promote best practice of community mental wellness project.

      The major subjects of the Healthy Community Pilot Project RCT study are 150-200 families with
      400 participants. 3 District Healthy City Committees will be selected as collaborators. 10-18
      NGO service units will either be randomized into intervention service units and control
      service units. Cluster Randomized Control Trial will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of
      the intervention programme.

      In the study, families will be invited to complete a series of questionnaires or invited to
      attend focus groups to measure the sharing, mind and enjoyment related behavioural changes,
      mental well-being and subjective changes. NGO workers who joined the train-the-trainer
      workshop will also be invited to complete questionnaires to measure their knowledge about
      mental health, skills of conducting SME family-based physical activities and their sharing,
      mind and enjoyment related behavioural change. They will be invited to focus group interview
      to assess their experience and feedback on this project while community partners will be
      invited to individual in-depth interviews to assess the outcomes of community engagement
      process.

      HKU team will conduct evaluation during the programme implementation stage. The effectiveness
      of the intervention, as well as the level of participation and ratings for the intervention
      will also be evaluated.
    
  