
    
      Aggressive/challenging behaviors (AC/Bs) are a major public health problem for individuals
      with intellectual disabilities (ID) living in group homes. A leading reason for psychiatric
      hospitalizations and incarcerations, A/CBs are costly to the healthcare system, agencies and
      families. Social problem solving (SPS) training programs for individuals with ID have had
      positive behavioral results, but most were conducted in clinical or forensic settings. None
      were community-based preventive interventions, none examined whether A/CBs decreased in
      participants' group homes and work settings, and none addressed cost effectiveness. In
      preliminary work, the investigators modified an effective SPS training program, using input
      from individuals with ID and residential staff, as a preventive intervention for the group
      home setting. Steps to Effective Problem-solving (STEPS) includes residential staff and uses
      the group home environment to facilitate behavior change. The purpose of this clinical trial
      is to test the efficacy of STEPS for individuals with ID. Specific aims are to 1) Assess the
      efficacy of the STEPS intervention in group homes to improve SPS skills and reduce A/CBs of
      the individuals with ID compared to an attention-control nutrition program from baseline to
      12, 24 and 36 weeks, controlling for behavioral determinants of A/CBs (demographics,
      agency/home environment, current health). 2) Assess the mediating effect of the support
      environment for SPS (residential staff SPS skills, group home level SPS skills, and group
      cohesiveness) on the improvement of SPS skills and reductions in A/CBs. 3) Evaluate cost
      effectiveness of STEPS relative to usual care for A/CB incidents in group homes. The
      investigators expect to show STEPS to be a preventive behavioral strategy to reduce A/CBs
      among individuals with ID, improve the cost effectiveness of their care and make an important
      incremental advance in SPS research.
    
  