
    
      Pancreatic Arm Now Closed.

      The drug being tested in this study is called TAK-931. TAK-931 blocks function of a specific
      protein called CDC7 kinase in the human body. TAK-931 is being tested in participants with
      metastatic cancer (colorectal, pancreatic, sqNSCLC and sqEC) in the United States and Japan
      and also in the participants with any type of metastatic cancer with no standard therapeutic
      alternative in the United States only. This study will look at the safety, tolerability and
      pharmacokinetics of TAK-931.

      The study will enroll approximately 160 participants. Participants will be enrolled in 5
      cohorts: 1) Western safety cohort, to be enrolled in the United States only, will include
      non-Japanese participants with metastatic solid tumors and no standard therapeutic
      alternative, 2) Metastatic pancreatic cancer cohort, 3) Metastatic colorectal cancer cohort,
      4) Metastatic sqNSCLC cohort, and 5) Metastatic sqEC cohort. All participants will receive:

      • TAK-931 50 mg capsules

      All participants will be asked to take one 50 mg capsule at the same time of the day every
      day for 14 days, followed by 7 days break in 21-day cycles throughout the study.

      This multi-center trial will be conducted in the United States and Japan. The overall time to
      participate in this study is approximately 24 months. Participants will make multiple visits
      to the clinic. Participants in both Western cohort and disease specific cohorts will be
      followed for progression-free survival every 12 weeks after the last dose of the study drug
      until the occurrence of disease progression, loss to follow up, consent withdrawal, death,
      start of subsequent antineoplastic therapy, study termination, or until 6 months after
      discontinuation of the study treatment, whichever occurs first. Once disease progression is
      confirmed, participants in the disease-specific cohorts will be followed for overall survival
      every 12 weeks until death, loss to follow up, consent withdrawal, study termination, or
      transfer of a participant to a long term safety study, single participant investigational new
      drug application, or similar program after the last dose of the study drug.
    
  