
    
      This study is a randomized control, single blinded trial. It tests the hypothesis that fascia
      iliaca compartment block using local anaesthetic agent for pre-operative analgesia in
      patients with hip fracture, compared to that using normal saline as control, leads to a
      better pain control and fewer doses of systemic analgesics required. All patients admitted to
      United Christian Hospital Orthopaedic and Traumatology ward for hip fracture with
      radiological diagnosis will be seen by on-call resident. Principal investigator and other
      investigators will be notified of the admission within 1 working day. Subjects will be
      recruited according to inclusion and exclusion criteria as mentioned in the below section.
      Subjects will be recruited only if an informed consent for this study has been signed. Only
      patients with hip fracture pending emergency operation will be recruited. 2 enclosed
      envelopes will be prepared, in which one indicates "intervention", and one indicates
      "control". Subjects will randomly choose any of the envelopes without knowing the
      intervention/control group assignment. To maintain true randomization, the 2 envelopes will
      be kept in good condition, preventing identification of the underlying assignment from the
      outer appearance. Investigators, knowing the group assignment, will then prepare an injection
      kit set for Fascia iliaca compartment block which includes vials of levobupivacaine, normal
      saline, syringes, 22G/21G needle, simple dressing set and skin antiseptic solution. For the
      intervention group, fascia iliaca compartment block with 30ml/40ml 0.25% levobupivacaine,
      depending on body weight (30ml for body weight less than 50kg, 40ml for body weight more than
      50kg), will be performed by investigators under landmark approach. For the control group,
      same volume of normal saline, instead of levobupivacaine, will injected using the same
      technique, so that single blinding can be achieved. Subjects' vital signs will be observed
      for every 10 minutes for 30 minutes after injection.
    
  