
    
      Cervical cancer is the second most frequent cancer in Mexican women, representing 16.9% of
      the total female population. At the National Cancer Institute of Mexico (Instituto Nacional
      de Cancerología), 80% cervical cancer patients arrive at locally advanced stages (IB2-IVA).
      Standard treatment for these stages is based on concomitant chemo-radiotherapy. During
      radiation therapy (RT) to pelvic tumors, the small intestine, colon and rectum are inevitably
      included in the radiation field and are healthy tissues that suffer damage as an adverse
      effect. Pelvic radiation disease (PRD) is the group of gastrointestinal symptoms experienced
      by patients that receive pelvic radiation. Acute PRD occurs during the time of treatment in
      60 to 80% patients, symptoms include nausea, diarrhea, tenesmus, abdominal pain, urgency,
      mucositis, anorexia, bleeding and fatigue; these symptoms limit cancer treatment and affect
      the patients' quality of life. Chronic PRD is a progressive condition and a problem for
      cervical cancer survivors, symptoms include altered intestinal traffic, altered intestinal
      motility and nutrient malabsorption. The intestinal immune system plays an important role in
      the development of PRD and the secondary effects of RT. Intestinal inflammation, tissue
      damage, oxidative stress and tumor metabolism lead the patient to a catabolic state
      associated with an increase in energy demands. Also, the painful abdominal symptoms restrict
      the patients' food intake, leading the patients that develop PRD to an increased risk to
      develop protein-energy malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies, all of which affect the
      patients' quality of life. Among some of the nutritional intervention assays for patients
      with PRD, some have described that a low residue diet, restricted in fat (20-25%), lactose
      (5g) and fiber (20g), reduces the frequency and severity of diarrhea; however, this dietary
      intervention does not prevent weight loss or malnutrition in patients. Furthermore, low
      residue diets limit the beneficial effect of dietary fiber and fatty acids that may aid in
      the inflammatory response. Likewise, patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) develop
      similar symptoms to PRD. Studies developed in these patients have suggested that probiotics
      may have an anti-inflammatory effect in the intestine. In addition, micronutrients and trace
      elements provide antioxidant capacity and exert immune-modulating effects during periods of
      intestinal inflammation. Thus, probiotics and immune-modulating nutrients may provide a means
      to diminish intestinal inflammation and symptoms associated with PRD. In this project the
      investigators propose that the nutritional management of cervical cancer patients be based on
      an anti-inflammatory diet, taking into account the nutritional status, age, comorbidities
      that the patient may present and symptoms developed during treatment. The individualized
      energy requirements and nutrient proportions for patients without comorbidities, and for
      patients with comorbidities such as obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension and renal
      dysfunction, will be calculated according to the recommendations derived from the Consensus
      of Nutrition in patients with cancer treated with chemo-radiotherapy to the abdominopelvic
      area. Furthermore, the nutritional intervention will include food rich in immune-modulating
      nutrients: omega-3 fatty acids, soluble fiber, antioxidants and polyphenols, and probiotics.
      Because the low residue diet is routinely used for patients that receive pelvic radiation in
      other institutions, the anti-inflammatory nutritional intervention will be compared with the
      low residue diet.

      An open controlled randomized clinical trial will be performed on women with locally advanced
      cervical cancer. Candidates will be randomly assigned to one of the two dietary
      interventions. Experimental group will receive an anti-inflammatory diet with an energy
      intake of 28-31 kcal/kg/day, based on 30-40% fat, 20% protein, and 40-50% carbohydrates, the
      diet will include foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids, soluble fiber, antioxidants and
      polyphenols, and probiotics. The control group will receive a low residue diet with 28-91
      kcal/kg/day, based on 20% fat, 20% protein, and 60% carbohydrates, with no more than 20g
      fiber and 5g of lactose. In both groups, before, during and after cancer treatment, a
      thorough nutritional evaluation will be performed, gastrointestinal toxicity will be
      assessed, and serum cytokine levels and fecal calprotectin and lactoferrin levels will be
      determined to establish the local and systemic inflammatory response. The quality of life of
      patients will also be assessed before and after treatment.
    
  