
    
      The lack of overt behaviour in individuals exhibiting dementia-associated apathy is not only
      stressful to family members and caregivers, it is also a major challenge for medical and
      nursing staff. Knowing whether apathy arises from an impaired function of the neural network
      of affect due to neurodegenerative processes accompanying dementia provides a neural
      explanation of this condition. Somatic indicators of affective responses (e.g., changes in
      skin conductance, or heart rate) are an effective means to uncover covert emotional responses
      in nursing home residents suffering from dementia associated apathy.

      The overall objective is to determine whether dementia associated apathy is the result of an
      impaired functioning of the neural macro-network of affect. We want to compare the
      quantitative change in physiological parameters for each image category between individuals
      of the two subgroups: 1. Individual with dementia only and 2.individuals with dementia and
      dementia-associated apathy.

      The primary objective is to uncover a covert emotional response using changes in skin
      conductance in patients with dementia and patients with dementia + dementia associated
      apathy.

      The secondary objective is to uncover a covert emotional response using changes in the heart
      rate in patients with dementia and patients with dementia + dementia associated apathy.

      Diagnosis of dementia, age at initial dementia diagnosis, age at initial apathy diagnosis,
      time since initial diagnosis of dementia and apathy will be obtained from medical records.
      The type and daily dose of medication as well as the type and frequency of occupational,
      physio- and psychosocial therapy will be drawn from medical records. The SMMSE (Severe Mini
      Mental State Examination)score will determine severity of dementia and the AES (Apathy
      Evaluation Scale )score the severity of apathy. Using the FAST (Functional Assessment
      Staging) will assess the capacity of performing the activities of daily life.

      Measurements will be conducted in a familiar environment and in the presence of a family
      member or a member of staff to avoid any kind of stress and concern for the participant. The
      subject will be informed of the procedure and their task before the sensors are attached.
      Electrodermal activity (EDA) and heart rate (HR) will be continuously monitored while the
      subject views the image sequence on a PC monitor. EDA and HR will be recorded concurrently
      using commercial software. Data analysis will involve both commercial and in-house software.
      All data will be stored on a hard disk, in a compressed and encrypted format.
    
  