
    
      Psychostimulants are the first-line pharmacotherapy for Attention deficit-hyperactivity
      disorder (ADHD), and MPH accounts for approximately 50% of all stimulant usage. There has
      been an ~10-fold increase in MPH prescribing since 1990, with 18 million prescriptions
      dispensed in 2010, including 1.9 million new starts on MPH, making it the 5th most commonly
      prescribed medication to children ages 2 -11 and the single most frequently prescribed
      medication of any type in those aged 12-17 years. The annual exposure of pediatric patients
      to MPH is extremely high and MPH is among the most commonly prescribed chronic use oral
      medications for US children. Despite nearly 60 years of accrued clinical experience with MPH,
      the significant inter-individual variability in MPH pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics
      (PD) and adverse effects is inadequately explained and unpredictable. Up to 35% of ADHD
      patients do not respond satisfactorily to MPH therapy, and an even larger percentage
      discontinues treatment despite persistent ADHD. During clinical trials of MPH in
      treatment-naïve patients, a significant number suffer from adverse effects that are severe
      and persistent enough to require dose decreases or even study withdrawal. Moreover, some
      severe adverse drug reactions (ADRs) - including sudden cardiac death - have been associated
      with MPH, although the precise reasons for these associations remain elusive and
      controversial. Research efforts have been made to identify genetic biomarkers associated with
      MPH therapeutic outcomes, almost exclusively focusing on genes related to MPH PD (e.g.,
      dopamine transporter gene [DAT1, SLC6A3]). Unfortunately, findings from these studies have
      been somewhat inconsistent, equivocal or even contradictory, and they do not explain the
      variability in the PK of MPH. Pharmacogenomic studies in MPH-treated children have not
      assessed the influence of genes associated with individual variability in PK in relation to
      clinical response. Carboxylesterase-1 (CES1), an abundant hepatic enzyme encoded by the
      polymorphic CES1 gene, is the sole hepatic enzyme catalyzing the metabolism (i.e., hydrolytic
      deactivation) of MPH. CES1 expression and activity are known to vary substantially among
      individuals. The first clinically significant CES1 variant G143E (rs71647871), discovered in
      the study team's lab during the course of a healthy volunteer MPH PK study, led to gross
      impairments in MPH metabolism. This variant has been unequivocally shown in vitro and in
      clinical studies to lead to significantly impaired metabolism of MPH and other known CES1
      substrates. The study team has established the minor allele frequency (MAF) of the G143E
      variant as 3-4% in the general population. Accordingly, with ~1.9 million new starts of MPH
      annually, an estimated 133,000 pediatric patients (i.e. G143E carrier's frequency 6-8%) with
      a genetically impaired ability to metabolize/deactivate the drug will receive it - exposing
      them to high systemic concentrations of MPH and any attendant risks or toxicities. In
      addition, the study team's in vitro studies have revealed that another common CES1 variant
      D203E (rs2307227) exhibited significantly impaired activity on MPH metabolism, although the
      effects on D203E on clinical response are in need of further elucidation. Furthermore,
      despite recent intensive research on CES1 pharmacogenetics, the functions of a large number
      of additional CES1 variants remain undetermined.

      The study team's hypothesis is that the CES1 variants, such as the G143E and D203E, can
      significantly alter the expression and/or activity of CES1, thereby influencing the
      metabolism and disposition of MPH. These influences will be directly investigated in relation
      to MPH therapeutic response and tolerability in ADHD patients.
    
  