
    
      Despite the increasing knowledge on the mechanisms of incisional inflammation, transmission
      of nociception signals, peripheral and central sensitization, and on top of the current
      advancements in pharmacology, pharmaceutics, techniques and equipment, unfortunately, the US
      Institute of Medicine revealed that 80% of patients receiving surgery have reported
      postoperative pain with 88% of them at moderate, severe, or extreme levels. Opioids for
      postoperative pain are commonly administered to relieve moderate to severe pain, therefore,
      the postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) incidence will be increased.

      ERAS is a prevalent policy that combines evidence-based perioperative care to accelerate
      surgical recovery, Anesthesiologists are involved in many perioperative ERAS elements of
      patients in terms of evaluation and implementation: e.g., like prehabilitation via education
      of physical and core muscles training on the pain management clinic, perioperative
      multi-modal pain management and multi-modal anti-emetic prophylaxis against PONV.

      The overarching aim of multimodal structured prehabilitation programs is to increase, for
      instance, the cardiopulmonary and musculoskeletal preoperative functional reserve, leading to
      better postoperative functional recovery and a reduced incidence of complications.

      Better ischemic pain tolerance is well documented after combined moderate-and
      vigorous-intensity aerobic exercise for healthy individuals and acute exercise also has
      hypoalgesic effects.Unfortunately, these physical activity (PA) researchers have not
      evaluated specifically effects on postoperative pain and PONV.

      The goal of our study is to determine the relationship between preoperative PA on
      postoperative pain and PONV for different types of surgery, that is, breast neoplasms,
      thoracic, laparoscopic abdominal, abdominal laparotomy, Ears-Nose-Throat, urinary tract
      stones and tumors, orthopedic, plastic, spinal and colorectal surgeries.

      METHODS:

      This is a single center, observational retrospective (preoperative PA patients group vs
      preoperative non-PA patients group) trial. Information on the incidence and severity of pain
      and PONV of each patient are periodically recorded at time-points of 1, 4, 7, 10 and 24 hours
      after various types of surgical operation. Our study was aimed to determine beneficial
      effects on postoperative pain and PONV for patients after performing preoperative PA for 6 to
      8 weeks vs non-PA patients. The investigators employed the recommendations of the American
      College of Sport Medicine and the World Health Organization for adults to divide our PA
      patients group into moderate-intensity as 30-60 min∙d-1 (≥150 min∙wk-1 ) and
      vigorous-intensity as 20-60 min∙d-1 (≥75 min∙wk-1). The severity of postoperative pain and
      PONV were measured at 1, 4, 7, 10 and 24 hours after the surgical operations for the PA
      patients group and the non-PA patients group. The severity of postoperative pain were
      recorded by using 0-10 Numeric Rating Scale and postoperative nausea and vomiting after
      surgeries were measured by using 5 points Likert Scale (1-5) to record the severity of
      postoperative pain and PONV after different types of surgery.

      The operations were performed under general anesthesia (GA) with endotracheal intubation or
      inhalation through laryngeal mask.

      The procedures of GA will be discussed and decided by one of our anesthesiologists of the
      Chia-Yi Christian Hospital together with patients/caregivers at the Pre-Anesthesia
      Consultation Clinic. We used the American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status
      scoring system for risk stratification, the approaches of Apfel's preventive strategy of
      postoperative nausea and vomiting prophylaxis, perioperative multi-modal pain management in
      addition to other appropriate elements in ERAS. PONV defined as nausea, vomiting or retching
      within 24 h of surgery.

      The principle investigator is responsible for the data collection of this retrospective study
      and recorded of the severity of the postoperative pain and PONV at time-points of 1, 4, 7, 10
      and 24 hours after various types of surgical operation via the "Postanesthesia Patient
      Interview and Record Sheet" and the nursing care recorded at the ward for the PA patients
      group and the non-PA patients group.
    
  