
    
      -  Study participants will be patients who have undergone lung transplantation during the
           last 6 months and are in a stable clinical position at the time of enrollment.

        -  Patients who meet the study inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the
           study.

        -  The enrolled patients will be recorded with the VRI at each occurrence in which the
           standard procedures are performed:

             -  Baseline after study enrollment (VRI Recording 1 + standard evaluations).

             -  At each follow-up visit [1, 3, 6 months after baseline visit] during the 6 month
                follow-up period of the study (VRI Recordings + standard evaluations (if
                possible)).

             -  In the event of bronchoscopic intervention, then before the interventional
                procedure (VRI Recording 1 + standard evaluations) and before any recurrent
                interventional procedures (VRI Recordings + standard evaluations) during the course
                of the study (6-month follow-up period).

             -  1 hour after all bronchoscopic interventional procedures.

             -  In the event of an unanticipated visit, then a VRI recording will be performed (VRI
                Recordings + standard evaluations).

        -  All subjects will be recorded according to a standard procedure; moreover, it is
           essential that for each subject repeatable recordings will be performed in the same
           manner (i.e. breathing manner and matrix placement). Each VRI recording session will
           take ~15 minutes [the actual recording is ~2 minutes for placement and
           breathing/recording].

        -  Standard evaluation procedures may include any of the following:

             -  Lung function tests (this test is required at all visits)

             -  Physical examination

             -  Bronchoscopy (e.g. transbronchial biopsy)

             -  CT-imaging

             -  Chest x-ray

             -  V/Q Scan (Baseline visit for single lung transplantation)

             -  Blood gases (this test is required at all visits)

             -  Blood tests
    
  