
    
      Lung transplant recipients (LTR) experience more transplant-related complications, higher
      health resource utilization, and higher mortality than recipients of other solid organs.
      Prevention and detection of early complications is known to reduce the likelihood of future
      impairments in lung function and, therefore, morbidity and mortality. Despite the scarce
      donor organs and financial resources expended to support individuals throughout the lung
      transplant experience, no randomized controlled trials (RCT) have tested interventions
      designed to promote self-care behaviors with the aim of improving transplant-related health
      after lung transplant. The purpose of this RCT is to compare the efficacy of a novel
      behavioral intervention, Pocket PATH (Personal Assistant for Tracking Health) for promoting
      self-care and improving health outcomes relative to standard care after lung transplantation.
      Pocket PATH provides LTR a hand-held device with customized data recording, trending, and
      decision-support programs to promote their self-care behaviors. Based on the promising
      results from our early trials, a full-scale RCT has been designed to rigorously test the
      efficacy of Pocket PATH in promoting self-care agency, self-care behaviors, and hence
      improving transplant-related health. A sample of 214 LTR who survive the immediate intensive
      care unit recovery period will be randomly assigned to either the intervention group, who
      will be instructed to use the Pocket Path device and its programs designed for
      self-monitoring, adhering to the regimen, and communicating condition changes to the
      transplant team, or the control group who will receive standard instructions regarding the
      post-transplant regimen (including health monitoring). Information will be collected from
      participants at baseline and 1 week, 2, 6, and 12 months after discharge from the hospital
      following lung transplantation. Longitudinal, repeated-measures models with planned
      comparisons will be used to test the hypotheses for the primary aims. It is hypothesized that
      subjects in the Pocket PATH group will develop higher levels of self-care agency and perform
      self-care behaviors more often than subjects in the control group and, therefore, will
      experience fewer transplant-related complications, re-hospitalizations, and better health
      related quality of life.
    
  