
    
      Heart valve disease signifies a severe growing public health problem in developing countries,
      with aortic valve stenosis being the most common issue. Heart valve disease is commonly
      initiated by atherosclerotic degenerative processes, congenital anomalies, or rheumatic
      process. Aortic valve replacement is the gold standard in the treatment of patients with
      severe aortic stenosis and aortic regurgitation. Mechanical valves are favoured in younger
      patients (<60 years) owing to longer life-time, whereas biological valves are used for
      elderly patients in order to evade oral anticoagulation.

      Options for aortic valve disease have improved in the last era including replacement, repair,
      and reconstructive options. A variety of creative techniques including leaflet extensions,
      neo-leaflet creation, resuspension or plication of prolapsing leaflets, and commissuroplasty
      to repair valves have been officially become skilled at, specially in pediatric population .
      In adults, the introduction of trans-catheter aortic valve inserting now permits treatment of
      degenerative aortic stenosis in the oldest and the highest risk patients. However, surgical
      treatment choices for pediatric patients with complex congenital aortic valve disease stay
      restricted.

      In recent years, much attention has been given to the Ozaki procedure, an alternative way of
      repairing aortic valve, involving the use of autologous pericardium for the aortic leaflet
      reconstruction. Diseased leaflets are removed carefully. The distance between each commissure
      is measured with invented sizing apparatus. The new leaflet of the size corresponding to the
      measured value is trimmed with an original template from glutaraldehyde-treated autologous
      pericardium. Finally, the annular margin of the pericardial leaflet was running sutured with
      each annulus. Commissural coaptation was secured with additional sutures. The coaptation of
      three new leaflets were always insured with direct vision.
    
  