
    
      Study procedure:

      Patients will be randomized (1:1) to one of the arms by an IWRS system. Randomization will be
      stratified by study endoscopist, to balance the number of patients randomized to either of
      the study groups (1:1) within the same endoscopist, by age (from to 45 to <65 years old; ≥65
      years old) and by reason for colonoscopy (screening, surveillance <3 years from previous
      colonoscopy, surveillance 3-10 years from previous colonoscopy). Each endoscopist shall not
      enrol more than 90 patients.

      The following study visits are foreseen for each patient:

      Screening Visit A screening visit is performed at the investigational site. During this visit
      out-patients scheduled for colonoscopy will be informed about the aims, procedures, benefits
      and possible risks of the study prior to signing the informed consent form for inclusion in
      the study. Their medical history will be recorded as well as eventual clinical or laboratory
      examinations according to the local standard of care preparation for a colonoscopy, ) and the
      date for the colonoscopy procedure to be performed at the investigational site will be
      scheduled.

      Tandem Colonoscopy Visit Each eligible patient returns to the clinic to undergo a same-day,
      back-to-back tandem colonoscopy examination performed by the same experienced endoscopist.
      The randomized allocation will determine whether patients will undergo standard
      high-definition white light colonoscopy with CB-17-08 immediately followed by standard high
      definition white light colonoscopy or standard high definition white light colonoscopy
      followed by standard high definition white light colonoscopy with CB-17-08.

      Bowel preparation will be done according to the usual standard of care protocols of the
      individual sites. The quality of bowel preparation will be assessed during colonoscopy using
      the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS). Sedation according to the sites best experience
      and standard procedures will be delivered to the patient by the endoscopist or an
      anaesthesiologist.

      Subjects' vital signs (blood pressure [BP], hearth rate [HR] and oxygen saturation [SpO2])
      will be measured and monitored prior to, during and at the end of the tandem colonoscopy
      procedure.

      The endoscopist will be instructed to adhere to their usual withdrawal technique and to spend
      a minimum of 6 minutes withdrawing and examining the colonic mucosa. Time to reach the caecum
      and time to withdrawal from caecum to exit will be recorded for each colonoscopy. Clean
      withdrawal time, i.e. withdrawal time excluding the time spent for procedures or washings (if
      any), will be recorded. At least 6 minutes of clean withdrawal time will be required for all
      colonoscopies, in accordance to the current ASGE guideline. Withdrawal time, total procedure
      time, and time for pauses to allow polypectomies and biopsies to be performed will be
      recorded. Repeated examination of any of the colon segments (e.g. right colon) in normal
      modality or in retroflexion is not permitted.

      Each colorectal polyp detected during the first procedure, as well as each polyp detected
      during the second procedure, will be immediately removed or biopsied and will be sent to the
      central histology laboratory for characterization. When a mucosal polyp is detected, its
      estimated size and morphological appearance according to Paris classification will be
      reported by the endoscopist on the CRF, as well as the anatomical location inside the colonic
      districts. On the basis of histological examination, polyps will be categorized according to
      revised Vienna classification and serrated lesion classification.
    
  