
    
      Thyroid cancer is a common neck malignancy and it mainly affects thyroid follicular cells or
      parafollicular cells. Thyroid cancer in various tumors in the body, the ratio can reach 1.2%
      to 2.3%. Thyroid cancer can be divided into differentiated thyroid cancer, squamous cell
      carcinoma, undifferentiated carcinoma, and medullary carcinoma, among which the incidence of
      differentiated thyroid carcinoma is more than 90%. At present, total thyroidectomy or
      subtotal thyroidectomy is the main method for the treatment of thyroid cancer patients, but
      some thyroid cancer may still have residual thyroid tissue after operation. Therefore, in the
      treatment of differentiated thyroid cancer, iodine 131 is mainly used. Treatment, because
      iodine 131 can emit high-energy beta rays, destroying the residual tissue of thyroid cancer,
      to achieve good therapeutic purposes. However, due to the presence of sodium iodine symporter
      in salivary glands and thyroid, it is inevitable that certain salivary glands will be damaged
      in the treatment of iodine 131, and patients will have dry mouth symptoms. Some patients with
      nausea 131 will also experience nausea and vomiting. Gastrointestinal reaction. Iodine 131
      treatment is divided into two steps: 1 removal of residual thyroid tissue; 2 removal of
      cancer lesions and metastases. The curative effect of 131I depends on the lesion's uptake of
      iodine-131, which requires an increase in serum TSH levels. All patients in this study had
      stopped taking thyroid hormone for 3 to 4 weeks before iodine-131 treatment. The TSH level is
      greater than 30 mU/L. At this time, the patient is in hypothyroidism. People with
      hypothyroidism experience dry mouth, dry skin, constipation, pain, cold, poor memory,
      depression, and weight gain. Many studies have pointed out that some cancer treatments, such
      as chemotherapy and radiotherapy, also have an impact on the microbial flora. However,
      studies on the relationship between microecology, hypothyroidism and iodine-131 treatment,
      probiotics in the prevention of hypothyroidism and iodine-131 treatment The link between the
      effects of side effects remains unclear. Therefore, the team will conduct a correlation study
      between microbes and hypothyroidism, iodine-131 treatment.
    
  