
    
      A structured plan of development, evaluation and implementation is proposed, based on the
      Medical Research Council (MRC) complex interventions framework and the principles of Action
      Research model (namely; Purpose choice on solving practical problems; Contextual focus; Data
      that helps track changes and sense making; Participation in research process and Knowledge
      diffusion). Action research is suited to identifying problems in clinical practice and
      helping develop potential solutions in order to improve practice. The study will use an
      experimental action research approach incorporating the action research cycle (Plan Do Study
      Act).

      The effectiveness evaluation of patient/clinician acceptance, feasibility, patient
      benefits/satisfaction will be performed using a non-randomised 'Before-After study' approach,
      followed by immediate implementation in practice for faster patient benefits.

      Main outcomes measured will include:

        1. Patient-Reported Outcomes questionnaires: quality of life, symptom control, and
           self-efficacy.

        2. Clinical measures: number of hospital contacts, recurrence rates.

        3. Process measures: survivors compliance with self-reports, clinical tests attendance;
           using online self-management resources.

      The project will be structured in four phases:

      PHASE 1 (Months 0-12): Develop the content of the surveillance toolkits for breast and bowel
      (colorectal) cancers and setup on the electronic system. This will include the selection of
      cancer-specific symptoms for patient self-reporting, collating the existing evidence on
      side-effects management and the development of patient advice corresponding to severity
      levels. Once the two toolkits for breast and bowel (colorectal) cancers are completed, they
      will be set up on the electronic system. Printed booklets can also be produced from these.

      Recruitment methods:

      Cancer survivors and caregivers will be invited from outpatient surveillance clinics or by
      telephone by the cancer team if discharged recently from secondary care, and by public
      advertising for breast and colorectal cancer survivors volunteers. Purposive sampling will
      represent a variety of age groups, cancer recurrence risk, time post treatment,
      socio-economic background, expecting a sample of 8-10 survivors/carers per cancer site.
      Participants will be invited for an interview conducted over the telephone or at St James's
      Hospital.

      Healthcare professionals (HCP) involved in breast and colorectal cancer care at St James's
      Hospital will also be invited to participate in interviews. This is done face to face at the
      hospital followed up by a phone call or an individual email depending on the previous
      conversations had between the researchers and the HCP.

      Interviews will be transcribed verbatim and subjected to thematic content analysis.

      Phase 1 Objectives:

        1. Select questions for self-reporting

        2. Determine severity thresholds

        3. Determine content of the self-management guidance

        4. Describe the current usual care after treatment by cancer type and how to modify it to
           incorporate remote surveillance

        5. Identify potential improvements to the electronic system.

      PHASE 2:"Before study" (Months 6-30; 12-months recruitment,12-months follow-up)The before
      study will be a structured audit of current practice, running in parallel with Phase 1.

      Participants who consent will complete outcome measures at baseline, 3, 6 and 2 months on
      paper. Demographic data will be collected after consent and clinical data will be collected
      via the EPR.

      Recruitment methods:

      The study will include recruitment over 12 months of all consecutive eligible patients with a
      follow-up of 12 months. The estimated numbers are 120 new bowel (colorectal) cancer patients
      per year and 300 breast cancer patients. The study anticipates 70% consent rate, giving
      approximately 85 bowel (colorectal) and 210 breast cancer participants.

      Phase 2 Objectives:

        1. Establish data on current practice using clinical and patient outcomes and best methods
           for collecting them

        2. Provide 'Before' data to compare to "After study" to estimate the effects of the new
           intervention

        3. Establish prospectively what proportion of eligible patients would consent to a remote
           monitoring study.

      PHASE 3:"After study"(Months 18-42;12-months recruitment, 12-months follow-up) Participants
      will be completing the intervention for 12 months. The 'After study' will start when Phase 1
      is completed, including a successful usability testing.

      Participants who consent will complete outcomes measures at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months on
      paper (same as Phase 2). In addition, they will also complete the intervention: online
      symptom reporting questionnaire.

      Demographic data will be collected after consent and clinical data via the Electronic patient
      records (EPR).

      Recruitment methods:

      Based on current experience of other studies conducted 15% of breast and 20% of bowel
      (colorectal) patients will not use online resources. Therefore, the estimated number of full
      participants will be about 170 in breast and 70 in bowel (colorectal) cancer clinics. The
      remote monitoring will only be available to participants classed as being moderate to lower
      risk by their clinical team. The intervention is an additional service for patients conducted
      along side their standard cancer care.

      Phase 3 Objectives:

        1. Assess the effects of the intervention in terms of participants' quality of life at
           baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months

        2. Examine survivors' engagement with the intervention - acceptability, feasibility and use
           of the online system and respective advice

        3. Examine clinicians' engagement

           Secondary objectives:

        4. Monitor the safety i.e. diagnoses of recurrences and psychological morbidity, how were
           those detected

        5. Evaluate impact on participants' self-efficacy in managing cancer consequences and fear
           of recurrence

        6. Evaluate participants' satisfaction with care

        7. Compare use of National Health Service (NHS) resources in Before and After phase.

      The implementation of the intervention:

      The intervention (as developed in Phase 1) will be implemented following the relevant staff
      and participant training. The frequency of participants' completions will be determined in
      Phase 1. Participants will be asked to complete the online symptom monitoring from home, with
      the possibility to complete the questions more often, if they experience any symptoms they
      may wish to report. Text message or email reminders will be sent to the participants (based
      on their preferred contact method) as a prompt to complete the online monitoring symptom
      questions, and where relevant to attend for the blood tests or surveillance scans.

      Providers are expected to review and respond to any notifications for significant symptoms,
      in line with the agreed thresholds and are expected to review the self-reports during the
      clinic visits, discuss them with the patient and take any actions, as appropriate.

      Participants and staff interviews will be conducted during and at the end of Phase 3.

      PHASE 4: (starting month 30, with specific launch activities 42-48): Roll-out and
      implementation in practice. Following the principles of the Action research model (Act
      phase), the aim is to start roll-out immediately after completion of the 12-month recruitment
      in the "After" study. This will involve further work to apply the learning from Phase 3:

        1. Simplify patient approach and consent to integrate it into the routine clinics flow

        2. Identify appropriate clinic staff to approach patients

        3. Modify, if needed, the self-reported questions, the thresholds or the content of the
           advice.
    
  