
    
      Patients are being asked to take part in this clinical research study because they have stage
      IIIB, IIIC or IIID cutaneous (or unknown primary) melanoma with lymph node disease and have
      yet to undergo surgery. There are two phases, Prime Phase and a Boost Phase. If they
      participate they will receive nivolumab in combination with CMP-001 for a total of 7 weeks
      (Prime Phase) prior to surgery. Surgery will be performed approximately 2-4 weeks after
      completion of the Prime Phase. After recovery from surgery patients will receive additional
      nivolumab in combination with CMP-001 for approximately 46 additional weeks (Boost Phase).

      The main goal of this research study to determine if the combination of nivolumab and CMP-001
      improves the likelihood of eradicating (destroying) disease in the lymph node (pathologic
      response rate). Pathologic responses are associated with improved relapse-free and overall
      survival in melanoma.

      Prior to surgery (Prime Phase) Nivolumab 240mg, will be administered as a 30-minute IV
      infusion on an outpatient basis. During the Prime Phase, 3 cycles of Nivolumab will be
      administered every 2 weeks over a 6 week period starting with cycle 2, cycle 4 and then cycle
      6.

      Prior to surgery (Prime Phase) CMP-001 will be given as an injection from a syringe weekly
      for a total of 7 weeks. The first injection (week 1), 5mg, will be applied directly into the
      skin and the remaining injections, 10mg will be administered, will be given intra-tumorally
      for weeks 2-7.

      Surgery will be performed to the cancerous lymph node 2-4 weeks after the Prime Phase is
      completed.

      After recovery from surgery (Boost Phase) Nivolumab will be administered at 240mg every 2
      weeks or 480 mg every 4 weeks depending on the physician's preference. CMP-001, 5mg, will be
      administered by injections intra-tumorally every 4 weeks for up to 54 weeks.

      Patients will be followed to assess for survival status until death, withdrawal of consent,
      or the end of the study, whichever occurs first. This will be done every 3 months.
    
  