
    
      Rotator cuff related pain is a term that includes a diversity of shoulder conditions known
      as: subacromial impingement syndrome, rotator cuff tendinitis/tendinopathy, rotator cuff
      tear, bursitis. The use of a broader term is useful as the diagnostic accuracy of special
      orthopaedic tests have been widely criticised and are unable to identify pathognomonic
      sources of symptoms in people presenting with shoulder pain. Additionally, even though
      diagnostic imaging is capable of identifying pathology in patients with rotator cuff related
      pain, studies demonstrate that their correlation with clinical presentation is questionable.

      Shoulder pain is one of the most common sources of musculoskeletal pain that might affect up
      to 20% of the population. Additional important epidemiological data concerning shoulder pain
      is the fact that approximately 40% of people complaining of shoulder pain will still be
      symptomatic after six months. Physiotherapy has an important role in the management of
      rotator cuff related pain and exercise is the main therapeutic approach when considering pain
      and functional restriction,

      Mobilisation with movement (MWM) is one alternative musculoskeletal approach that focuses on
      improving active pain-free range of motion. This concept of treatment incorporates a passive
      accessory glide produced by the clinician, followed by an active movement executed by the
      patient. Different studies have suggested positive effects of MWM in patients complaining of
      shoulder pain. On the other hand, other studies reported no superior effects when using MWM
      in their studies. Several methodological aspects might have influenced this discrepancy in
      results, such as population, dosage and type of MWM utilized, follow-up period and outcome
      measures. Due to this uncertainty, the current research aims to further explore the inclusion
      of MWM to an exercise programme in patients with rotator cuff related pain.
    
  