
    
      Phase 1 There will be 3 stages that are sequentially and chronologically timed in order to
      asses the efficacy of Virtual Reality (VR) in the reducing epidural/combined spinal-epidural
      (CSE) related pain and anxiety at every stage. Phase 1 is the development phase where the
      focus is primarily on feasibility for Phase 2. The exclusion criteria will remain the same
      for all the stages and includes (i) participants and patients who do not consent (ii) have
      significant cognitive impairment (iii) have a history of severe motion sickness (iv)
      currently have nausea (v) currently experiencing seizures (vi) have visual problems(vii) are
      clinically unstable or require urgent/emergent intervention and/or (viii) are Non-English
      Speaking. Inclusion criteria is that females are (i)18 years or older and (ii) who had either
      have a history of, planning to have, or currently having an child laboring related procedures
      such as IV placement, epidural/CSE placement and/or labor.

      (Stage 1) The first stage will include 10 females who are not pregnant, but have previously
      have at least undergone one labor epidural/CSE in the past. These mothers will be approached
      by a clinician or healthcare provider at Lucille Packard Children's Hospital (LPCH)
      outpatient surgical procedures as they wait for their child. If they are interested, the
      healthcare provider will let the research staff know of the eligible participant. During the
      mother's wait time, the research assistant will review the study, go over the consent forms
      and answer any questions in regards to their participation in the study. Once the participant
      is consented into the study, the research assistant will provide the participant with a
      survey regarding their recall pain and anxiety (refer to section 16) during their most recent
      epidural (if participant has had previously had more than one). The research assistant will
      then provide the participant with a VR headset and guide them through a series of VR scenery,
      shortly after the VR simulation the participant will be given a feedback survey in regards to
      their VR experience.

      (Stage 2) The second stage will include 10 different females who are currently either in
      their second or third trimester of pregnancy. These mothers will be approached by a clinician
      or healthcare provider during their visits to obstetrics clinic at LPCH and Stanford Health
      Care (SHC) facilities. If they are interested, the healthcare provider will let the research
      staff know of the eligible participant. During the patients wait time, the research assistant
      will review the study, go over the consent forms and answer any questions in regards to their
      participation in the study. Once the participant is consented into the study, the research
      assistant will provide the participant with a survey regarding their current anxiety about
      labor and epidural/CSE placement. The research assistant will then provide the participant
      with a VR headset and guide them through a series of VR scenery, shortly after the VR
      simulation the participant will be given a feedback survey in regards to their VR experience.
      Since this cohort can give the investigators better guidance of intolerance (i.e nausea and
      dizziness) during VR simulation, the clinicians and research providers have come up with a
      safety threshold: if more than 20 percent of patients answer to a score of 4 or higher on
      questions regarding nausea and dizziness, the clinicians and health care providers will have
      to go back and iterate on VR software and repeat the previous stage before moving on stage 3.

      (Stage 3) If stage 2 outcomes meet the investigator's criteria, the clinical team will move
      on to the last stage of 10 different females who are currently in labor and planning on
      undergoing an epidural for child-laboring. These mothers will be approached by their
      obstetric anesthesiologist during their first anesthesia consult after being admitted into
      LPCH labor and delivery facilities. If they are interested, the anesthesiologist will let the
      research staff know of the eligible participant. During the patients wait time, the research
      assistant and/or anesthesiologist will review the study, go over the consent forms and answer
      any questions in regards to their participation in the study. Once the patient is consented
      into the study, the research assistant and/or anesthesiologist will provide the participant
      with a survey regarding their pre-epidural anxiety and pain scores. The anesthesiologist
      and/or research assistant will then provide the laboring mother with a VR headset during
      epidural/CSE placement by anesthesiologist. Depending on the mother's laboring timeline, if
      possible, mother will receive VR feedback survey and post-epidural anxiety and pain scores.
      If not, mothers will receive post-epidural anxiety and pain scores where they recall these
      scores and fill out VR feedback survey postpartum.

      Phase 2:

      Based on preliminary and feasibility data from Phase 1, if the clinicians and study personnel
      find it appropriate, the study will move on to Phase 2, a randomized prospective clinical
      trial focused more broadly on technology based distractions (VR headsets) in comparison to
      standard of care (no VR use) in obstetric patients for preventing anxiety and pain during
      various laboring procedures. These laboring procedures include but are not limited to IV,
      epidural/CSE placement and/or child-labor. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will remain the
      same as Phase 1. For Phase 2, the study personnel expect to enroll 200 mothers who've been
      admitted into LPCH labor and delivery services. These mothers will be approached by their
      obstetric anesthesiologist during their first anesthesia consult after being admitted into
      LPCH labor and delivery facilities. If they are interested, the anesthesiologist will let the
      research staff know of the eligible participant. During the patients wait time, the research
      assistant and/or anesthesiologist will review the study, go over the consent forms and answer
      any questions in regards to their participation in the study. Once the patient is consented
      into the study, the research assistant and/or anesthesiologist will provide the participant
      with a survey regarding their pre-procedure anxiety and pain scores. Depending on a
      randomized generator, mothers will either be placed into VR use group during procedure or
      standard of care (no VR use). If mother falls under VR group, the anesthesiologist and/or
      research assistant will then provide the laboring mother with a VR headset during procedure
      by anesthesiologist. Depending on the mother's laboring timeline, if possible, mother will
      receive VR feedback survey and post- procedure anxiety and pain scores. If not, mothers will
      receive post-epidural anxiety and pain scores where they recall these scores and fill out VR
      feedback survey postpartum. If mother falls under control group, mother will undergo standard
      of care and receive pre and post- pain and anxiety surveys regarding procedure.
    
  