
    
      Subclinical joint bleeding (SJB) in Haemophilia may cause early and progressive joint damage.
      Clinical haemarthrosis is a traditional outcome measure in Haemophilia trials but may not
      always correlate with the degree of arthropathy. Even in the absence of haemarthrosis,
      abnormalities may be detected on MRI. MRI offers greater sensitivity than physical
      examination for early joint damage and use of the International Prophylaxis Study Group
      (IPSG) score allows standardisation across clinical trials. Early awareness of haemophiliac
      arthropathy can prompt intervention with physiotherapy, specific exercise programmes,
      optimization of prophylaxis and orthotics to improve overall joint outcomes.

      The time spent with Factor VIII (FVIII) levels <0.01 IU/mL is a known risk for bleeding.
      Conventional prophylaxis schedules follow a weight based regimen and are titrated according
      to clinical bleeds. FVIII pharmacokinetics (PK) may be used to optimise FVIII prophylactic
      regimens, maintaining adequate FVIII trough levels. This offers the possibility to not only
      tailor individual regimens but also may potentially reduce the rate of clinical and
      subclinical joint bleeding.

      This is a national, investigator led clinical trial investigating the feasibility of PK
      tailored prophylaxis in adults with severe Haemophilia A. This trial will prospectively and
      longitudinally assess SJB and joint health in Irish adults with severe Haemophilia A.

      SJB will be compared while on standard (weight based, 20-40 IU/kg) and PK tailored
      prophylaxis(maintaining trough FVIII > 0.015 IU/mL). This is a crossover study will
      participants spending months 0-6 on standard prophylaxis and then changing over to PK
      tailored dosing for months 7-18. A comprehensive joint assessment involving bleed history,
      clinical examination, physical activity, specialist physiotherapy review, X-rays and MRI
      scanning of bilateral ankles, knees and elbow will be performed at months 0,6 and 18.
      Haemophilia Joint Health Score (HJHS), International Physical Activity (IPAQ) and EuroQoL
      5-Dimensions (EQ5D) Questionnaires will also be performed at these three timepoints.

      Clinical bleeds and FVIII usage will be recorded throughout the trial using the investigators
      Home Scan system, a smart phone application that allows patients to log factor VIII usage.

      Results will be compared between both arms and between participants on primary and secondary
      prophylaxis. Information on those with naïve joints versus established arthropathy will be
      compared.

      Due to the relative rarity of severe Haemophilia A the investigators plan to recruit 20
      patients in total. All patients will act as their own control, crossing over from standard to
      PK tailored prophylaxis with joint assessments prior to crossover to allow comparison of the
      two regimes.
    
  