
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Ovarian cancer is the ninth most common cancer in women (excluding skin cancer). It
           ranks fifth as the cause of cancer death in women. In the United States, 21,550 new
           cases and 14,600 deaths are estimated annually.

        -  Approximately 90% of primary malignant ovarian tumors are epithelial (carcinomas).

        -  Although over 70% of women with advanced disease respond to optimal debulking surgery
           followed by platinum-taxane based chemotherapy, duration of response is short and
           relapse is common. Subsequent responses to salvage therapy regimens tend to be brief
           (less than six months) due to the tumors progressive resistance to chemotherapy(1).

        -  A family of proteins, known as the Inhibitors of Apoptotic Proteins (or IAPs), plays a
           critical role in blocking the apoptotic signals at multiple points. IAPs regulate a
           number of pathways including classical or alternative nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-(K)B)
           function, and activation of apoptosis through either the extrinsic or intrinsic pathway.
           Baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 1 (cIAP1) acts as a critical switch to promote
           the pro-survival nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-B) pathway and prevent caspase activation.

        -  In normal cells that are stimulated to undergo apoptosis by either the extrinsic or
           intrinsic pathway, second mitochondrial-derived activation of caspares (SMAC) is
           released from the mitochondria, which antagonizes IAP, removes blockade to activated
           caspase function, and thereby enables apoptotic cell death. In tumor cells, however,
           apoptosis is dysregulated due to insufficient amounts of SMAC or upstream blockades to
           apoptotic activation.

        -  Classical activation of NF-(K)B is dependent on the presence of cIAP1 and cIAP2 proteins
           as part of the TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) complex. SMAC inhibits cIAP1 and
           cIAP2, leading to inactivation of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) mediated NF- B
           activation. SMAC inhibition of cIAP1 and cIAP2 leads to pathway up-regulation.
           Birinapant (TL32711) is a synthetic peptidomimetic antagonist of IAPs (a SMAC-mimetic),
           which mimics endogenous SMAC resulting in the rapid and irreversible initiation of
           apoptotic cell death. SMAC-mimetics represent a novel targeted therapeutic approach for
           cancer therapy. The addition of a SMAC mimetic, can inhibit NF- B activity,
           down-regulate cell survival pathways, and overcome blockades to the apoptotic pathway
           leading to increased tumor cell death.

        -  Our laboratory has demonstrated that serous ovarian cancers have cell-autonomous
           activation of NF-B signaling which was shown to correlate with poor prognosis.

        -  Therefore, we hypothesize that the SMAC-mimetic activity of birinapant may be
           selectively toxic to those ovarian cancers that display high canonical NF-(K)B activity.

        -  To summarize, relapsed platinum refractory or resistant ovarian cancer is a disease with
           limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis. Birinapant offers the opportunity to
           develop an effective and well tolerated therapeutic for the significant unmet need.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  The primary objective is to determine the efficacy as defined by Gynecologic Oncology
           Group (GOG) criteria2 as either objective response or progession-free survival lasting
           greater than 6 months, in patients with relapsed platinum refractory or resistant
           ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, fallopian tube cancer treated with
           birinapant.

        -  The seconday objectives include overall survival, safety and tolerability of single
           agent birinapant in this population.

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA:

        -  Females greater than or equal to 18 years of age with histologically proven advanced
           metastatic or unresectable epithelial ovarian cancer that is relapsed or refractory to
           prior platinum-based standard care systemic regimen.

        -  Life expectancy greater than 3 months.

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status less than or equal to 2.

        -  Adequate organ functionas defined by liver, kidney, and hematologic laboratory testing.

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, non-randomized phase II trial to determine the efficacy of
           administration of the SMAC-mimetic birinapant in patients with relapsed platinum
           refractory or resistant ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, fallopian tube
           cancer.

        -  Birinapant will be given as a single agent until disease progression once weekly for
           three weeks of 4 week intervals.

        -  The primary endpoint will be efficacy defined according to the GOG guidelines as overall
           response rate or progression-free survival lasting at least 6 months. Overall survival,
           toxicity and modulation of signal events in tumor are secondary measures.

        -  Patients will be evaluated at baseline and prior to each cycle by history and physical
           examination and every two cycles by examination and imaging studies (computed tomography
           (CT) scan). Laboratory studies will be performed weekly prior to each dose except on
           week 4 (rest week).

        -  Tumor biopsy will be performed prior to birinapant initiation and an optional tumor
           biopsy will be performed 2 to 48 hours after cycle 2 day 15 infusion.

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells will also be harvested at the same time points as the
           biopsies.

        -  Reassessment imaging (computed tomography (CT) scan) to document response will be
           performed at the end of 2 cycles and every 2 cycles thereafter.
    
  