
    
      Low back pain manifests itself clinically with pain, loss of strength, difficulty with normal
      posture, and decreased range of motion. In as many as 60-85% cases, LBP will become a chronic
      condition, requiring long term care, and even surgery.

      Conservative therapy is typically administered until it's no longer a viable option, after
      which surgical options are considered. Conservative therapy includes physical therapy,
      medication, steroid injections etc. Physical therapy and exercises are especially central to
      conservative therapy. Numerous exercise and therapy protocols have been designed with the
      goal to improve low back muscle strength, thereby alleviating symptoms, and potentially
      underlying cause of the pathology.

      As nutrition is a key element in modulating muscle growth and function in response to
      exercise, providing patients with appropriate access to nutritional supplements that meet the
      metabolic demands of our exercise program are potentially important to our clinical outcomes.

      The project specifically aims to assess the effect of ensuring adequate nutritional
      availability of protein, as protein shake, as part of their standard care for treatment of
      low back pain typically 4-12 weeks duration. In this experiment, we will compare muscle
      structure and health and correlate improvements with patient-specific characteristics such as
      demographics, medical history, medication usage, treatment expectations, and symptom
      severity. Subsequently, this information will enable us to gain valuable insight into
      physiological response of pathological tissue, and potentially, develop optimal exercise
      plans to maximally benefit these patients.

      AIMS OF THE STUDY

        -  To evaluate the adherence and compliance of patients taking a protein nutritional
           supplement in this patient population.

        -  To evaluate the effectiveness of protein nutritional supplementation on improving
           clinical outcomes.

        -  Identify patients (based on patient specific predictors who are most likely to succeed
           with the addition of nutritional supplementation. The goal of this project is to assess
           the impact of a nutritional protein supplement on clinical outcomes in individuals with
           spine pain.

      RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS We will recruit up to 100 individuals with LBP of > 3months duration
      that have been identified by the care providers (ie. Primary care physical, orthopaedic
      surgeon, or other) to be appropriate and safe for participation in a physical rehabilitation
      program with nutritional supplementation at SpineZone.

      Upon initial evaluation at the SpineZone clinic with a Physical Therapist, participants will
      be offered the opportunity participate in the study and may receive the protein supplement as
      part of their standard care. Potentially interested patients will be screened by inclusion
      and exclusion criteria and as such, written informed consent will be obtained from each
      patient.

      Patients will then be randomly assigned to the treatment (protein supplement) or control
      group (no protein supplement) and commence their prescribed rehabilitation treatment as per
      therapist recommendation. Individuals in the randomly assigned supplementation group will be
      provided the supplement and will be instructed on its use (dosage and frequency).

      CONSENT All guidelines for proper consenting will be observed. Consenting will be done in a
      private room prior to any procedures being performed. Patients will be given ample time to
      review the document and ask questions. All study procedures will be thoroughly explained and
      all questions will be answered. Patients will not be placed under any pressure to participate
      in the study. Consent forms will be obtained by the investigators of the study and/or the
      study coordinator in the SpineZone clinics.

      Withdrawal from the study: If the patient decides at any point to withdraw from the study,
      they can do so without any of the benefits to which they are entitled changing.

      RISK/BENEFITS RATIO The risks to the patients will be minimal. Although there is, future
      patients may benefit from improvements to surgical procedures and more effective
      rehabilitation programs which will be derived from patient outcomes.

      DATA PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY A confidentiality breach is a risk associated with data
      review research; however every measure will be instituted to ensure that patient information
      is kept confidential. Data analysis worksheets will be kept separate from EMR records. No
      subject public health information will be collected or shared.
    
  