
    
      The aim of diabetes treatment is to achieve and maintain as optimal blood glucose levels as
      possible to prevent unpleasant symptoms associated with high blood sugars and long-term
      complications of diabetes. This can be achieved with oral tablets, subcutaneous injectable
      diabetes therapies such as insulin or GLP-1 analogues.

      Injectable therapies can significantly improve glucose control, but the counter to this might
      be an increased treatment burden, patient and clinician's inertia to initiate injectable
      treatments and the potential side effects of the medications.

      These treatment aspects may critically affect patients' health related quality of life and
      satisfaction with treatment which can powerfully influence patients' compliance and
      self-management behaviours. This is an observational cohort study and its overall aim is to
      compare the health status, quality of life (QOL) and treatment satisfaction in two cohorts of
      patients with type 2 diabetes - those treated with oral diabetes drugs (nonexposed group) and
      those on subcutaneous injectable therapies (exposed group).

      The changes in the above parameters will be measured by applying three questionnaires to both
      groups of participants at baseline and after 6 months of treatment:

        1. ADDQoL measures diabetes specific quality of life

        2. DTSQ measures treatment satisfaction

        3. SF-36 measures overall health status

      Study duration is six months for each participant and over this period participants will
      receive three telephone or face to face contacts (based on their preference) with the
      research team. The questionnaires will be posted to participants at baseline and at 6 months
      and will be completed in paper form and returned to research team in pre-paid selfaddressed
      envelopes.

      It is hoped that this study will provide valuable understanding of the effect of injectable
      therapies on QOL and treatment satisfaction in our local population with type 2 diabetes
      which can then be carefully factored into clinical decisions when initiating or intensifying
      diabetes treatments.
    
  