
    
      Smartphones are devices that are commonly used by medical professionals. Their adoption by
      students and physicians is increasing, with reported use rates of roughly 85%. Reasons behind
      these implementation rates stem from their versatility, since this technology provides mobile
      communications and advanced informatics in a handheld device that can be used at the bedside.
      However, data regarding their use in medical education is scarce.

      This study aims to address whether a smartphone application designed to review key concepts
      in internal medicine and its subspecialties might increase the overall academic performance
      of medical students. Eligible participants will be interns in their final year of study who
      own a smartphone with an operating system based in Android® or iOS®. Only those that do not
      wish to participate will be excluded from this trial.

      All participants will undergo a baseline test aimed at addressing their knowledge of internal
      medicine and its subspecialties. Multiple choice questions will be used in this test, which
      have been developed by a team of internists with 5 years experience in formulating them.
      These questions have also been designed to resemble a national examination that is required
      to practice medicine in the Chilean Public Health System, and have shown a good correlation
      with performance in the latter exam in previous reports. In order to optimise adherence, the
      application will also provide feedback to its user, showing overall performance in terms of
      correct answers and time required to solve a clinical vignette.

      After this test, participants will be randomised to receive the smartphone application by a
      statistician. Investigators will be kept unaware of the allocation sequence used in this
      trial. The contents of the application will include clinical vignettes that will review core
      concepts in internal medicine and its subspecialties. After 4 weeks, participants will
      undergo a second test and the overall performance between groups will be compared. Both
      outcome assessors and statisticians will be kept unaware of participant allocation. Data
      regarding the overall application use will be collected as well.
    
  