
    
      Pancreatic cancer (PC) is the seventh cause from cancer and the fifth cause from
      cancer-related death in Europe. Nearly as many deaths occur from PC than the number of new
      cases diagnosed each year, reflecting the poor prognosis typically associated with this
      disease. PC is insidious in onset and is often diagnosed late at the stage of metastatic
      spread. In spite of advances made in the management of other more common gastrointestinal
      cancers, the treatment of PC did take only a small advantage of recent progresses in
      gastrointestinal oncology and targeted therapies did not significantly modify its prognosis
      to date.

      Thus, for more than 10 years, gemcitabine has been the standard of care to treat metastatic
      PC. Recently, two positive phase III trials in metastatic PC were reported.

      First, the gemcitabine with nab-paclitaxel combination therapy was compared to gemcitabine
      alone in 861 randomized patients with metastatic PC. Results showed a significant improvement
      in response rate (RR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). Second, the
      results of the PRODIGE 4/ACCORD 11 trial testing the FOLFIRINOX regimen in metastatic PC
      patients, finally gave a hope showing a major improvement in PFS and OS as compared to
      gemcitabine. However, though manageable, the safety profiles of FOLFIRINOX and of gemcitabine
      plus nab-paclitaxel were less favourable than that of gemcitabine. These regimens were
      associated with a higher incidence of grade 3-4 neutropenia, febrile neutropenia,
      thrombocytopenia, diarrhoea, and grade 2-3 sensory neuropathy.

      Irinotecan has a stronger growth-inhibiting effect than cisplatin, mitomycin C and
      fluorouracil on cultured pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. In most trials testing this
      molecule in PC patients, however, the response rates were low (<10%) and survivals were poor.
      Intensive regimens with irinotecan and 5-FU have been developed in colorectal cancer patients
      to increase the anti-tumor effects of this combination therapy. From those, the FOLFIRI.3, in
      which the irinotecan is administered before and after a 5-FU 46h continuous infusion gave
      promising results. The investigator has tested this regimen in a phase II trial in advanced
      PC patients, with an objective RR of 37.5%, a median OS time of 12 months and acceptable
      tolerability. Considering these encouraging results the investigator has proposed a new
      approach to improve outcomes for patients with metastatic PC, using FOLFIRI.3 and gemcitabine
      alone, sequentially, to increase patient survival with a preserved quality of life (QOL).
      Indeed, some authors have reported that the administration of different patterns of
      sequential polychemotherapy was independently associated with OS in patients with PC and
      other gastrointestinal tumors such as metastatic colorectal cancer. Such strategies using
      drugs without cross-resistance sequentially may increase anti-tumor effects and limit
      cumulative and non-cumulative toxicities.

      The investigator thus performed a randomized multicentre phase II trial to assess this
      sequential treatment strategy using FOLFIRI.3 and gemcitabine alternately in one arm and
      gemcitabine alone in the other arm, in patients with metastatic non pre-treated pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma. In this study the FIRGEM strategy seems to be an effective first line
      treatment option in good condition patients with metastatic PC. The primary endpoint was
      reached with a rate of PFS at 6 months of 44.9% in the FIRGEM arm while gemcitabine alone
      failed (25.7%). This good PFS rate at 6 months was maintained at 12 and 18 months (26.2% and
      18% respectively) though median PFS was 5.0 months. Moreover, an impressive objective
      response rate was observed in the FIRGEM arm (40%) as compared to the gemcitabine arm
      (11.4%). These results confirm those of the initial phase II trial evaluating the FOLFIRI.3
      regimen (37.5% objective response rate)(15) in PC patients and compare favourably with the
      31.6% and 23% reported in the two trials evaluating FOLFIRINOX and gemcitabine +
      nab-paclitaxel, respectively.

      Median overall survival was 11 months with FIRGEM versus 8.2 months with gemcitabine
      (HR:0.710 95% CI: 0.457-1.103). Here again the experimental arm gave good results, with
      median OS in the range of those reported with FOLFIRINOX (11.1 months). The safety profile of
      the FIRGEM strategy showed that hematological and GI toxicities were more important than with
      gemcitabine alone. Interestingly no limiting sensory neuropathy was observed with our
      treatment schedule and a significant increase in the time to definitive deterioration of the
      QoL was observed in the FIRGEM group as compared with the gemcitabine group. This effect was
      observed for all domains.

      Considering that nab-paclitaxel improves significantly patients outcome in metastatic PC when
      combined to gemcitabine, the addition of this drug to the FIRGEM strategy may be of
      particular interest. And the PRODIGE 37 trial tested this combination in a randomized phase
      II trial recently closed for inclusions. This trial allowed to fight the cancer with 4
      different drugs, without any cross resistance described between them, given sequentially in
      the first 4 months of treatment. Moreover, the "resting period" without nab-paclitaxel may
      delay significantly the occurrence of the cumulative neuropathy induced by this molecule and
      optimised its used with such a "stop and go" like strategy. Results are awaited for early
      2018.

      More recently a liposomal irinotecan has been developed and tested in pancreatic cancer
      patients, it comprises irinotecan free base encapsulated in liposome nanoparticles, which
      keep irinotecan into the circulation sheltered from conversion to its active metabolite
      (SN-38) longer and use local macrophage-mediated activation, which would increase and prolong
      intratumoral levels of both irinotecan and SN-38. In a phase II study of 40 patients with MPA
      previously treated with gemcitabine-based therapy, monotherapy with nal-IRI resulted in a
      median overall survival of 5.2 months, and a manageable toxicity profile. The NAPOLI-1 phase
      III trial was then conducted, comparing three arms of chemotherapy in patients previously
      treated with gemcitabine-based therapy: liposomal irinotecan (MM-398 or nal-IRI) alone or
      combined with 5FU and folinic acid, and 5FU and folinic acid alone. Combination of nal-IRI
      and 5FU/LV was more effective than 5FU alone or Nal-IRI alone (median OS of 6.1 vs. 4.2 and
      4.9 months respectively (HR: 0.67; p=0.012). Increased hematologic and GI toxicities were
      also seen in the Nal-IRI arms but were manageable. Nal-IRI plus 5FU and folinic acid extends
      survival in patients with metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma who previously received
      gemcitabine-based therapy. In a setting where there is a paucity of second line treatment
      option, this combination is an important emerging treatment option for metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

      Considering all these data, the investigator proposes to run a randomized phase II trial
      testing the standard continuous Gemcitabine + Nab-paclitaxel schedule vs Nal-IRI+5FU/LV vs
      Nal-IRI+5FU/LV for two months followed by Gemcitabine + Nab-paclitaxel for two months before
      starting again Nal-IRI. This will allow i) to generate efficacy and tolerability data on the
      Nal-IRI/5FU combination in the first line setting, ii) to test a new sequential strategy with
      Nal-IRI , in regards of the interesting results obtained in second and third line pancreatic
      cancer treatment, iii) to control our results in the experimental arms with one of the two
      first line worldwide standard regimen: Gemcitabine + Nab-paclitaxel.
    
  