
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

      The primary objective with this study is to investigate the short-term efficacy (primary
      endpoint at week 3) of Internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy (ICBT) provided soon
      after trauma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES The secondary objective is to investigate the long-term efficacy
      (primary endpoint at week 7) of ICBT.

      Trial design: Randomized trial where participants are allocated to either ICBT (n=50) or
      control group (assessment only; n=50). Participants randomized to control group are
      subsequently offered identical ICBT treatment, so that all participants will eventually
      receive treatment.

      All participants are assessed at baseline (W0), post-treatment (primary endpoint; W3) and at
      one-month follow-up (secondary endpoint; W7). Long-term follow-up assessments are also
      conducted at 6- and 12-months. The primary outcome measure is also measured weekly from
      baseline and up to the 1-month follow-up (W7).

      Primary outcome measure used are the Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Checklist for Diagnostic
      and Statical Manual, Fifth Edition (PCL-5). Secondary outcome measures used are Montgomery
      Åsberg Depression Rating Scale - Self-report (MADRS-S), Euroqol (EQ-5D) and Trimbos and
      Institute of Medical Technology Assessment Cost Questionnaire for Psychiatry (TIC-P).

      Participants are self-referred through advertisements in newspapers, web-pages, social media
      and at primary care, psychiatric and emergency clinics throughout Sweden. Interested
      applicants do an Internet-administered screening on an encrypted webpage using the PCL-5,
      MADRS-S, Alcohol User Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT), Drug User Disorders
      Identification Test (DUDIT), TIC-P, questions about inclusion and exclusion criteria and also
      give general background information. Written information about the study is given including
      objectives, benefits, risks and requirements imposed by the study.

      An assessor calls the participant and conducts a structured clinical interview including The
      Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (M.I.N.I.). The aim of this interview is to
      preliminary assess inclusion criteria and rule out exclusion criteria. Information is also
      given over the phone by the interviewer about the study protocol.

      Safety parameters Participants will have the opportunity to report any adverse events during
      treatment, at posttreatment and follow-up assessment.

      Data collection: Data will be collected electronically via the treatment platform.

      Main statistical analysis: Between-group estimates on outcome are done using a mixed-effects
      regression model with repeated measurements. All analyses will be done according to intention
      to treat and post hoc per protocol analyses will also be conducted.
    
  