
    
      In preventing antibiotic-induced diarrhea in double blind placebo controlled clinical trials
      it was found protective effect of probiotics containing S. boulardii and Enterococcus
      faecium. Also in preventing infectious diseases associated with Clostridium difficile,
      administration of probiotics resulted in a significant decrease in disease recurrence.
      Duration of rotavirus diarrhea, in children and in immunocompromised HIV-positive patients
      was significantly shortened after administration of strains of Lactobacilli and S. boulardii
      respectively.

      Meta-analysis of 9 randomized, placebo-controlled trials showed significant reduction in the
      incidence of antibiotic associated diarrhea in children. Another meta-analysis in which 23
      studies were included showed significant reduction in risk of infectious diarrhea. Most of
      these studies was carried out with the probiotic strain Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG®.

      The incidence of diarrhea during treatment of acute leukemia is between 15 to 80%. Severe
      diarrhea level 3 to 4 is present in 8-20% and is much more common during the induction phase
      of chemotherapy. In phase II study performed in NCI Slovakia preventive administration of
      Enterococcus faecium probiotic strain M-74 with selenium was associated with low incidence
      (14%) and severity (all grade 1) diarrhea, despite the fact that half of the patients
      received induction therapy. The investigators noted safety of probiotic strain during 370
      days of severe neutropenia Gr 3-4.

      The incidence of irinotecan induced diarrhea varies between 60-90%, by which the incidence of
      severe diarrhea is 20-40%. In phase II studies, its incidence was 17% in NCI Slovakia, but
      irinotecan dose was reduced by 25% in all patients. Diarrhea is an important factor in
      morbidity and mortality during irinotecan based chemotherapy. Predisposing factors are age
      over 65 years, ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) PS (Performance status) of 1 and
      previous abdominopelvic radiation. One of irinotecan metabolites, SN-38 (7-ethyl-10
      hydroxycamptothecin), which is glucuronidated in the liver and subsequently expelled into
      intestine is main cause of diarrhea. Due to the bacterial enzyme beta-D-glucuronidase it is
      deconjugated in intestinal lumen again. This form causes direct damage to intestinal mucosa
      associated with malabsorption of water, electrolytes and development of diarrhea.

      Reduction of activity of intestinal beta-D-glucuronidase using broad-spectrum antibiotics
      and/or beta-D-glucuronidase inhibitors is one of the ways to avoid irinotecan induced
      diarrhea. It is also possible to modulate metabolism of irinotecan using cyclosporine and
      phenobarbital to reduce biliary excretion of SN-38 and induction of glucuronidation.
      Promising results were shown using activated charcoal, which has resulted in the absorption
      of SN-38. Also other methods were tested: oral alkalization, thalidomide, amifostine, but
      without success. These procedures have been studied only in phase II trials. It is known that
      some probiotic bacteria, reduce activity of intestinal beta-D-glucuronidase and therefore
      these bacteria could be applied in the prevention of diarrhea in patients treated by
      irinotecan based therapy.

      Results of phase III study, that was prematurely terminated due to poor accrual showed
      benefit of Colon Dophilus on irinotecan induced gastrointestinal toxicity. In this trial, 46
      patients with colorectal cancer starting a new line of irinotecan based therapy were
      enrolled. 5-fluorouracil/capecitabine along with irinotecan was administered to 26 (56.5%)
      patients and 22 (47.8%) patients received biological therapy as well. Patients were
      randomized 1:1 to probiotic (PRO) or placebo arm (PLA). Probiotic formula Colon Dophilus, was
      administered at a dose of 10x109 CFU (colony forming unit) of bacteria tid, orally for 12
      weeks of chemotherapy. Primary endpoint was incidence of grade 3/4 diarrhea. 23 patients were
      randomized to PRO and 23 patients to PLA. Administration of probiotics compared to placebo
      led to a reduction in the incidence of severe diarrhea of grade 3 or 4 (0% for PRO vs. 17.4%
      for PLA, p = 0.11), as well as reduction of the overall incidence of diarrhea (39.1% for PRO
      vs. 60.9% for PLA, p = 0.24) and incidence of enterocolitis (0% for PRO vs. 8.7% for PLA).
      Patients on PRO used less loperamide compared to PLA (mean duration of loperamide use: 4.5
      days for PRO vs. 10.4 days for PLA, p = 0.45; mean number of loperamide tablets: 5.9 for PRO
      vs. 37.7 for PLA, p = 0.49). There was no infection caused by probiotic strains recorded.

      Two recent studies in murine model showed, that bacteria in the gut enhance the body's immune
      response to cancer, mobilizing immune cells to kill cancer cells, not just in the gut but
      throughout the body as well. The researchers also found that the bacteria affect the efficacy
      of three different cancer treatments.

      Given their low toxicity, good tolerability, probiotics may be an important part of
      supportive therapy and moreover they can enhance efficacy of anticancer therapy. The
      objective of this phase III. trial is to determine effectiveness of the probiotic formula
      PROBIO-FIX INUM® in the prophylaxis of irinotecan induced diarrhea due to reduction
      intestinal beta-D-glucuronidase activity and further biochemical and physiological actions of
      specific strains Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12® and Lactobacillus rhamnosus
      GG®, LGG® that are active substances of used food supplement - PROBIO-FIX INUM®. Both of
      strains are well-documented. LGG® has been studied in more over 800 scientific publications.
      Studies have found that LGG® supports immunity, enhances antibody formation during viral
      infection, and decreases incidence of gastrointestinal infections, antibiotic associated
      diarrhoea, and respiratory infections. In addition to its well-researched health benefits,
      the safety of LGG® has been more widely studied than any other probiotic bacterium. It has a
      safe history of use in foods and is extensively documented in more over 200 clinical studies.

      The large number of clinical studies and scientific publications indicate that the BB-12®
      probiotic strain - alone or in combination with other of probiotic strains (e.g. LGG®) - may
      have beneficial effects regarding the gastrointestinal and immune areas. BB-12® is considered
      to be best studied probiotic bifidobacteria, described in more than 360 scientific studies.
    
  