
    
      Breast cancer is the fourth leading cancer death both in female and general population in
      Taiwan. Breast cancer is a cancer with heterogeneous subtypes, based on gene expression
      profiles and clinicopathological characteristics. Estrogen receptors (ER) expression of
      breast cancer has significant prognostic values and determines candidate patients for hormone
      therapy in both adjuvant and metastatic situations. However, ER expression may be variable
      within the regions of the tumor or discordant between primary and metastatic lesions.
      Furthermore, ER expression can change over time along the progression of the disease. Many
      patients receiving hormone therapy finally develop resistance to hormone therapy despite of
      ER positive result on prior pathologic specimens. Recently, the mutation of ER-related gene
      ESR1 has been reported to be associated with the mechanism of development of endocrine
      resistance.

      To assist breast cancer treatment, accurate method for patient selection and response
      prediction to endocrine and other targeted therapy are required.
      16α-[18F]fluoro-17β-estradiol ([18F]FES) is currently the only ER-targeted PET agent
      validated in previous clinical trials. With the development of [18F]FES PET imaging, the
      status of ER expression could be detected ER status of tumor cell in vivo without the need of
      an invasive biopsies.

      The propose of this prospective study focuses on the role of [18F]FES PET imaging in patients
      with breast cancer who might receive or are receiving hormone therapy. First, we will develop
      and optimize the radiosynthesis and quality control tests of [18F]FES in conditions that meet
      good manufacturing practice (GMP) requirements. Secondly, patients with or without metastatic
      breast cancer will be enrolled for the conduction of human study. [18F]FES PET imaging will
      be performed on patients before the initiation of hormone therapy to predict the prognosis
      and therapeutic response to hormone therapy. The [18F]FES PET results will be compared with
      ER status obtained by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining on surgically obtained specimens.
      Moreover, in patients with progression of metastatic disease, the [18F]FES PET will be
      correlated with ESR1 gene mutation, which is one of the mechanisms for resistance to hormone
      therapy.

      [18F]FES PET is proposed to be served as an interval assessment tool to evaluate the dynamic
      changes of ER status in patients receiving hormone therapy. Also, the results of this study
      will demonstrate the impact of [18F]FES PET as a non-invasive tool on decision making of
      hormone therapy of breast cancer in addition to IHC stain and ESR1 mutation genetic test.
      After finishing this project, the non-invasive [18F]FES PET imaging will be proved the
      potential for the improvement of personalized cancer care.
    
  