
    
      Background

      TAVI has emerged as a valuable minimal-invasive treatment option in patients with symptomatic
      severe aortic valve stenosis at prohibitive or increased risk for conventional open-heart
      surgery. AV conduction disturbances and arrhythmias before, during or after TAVI remain a
      matter of concern as they have consequences.

      Prior to TAVI the ICM will be inserted under the skin of the chest under local anesthesia.
      The device will be interrogated just prior to readmission for TAVI and thereafter at 1, 3, 6,
      and 12 months of follow-up. The incidence of symptomatic as well as silent brady- and
      tachyarrhythmias will be recorded, and its impact on medical and device treatment as well as
      clinical outcomes analyzed.

      All patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis undergoing TAVI at the institution
      irrespective selected bioprosthesis will be included in the study. Final decision on
      eligibility will be made by the local Heart Team.

      Objective

      To investigate the incidence, nature and prognostic significance of AV-conduction
      disturbances and arrhythmias among patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis
      undergoing TAVI before, during and after the procedure using a small implantable cardiac
      monitoring system (ICM; Medtronic REVEAL LinQTM). The primary endpoint of the study is to
      establish the incidence of new onset atrial fibrillation and complete AV-block within 12
      months after TAVI.

      Methods

      One hundred patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis undergoing TAVI will be
      enrolled in this prospective, observational study. Prior to TAVI (at least 4 weeks), at the
      time of preprocedural hemodynamic and anatomical assessment, the ICM will be inserted under
      the skin of the chest under local anesthesia. The device will be interrogated just prior to
      readmission for TAVI and thereafter at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months of follow-up. The incidence of
      symptomatic as well as silent brady- and tachyarrhythmias will be recorded, and its impact on
      medical and device treatment as well as clinical outcomes analyzed.

      The study is observational: the patients will not be assigned to a specific intervention.
      Patients consenting will be monitored using a specific device that has been approved for
      market release. The objective of the study is to use the information obtained with this
      monitoring device to assess the incidence, nature and prognostic significance of
      atrioventricular conduction disturbances and arrhythmias among patients with severe,
      symptomatic aortic stenosis undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation before, during
      and after the procedure. The objective of the study is not to investigate the performance of
      the monitoring device.
    
  