
    
      Background:

      Based on the published evidence, collaborative care for depression is both necessary and
      sufficient for improving care and outcomes for depressed patients in primary care settings.
      The Translating Initiatives in Depression into Effective Solutions (TIDES) project, upon
      which ReTIDES is based, developed a VA-adapted version of collaborative care through input
      from veterans, clinicians, and managers. The initial TIDES project resulted in a clinically
      stable and effective model as tested in seven primary care practices in three VISNs. This
      positive result provided the basis for spreading and sustaining the TIDES model and
      initiating the study of national implementation strategies and issues.

      Objectives:

      The objective of this grant was to carry out preparatory steps toward national
      implementation, including developing and investigating TIDES sustainability and partnering
      and marketing strategies. The project supported VISNs as learning organizations in the area
      of depression care improvement, and ultimately aimed to support as many as 8% to 10% of
      veterans nationally in improving their health and quality of life. Preparatory steps included
      1) development of easily disseminated tools, including CPRS decision support, panel
      monitoring, and care manager and team training materials, 2) national and local dissemination
      to support TIDES model sustainability and spread and 3) evaluation using tools that would
      assess not only the success of this project, but could be used for quality monitoring during
      roll-out.

      Methods:

      Tools: We used the Chronic Illness Care model and Evidence Based Quality Improvement methods
      to develop tools for disseminating TIDES to additional medical centers and practices in 3
      TIDES VISNs and two medical centers (with 10 practices) in one additional VISN. These tools
      were then used for national implementation. Dissemination: We served as technical expert
      consultants by 1) carrying out national and regional training; 2) linking to national patient
      care services, employee education, and information technology methods and priorities; and 3)
      supporting evidence-based quality improvement in new sites.We organized these efforts through
      a national dissemination plan.

      Evaluation: We developed and applied 1) formative evaluation tools; 2) fine-tuned performance
      measure tools based on electronic data, and applied in a non-randomized quasi-experimental
      design (untreated control group with pretest and posttest); 3) a web-based survey for primary
      care clinicians and 4) an innovative implementation cost assessment approach. We also used 5)
      qualitative information on the process of dissemination , including links to national
      resources and 6) a randomized design to evaluate long term (18-month) cost effectiveness of
      TIDES.

      Status:

      Completed.
    
  