
    
      Overview of study procedures - Participation in the study last for 12 weeks. Phase 1:
      baseline data collection and orientation to the intervention (week 0); Phase 2: 8 weeks of
      daily tracking on website and weekly eHealth visits from a nurse and two data collection
      points (week 4 and week 8); Phase 3: Optional continuation of tracking on website and as
      needed eHealth visits from a nurse and final data collection (week 12)

      Description of the intervention: For a period of eight weeks patients will use the OASIS
      web-application daily to help them get better control of their cancer symptoms. In addition,
      to daily symptom and strategy tracking, participants will have eight e-visits with the
      nurse-coach via the Zoom application through the UIHC eHealth and eNovation Center to
      evaluate their progress with managing their symptoms, assess for barriers to implementing
      strategies, and offering coaching on how to improve symptom management. Questionnaires and
      blood samples will be collected at baseline (week 0) and follow-up (weeks 4, 8, and 12).

      Part 1: OASIS web-application. The web-application is a secure web-site developed by The
      University of Iowa ITS that contains a number of features participants can use to improve
      their ability to monitor and manage their physical and emotional symptoms. The daily check-in
      allows participants to keep track of their symptoms and strategies on a day-to-day basis. A
      data visualization tool provides visual summary of their symptom distress and strategy use
      over time. A symptom library describes the pathophysiology (in lay language) of 16 common
      cancer symptoms. A strategy library contains written descriptions and videos of how to
      implement 47 common symptom management strategies. The contact nurse-coach feature lists the
      next scheduled coaching visit as well as provides a way to request an extra e-visit sooner if
      needed. And finally, other resources will provide phone numbers and web links to resources
      such as the American Cancer Society, the National Cancer Institute, and Patients Like Me. The
      personal data participants enter into the OASIS web-application is considered level 3 data
      and will be handled according to The University of Iowa policies and procedure (See X.4
      Electronic Records). After baseline data collection, the web-application will guide
      participants through the web-application to set up their tailored symptom management plan.

      Step 1: On the initial login participants will complete an orientation to the intervention
      that consists of a video and values exercise. The video will briefly describe how physical
      and emotional symptoms develop during cancer and why symptom management is critically
      important for patients with advanced cancer. They will then complete a brief values exercise
      asking them to think about what is important in their lives. The purpose of the values
      exercise is to help participants make the cognitive connection about how cancer symptoms may
      be interfering with aspects of their lives they value most.

      Step 2: Next the patient will complete a brief profile (first name, age, gender, type of
      cancer, current cancer treatment) and select an image or avatar for their profile. Going
      forward computer algorithms that are driven by information provided by the participant will
      tailor the experience. For example, the cancer ribbon in the OASIS logo will then change to
      the color associated with their cancer.

      Step 3: Participants will then be instructed to select at least one symptom they want to
      control better. The selected symptoms will be automatically added to the Symptom Tracker
      feature of the application. The order in which the symptoms are presented on this screen will
      be based on the answers provided in the profile. The most common symptoms for that cancer and
      treatment will be presented first at the top of the list based on behind the scenes decision
      algorithm. On this screen they can simply choose symptoms from the list or read about common
      cancer symptoms in the symptom library.

      Step 4: Next, participants will select at least one symptom management strategy to use for
      each symptom. Participants can simply select strategies from a list or read more about them
      in the strategy library. Strategies selected will be automatically added to the Strategy
      Tracker. For each symptom selected, a list of common symptom management strategies known to
      be effective for that symptom will be suggested.

      Step 5: Once the participant has identified at least one symptom to work on and one strategy
      to use, s/he can begin tracking. After completing steps 1-5, the Main Page will now show
      their symptom and strategy trackers. At the end of each day, the participant is instructed to
      rate the symptom distress they experienced in the previous 24 hours for the symptom(s) they
      are tracking and whether they used the selected strategy or not.

      Step 6: While participants are not required to read/watch all the content in the
      web-application, they are encouraged to explore the symptom library and strategy library to
      learn more about cancer symptoms and ways they can better manage them. Exploration will be
      encouraged with factoids and teasers. Each time a participant logs in, a pop-up window with a
      symptom management fact or tip will appear. This pop-up will link to the appropriate content
      page if the participant is interested in learning more. For example, "TIP: Did you know that
      whenever you adjust your opioid pain medicine, you should also adjust your constipation
      medicines?"

      Part 2: Nurse-Coach. Through weekly visit via Zoom (which is an HIPAA compliant
      web-conferencing platform), the nurse-coach will provide the ongoing encouragement, support,
      and accountability that has been identified as critical to behavior change in other chronic
      illness self-management interventions. The focus of the communications will be to evaluate
      the patient's symptoms and use of management strategies, as well as coach the patient to
      identify and address barriers to effectively implementing strategies to manage their
      symptoms. Prior to each e-visit the participant will be encouraged to think about how well
      each management strategy is working and what barriers they are encountering with implementing
      the strategy. The nurse-coach will review the symptom distress scores and use of management
      strategies with the participant. The nurse-coach and participant will then discuss how well
      the strategies have been working and any barriers s/he has encountered. Reviewing the tracker
      data and evaluating effectiveness and barriers of the strategies is theorized to help the
      participant connect the dots between how they are feeling and what they can do to improve
      their symptom management. The nurse-coach may suggest other strategies to consider, assess if
      there are underlying symptoms that need to be addressed in order to effectively manage
      symptoms (such as pain that is causing disturbed sleep), and finally, and/or determine
      additional medical management is appropriate (such as messaging the physician to change a
      prescription). The nurse-coach is a key feature of the intervention in that s/he will provide
      primary palliative care as well as promote a sense of therapeutic working alliance with the
      patient. For the purpose of fidelity monitoring, the e-visits will be audio recorded using
      the secure audio recording feature in the Zoom application. Recordings will be transcribed
      verbatim. Participants will be informed that the e-visits is being recorded. The participants
      will be notified before the recording begins.

      Questionnaires: A member of the research team will assist the patient in completing the
      questionnaires at the clinic at the time of enrollment. In week 4, 8, and 12 patient will
      complete questionnaires electronically. They will receive these questionnaires via a
      Qualtrics survey link through email. The questionnaires take approximately 30-90 minutes to
      complete. The questionnaires include sociodemographics, usability and acceptability of the
      intervention, plus instruments evaluating social support, perceived stress, optimism,
      illness/symptom appraisal, symptom burden, self-management behaviors, coping, and
      communication with health care provider.

      Blood: The patient will be met at the phlebotomy clinic for scheduled blood draws. Blood
      samples for cytokines will be obtained at the same time as other scheduled blood draws to
      minimize additional needle sticks. 30 mL of blood will be collected from a central venous
      access device or using standard venipuncture techniques with sodium heparin and EDTA tubes
      immersed in an ice bath within 15 minutes. Study personnel will confirm that the patient has
      not smoked or ingested caffeine for at least one-half hour prior to blood collection. The
      blood collection takes about 15 minutes.

      The entire survey data collection will take 45 to 105 minutes per visit(total for visits is
      180 to 420 minutes). Daily use of the web-application for a minimum of 10 minutes is
      expected, totaling 560 minutes. A total of 12 hours and 30 minutes to 16 hrs and 30 minutes
      of data collection is expected for the whole study.

      Medical record review: Medical records will be reviewed at each study visit via EPIC Care
      Everywhere for information about cancer type and stage, cancer treatments, co-morbid
      conditions, clinical blood lab values, and symptom treatment interventions.

      The study population consists of 40 adults (18 years or older) that will be recruited at the
      McCreery Cancer Center Clinic sites in Fairfield, IA and Ottumwa, IA. There is no control
      group in this study. All participants will receive the intervention. Approximately 1 patients
      per week are seen at the McCreery Cancer Center that meet eligibility criteria. The
      investigators plan to approach all eligible participants. With a 50% recruitment rate and
      expect to reach the sample size within 10 months.

      Eligible patients will be identified by the McCreery Cancer Center clinic staff (e.g. nurses,
      radiation therapists, and oncologists) weekly for the upcoming week. A research assistant
      will be at the McCreery Cancer Center on day of the scheduled appointment. The clinic staff
      will ask the patient if they are interested in the study. If the patient agrees, a trained
      research assistant will confirm eligibility, describe participation, and obtain informed
      consent. If the patient is interested in participating in the study but unwilling or unable
      to complete the questionnaires or symptom and strategy tracking on the website, they can have
      a caregiver assist them. The caregiver will function only as a recorder of the patient's
      responses and not provide their own perceptions. If the patient is not able to verbally
      interact with the caregiver to complete the questionnaires or symptom and strategy tracking,
      then they will not be eligible to participate (or will be dropped from the study if already
      in the intervention phase).

      This intervention is based on patient's ability to perform self-care actions with the use of
      web-application. Self-management activities is highly dependent on decision making ability.
      As a reason, if their physical or psychological status deteriorate due to their advanced
      cancer they will no longer will be able to perform self-management actions nor use the web
      for self-management and will be excluded from the study. If patient's capacity to consent
      changes over the course of study, their study participation will end early. The UCSD Brief
      Assessment of Capacity to Consent will be used to reassess capacity as needed during the
      study.

      This project involves research on DNA. Analyses of associations among genetic markers for
      cytokine, cancer symptoms, and coping behaviors. DNA samples will be identified and labeled
      with a unique study ID number. The DNA samples and plasma for cytokine analyses will be
      labeled with only the study ID and date of collection and kept in a -80ยบ C freezer in a
      locked in the College of Nursing, Office of Nursing Research. Data from the analyses will be
      securely stored in RedCap.

      Data management and analysis will be the primary responsibility of the PI. Questionnaires and
      biological specimens will be coded to remove all direct personal identifiers. The code list
      will be kept in a locked cabinet and secure location, separate from where the questionnaires
      and specimens are stored. The original consent and screening forms will be stored in a locked
      cabinet in the project area, separate from any data sources.

      These de-identified DNA samples or data may be shared in the future with other researchers
      studying cancer symptoms and cytokines. Prior to sharing any data, an approved IRB protocol
      and/or material transfer agreement will be obtained.

      SAS 9.3 will be used for all analyses. Initial analysis will involve calculating descriptive
      statistics for all variables at all study points compared to controls. Outliers will be
      investigated for accuracy. Patterns of missing data will be examined. Graphical
      representation of the data will be created and examined at each point and longitudinally. The
      distributions of variables will be evaluated for normality and homogeneity of variance, and
      appropriate transformations will be applied as needed or statistical analyses for non-normal
      data will be utilized. Correlations among variables will be examined. A significance level of
      .05 will be used for statistical tests.

      To evaluate the acceptability and usability of the intervention, multiple components of the
      study will be examined, including resources and time spent on the intervention for each
      participant, patterns and sources of missing data. In addition the investigators will review
      the recruitment procedures, as well as any potential experimental confounders and logistical
      challenges. Descriptive statistics will be employed for analysis of continuous variables and
      qualitative analyses will be employed for open-ended questions. This information will be used
      to refine the OASIS intervention and develop procedures for a pilot RCT in future
    
  