
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Repair of ventral hernias always involves a scientific discussion about placing the "optimal
      mesh", the "optimal" mesh position or the "optimal" fixation method of the mesh. Today, there
      are a lot of meshes available of different materials, different textures, in different sizes
      and with different properties. The choice of the "right" mesh strongly depends on the sort of
      hernia and on the choice of the surgeon.

      Furthermore, it is known that the majority of implanted meshes shrink to an extent, which may
      be of disadvantage for the patient. This has already been demonstrated in several animal
      studies, but clinical information on the mesh shrinkage is rare and mostly a result from
      revised surgery.

      Most meshes for repair of abdominal hernia defects, based on polymeric textile, are invisible
      to conventional imaging techniques, inclusive "magnetic resonance imaging" (MRI). The textile
      company FEG Textiltechnik GmbH, Germany, has developed a unique method which allows imaging
      of the mesh in vivo in the MRI. For this purpose, these unique meshes contain an amount of
      iron particles. The particles are incorporated into the filaments, which are subsequent warp
      knitted to the mesh structure.

      In a similar setting, the IMAP study, the visibility of the IPOM® mesh up to 13 months after
      laparoscopic ventral hernia repair will be investigated. Preliminary results from this study
      have shown a clear visibility and a promising outcome using this mesh.

      PURPOSE:

      The aim of this study is the visualization of the mesh surface and the confirmation with MRI
      scan at 1 month and 13 months after standardized retromuscular incisional hernia repair with
      the visible CICAT mesh (Dynamesh®).

      The investigators want to show that with this type of mesh it is possible to visualize the
      mesh after retromuscular placement in vivo in a safe manner.

      Furthermore, the positioning of the mesh, mesh shrinkage or mesh shifting will be monitored
      with this technique. This provides long-term benefit and provides early treatment
      possibilities in case of post-operative complications related to the mesh position.
      Furthermore, by means of dynamic MRI measurements the mesh elasticity will be evaluated in
      both directions longitudinal as well as transversal.

      These results will provide information about the degree of mesh incorporation and the
      mechanical behavior of the tissue-mesh compound.

      PROCEDURES

      Hernia Repair:

        -  Introduction of the visible CICAT mesh (Dynamesh®) via laparotomy and retromuscular
           positioning of the mesh with a minimum overlap with the hernia defect of at least 5 cm
           in all directions.

        -  All patients will receive a standardized pain treatment protocol. Analgesics used will
           be checked. Visual analog scale (VAS) for pain will be measured at 4 hours, 8 hours, 12
           hours, 16 hours, 20 hours and 24 hours post-operatively and every 12 hours thereafter
           until discharge of the patient.

        -  Pain medication after discharge will be monitored and checked with the patient at each
           consultation.

      Clinical follow-up evaluation of all patients will be performed by the principal
      investigator.

      MRI measurement will be performed at 1 and 13 months post-operatively.

      MRI scan method:

      Used gear: Philips Ingenia CX 1.5 Tesla. Measurements will be performed in head first prone
      position and if not possible in head first supine position. Prone position is preferred
      because of less motion artefacts from respiration and aortic pulsation, less tendency of
      intestinal gas accumulation against the abdominal wall producing additional signal voids.
      Hence the differentiation with the hypointense mesh can be difficult.

      There is no use of contrast material during the investigation. Preferably, the examination
      will be conducted in sober state i.e. patient should not eat for 2 hours before the
      examination. This is to reduce the risk of post prandial hyper-peristaltic.

      DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY OF THE PATIENT All information about this study will be collected
      in the EuraHS Registry. The data will be entered into the EuraHS platform with a coded
      number, MOONCAT_01, MOONCAT_02, ...
    
  