
    
      The standard treatment for endometrial cancer is total hysterectomy and bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy, peritoneal cytology, and lymph node dissection. Pelvic lymph node
      dissection helps to set accurate staging and adjuvant therapy group, but it has never been
      proven to have therapeutic effects by itself. According to the results of two recent
      randomized clinical trials, routine pelvic lymph node dissection in early stage endometrial
      cancer doesn't improve survival rates.

      Routine pelvic lymph node detection can cause complications in a large number of patients and
      is associated with poor quality of life. Therefore, it is important to develop a method that
      can check the status of the lymph node in a less invasive way. Efforts have been made to
      preserve other lymph nodes with significantly less potential for metastasis through less
      invasive methods, reducing lymph edema and complications such as bleeding and nerve damage
      caused by excessive surgery.

      Sentinel lymph node dissection is used as a standard treatment for breast cancer and
      malignant melanoma, and efforts to develop it have recently continued in endometrial cancer
      and cervical cancer. A SENTICOL study conducted in cervical cancer patients showed a
      false-negative rate of 0% when both were monitored lymph node dissection. In addition, unlike
      routine pelvic lymph node dissection, ultra-staging through 0,2mm gas intercepts allow
      additional detection of less than 2mm of microtransfer or less than 0.2mm of independent
      tumor cells that have not been found before. In a recent large-scale prospective study of
      endometrial cancer, sentinel lymph node mapping using indocyanine green and fluorescent
      imaging was successful at 86%, and sensitivity (patient-by-patient analysis) reported 100% in
      diagnosis of lymph node metastasis.

      As laparoscopic and robotic surgery account for most of the treatment of endometrial cancer
      patients, a good environment is created for monitoring lymph node exploration using ICG, and
      sensitivity and detection rate seem to have improved compared to the previous method.
      However, there has been no prospective study on the effects of patient clinical prognosis,
      such as a standard treatment, pelvic lymph node resection, and disease-free survival rate,
      and overall survival rate, so a prospective study is essential. The investigators compare
      survival rates in the group that does sentinel lymph node mapping and routine pelvic lymph
      node detection in endometrial cancer in clinical stage I-II.
    
  