
    
      COMPARATIVE STUDY:

      Comparative study of patients with chronic heart failure, randomized ratio (1:1), with two
      study arms (telecardiology vs usual care). French multicenter study.

      The planned enrolment is 990 patients in a total period of 3.5 years. This study will involve
      an enrolment visit, managed by the recruiting investigator cardiologist, then four telephone
      contacts by Clinical Studies Technicians (CST). The purpose of the CST telephone contacts is
      to record the study data, and this will be occur for both study arms. Throughout the study,
      the patients in the telecardiology study arm will have regular contact with the Cordiva
      nurses for the management of their chronic heart failure, through telemonitoring and
      coaching. There is no planned hospitalization for the study.

      Patients in the control group will receive the usual care: After enrolment, they will return
      home and will subsequently have regular visits to their General Practitioner (GP) or
      referring cardiologist.

      Patients in the telecardiology group will receive the necessary monitoring equipment in their
      home in the week following their enrolment visit. This equipment includes a connected
      electronic scale and a questionnaire box. This questionnaire is designed to evaluate the
      evolution of patient symptoms.

      During the presentation of the study to the patient before study inclusion, the investigator
      will inform the patient about the use of the equipment.

      The material provided is "self installable" but if the patient asks for help, the equipment
      will be installed at the patient's home by a private nurse, who also will check that the
      patient knows how to use the equipment.

      Each patient will respond daily to 8 yes/no questions:

        -  Did you have more breathing issues last night than the previous night?

        -  Did you need an extra pillow for better breathing last night?

        -  Do you cough more than usual?

        -  Are your legs are more swollen than usual?

        -  Do you feel yourself more tired than usual?

        -  Have you had or do you have a fever above 38.5 °C?

        -  Have you felt or do you feel palpitations?

        -  Do you find that your physical activity is more limited today than the previous days?

      Patients should simply answer yes or no to all of these questions through the questionnaire
      box.

      The self-monitoring parameters (weight and questionnaire answers) will be remotely
      transmitted via standard phone lines (wired, 3G or GPRS) to the secured servers.

      These data will be analyzed automatically by an expert system that will generate an alert in
      case of abnormal values. The objective is to anticipate possible acute cardiac failure.

      The specialized nurses from the Cordiva center will manage those alerts during working hours
      and will contact the patient to validate with him the relevance of the alert. If the clinical
      reality of the alert is confirmed, the nurse will advise the patient to contact his GP or
      referring cardiologist. In parallel to the nurse advising the patient, the referring
      physician will receive an alert report including the weight values and the symptoms which
      triggered this alert. Then, he can then take any action he considers appropriate.

      A binder will be sent to the patients. This will contain various information related to the
      management of their heart failure: heart physiology, symptoms, treatments, diet, physical
      activity...

      The purpose of this binder is to support the discussion between the Cordiva nurses and the
      patient.

      Upon receipt and installation of the equipment in the patient's home, the nurses will arrange
      a first telephone interview, which will last approximately 45 minutes. The nurses will first
      introduce the team and the overall clinical approach, and will have a discussion with the
      patient to better understand the patient (anamnesis, treatment, psycho-social profile,
      smoking, alcohol use, physical activity, and so on).

      After this call, patient and nurse will together determine together the date for the next
      phone call date.

      On a regular basis (for example every three weeks), a Cordiva nurse will call the patient to
      check the current status of his disease and its treatment, and to assist him in the
      management of his disease on a daily basis (compliance, physical activity, nutrition, illness
      experience... ) . This call will last approx. 15 minutes, however, the duration of the call
      is not limited, but is defined according to the needs of the patient.

      At the end of each call, the nurse will define with the patient educational goals (disease
      knowledge, treatments, recognizing acute episodes symptoms, learning better health habits,
      practise regular physical activity).

      Cordiva center is also available for patient's inbound calls. In this way, patients will be
      able to easily call the center during working hours, and discuss with a specialized Cordiva
      nurse. This line is not an emergency line and does not replace the 112, which remains the
      only accredited contact in case of emergencies.

      In case of temporary travel of the patient away from home (i.e. for holidays), the patient
      can take the box and scale with him. This material is provided with GPRS SIM card, so the
      connection will be maintained. The patient may also provide an alternative phone number for
      the calls with the nurses.

      The patient's GP will be involved in this outpatient care from the beginning of the study.
      Indeed, data collected through the connected boxes and scales will be displayed in dedicated
      reports sent to the GP. These reports will be transmitted every 2 months. These reports will
      also be sent to the referring cardiologist if requested.

      Moreover, in case of validated alerts, the referring physician will have access to a weight
      and symptoms report, allowing him to take any action he thinks appropriate.

      ABOUT CORDIVA CENTER: The center has a team of specialized and graduated nurses in heart
      failure management and in therapeutic education, due to the dedicated training they have
      received. Indeed, many studies in the multidisciplinary care of heart failure patients have
      demonstrated the key role of nurses, acting as bridge between patients and health
      professionals.

      The nurses take care of patient compliance based on the referring cardiologist or general
      practitioner instructions, and monitor patient clinical parameters (weight and symptoms). The
      nurses use a software based interviews guide. Patient objectives are defined based on
      information regarding certain factors (health status, clinical signs, drugs), and this
      information will be collected by the nurses into a computerized database. This information is
      requested in strict patient accompanying perspective and therefore do not appear in the study
      results.

      The two data sets (data collected by nurses for patient management on one hand, and data
      collected by CST for the study on another hand) will never be connected and only study data
      from CST will be used to assess study criteria.

      To evaluate patient knowledge and needs, the nurses use active listening (open questions,
      paraphrasing, empathy and positive reinforcement). These techniques help them to customize
      information and messages and reinforce personalized care. Cordiva center nurses benefit from
      specialized training in motivational interviewing. They have also received dedicated training
      in cardiology and heart failure, "mental state" of heart failure patients, communication and
      patient education.

      Coherence of this informative approach is guaranteed on one hand because of the tools
      available for the nurses (binder, interview guide), and on the other hand because of the
      center organization itself: monitoring of patients insured by team of nurses, weekly debrief
      of recorded calls…

      EXTENSION PERIOD:

      The extension period will be conducted on an open, non-comparative basis. The aim of the
      extension period is to allow patients who wish to do so to follow the telemonitoring program
      until its marketing, regardless of the randomization group on initial inclusion in the study.
    
  