
    
      Differences in gut microbiota composition and function will be evaluated in obese children
      before starting the DHA supplementation and dietary-lifestyle intervention, at the end of DHA
      supplementation (4 months) e after 4 months of dietary dietary-lifestyle intervention without
      DHA supplementation. The investigators will identify the role of DHA on the intestinal
      microbiota and indicative species related to insulin resistance (IR). The investigators will
      determine whether DHA supplementation, combined with interventions to improve diet and
      lifestyle, reduces adverse metabolic consequences together with their co-morbidities.

      The following tasks will be also performed at t0, t1 and t2:

      Clinical examination including: physical examination, Tanner score evaluation; Bristol Stool
      Chart Blood pressure will be checked in all children by using oscillometric devices validated
      in the pediatric age group.

      Anthropometry including body circumferences and skinfolds, calculation of BMI z scores and
      body composition. Body composition will be assessed using an air displacement plethysmography
      system (BOD POD COSMED-USA).

      Dietary assessment:

        -  Food intakes will be recorded by prospective 3-d weighed food records obtained with food
           scales. Parents will be advised on how to record all food and beverages consumed during
           2 weekdays and 1 weekend day. Quantification and analysis of the energy intake and
           nutrient composition will be performed with an ad hoc PC software (MètaDieta®, Me.Te.Da
           S.r.l., San Benedetto del Tronto, Italy).

        -  Mediterranean Diet Quality Index (KIDMED) questionnaire for Mediterranean Diet
           assessment. The KIDMED index ranges from 0 to 12, and is based on a 16-question test
           that can be self-administered. The sums of the values from the administered test will be
           classified into three levels:

           8 or more: optimal Mediterranean diet; 4-7: improvement needed to adjust intake to
           Mediterranean patterns. 3 or less: very low diet quality.

      Hematological and biochemical status including:

      Complete cell blood count;

      Metabolic and nutritional parameters according to local routines for childhood obesity
      (fasting glucose, fasting insulin, LDL, HDL, total cholesterol, triglycerides, Apolipoprotein
      A and Apolipoprotein B levels, transaminases and amma-glutamyl transferase). Oral Glucose
      Tolerance Test (OGTT) will be performed. The insulin sensitivity and insulin resistance was
      assessed by calculating HOMA index (Homeostasis Model Assessment) and QUICKI (Quantitative
      Insulin-Sensitivity Check Index), using the following formulas:

      HOMA: fasting plasma insulin in mU/l x FPG in mmol/l/22.5 QUICKI: 1/(log10 fasting plasma
      insulin in mU/l + log10 glucose in mg/dl)

      Inflammatory index (VES, high-sensitive CRP, including fecal calprotectin)

      Liver ultrasonography for detection of fatty liver disease
    
  