
    
      This study is designed to test the relationship between salivary proteins, flavor sensation,
      and flavor exposure. For this study, we will test the bitterness/astringency of
      epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG, a polyphenol), the oleogustus (fatty acid taste) of linolenic
      acid, and the spiciness of capsaicin in conjunction with the concentration of specific
      salivary proteins (initially: salivary proline rich proteins for EGCG intervention,
      lipocalin-1 for the other two, but other proteins may be identified in the post-hoc analysis
      of the salivary proteome). We will test whether higher expression of these specific salivary
      proteins correlates with lower intensity of these flavors. We will further attempt to confirm
      the role of these salivary proteins using food-sourced functional analogs for these proteins.
      We would expect the food-sourced protein to have the same effect on flavor as the salivary
      protein if our hypotheses about salivary proteins' influence on flavor are correct. Finally,
      we will also use denatured versions of the food-sourced proteins to again confirm that
      effects are due to the function of these proteins binding the flavor.

      Additionally, we will repeatedly expose individuals to the flavors by having them rinse and
      swallow solutions of the flavor compounds multiple times per day for two weeks. We will then
      re-evaluate the sensory ratings and salivary protein profiles. Two weeks of rinsing and
      swallowing a control solution will be used as a control during this intervention (for each of
      the flavors of interest).

      To collect saliva and establish bitterness/astringency perception, we will use an acute
      tasting protocol. Participants will rinse with water, then taste and swallow, then taste and
      expectorate a solution of the flavor of interest. Saliva will be frozen for later proteomic
      analysis. Next participants will taste solutions of: flavor, flavor with food analog, the
      flavor with denatured food analog, water, water with the food analog, and water with
      denatured food analog. The participants will rank these solutions in order from least intense
      to most intense for the flavor quality of interest (bitterness/astringency for EGCG). After
      this, participants will taste all 6 samples again, and rate each individually for the
      intensity of the bitterness/astringency. After a short wait, this tasting and intensity
      rating will be repeated. All tastings will be done in counterbalanced order, and solutions
      will be labeled with randomized 3-digit codes.

      This acute tasting protocol will be done: at baseline, after 2 weeks on one intervention
      (repeated tasting of flavor or control), after 2 weeks on the other intervention.
    
  