
    
      We propose to test the implementation of a multifaceted, evidence-based, peri-operative
      surgical site infection (SSI) preventive program that leverages basic preventive measures
      optimized by pathogen cluster detection software (surveillance) to reduce ESKAPE
      (Enterococcus, S. aureus, Klebsiella, Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas, and Enterobacter spp.)
      transmission and SSIs. SSIs increase patient morbidity, prolong hospitalization, and increase
      the risk of death. ESKAPE pathogens are particularly problematic because they have increased
      capacity to acquire resistance and virulence traits. For example, S. aureus explains a
      significant proportion of SSIs. S. aureus transmission can be detected in 39% of surgical
      cases, has been directly linked to up to 50% of S. aureus SSIs by single nucleotide variant
      analysis, and is tightly associated with SSI development across a variety of surgical
      specialties. The isolation of ≥ 1 KAPE isolate from ≥ 1 intraoperative reservoir is
      associated with increased risk of infection development. We have proven that improvements in
      basic perioperative preventive measures can generate substantial and sustained reductions in
      perioperative S. aureus transmission and SSIs, with the magnitude of the effect exceeding
      that of SSI preventive efforts focused on host optimization and inhibition of bacterial
      virulence strategies, the status quo. However, perioperative application of these basic
      preventive measures has been inconsistent, and some evidence suggests that S. aureus explains
      20% of SSIs. Thus, there remains room for further advancement in perioperative infection
      control by addressing other ESKAPE organisms and by delineating an implementation approach
      that will yield effective, national dissemination of these proven measures. Our planned
      approach to address these pathogens mirrors our approach for perioperative S. aureus control,
      integrating evidence-based provider hand hygiene, intravascular catheter design/handling,
      environmental cleaning/organization, and patient decolonization improvement strategies with
      surveillance. Our surveillance approach maps the epidemiology of transmission of each
      pathogen, identifying for example, reservoirs of origin that become improvement targets for
      sustainability. While this approach is proven effective in preventing perioperative S. aureus
      transmission and SSIs, the relative effectiveness of the various components of the
      multi-faceted approach in reducing ESKAPE transmission and associated SSIs, as well as an
      effective national dissemination strategy, remain unknown. Therefore, our overall objectives
      for this study are to examine the relative effectiveness of each programmatic component in
      controlling ESKAPE spread and associated SSIs and to identify the best approach for national
      dissemination of this technology. We will use a cluster-randomized design to evaluate the
      implementation and sustainability of each approach guided by PHARIS framework. More broadly,
      these findings will be relevant to supporting hospital's implementation of a wide array of
      preventive interventions and has potential for vastly improving patient care and outcomes.
    
  