
    
      This is a randomized (study drug assigned by chance), double-blind (neither the physician nor
      the patient knows the name of the assigned treatment), multicentre study in Poland and the
      United Kingdom designed to assess the mycological (fungal) cure rate and clinical efficacy of
      a new formulation of ketoconazole 2% cream (F126) with the current formulation of
      ketoconazole 2% cream (Nizoral) (F012) compared with placebo cream in patients with
      symptomatic uncomplicated interdigital (between the toes) Tinea pedis, a skin infection
      commonly known as "athlete's foot" that is caused by a kind of mold called a fungus.
      Approximately 548 patients who have symptomatic uncomplicated interdigital Tinea pedis
      confirmed by positive potassium hydroxide (KOH) microscopy (examination using a microscope)
      and mycological (fungal) culture will be randomized to receive 1 of 2 formulations of
      ketoconazole 2% cream (formulation F012 or F126) or placebo cream. There will be 4 study
      visits during the study. At Visit 1 (baseline), patients will sign the informed consent and
      be assessed for mycological and clinical signs and symptoms of Tinea pedis. Baseline
      demographics (age, race, etc), medical history and medication (s) that the patient is
      currently taking will be recorded. Patients will be issued with a tube of the cream and
      instructed to apply the cream sparingly to all affected areas of the foot (or feet), once
      daily (at night or in the evenings) for a total of 4 weeks according to protocol-specified
      guidelines. During the 4-week treatment period patients will return to the study every 2
      weeks to be assessed for clinical signs and symptoms. After the 4-week treatment period,
      patients will continue participation in the study for an additional 2 weeks without
      medication. Patients will return then return to the study center for a final visit (Visit 4,
      Week 6) at which time skin scrapings will be sampled from interdigital spaces on both feet
      for KOH microscopy and mycological culture. The primary efficacy endpoint is to determine
      whether a new formulation of ketoconazole 2% cream is equivalent (or as effective) as the
      current formulation of ketoconazole 2% cream (Nizoral) compared to a placebo cream in
      achieving a mycological cure (defined as negative KOH microscopy and negative mycological
      culture) following 4 weeks of treatment. The primary outcome measure in the study is a
      mycological cure (defined as negative KOH microscopy and negative mycological culture) at
      week 6. Patients will be monitored for safety (occurrence of adverse events, use of
      concomitant medications, and reasons for premature discontinuation from the study) from Visit
      1 through Visit 4 (Week 6 or time of early termination from study). Patients will be provided
      with up to two 15g tubes of ketoconazole cream (formulation F126 or F012) or matching placebo
      cream and be instructed to apply cream sparingly to affected areas of the feet once daily at
      night or in the evening for 4 weeks according to protocol specified guidelines.
    
  