
    
      Background Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is an endocrinopathy that occurs during
      pregnancy, and presents several clinical findings together with increased blood glucose
      levels. The frequency of GDM differs, while the incidence of the disease in Turkey is
      reported to be 7%. Most of the societies recommend screening all women with or without any
      risk factors in terms of GDM. The definitive diagnosis is made via oral glucose challenge
      test (OGTT). Early diagnosis and treatment are the key points to improve maternal and fetal
      outcomes. Different biomarkers are studied regarding GDM diagnosis starting from first
      trimester. However, there is not a worldwide accepted biomarker for defining the high risk
      group to the date. Afamin is known as an important indicator of oxidative stress. Moreover,
      oxidative stress itself is strongly associated with insulin resistance and obesity which are
      responsible from GDM pathogenesis.

      Objective To investigate the association between first trimester maternal plasma afamin
      levels and GDM. Also, investigators aimed to understand the role of afamin for the prediction
      of GDM in this study.

      Methods This is an observational prospective cohort study conducted in Department of
      Perinatology, Etlik Zubeyde Hanim Women's Health Care, Training and Research Hospital,
      University of Health Sciences, Ankara, Turkey. During 11 and 14 weeks of gestational,
      maternal blood will be obtained from eligible pregnant women, and samples will be stored at
      -80 oC. Informed written consent will be obtained from participants. Between 24th and 28th
      gestational weeks, all these women will be screened by two step OGTT. Then, afamin levels
      will be compared in GDM and control groups. Exclusion criteria are; multiple pregnancy, fetal
      anomalies, pregestational diabetes, underlying chronic diseases (hypertension, thyroid
      dysfunction, other endocrinopathies, autoimmune disorders), age <18 or > 35 years, fasting
      glucose level > 105 mg/dL or random glucose level > 200 mg/dL.
    
  