
    
      This two arm, allocation concealed ,assessor blinded randomized controlled trial is to be
      conducted at Dar ElTeb Infertility and IVF center ,Giza,Egypt between the period between June
      2020 and March 2021.

      Eighty six patients with recurrent implantation failure were randomized in a 1 to 1 ratio to
      platelets-rich plasma (PRP) group and the control group . Patients were randomized using
      computer generated randomization list and sequentially numbered sealed envelopes containing
      allocation written on a card. The randomization list and the sealed envelopes were prepared
      by a colleague who is not directly involved in the study . The embryologists and the doctors
      responsible for follow up of the patients after ovum pickup were blinded to received
      treatment.

      Ovarian stimulation was achieved using highly purified urinary FSH ( HPuFSH) (Fostimon,IBSA,
      Switzerland) started on the 2nd or 3rd day of menstruation . The initial dose of HPuFSH
      ranged between 150 and 300 IU/day depending on expected ovarian response. The dose of HPuFSH
      was modified from stimulation day 5 in steps of 75 units every 2nd or 3rd day depending on
      serum E2 and follicular development assessed by transvaginal ultrasound.

      GnRH agonist ( cetrolix acetate) (cetrotide) 0.25mg SC/day was administered when the leading
      follicle reached 14 mm in mean diameter and was continued until and including the day of HCG
      administration .

      A dose of 10000 IU of HCG was administered when 3 or more follicles were 18mm or more in mean
      diameter .

      Oocyte retrieval under transvaginal ultrasound guidance was performed 34 hours after HCG
      administration .

      In PRP group autologous platelets rich plasma was prepared from the blood using the two step
      centrifuge process. Under ultrasound guidance and complete aseptic procedures ,the
      endometrial thickness was measured then 1 ml of PRP was infused inside the uterus while
      performing the mock embryo transfer . In the control group mock embryo transfer was performed
      without injecting anything inside the uterus .

      All the patients received progesterone vaginal pessaries ( prontogest, Marcyryl, Egypt) 400mg
      twice daily , starting on the day of oocyte retrieval and continuing until 12 weeks gestation
      or negative pregnancy test.

      No more than 3 embryos were transferred under ultrasound guidance 3 to 5 days after oocyte
      retrieval . B HCG level was detected in blood 14 days after Embryo transfer to confirm
      pregnancy and transvaginal ultrasound was performed 4 weeks after embryo transfer to confirm
      clinical pregnancy.
    
  