
    
      The Urologic Pelvic Pain Syndromes (UPPS) are characterized by pelvic pain with concurrent
      urinary symptoms. Broadly, the UPPS comprise Interstitial Cystitis/Painful Bladder Syndrome
      (IC/PBS) in men and women, and Chronic Prostatitis/Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome (CP/CPPS) in
      men, although the focus of this protocol is exclusively women with IC/PBS.

      Interstitial Cystitis (IC) is a debilitating bladder disorder characterized by urinary
      urgency, frequency, and pain. The presentation of symptoms can be quite variable among
      patients, suggesting that IC is a multi-factorial syndrome with several proposed etiologies,
      some of which may be interrelated.1 Painful Bladder Syndrome (PBS), as defined by the
      International Continence Society, is "the complaint of suprapubic pain related to bladder
      filling, accompanied by other symptoms, such as increased daytime and night-time frequency,
      in the absence of proven urinary infection or other obvious pathology. 2" PBS is a clinical
      description of disease based on the patient's symptoms and does not depend on urodynamic or
      cystoscopic findings. These symptoms may be related to interstitial cystitis, although
      diagnostic criteria are still lacking for this entity, and the relationship between PBS and
      interstitial cystitis is not clear. For clarity and compliance with current nomenclature,
      this protocol will use the term IC/PBS.

      As with many chronic pain disorders, IC/PBS is poorly understood, poorly characterized, and
      treatment is mostly empirical and unsatisfactory. Several proposed etiologic theories include
      (1) increased bladder epithelial permeability, (2) activation of bladder mast cells, (3)
      allergic or autoimmune processes, (4) toxic substance(s) in the urine, (5) occult infection,
      (6) neuropathic changes, and (7) neurogenic inflammation. However, none of these mechanisms
      have been conclusively shown to be responsible for IC/PBS. Estimates of prevalence of the
      syndromes vary widely. In 1990 interstitial cystitis (IC) was thought to affect as many as
      500,000 U.S. citizens, with 25% of patients under age 25.3 More recently however, using
      expanded definitions of PBS now exceed 10 million.4 Quality of life with IC/PBS can be worse
      than end stage renal disease.5 The recent pilot study of manual physical therapies for
      Urologic Pelvic Pain demonstrated feasibility of recruitment, and promising benefit of
      myofascial tissue manipulation (MTM) (ref manuscript#1). In that pilot study, 47 participants
      were recruited to six centers with prior expertise in MTM. Of the 47 participants, 24 were
      females with IC/PBS, and 23 were males -- 2 with IC/PBS and 21 with CP/CPPS. Motivated by the
      promising findings in that pilot study, this protocol aims to investigate whether those
      initial results are generalizable in an expanded phase 3 clinical trial, in which we include
      other therapists from other centers. However, due to the gender-specific findings of the
      pilot study, and the limited resources available, this protocol is focused on replicating the
      initial pilot study exclusively in women with IC/PBS.

      Although the pain of IC/PBS is poorly understood, almost all clinicians agree that there is
      almost always some chronic tension and tenderness of the pelvic floor musculature present in
      UPPS patients,8-10 and it is possible that these myofascial abnormalities contribute
      significantly to the pain of IC/PBS. For example, Hetrick et al11 compared the surface EMG
      signals from men with CPPS to those from men without chronic pain, and found that there was
      greater EMG instability in men with CPPS, along with increased baseline tonicity, and
      instability with lowered voluntary endurance contraction amplitude.

      Whether these musculoskeletal abnormalities of the abdominal wall and pelvic floor
      musculature found in IC/PBS sufferers represent primary or secondary phenomena remains
      unknown. It is possible that pelvic visceral pain leads to chronic contraction of regional
      skeletal musculature, leading to overuse injury and pain. It is also possible that primary
      pelvic myofascial problems lead to painful and weakened pelvic floor musculature, which also
      functions poorly to inhibit the urgency associated with bladder filling.

      Our prior study of manual physical therapy suggested benefit of MTM over GTM. Translation of
      those office practices into the research setting was apparently successful in centers that
      participated in the first trial. We propose to expand the number of treating therapists to
      include 11 study centers, in order to determine whether the results of the first trial can be
      generalized, at least in the research setting. However, due to the gender-specific findings,
      this expanded replication study will focus exclusively on women with IC/PBS.
    
  