
    
      Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) is a medical complication following the receipt of
      transplanted tissue from a genetically different person. In the classical sense, acute
      graft-versus-host-disease is characterized by selective damage to different organ systems and
      the severity of acute GVHD is determined by an assessment of the degree of involvement of the
      skin, liver, and gastrointestinal tract.

      In general topical steroids can be used as first line treatment in acute grade I skin GvHD
      according to Dignan et al 2012. However, the administration of high doses and/or prolonged
      use of topical steroids is associated with severe side effects, such as opportunistic
      infections, that is a significant factor for morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, the
      results of corticosteroid treatment are clearly suboptimal, with continuing complete response
      rates of only 20-40% in acute and chronic GVHD. Therefore, it still remains a matter of
      debate whether there is an alternative first line therapy to topical steroids that can
      overcome these problems.

      Ectoin Dermatitis Cream is a high quality cream containing 7% Ectoin without cortisone for
      the symptomatic, proactive treatment of atopic dermatitis or other inflammatory skin diseases
      as e.g. radio or contact dermatitis. In several clinical studies it has been shown that
      Ectoin Dermatitis Cream reduces inflammation of the skin during sub-acute periods and
      stabilizes the skin barrier. In acute periods, it reduces the symptoms like itchiness and
      redness of the skin.

      In this study, Ectoin Dermatitis Cream can be used as therapy of grade 1 (stage 1 and 2)
      acute skin GvHD in patients who have a hypersensitivity to corticosteroids or show an
      ineffectiveness of topical corticosteroids. Following confirmation of the diagnosis, patients
      will asked by the investigator whether they are interested to participate in the current
      trial. The investigator, taking the patients into consideration is free to decide who is to
      receive the Ectoin Dermatitis Cream.

      Patients enrolled in this observational trial will be treated for 14 days with Ectoin
      Dermatitis Cream. Patients who do not respond to Ectoin therapy within the first 5 to 7 days
      of treatment, will be treated with topical or systemic steroids. However, when there are
      indications of good treatment response, the patients will be treated with Ectoin Dermatitis
      Cream until symptoms resolve.
    
  