
    
      There is a high prevalence of behavioural disturbances (NPS) in persons with dementia.
      Persistent pain complaints can be a cause of NPS. Unfortunately, there is a lack of
      appropriate drugs for treating both these problems. This and positive suggestions from
      preliminary clinical studies with THC on NPS and directly fuel the study presented here.

      This will be a phase II study in which the efficacy and safety of Namisol® (a tablet with
      THC) on behavioural disturbances, such as agitation, aggression and motor disturbances in
      dementia patients will be evaluated.

      Secondary study objectives are :

      2. To evaluate the efficacy of Namisol® on other secondary outcome measures, such as quality
      of life and functioning in daily activities.

      3. To evaluate safety of Namisol® as assessed with physical examination, effects on cognitive
      functioning and adverse event monitoring.

      4. For the subgroup of subjects suffering from pain: to evaluate the efficacy of Namisol®
      pain intensity

      It is hypothesized that Namisol® will lead to more reduction in behavioural disturbances than
      placebo, when added to an analgesic treatment with acetaminophen, and as measured by a change
      in Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) score, after a three week treatment period. It is
      expected that this will be due, primarily, to psychoactive effects of Namisol® and secondary
      to a reduction in pain sensation (as measured with VRS and PACSLAC-D). It is expected that a
      reduction in NPS will positively affect quality of life and lead to better functioning in
      daily living

      This is a randomized placebo-controlled double-blind parallel-group multicentre study.

      Subjects who appear to fulfill the eligibility criteria are informed about the study. After
      signing informed consent by the subject and/or caregiver, a screening visit will take place.
      Subjects who are eligible for participation enter a wash-out period, for discontinuation of
      their own analgesic medication (if applicable). Subjects will be randomly allocated to
      receive one of the two interventions (Namisol® 1.5 mg + acetaminophen 1000 mg three times
      daily, or placebo + acetaminophen 1000 mg three times daily) for a double-blind intervention
      period of three weeks. After two weeks the primary outcome measure (NPI) is assessed by a
      telephone interview with the caregiver. Subjects visit the site twice (at baseline and after
      three weeks treatment) for assessments of the outcome parameters, including the NPI. For the
      purpose of compliance and safety, there will be a weekly phone call, performed by the
      researcher. After completion of this period subject's own analgesic treatment will be
      restarted (if applicable). After a follow up phase of two weeks, the subject is contacted by
      telephone for assessment of adverse events.
    
  