
    
      This study is a single-arm, open-label trial of a sexual and gender minority (SGM) competence
      training program at Wilmot Cancer Institute (Wilmot) and its regional care locations (e.g.,
      Wilmot Medical Oncology, Wilmot Radiation Oncology, Gynecological Oncology, Highland
      Hospital, Pluta Cancer Center). Results will be descriptive in nature and will be used to
      inform a R01 grant application.

      The investigators will train Wilmot personnel (physicians, nurses, other providers, staff,
      and administrators) at each care location using a validated, two-hour long SGM curriculum
      created by the Fenway Institute and tailored for oncology. The investigators will collect
      data from all personnel on knowledge and attitudes about SGM patients before and after the
      training. Because competent communication may manifest in subtle, automatic, non-verbal
      processes, the investigators will also video record and analyze clinical interactions between
      SGM patients, heterosexual/cisgender (H/C) patients, and their oncologists. This study has
      four aims:

      Aim 1: To test whether a SGM competence intervention improves knowledge and attitudes among
      Wilmot personnel (on a 8 item questionnaire) from pre- to post-training.

      Aim 2: To explore patient satisfaction (on the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare
      Providers and Systems, HCAHPS) in Wilmot care locations both before and after our SGM
      competence intervention.

      Aim 3: To explore patient stress (psychological distress on the Brief Symptom Inventory,
      anticipatory stigma on the Expectations of Rejection Scale, and experiences of discrimination
      on the Everyday Discrimination Scale) before and after a SGM competence intervention.

      Aim 4: To explore non-verbal synchrony by conducting Motion Energy Analysis (MEA) in video
      recordings of clinical discussions between SGM cancer patients and their oncologists vs. H/C
      cancer patients and their oncologists.
    
  