
    
      Background:

      Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) afflicts one in twenty Irish citizens who are over age 45 and is
      a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease, premature death and significantly
      impacts healthcare utilisation. As kidney function deteriorates, phosphorus, upregulates
      counter regulatory hormones (immunoreactive Parathyroid Hormone (iPTH) and Fibroblast Growth
      Factor 23 (FGF23), the elevated levels of which are maladaptive. Collectively these
      abnormalities and their complications are referred to as Chronic Kidney Disease, Mineral &
      Bone Disorder (CKD MBD). Hyperphosphataemia or high blood phosphate levels is associated with
      increased mortality, in dialysis patients, in the earlier stages of CKD and even in patients
      with normal renal function. The use of phosphorus restricted diets in combination with oral
      phosphate binders has become well established in the management of patients with CKD stages
      3-5 (including CKD stage 5D).

      Experts have called for research into the dietary management of phosphate in the CKD
      population. The current evidence base is weak and in a recent Cochrane systematic review the
      authors concluded that there was limited low quality evidence to indicate that dietary
      interventions may positively affect CKD-MBD.

      In recent years there has been increased focus on dietary phosphorus restriction in the
      management of CKD-MBD and a number of experts have suggested changes in how we manage dietary
      phosphorus. Several potential strategies have been suggested and in response the Renal
      Interest Group (RIG) of the Irish Nutrition & Dietetic Institute (INDI) held a 1 day meeting
      in Dublin in January 2015 which brought together numerous experts in the field to summarise
      our current understanding and the recent advances in the field.

      Following on from this, RIG set up a working group to translate the new knowledge from the
      advanced study day and from further literature reviews into a modified low phosphate diet
      sheet.

      Almost all people who have end stage kidney disease (ESKD) and require dialysis to survive,
      follow a dietary phosphorus restriction, to control high blood phosphate, with the aim of
      reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease, fractures and death.

      Research Hypothesis: The modified low phosphate diet sheet is superior to current treatment
      in haemodialysis patients

      Study Objectives

      Primary Objective: To determine if the modified low phosphorus dietary prescription is
      superior to current management in reducing serum phosphate levels in HD patients

      Secondary Objectives To determine if the modified low phosphorus diet is tolerable To
      determine if the modified low phosphorus diet is safe To determine if the modified low
      phosphorus diet brings the renal diet closer to healthy eating advice e.g. increased fibre
      intake.
    
  