
    
      The long-range goal of this work is to improve overall survival in hematopoietic stem cell
      transplant (HCT) recipients by personalizing their conditioning regimen and/or intravenous
      (IV) busulfan (BU) doses using metabolomics. BU is an essential part of the majority of HCT
      conditioning regimens, but has a narrow therapeutic index; low BU plasma exposure (caused by
      rapid clearance) is associated with an increased risk of rejection or relapse, while high BU
      plasma exposure is associated with an increased risk of hepatotoxicity. Although
      pharmacokinetic (PK)-based dosing to a target BU exposure is often conducted, relapse and
      toxicity continue to be problematic. Furthermore, shorter IV BU courses necessitate
      alternative methods to personalize IV BU. IV BU clearance, however, is not associated with
      polymorphisms of glutathione S-transferase (GST) A1 and GSTM1, the predominant GSTs in BU
      conjugation with glutathione. Therefore, investigators seek to test the working hypothesis
      that metabolomic signature, which provides novel insight into the in vivo cellular response
      and metabolite identification, is associated with IV BU clearance. Investigators will first
      determine if endogenous metabolomics-based biomarkers obtained before BU administration can
      predict IV BU clearance. Researchers will evaluate endogenous biomarkers using a targeted
      (glutathione pathway) and global analyses via liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy. In
      addition, investigators seek to evaluate IV BU metabolism using metabolomics in parallel with
      gas chromatography-mass selective detection in patients receiving PK-based IV BU. Researchers
      will evaluate plasma concentrations of eight different metabolites, building upon their
      experience with tetrahydrothiophene (THT+). To complement this metabolomic work,
      investigators seek to validate covariates associated with IV BU PK, specifically age and body
      size, to mitigate a typical challenge for metabolomics research: the lack of understanding of
      potentially confounding factors. FHCRC has been a reference clinical laboratory for PK-based
      BU dosing since 1996 and thus, FHCRC researchers have the largest database of IV BU PK. Using
      population pharmacokinetic (popPK) analysis, investigators will validate covariates for IV BU
      PK to guide future metabolomic studies. This popPK analysis can immediately improve patient
      care by using covariates to more accurately estimate an IV BU starting dose (i.e., before
      PK-based dosing) and by creating a limited sampling schedule to more efficiently use PK-based
      dosing. These complementary aims, which seek to identify novel metabolomics-based biomarkers,
      could overcome a critical barrier to HCT conditioning of balancing between response and
      toxicity. Based on compelling preliminary data, researchers expect to identify an endogenous
      metabolomic signature that will influence the choice of an IV BU starting dose with the
      intention of improving overall survival for patients receiving IV BU-containing HCT regimens.
    
  