
    
      Some women on denosumab treatment for osteoporosis remain at high risk for fracture. These
      include women who sustain incident fractures on denosumab and those who have declining bone
      mineral density (BMD) or persistently low bone mineral density (BMD), despite treatment.
      There are few options available for these patients. Denosumab withdrawal is associated with
      dramatic increased bone remodeling, rapid prominent bone loss, and multiple vertebral
      fractures (Cummings JBMR 2017). Switching from denosumab to teriparatide is associated with
      substantial BMD loss in the hip and femoral neck. After 2 years of denosumab treatment, when
      women are switched to teriparatide, total hip BMD remains below the baseline (at end of
      denosumab treatment) over the entire 2 years of teriparatide treatment (Leder Lancet 2015).

      Abaloparatide might be a better option than teriparatide in patients switching from
      denosumab, because it is less pro-resorptive than teriparatide, however, hip BMD will still
      likely decline. Alternatively, adding abaloparatide to ongoing denosumab might be an
      excellent treatment option for these women. One of the investigators has previously shown
      that adding teriparatide to ongoing alendronate results in improved BMD and bone strength,
      compared to switching to teriparatide (Cosman JCEM 2009 and Cosman JBMR 2013). Others have
      shown that co-administration of teriparatide and denosumab to treatment naïve women increases
      BMD more than either agent alone (Tsai Lancet 2013, Leder et al JCEM 2014). Based on both of
      these observations, the investigators believe that adding abaloparatide to continued
      denosumab treatment will allow bone formation to increase, without increasing bone resorption
      (modeling-based bone formation) and will produce substantial BMD increments in both spine and
      hip.

      Hypothesis: In women who still appear to be at high risk for fracture while receiving ongoing
      denosumab therapy, adding abaloparatide will increase BMD of the lumbar spine and total hip
      significantly more than continuing denosumab alone.
    
  