
    
      Purpose: Berries and mixed berry products exert acute effects on postprandial glycaemia and
      insulinemia, but very few berries have been studied, and primarily in normal weight subjects.
      Sea buckthorn and strawberry are compositionally widely different berries and may likely
      produce different responses. The effects of strawberry and sea buckthorn on postprandial
      glycaemia and insulinemia were examined in overweight or obese male subjects. Subjective
      appetite sensations and ad libitum intake were also examined. Berries may thus improve health
      in longer studies; however, accurate assessment of berry intake is still problematic. The
      discovery of objective biomarkers for intake of berries is therefore important in assessing
      both intake and compliance. The investigators aimed to identify urinary exposure markers of
      two very different berries, strawberry and sea buckthorn, in humans.

      Methods: The study was conducted as a randomised, controlled, single-blinded, 3-way crossover
      study. Eighteen subjects were studied in three 2 h meal tests followed by a subsequent ad
      libitum meal. Test meals contained either sea buckthorn, strawberry or no berries and added
      sucrose to match with respect to sucrose content. Blood samples were collected at t = 0, 30,
      45, 60, 90 and 120 min. Subjective appetite sensations were recorded at t = 0, 15, 30, 45,
      60, 90, 120 and 140 min and subsequent ad libitum intake was recorded. Statistical
      differences in all continuous measures were evaluated based on the existence of a meal or a
      time-meal interaction by repeated measurements analyses or differences in the area under the
      curve (AUC) for that measure in a linear mixed model. Urine samples were collected on each
      test day at t=-15min, t=0-1h, t=1-2h, and t=2-24h and were analyzed by untargeted
      metabolomics. Multivariate analysis was applied to discover markers, followed by molecular
      fragmentation to ease their chemical identification.
    
  