
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the relative efficacy of four different erythropoietic agent dosing schedules
           comprising epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa, in terms of the proportion of patients with
           chemotherapy-associated anemia who achieve a weekly and overall hematopoietic response.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on the mean hemoglobin increment measured weekly
           from baseline to 15 weeks in patients with a baseline hemoglobin of less than or equal
           to 10.5 g/dL.

        -  Compare the time required to achieve hemoglobin levels within the goal range 11.0-12.0
           g/dL in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on the proportion of patients requiring red blood
           cell transfusions and on the number of transfusions required.

        -  Compare the weekly change in hemoglobin in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the need for dose reduction in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the adverse event profiles of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, unblinded, pilot study. Patients are stratified according to
      severity of anemia (mild [hemoglobin ≥ 9.5 g/dL] vs severe [hemoglobin < 9.5 g/dL]),
      platinum-containing regimen (yes vs no), and tumor type (nonmyeloid hematologic malignancy vs
      solid tumor). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive epoetin alfa subcutaneously (SC) on day 1. Treatment repeats
           weekly for up to 15 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive epoetin alfa SC on day 1 (at a higher dose than in arm I).
           Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive epoetin alfa SC on day 1 (at a higher dose than in arm II).
           Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive darbepoetin alfa SC on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks
           for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Hemoglobin levels are monitored throughout the study on a weekly basis and before each drug
      dose is administered. Drug dosing is adjusted (e.g., held, reduced, resumed at a lower dose)
      as needed to maintain hemoglobin values within the desired ranges.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at weeks 4, 7, 10, 13, and 16.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 320 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  