
    
      Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common cause of vertigo
      (Bhattacharyya et al., 2017). BPPV is estimated to affect 900 out of 10,000 people annually
      (Kerrigan et al., 2013) with healthcare costs approaching $2 Billion (Bhattacharyya et al.,
      2017). We have shown that patients with BPPV rate the impact on their quality of life similar
      to patients with macular degeneration, hepatitis B, and HIV/AIDS (Roberts et al., 2009). BPPV
      occurs when calcium carbonate crystals from one part of the inner ear balance system
      (utricle) become displaced into other parts of the inner ear balance system (semicircular
      canal). Normal head and body movements cause movement of the crystal debris within the
      semicircular canals. This movement causes changes in stimulation of the sensory structures of
      the semicircular canals that result in vertigo, nausea, imbalance, and even falls. It is well
      established that BPPV affects the posterior semicircular canal 80% of the time, the
      horizontal canal 15% of the time and the anterior canal 5% of the time.

      There are established methods that have been proven to be effective in treatment of BPPV with
      randomized controlled trials (Hilton & Pinder, 2014). Each of these methods involves moving a
      patient's head and body through specific positions to remove the debris from the involved
      canal. However, many of these patients require multiple treatments and there is a group of
      patients with BPPV that do not respond to these treatments and for whom surgical options are
      ultimately considered. Further, patients with hip or neck problems, spinal issues, and even
      obesity are often unable to be placed in or move through the required positions.

      A motorized chair was developed to improve treatment consistency and efficacy and broaden the
      group of patients who could receive appropriate treatment (Nakayama & Epley, 2005). Although
      the motorized chair was effective and there are no known reports of adverse events, it was
      also very expensive. Few facilities were able to purchase the motorized chair so the
      anticipated impact on helping patients with BPPV was never realized. The motorized chair is
      no longer being manufactured. A mechanical chair for assessment and treatment of BPPV was
      also described around the same time as the motorized chair (Richard-Vitton et al., 2005).
      This is referred to as the TRV chair which are the initials of the inventor.

      This mechanical chair has been used in several countries including across Europe and in
      China. Wang et al. (2014) reported they were able to clear various types of BPPV in 202 of
      208 (97.1%) cases. The remaining six cases reported significant improvement. There was no
      control group in this study and the inventor is listed as an author. No adverse events were
      reported. West et al. (2016) completed a retrospective chart review of patients treated for
      BPPV in their clinic.Interestingly, they had both the TRV chair and the motorized chair. Some
      of their patients also underwent treatment with traditional methods which do not incorporate
      a specialized chair to help position patients. The authors concluded that specialized chairs
      (motorized or mechanical) are useful for treatment of BPPV, especially for more difficult
      cases. There are also some limitations with this report in that no control group was used and
      participants were not randomly assigned to a treatment type. Patients with a typical history
      of BPPV, and identified with the most common type affecting the posterior canal, were treated
      with the traditional methods first and then perhaps with a specialized chair. Other patients
      were treated with both types of chair. No adverse events were reported.

      Specialized chairs do appear to offer some advantages over traditional methods of BPPV
      treatment. Reports in the literature suggest the specialized chairs are able to treat more
      difficult cases of BPPV. This should allow improved cure rates for the approximately 20% of
      patients that require multiple treatments using the traditional methods. Use of specialized
      chairs would also increase the number of patients who can be treated because there are no
      contraindications related to hip, spine, and mobility issues as there are for traditional
      methods of BPPV treatment. The mechanical chair (TRV chair) appears to offer all of the
      advantages of the motorized chair but at a lessor cost anticipated to be $65,000 compared to
      $100,000 for the motorized chair. One may speculate there is less maintenance required for a
      mechanical versus a motorized system and there is the fact that the currently described
      motorized version is no longer available for purchase.

      The primary purpose of this project is to determine treatment efficacy of the motorized TRV
      chair for patients with BPPV. This information has not been published using a randomized
      controlled design. A secondary purpose of the project is to determine if the TRV chair is
      helpful in patients experiencing chronic symptoms of dizziness and unsteadiness who may have
      complaints suggesting positional vertigo but who fail to generate nystagmus (i.e. covert
      BPPV). If the TRV chair is more efficacious than traditional methods, our hope is that nearly
      all patients with BPPV will be able to be managed in a more efficient manner. This will
      decrease the impact of BPPV on health-related quality of life, could decrease falls related
      to BPPV, and should also decrease the burden of healthcare costs.
    
  