
    
      Hypothesis:

      Diclofenac, when administered immediately post ERCP in patients at higher risk of developing
      post-ERCP pancreatitis, will significantly reduce the incidence of this complication.

      Intervention:

      All patients undergoing ERCP not having exclusion criteria will be approached for
      participation prior to the procedure. At the end of the procedure, prior to transfer from the
      endoscopy suite, within 15 minutes of the end of the procedure, if the patient meets
      inclusion criteria, a study suppository will be administered.

      The suppositories will be prepared by a study pharmacist according to a randomization list
      prepared by an independent biostatistician. They will be randomized using a permuted block
      design, in blocks of 20. The placebo is inert, and identical to the study medication, a 100
      mg diclofenac rectal suppository. The code will not be broken until enrolment of patients is
      complete.

      Patients, endoscopists, nurses, and the principal investigator will all be blinded to the
      randomization code.

      Outcomes:

      Post-ERCP acute pancreatitis is the primary outcome. Consensus definition of this is new
      typical (epigastric/retroperitoneal) pain combined with an elevation of serum lipase or
      amylase >3 times the upper limit of normal. Pain will be assessed through history and
      physical exam by an attending gastroenterologist the morning after the procedure, with
      documentation in the chart and research form of the presence or absence of pain. Serum
      amylase will be measured the morning after the procedure, between 7 and 10 am (approximately
      18 hours post procedure). Most patients will be inpatients but outpatients will be included
      if they can be assessed through clinical exam and blood chemistry analysis the following
      morning. Patients will be contacted one week after the procedure to ensure no episode of
      abdominal pain or bleeding has been missed.

      Statistics and Power Calculation

      A two sided Fisher's Exact Test will be used to compare the proportion of patients developing
      post-ERCP pancreatitis in each group (placebo vs. active drug).

      In the population selected, the estimated risk of pancreatitis is 15%. To demonstrate a
      decrease to 5%, 141 patients will be required in each group, with 80% power and an alpha
      error 0.05. Secondary outcomes will include severity of pancreatitis, hyperamylasemia, length
      of stay, and mortality. Safety data regarding renal function and GI bleeding will also be
      collected.
    
  