
    
      Locked-In Syndrome (LIS) is a devastating condition in which a person has lost the ability to
      communicate due to motor impairment, while being mentally intact. As a result, interaction
      with the environment is severely limited, and often can only be achieved in concert with a
      caregiver, who points at letters on a board one by one until the affected person blinks his
      or her eyes. For people affected by this severe communication impairment, Brain-Computer
      Interfaces (BCI) may be the only solution that allows these people to start a conversation,
      ask questions, or request assistance (i.e. self-initiated communication). A current study in
      the investigators' collaborator's lab at the University Medical Center Utrecht (UMCU,
      Utrecht, The Netherlands) aims to achieve communication in people with LIS, through a fully
      implantable BCI system, the Medtronic Inc. Activa PC+S. This is a research version of a deep
      brain stimulation device (Activa PC; FDA approved for treating Parkinson's disease and other
      disorders) that has been modified to allow electrophysiological recordings (+S for sensing).
      In the Utrecht Neuroprosthesis (UNP) study to date, spelling was accomplished at a rate of
      2-3 letters per minute. To improve BCI performance, the current protocol will use the
      Medtronic Summit RC+S device (henceforth referred to as the Summit System), which offers a
      rechargeable battery and improved signal quality relative to Activa PC+S. Using signals from
      the motor hand/arm and/or motor mouth/face area, the investigators will investigate different
      avenues to improve the speed of communication. To achieve this, the investigators will use
      the Summit System under an investigational device exemption (IDE) and a Collaborative
      Research Agreement between Johns Hopkins University (JHU), UMCU, and Medtronic. The study has
      two main objectives. The primary objective is to evaluate the safety of the Summit System
      when used to chronically record subdural electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals in a BCI for
      use by patients with LIS in patients' homes. The secondary objective will be to evaluate the
      efficacy of the Summit System as a long-term source of ECoG signals for a BCI capable of
      allowing participants to control alternative and augmentative communication software in
      patients' homes.
    
  