
    
      This study will consist of 5 visits over approximately 2 months. All study procedures will
      occur at the University of California San Diego Division of Dermatology Outpatient Clinic.
      The procedures for each visit will be described below.

      Visit 1 (Day 0) At this visit, after obtaining informed consent from subjects, the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be reviewed. This step will require a brief medical history
      and skin examination to be performed. Both the history and physical exam will be performed by
      a licensed physician. Eligible subjects will proceed with the remainder of the study. These
      subjects will be provided with a mild soap (ID# 100000049586) to use whenever they shower for
      the remainder of the study. These subjects will also be instructed that they may not apply
      any topical lotions, creams, or other products to their arms during the remainder of the
      study. Subjects will also be told to avoid excessive sun exposure on their arms, including
      tanning or the use of tanning beds, while participating in this study.

      Visit 2 (Day 14) Subjects will return on Day 14 for Visit 2. Any adverse events will be
      recorded, and the subject's interim medical history will be taken. Two skin swabs will then
      be taken from the skin on subject's the upper inner arm. One swab will be from the right arm
      and the other from the left arm. A 4-mm punch biopsy will then be taken from one of the arms
      near the area that was swabbed. To perform this procedure, the skin is injected with about
      1-2 cc of local anesthetic. A 4 mm punch will be used to remove the biopsy specimen from the
      location previously agreed upon by the investigator and subject. A 4.0 nylon suture will be
      used to close the biopsy site, and ointment and a Band-Aid applied.

      Visit 3 (Day 28 +/- 4) Subjects will return around Day 28 for their third visit. At this
      visit, any adverse events since the last visit will be recorded, and the subject's interim
      medical history will be taken. The suture will be removed from the site of the biopsy taken
      at Visit 2. Subjects will then be provided with two body washes (ID# 300000027003 and ID#
      300000029240) to use in the shower when washing their upper inner arms. One soap will be used
      to wash the upper half of the right arm, and the other soap will be used to wash the upper
      half of the left arm. The subject will continue using the Mild Body Wash in the shower when
      washing all other body parts. The subject will also be instructed not to apply any other
      creams, ointments or medications to their arms, and to avoid excess sun exposure to their
      upper arms during this time.

      Visit 4 (Day 49 +/- 4) Subjects will return around Day 49 for their next visit. Any adverse
      events as well as changes to their interim medical history since their last visit will be
      recorded. A skin swab of each upper inner arm will then be taken. A 4-mm punch biopsy will
      then be taken from an area of skin in the upper inner region of both the right and left arms
      for a total of 2 biopsies taken during this visit. At the termination of this visit, subjects
      can resume use of their normal shower production and application of any creams or lotions
      they normally use on their arms.

      Visit 5 (Day 59 +/- 4) Subjects will return on this day to have their sutures removed. Any
      adverse events will be recorded. This visit will conclude all study-related activities.

      All samples will be processed in the lab. Skin swabs will undergo pyrosequencing to determine
      the different strains of bacteria present on the subject's skin, as well as quantitative
      polymerase chain reaction to determine the abundance of S. aureus, S. epidermidis, and P.
      acnes on each subject's skin surface. Biopsy specimens will be sectioned and each section
      will be placed on a glass slide. The sections will undergo immunostaining to stain for
      bacteria. Laser-capture microdissection of each section into its four skin components will be
      used to assist in evaluating the bacteria present in the different skin layers.
    
  