
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Prevention and treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) is a significant public health issue.
      Atrial fibrillation affects 9 percent of persons aged 80 to 89. It is associated with
      elevated risk of stroke and death. The condition is likely to increase as survival rates from
      myocardial infarction continue to improve, prevalence of congestive heart failure grows, and
      treatment approaches evolve. The study will assess the safety of commonly used medications in
      relation to the risk of incident atrial fibrillation, and will assess the association of
      several genetic polymorphisms with stroke risk after AF onset. Several lines of evidence
      suggest that both beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors may prevent or inhibit the atrial
      electrical remodeling that allows AF to become established and maintained. Withdrawal of
      these medications may be associated with increased risk of AF in individuals at risk. Genetic
      polymorphisms that promote thrombosis are associated with an increased risk of venous
      thrombosis, and in some studies, with arterial thrombosis including stroke or myocardial
      infarction. Although several recently published trials indicate that warfarin or aspirin
      treatment of patients with AF decreases the risk of stroke, little is known about the risk of
      stroke as a complication of AF in relation to genetic variants that affect clotting.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The main tasks of the case-control study are: 1) identification of cases with incident AF and
      controls; 2) review of outpatient and inpatient medical records to assess eligibility and
      collect information on risk factors and medical history; 3) classification of medication use
      over time; 4) for AF patients, telephone interview and collection of blood samples; 5) blood
      specimen processing, DNA extraction, and genotyping; and 6) data analysis of the associations
      of medication use and genotype with AF onset and stroke complications.
    
  