
    
      The goal of this study is to determine a maximum tolerated dose of the combination of
      niraparib and everolimus. To do this, investigators will estimate the maximum tolerated dose
      that is defined as the dose level at which less than one-third of patients will experience a
      dose-limiting toxicity. A traditional dose escalation design will be used, beginning with the
      lowest dose level and escalating to the maximum allowable dose level as specified in the
      protocol. One of the following outcomes will determine the treatment of subsequent patients:

        -  If none of the three patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , the next group of
           patients will be entered in the next higher dose cohort. All patients within a cohort
           must have completed at least one cycle (28 days) prior to initiation of the next cohort
           of patients.

        -  If one of the three patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , three more patients
           will be accrued at the current dose level. Subsequently, if only one of the six patients
           treated at this level experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , the dose will be escalated
           to the next higher dose in the next group of patients. If two or more of the six
           patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , the maximum tolerated dose has been
           exceeded and is defined as the previous dose at which no more than 1/3 experienced a
           dose-limiting toxicity .

        -  If at least two of the three experience a dose-limiting toxicity , the maximum tolerated
           dose has been exceeded and is defined as the previous dose at which no more than 1/3
           experienced a dose-limiting toxicity .

      If the lowest allowable dose level exceeds the maximum tolerated dose, the study will be
      terminated and the combination will not be deemed safe for use in this population.
      Additionally, the highest dose level will not be exceeded, even if no dose-limiting
      toxicities are experienced at that dose.

      Investigators will summarize the adverse events overall and by individual adverse event
      categories. Serious adverse events will be summarized in a similar manner. These summaries
      will be performed overall and for each dose cohort. Investigators will summarize all events
      as well as the highest grade for a given subject. Investigators will summarize the number of
      subjects that exhibit a dose-limiting toxicity at each dose cohort and describe the
      dose-limiting toxicity for each subject, if applicable.
    
  