
    
      Objective: Summary of Findings (SoF) tables present results of systematic reviews in a
      concise and explicit format. Adopted by many review groups including the Cochrane
      Collaboration, and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). Optimal
      understanding of SoF table may be influenced by the type of information being conveyed and
      objectives or preferences of the end user. This study aims to compare three SoF table formats
      in terms of understanding, accessibility, satisfaction, and preference with systematic review
      users.

      Methods: The primary objective of this three-arm randomized controlled non-inferiority trial
      is to investigate whether an alternative GRADE-SoF table or EPC-SoF table is noninferior to
      the current GRADE-SoF table in the understanding of the information presented to systematic
      review users, particularly for descriptive findings. Researchers, clinical practice guideline
      developers, policy-makers, or knowledge transfer professionals will be recruited. Data will
      be collected electronically at baseline and after randomization. Noninferiority would be
      declared if the difference in the proportion of participants who understand the information
      displayed in the alternative SoF table is 10% or less.

      Ethics and Dissemination: The Hamilton Integrated Research Ethics Board (HiREB) reviewed this
      protocol. The findings from this study will be disseminated through a publication in a
      peer-reviewed journal.

      Strengths and limitations of this study

        -  This is a randomized controlled trial that uses a GRADE Summary of Finding (SoF) table
           evaluated in another randomized controlled trial with a positive accomplishment of
           understanding the information displayed on it.

        -  This is the first time that GRADE SoF tables will be evaluated, in terms of
           understanding descriptive findings with a select part of a SoF table adapted by an EPC
           center to convey information on multiple comparisons efficiently.

        -  This will test understanding of presentation of findings from only a single comparison
           and will not test understanding of a complex body of evidence.
    
  