
    
      Background

      In clinical kidney transplantation organ retrieval, cold-preservation of the graft as well as
      restoration of the blood flow to the transplant cause tissue damage (ischemia/reperfusion
      injury). Clinically these events can manifest themselves as delayed graft function (DGF),
      which is usually defined as the need for dialysis during first week after transplantation.
      DGF increases the risk of developing chronic rejection and subsequently loss of the
      transplant.

      Ischaemia/reperfusion injury is biologically characterized by local profound inflammatory
      response, activation of the coagulation system and endothelial dysfunction in the
      transplanted organ. After reperfusion activated neutrophils cause tissue damage in the graft
      by production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and release of proteolytic enzymes, which lead
      to plugging of the capillaries by accumulation of thrombocytes and fibrin. Blood flow is
      further diminished by increased blood viscosity and local vasoconstriction and swelling of
      the endothelial cells. Disorders of the microcirculation lead to "no-reflow" phenomenon
      whereby locally tissues remain ischemic, despite of good blood flow in the organ artery and
      vein.

      Coagulation is activated in the renal transplant during reperfusion, when circulating factor
      VIIa (FVIIa) comes into contact with the tissue factor (TF), which is expressed on the
      endothelium due to ischaemia. FVII-TF complex activates factor X (FX) and activated FX (FXa)
      cleaves thrombin (FII) from prothrombin. Thrombin activates thrombocytes, cleaves fibrin from
      fibrinogen and activates factor XIII( FXIII), which stabilizes fibrin clot. Fibrin has been
      demonstrated to accumulate in the kidney graft during reperfusion. Fibrin accumulation is
      aggravated by inhibition of fibrinolysis due to reperfusion.

      Furthermore, the investigators conducting this current research project, have previously
      gained indirect evidence in a small cohort study, that accumulation of fibrin occurs even
      before reperfusion, during donor care and organ retrieval. Most importantly, specifically
      this pre-reperfusion fibrin deposition was related to DGF.

      Patients and sample size

      There were several limitations in investigators previous study concerning intra-graft
      coagulation events in DGF. It was conducted as a part of a larger trial in renal
      transplantation and included only 30 patients in two study arms with different
      immunosuppressant regimens (peri-operative basiliximab and conventional triple therapy).
      Therefore, a new study, with larger sample size and standardized immunosuppression is
      warranted.

      Therefore, in this current prospective observational study surgical technique, anaesthesia
      and hemodynamic management, immunosuppressive medications are strictly standardized. Sample
      size is increased to 100. The investigators prospectively screen all adult patients receiving
      their first kidney transplant from cadaveric donor. Only patients scheduled to receive local
      standard triple immunosuppressant therapy with cyclosporine A, mycophenolate mofetil and
      methylprednisolone are included.

      Blood samples and prospective data collection

      Blood samples for assessment of intra-graft coagulation events (generation of thrombin and
      fibrin, activation and inhibition of fibrinolysis) are drawn peri-operatively. Predefined
      clinical and demographical data are collected preoperatively and prospectively during 3
      months after kidney transplantation to assess the influence of these coagulation events on
      delayed graft function according to Halloran criteria (8) (primary outcome) and acute cell
      mediated graft rejection (primary outcome).
    
  