
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy comprising docetaxel and trastuzumab
           (Herceptin®) and adjuvant therapy comprising epirubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide,
           and trastuzumab (Herceptin®) followed by radiotherapy in women with locally advanced,
           HER2-positive, operable breast cancer.

        -  Determine the efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy with docetaxel and adjuvant therapy
           comprising epirubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide followed by radiotherapy in
           women with locally advanced, HER2-negative, operable breast cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, prospective, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to HER2 status (positive vs negative).

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy:

             -  Stratum 1 (HER2-positive disease): Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90
                minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment
                repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity

             -  Stratum 2 (HER2-negative disease): Patients receive docetaxel IV alone as in
                stratum 1.

        -  Surgery: All patients undergo surgery in week 19.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning within 2 weeks after surgery, patients receive adjuvant
           therapy.

             -  Stratum 1 (HER2-positive disease): Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90
                minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, epirubicin hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on day 2,
                and cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day 2. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks
                for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
                Patients then receive trastuzumab IV alone every 3 weeks until week 52.

             -  Stratum 2 (HER2-negative disease): Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride and
                cyclophosphamide as in stratum 1.

        -  Radiotherapy: Patients who undergo breast conserving surgery or patients who undergo
           mastectomy with ypN positive lymph nodes (i.e., > 4 positive lymph nodes) or ypT3 tumor
           (i.e., tumor size > 4 cm) undergo radiotherapy, beginning in approximately week 31 and
           continuing until up to week 38.

        -  Adjuvant endocrine therapy: Patients with estrogen receptor- or progesterone
           receptor-positive disease receive adjuvant endocrine therapy beginning in approximately
           week 31. Premenopausal patients ≤ 40 years of age receive goserelin for 2-3 years and
           tamoxifen citrate for 5 years.Premenopausal patients > 40 years of age receive tamoxifen
           citrate for 5 years. Postmenopausal patients receive anastrozole for 5 years years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 94 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  