
    
      Objectives: The study objective is to demonstrate that the UVADEX® Sterile Solution
      formulation of methoxsalen used in conjunction with the UVAR XTS Photopheresis System can
      have a clinical effect on the skin manifestations of CTCL (mycosis fungoides) in early stage
      disease.

      Methodology: Single-arm, open-label treatment using UVAR XTS Photopheresis System. Treatment
      consists of two photopheresis treatments on successive days every 4 weeks for six months.
      Those patients completing the first 6-month period may be continued on photopheresis for a
      6-month follow-up period. Patients who do not respond to photopheresis therapy after 6 months
      may have concurrent therapy with low dose bexarotene and interferon added as outlined in the
      protocol.

      Number of Patients (Planned and Analyzed): The study plan is for a minimum of 50 patients

      Diagnosis and Main Criteria for Inclusion: Male or female patients with CTCL diagnosis of
      stage IA, IB or IIA with measurable skin lesions (patches or plaques) and a minor blood
      abnormality. Patients must be refractory to at least one treatment for early stage CTCL such
      as PUVA, Electron beam, oral steroids, high potency topical steroid, topical nitrogen
      mustard, methotrexate, interferon, or bexarotene.

      Test Product, Dose and Mode of Administration, Batch or Lot Number: UVADEX liquid methoxsalen
      20mcg/mL in conjunction with the UVAR XTS Photopheresis System. UVADEX is injected into the
      photoactivation bag during photopheresis therapy in accordance with the approved drug package
      insert and UVAR XTS operator's manual. UVADEX dose is less than 200mcg per treatment.

      Duration of Treatment: The study will consist of 2 treatment periods, a 6-month initial
      period and a 6-month follow-up period where photopheresis therapy may continue.

      Criteria for Evaluation:

      Efficacy: The primary endpoint will be the overall response based on skin-weighted
      assessment. Secondary endpoints will also include time to response, duration of response, and
      a "Quality of Life " assessment. The size and number of lymph nodes and flow cytometry
      analyses will also be considered. Experienced skin observers will perform skin scores on each
      patient at enrollment. Skin scores will be recorded as the percentage of the patient's body
      involved with patch or plaque lesions. A successful response to therapy will be patients who
      have a greater than 50% improvement in skin involvement (PR) or complete skin improvement
      (CR) without worsening in nodes, blood or visceral organs. Patients with 25%-50% improvement
      will be considered as minor response (MR), + or - 25% will be SD, and PD will be defined as
      25% worsening from baseline.

      Safety: Safety is assessed by the incidence and intensity of adverse events, whether clinical
      or based on laboratory results.

      Statistical Methods: The primary endpoint will be the proportion of patients who have CR and
      PR of their skin lesions.
    
  