
    
      Screening (Visit 1): Informed consent and California Experimental Subjects Bill of Rights
      will be signed and eligibility confirmed. Eligible subjects will be enrolled at Visit 1.

      Subjects will come into the clinic in a fasting state for a meal challenge and individual
      dose of Afrezza during Visits 2 and 3. At the beginning of each visit, before their dose of
      Afrezza, subjects will have FEV1 measurements taken in the clinic. Each meal challenge will
      consist of 1 to 2 bottles of nutritional shake to be fully consumed within 15 minutes. The
      nutritional shake will contain approximately 240 calories, 41 g carbohydrate, 10 g protein,
      and 4 g fat per bottle. Each Afrezza dose will be administered at the start of the meal
      challenge.

      Visit 2: The first dose of Afrezza will be based on the dose of subcutaneous (SC)
      rapid-acting analogue (RAA) insulin that the subject would normally take, converted according
      to the guidelines provided in the current Afrezza prescribing information. If subject's
      normal RAA dose is <4 units or 5 units, subject will be asked to consume enough nutritional
      shake, per their normal I:C ratio, to cover an RAA dose of 4 units or ≥6 units such that
      their Afrezza dose at Visit 3 is higher than the dose taken at Visit 2. After completing the
      standardized meal challenge, the Investigator will decide, based on the subject's glucose
      excursion at Visit 2, if the subject should proceed to Visit 3 where a second dose of Afrezza
      will be administered.

      Visit 3: The second dose of Afrezza will be based on the dose of SC RAA that the subject
      would normally take, converted by multiplying their RAA dose by 2 and rounding down to the
      nearest Afrezza cartridge size.

      Follow-up Visit (Visit 4): Subjects will return for safety assessments, including a final
      FEV1 measurement, 24 to 72 hours after their last dose of Afrezza.
    
  