
    
      The ERCP procedure enables the study doctor to examine regions of the digestive system called
      the pancreas and bile ducts. After a patient is sedated, a bendable tube with a light (called
      an endoscope), is inserted through the mouth and into the digestive system. Within the
      digestive system, the doctor is able to identify the opening to where the gallbladder drains
      into the small bowel called the ampulla. Using the endoscope, a small plastic tube is then
      placed in the opening and dye (also called contrast material) is injected into the bile duct
      (area where bile leaves the liver). X-ray pictures can then be taken to provide further
      information to the doctor.

      During the procedure, it is necessary to make a cut to enlarge the opening to allow easier
      removal of stones from the bile duct or to place plastic tubes (stents) in the bile duct. To
      make this cut, there are two different approaches that the doctor can take:

        1. The standard way of making the cut is referred to as a "sphincterotomy". Using this
           method, a heated metal wire cuts the opening to the bile duct after a wire has been
           passed into it.

        2. The second way of making the cut is referred to as a "pre-cut". There are various types
           of "pre-cut" techniques; the technique being evaluated in this study is called the
           "needle knife fistulotomy". When using this technique, the doctor makes a cut directly
           into the bile duct using a tiny knife called a "needle knife".

      Currently, the doctor determines which cutting technique to use. The decision is entirely up
      to the individual doctor.

      The purpose of this study, called a randomized, controlled trial, is to compare the safety
      and effectiveness of the two different approaches to the ERCP.

      This type of study involves a large number of participants and the results may answer the
      question as to which approach should be used for patients having the ERCP procedure. The
      results may change the standard way that doctors conduct this procedure.
    
  