
    
      This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study of LAI in adult participants with NTM
      lung infections caused by MAC that were refractory to treatment. Participants received either
      LAI 590 mg administered QD by inhalation plus a multidrug regimen, hereafter referred to as
      LAI + MDR or a multidrug regimen alone, hereafter referred to as MDR alone for a minimum of 8
      months. Participants who demonstrated culture conversion by Month 6 went on to complete a
      treatment course of 12 months, starting from the first of 3 negative cultures that defined
      culture conversion.

      Sputum culture results were made available to the site after the Month 6 sputum result was
      known, in time for the Month 8 visit. Prior to the Month 8 visit, the culture results from
      Baseline to Month 6 inclusively were blinded to the site and Sponsor. The results were
      blinded to reduce the potential for bias in an open-label study. At Month 8 (-28 to +7 days),
      after all sputum culture results were made available to the site only, up to and including
      Month 6, participants were assessed as converters or non-converters.

      A converter was defined as a participant who had 3 consecutive monthly MAC-negative sputum
      cultures at any time within the first 6 months of the study.

      "Relapse or recurrence" was defined as having MAC-positive sputum cultures in liquid broth
      media (agar negative) for 3 or more consecutive months, or having at least 1 MAC-positive
      sputum culture on solid media (agar positive) after achieving culture conversion.

      A non-converter was defined as a participant who did not have 3 consecutive monthly
      MAC-negative sputum cultures at any time within the first 6 months of the study.

      All converters remained in the study. Converters who, after culture conversion, subsequently
      had MAC-positive sputum cultures in liquid broth media (agar negative) for 1 or 2 consecutive
      months only by Month 6 also remained in the study. Participants who remained in the study
      continued their randomized treatment regimen until they completed a total of 12 months of
      treatment (EOT), starting from the first of 3 negative cultures that defined culture
      conversion. These participants returned after the EOT visit for 28 days, 3, 6, and 12 months
      off-treatment follow-up visits. The 12 months off-treatment follow-up visit was the end of
      study (EOS) visit. No NTM treatment was administered during the off-treatment phase.

      At Month 8, all non-converters as assessed at the Month 6 visit were discontinued from Study
      INS-212. Participants who experienced a relapse or recurrence by Month 6 also discontinued
      from Study INS-212 at their Month 8 visit. These participants were potentially eligible to
      enter a separate open-label study of LAI (Study INS-312), provided all entry criteria were
      met for that study.
    
  