
    
      The prevalence of asthma has dramatically increased in many parts of the world. Currently,
      there is no effective way to prevent development of allergic rhinitis and asthma and no cure.
      Sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT), a type of therapy in which allergens are placed under the
      tongue, may be a way to control and possibly prevent allergic rhinitis and asthma. However,
      detailed research of this approach is limited.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a sublingual
      cockroach extract given to people with perennial allergic rhinitis. Participants in this
      study will include people both with and without asthma.

      Participation in this study will last a little more than 2 weeks. Participants will be
      stratified by age (oldest to youngest age group) and degree of cockroach sensitivity. Each
      age group will be enrolled after the previous group's safety data have been reviewed. At
      study entry (Day 0), participants will receive a dose of placebo and then up to seven
      incremental doses of cockroach extract at 15-minute intervals while observed by the clinic
      nurse. Doses will continue to be given until a sign or symptom occurs that indicates the
      participant is having difficulty tolerating the drug, or until the maximum study dose is
      reached.

      At the Principal Investigator's discretion, participants who were able to achieve the maximum
      study dose will be invited to continue onto the 2-week treatment course of the study. These
      participants will return on Days 1 and 2 to the clinic to self-administer the maximum study
      dose of cockroach extract. After self-administering the maximum study dose, participants will
      be observed by the clinic nurse for 30 minutes. On Days 3 through 14, participants will take
      the maximum study dose of cockroach extract daily at home. Participants will be asked to keep
      a diary and record signs or symptoms experienced after taking each dose.

      Skin tests, breathing tests, and blood collection will occur at study screening. At study
      entry, participants will be taught to use an EpiPen in the event of a severe allergic
      reaction at any time during the study. A physical exam/fitness assessment will be done at
      study screening, study entry, and the final visit. Unused extract will be collected at the
      final visit from participants who entered the 2-week treatment course of the study.

      The reference for this study is SCSS (Sublingual Cockroach Safety Study) in the provided
      citation: Wood RA, Togias A, Wildfire J et al. Development of cockroach immunotherapy by the
      Inner-City Asthma Consortium. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2014 Mar;133(3):846-52. PubMed ID:
      24184147).
    
  