
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is currently the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths
      worldwide. Cirrhosis, particularly when related to viral hepatitis, is the most notable risk
      factor for HCC and is found in nearly 80-90% of cases.

      The stage of disease at the time of diagnosis largely determines the effectiveness of
      treatment. The treatment of advanced HCC continues to be primarily palliative, with curative
      options only available for early HCC. Unfortunately, less than 30% of patients are diagnosed
      early enough to meet criteria for resection, transplantation, or local ablation.

      Surveillance strives to detect HCC at an early stage when it is amenable to curative therapy
      to reduce mortality. Current practice guidelines recommend surveillance of cirrhotic patients
      with ultrasonography (USG) every 6 months. However, USG has been reported to have a
      sensitivity of between 65% and 80% when used as a screening test. However, with the
      advancement of cirrhosis, the sensitivity of USG decreases, while the risk for HCC increases.

      Gadoxetic acid (Primovist®)-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the liver has been
      demonstrated to be of clinical value for local staging before HCC surgery and for the
      assessment of patients with inconclusive conventional imaging findings. The detection
      sensitivity of Primovist-MRI has been known to be as high as 90-95%, which is significantly
      higher than USG or multiphase computer tomography (CT) scan. MRI does not have radiation
      exposure, which is a meaningful merit to be used as a surveillance test. However, MRI has
      never been considered for surveillance or screening of HCC.

      Thus, the hypothesis to be proved by this study is as follows; Primovist-MRI should show
      significantly higher sensitivity compared to USG for the detection of early stage HCC when
      both of these imaging modalities are used with the interval of 6 months in patients with
      cirrhosis at high risk of developing HCC. The investigators will also analyze whether the
      specificity of Primovist-MRI are not compromised by its high sensitivity.
    
  