
    
      This is an international, multi-center, open-label, randomized, Phase III study in patients
      with metastatic TNBC refractory or relapsing after at least 2 prior chemotherapies (including
      a taxane) for their metastatic disease.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan to
      the treatment of physician's choice (TPC) as measured by progression-free survival (PFS) in
      patients with metastatic TNBC previously treated with at least two systemic chemotherapy
      regimens.

      The secondary objectives of the study are to compare between the two treatment groups for:

        -  Overall Survival (OS)

        -  Independently-determined Objective Response Rate (ORR), duration of response and time to
           onset of response per RECIST 1.1 criteria

        -  Quality of life

        -  Safety (adverse events, safety laboratories, incidence of dose delays and dose
           reductions, treatment discontinuations due to adverse events)

        -  Exploratory objectives include exposure-response analysis for the efficacy (PFS and OS)
           and safety (incidence of Grade 3-5 adverse events, related to UGT1A1 endpoints).

      Four-Hundred and eighty-eight patients are anticipated to be enrolled. Approximately 150
      institutions will participate in this study, including sites in North America and Europe.

      Clinical sites will use standard ASCO/CAP criteria for the pathological diagnosis of TNBC,
      defined as negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and human
      epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). Receptor results will be based on local
      assessment.

      BRCA 1&2 mutational status will be collected, if known. A single whole-blood sample will be
      also collected from all patients for determination of UGT1A1 genotype for retrospective
      assessment predicting of toxicity.

      The Sponsor will request slides from prior (archived) biopsy or surgical specimens,
      particularly for immunohistology documentation of tumor Trop-2 expression and other
      appropriate tumor markers.

      Patients meeting eligibility will be randomized 1:1 to receive either sacituzumab govitecan
      or treatment of physician choice (TPC), which needs to be selected prior to randomization
      from one of the 4 allowed regimens. Randomization will be stratified by number of prior
      chemotherapies for advanced disease (2-3 vs > 3) and geographical location (North America vs
      Europe) and known brain metastasis at baseline (yes or no).

      Patients will be treated until progression, unacceptable toxicity, study withdrawal, or
      death, whichever comes first. Tumor progression leading to treatment withdrawal will be
      assessed by the investigator.

      No crossover to sacituzumab govitecan treatment will be allowed after discontinuing treatment
      in the TPC arm, but otherwise there is no restriction on subsequent therapies that a patient
      may receive after discontinuing the study.

      All patients, including those prematurely terminating study participation, will be followed
      every 4 weeks for survival follow-up.
    
  