
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While dietary and physical activity habits are known to relate to cardiovascular risk, in
      1985 little data were available on factors that influence the development of such behaviors
      early in life. In 1987, 106 families with 3 to 5 year old children were recruited to take
      part in the Framingham Children's Study. The children and their parents are direct
      descendents (4th and 3rd generation, respectively) of participants in the Framingham Heart
      Study. During the initial grant period, the feasibility of collecting relevant data has been
      demonstrated. Maintenance of the cohort and acceptance of the monitoring procedures have been
      excellent, due partly to the fact that the families consider themselves a part of the
      Framingham Heart Study and take pride in long-term compliance with study procedures.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators have been following 100 families who are 3rd and 4th generation descendants
      of the original Framingham Heart Study cohort. The subjects were age 3-5 years at the onset
      of the study and were ages 11-14 years in 1996. There has been excellent cohort maintenance
      with over 90 percent of the original families continuing to participate. The study was
      renewed in FY 1996 to extend the Framingham Children's Study (FCS) to permit the evaluation
      of the determinants of change in the child's risk behaviors and other risk factors from early
      childhood through puberty to mid to late teens, a time when the individual's risk profile
      should better reflect his/her cardiovascular risk status as an adult.

      The FCS is a longitudinal source of data on diet, activity and family and environmental
      factors in children. By 1996, the investigators had collected extensive dietary data with an
      average of 32 days of diet records and almost 50 days of electronically monitored physical
      activity data for each subject. Additional data included psychosocial and anthropometric data
      on children and their parents. The extension of the FCS allows continued monitoring of eating
      behaviors and physical activity habits of the children and their parents, as well as the
      personal environmental and behavioral factors influencing changes in the child's physical
      activity, diet, blood pressure, lipids and obesity from pre-school into the late teen years.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  