
    
      Sjögren's syndrome is an autoimmune disease affecting at least 1% of adults characterized by
      hyperactive lymphocytes that damage exocrine glands leading to dry eyes and dry mouth.
      Although less well recognized, lung involvement in Sjögren's syndrome is common and causes
      reduced health-related quality of life and increased mortality. Sjögren's syndrome-related
      lung diseases are classified and treated as the primary lung diseases they resemble. Whether
      this approach is optimal has not been evaluated thoroughly.

      Despite the potentially life-threatening consequence of Sjögren's syndrome-related lung
      disease, general medical education still promotes the false idea that Sjögren's syndrome is a
      nuisance disease. This leads many clinicians to overlook Sjögren's syndrome as a possible
      cause for respiratory symptoms. Even when Sjögren's syndrome is identified, there is no
      standard for attribution of the lung disease and little data on how to best treat it.

      Only one study has compared interstitial lung disease patients with and without Sjögren's
      syndrome. Although it was a small retrospective study, it found that patients with usual
      interstitial pneumonia and Sjögren's syndrome were more likely to achieve stable lung
      function with immunosuppressive therapy as compared to the idiopathic cohort.1 This is
      striking as usual interstitial pneumonia is generally thought to not be responsive to
      immunosuppressive therapy.

      A critical gap in knowledge is knowing whether Sjögren's syndrome-related lung diseases have
      a unique clinical course and response to therapy. Given the underlying immune system
      dysfunction in Sjögren's syndrome, we hypothesize that patients with Sjögren's
      syndrome-related lung disease will be more likely to respond to immunosuppressive therapy
      than patients with the matching primary lung disease.
    
  