
    
      Multiple retrospective reports have verified the overall utility of post-treatment sentinel
      lymph node (SLN) mapping and biopsy for assessing the final axillary lymph node status in
      breast cancer patients who have undergone preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy.
      However, to date, only one report, in abstract form, currently exists within the literature
      which specifically assesses the utility of post-treatment SLN mapping and biopsy after
      completion of preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy in patients with biopsy-proven
      positive axillary lymph nodes at initial presentation.

      The purpose of the present proposed clinical trial will be to assess the utility of SLN
      mapping and biopsy for predicting the final axillary status after completion of preoperative
      neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy in patients who had biopsy-proven positive axillary lymph
      nodes at initial presentation.

      All eligible patients must have biopsy-proven invasive breast cancer and must also have
      biopsy-proven involvement of the axillary lymph nodes at initial presentation. Biopsy-proven
      involvement of the axillary lymph nodes at initial presentation will be based on fine needle
      aspiration (FNA) cytology, core/Tru-cut biopsy, or pre-treatment SLN biopsy. All eligible
      patients will have undergone preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy.

      After completion of preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy and on the day of
      definitive breast cancer surgery, patients will be injected intradermally with approximately
      400 microcuries of Tc-99m sulfur colloid. Patients will undergo preoperative
      lymphoscintigraphy in the nuclear medicine department to access axillary and extra-axillary
      sites of localization. Intraoperatively, patients will also be injected with approximately 4
      to 5 mL of 1% isosulfan blue dye (by intradermal, intraparenchymal, or subareolar route).
      Patients will undergo intraoperative identification and biopsy of all SLN candidates. A
      confirmatory axillary lymph node dissection will then be performed on all patients.

      The SLN mapping and biopsy procedure that we are proposing to perform on these breast cancer
      patients with known positive axillary lymph nodes at initial presentation will be done in an
      identical fashion to the SLN mapping and biopsy procedure that is currently performed as a
      routine and acceptable standard of care on every breast cancer patient with a clinically
      negative axilla at presentation.

      The primary endpoints of this study would be address the success of identification of the SLN
      and the accuracy of the SLN mapping and biopsy procedure in women having undergone
      preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy who had biopsy-proven involvement of their
      axillary lymph nodes at initial presentation. We would like to show that the proportion of
      women with false negative SLN biopsy results is less than 10%.

      The study will require a minimum of 49 women with newly diagnosed breast cancer with
      biopsy-proven involvement of their axillary lymph nodes at initial presentation that have
      undergone preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy. The study accrual time may take in
      the range of approximately 24 to 36 months to complete.
    
  