
    
      This is a pilot study that is prospective, open-label, single-centre in nature in patients
      with gastric, pancreas, bile duct or duodenal cancer in whom tumour excision surgery is
      indicated.

      Patients who give written informed consent will be screened for the study (Visit 1). Patients
      will undergo a positron emission tomography (PET) whole body scan. Screening assessments,
      including the PET scan, must be performed no less than 60 days before surgery and may be
      performed on the day of surgery.

      On the day of surgery (Visit 2), subject's blood glucose level will be measured. Subjects
      with a blood glucose level < 12 mmol/l will receive an intravenous injection of 2-5 Mega
      Becquerel/kg (MBq/kg), up to a maximum 300 MBq of fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG)
      prior to surgery.

      During surgery and not less than 120 minutes after injection of FDG, the primary lesion will
      be imaged using the EnLightTM system to determine margin status.

      Gastrointestinal tumour excision surgery will then be performed according to standard of
      care. The surgical cavity and the lymph nodes will be imaged by the EnLightTM system to
      establish whether other radioactive tissue remain. These results will not influence any
      surgical or clinical decision-making, which will remain as standard of care. The resected
      tumour excision specimen will be imaged by the LightPathTM Imaging System. The resected
      tumour excision specimen will, in addition, be analysed according to standard of care
      pathology. The surgeon and surgical staff will be monitored for external exposure to ionizing
      radiation by means of dosimeters, and position sensors during surgery.

      Patients will be followed-up (Visit 3) within a 2 - 14 day window after the end of surgery
      for adverse events (AEs). Those related to the use of the investigational devices, or the PET
      imaging agent will be identified as such.
    
  