
    
      The dismal prognosis of DH-DLBCL patients following standard therapy with R-CHOP (overall
      survival at 2 years 35% for MYC+ vs 61% for MYC- patients) justifies upfront new treatment
      approaches.

      Attempts have been made to improve prognosis of DH-DLBCL patients with intensified
      chemotherapy schemes like DA-EPOCH-R, standard treatment of Burkitt lymphoma with high dose
      multi-agent chemotherapy (R-CODOX-M/R-IVAC) and autologous stem cell transplantation. These
      treatment schedules seem to prolong disease-free survival (DFS), but relapses do often occur
      and improved OS has not been achieved. The investigators hypothesize to increase the number
      of patients in complete remission with DA-EPOCH-R to 65% as compared to 50% for R-CHOP.
      DA-EPOCH-R is a well-known scheme for the treatment of patients with Burkitt Lymphoma, and is
      one of the treatment arms of the Hemato-Oncologie voor Volwassenen Nederland (HOVON) 127
      protocol. For DH-DLBCL patients the investigators expect that it will improve the complete
      remission (CR) rate and prolong DFS as compared to R-CHOP as has been shown in several
      retrospective studies. It is also clear from these studies that relapses still occur and that
      OS is not improved by chemotherapy only.

      The investigators expect to induce deeper remission with DA-EPOCH-R providing the opportunity
      for nivolumab to consolidate complete remission, prolong DFS, or to induce conversion of
      minimal residual disease (MRD) positivity to MRD negativity.

      A new approach underlying this proposal is to enhance anti-tumor immune responses.
      Malignancies with MYC aberrations were long thought to be independent of immune responses.
      However, recently it was shown that MYC expressing lymphoma and leukaemia mouse and human
      cell lines upregulate programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL1) ("don't find me" signal) and CD47
      ("don't eat me" signal) expression. Inactivation of MYC enhanced tumour immune responses in
      vivo in mice. Moreover, a subset of DLBCL does express PDL1.

      No correlation with MYC rearrangements or protein expression has been described in these
      studies; however, these data suggest that tumours with MYC overexpression may be especially
      vulnerable to treatment with immune check point inhibitors, providing the rationale for
      treatment with nivolumab.
    
  