
    
      Preeclampsia is a pregnancy-specific syndrome that affects 3-5% of all pregnancies and
      traditionally defined as new onset hypertension (blood pressure ≥ 140/90) and proteinuria
      after gestational week 20. The syndrome is one of the leading causes of maternal and
      perinatal acute morbidity and long-term disability and accounts for about 50 000 maternal
      deaths annually worldwide. Morbidity risks for the mother include seizures, intracranial
      hemorrhage, kidney failure, heat failure and pulmonary edema. Risks for the fetus include
      fetal growth restriction preterm birth and hypoxia. Generally preterm preeclampsia (<37
      weeks) is more severe than term preeclampsia.

      Risk assessment for preeclampsia enables both prevention and early prediction of the disease.

      Swedish risk assessment for preeclampsia in early pregnancy is still obtained by maternal
      history and characteristics, without medical examinations, which only detects about 30% of
      women that will develop preeclampsia. Risk factors are evaluated individually without being
      incorporated into a combined model that would allow multivariable analysis. This approach has
      been proven to be poor due to low specificity and sensitivity. Lately a more complex
      prediction model has been developed by the Fetal Medicine Foundation, using multivariable
      analysis and including serum biomarkers and physiological measurements reflecting maternal
      adaption to pregnancy. Intervention with aspirin given to identified high-risk pregnancies
      according this model has been shown to decrease the incidence of preterm (< 37 gestational
      weeks) preeclampsia (OR: 0.38; 95% CI 0.20-0.74), compared to placebo. Detection rates and
      cut-off values have been shown to vary between populations, depending on differences in
      population characteristics and incidence of disease, overfitting of the original model and
      differences in healthcare systems. Therefore, the model needs to be validated in Sweden.
      Further, the Fetal Medicine Foundation prediction model includes expensive covariates such as
      several biochemical markers and uterine artery Doppler. There is a need to create, validate
      and implement a cost-effective prediction model for first trimester screening for
      preeclampsia in a Swedish population, with the purpose to select who might benefit from
      aspirin prophylaxis to prevent preterm preeclampsia.

      Early detection of preeclampsia remains one of the major focuses of maternal health care and
      is emphasized by the WHO, since it has proven to be beneficial for both the mother and unborn
      child. Small-for-gestational-age fetuses not identified before delivery have an increased
      risk of adverse perinatal outcomes, compared to those identified during pregnancy.
      Identification of high-risk pregnancies is therefore important in early pregnancy not only to
      plan for prophylactic interventions, but also to optimize surveillance and to plan
      deliveries. Today most Swedish women attend the same maternal health care program with
      increasing number of visits in the end of pregnancy. By risk identification in early
      pregnancy we can individualize maternal health care and target women at high risk early in
      pregnancy. High-risk pregnancies can be referred to specialized health care and normal
      pregnancies followed at the basic maternal health care.

      The Swedish registry data is unique and combining it with a biobank containing blood samples
      from the first trimester could improve maternal healthcare and in the long run reduce adverse
      outcomes for Swedish women. A national first trimester pregnancy biobank would facilitate
      future research on prevention and prediction of pregnancy complications.

      10000 inrolled indiviuals will be needed for creating the model and another 10000 for
      validation.
    
  