
    
      Perioperative outcomes in patients undergoing laparoscopic compared to open surgery have been
      improving, and adoption of these procedures has rapidly escalated. Despite this, minimally
      invasive surgery in rectal cancer is more controversial now than ever before. While
      laparoscopy was initially limited to non-oncologic operations, it has been shown to produce
      equivalent oncologic outcomes as open surgery and is now a preferred technique for colon
      cancer resection. However, laparoscopy is technically challenging in the deep pelvis, and
      there is concern for adequate resection of rectal cancers.

      Multiple clinical trials are ongoing to assess long-term oncologic outcomes in patients with
      laparoscopically-resected rectal cancers (ACOSOG, ALaCaRT, COLOR II, COREAN)1-4; yet, current
      data examining perioperative outcomes in these patients is limited.5,6 As there are
      conflicting conclusions between ongoing randomized control trials about the appropriateness
      of laparoscopic surgery for rectal cancers, knowledge about perioperative outcomes and trends
      in these outcomes over time may give surgeons more information to make clinical decisions. To
      address this gap, the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality
      Improvement Program (NSQIP) database was examined to determine the prevalence of laparoscopic
      surgery and 30-day outcomes over a ten-year period in patients undergoing open and
      laparoscopic surgery for rectal cancer.

      Using the ACS-NSQIP database from 2005-2016, resections for rectal cancer will be studied.
      The proportion of laparoscopic versus open surgeries performed will be determined by year,
      and 16 30-day outcomes will be studied in each group. Outcomes include: death, cardiac
      arrest, cerebrovascular accident, myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, venous
      thromboembolism, pneumonia, prolonged ventilation, superficial or deep incisional surgical
      site infection, organ space infection, renal insufficiency, acute renal failure, urinary
      tract infection, length of hospital stay, and operating room time. Multiple logistic
      regression will be utilized to determine the association between laparoscopic and open
      technique as well as odds of outcome over time.
    
  