
    
      The dyslipidemia of Type II diabetes is characterized by anomalies of the metabolism and
      biological activities of both atherogenic lipoproteins containing apoB100 (VLDL, IDL and LDL)
      and of antiatherogenic HDL containing apoAI and/or apoAII. Such metabolic and functional
      anomalies are closely associated with elevated oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction and
      premature macrovascular atherosclerotic disease. The ratio of atherogenic cholesterol (VLDL,
      IDL, LDL cholesterol) relative to HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) in normolipidemic subjects is
      typically less than 3; by contrast, ratios of 4 or more are typical of the dyslipidemia of
      Type II diabetes and are indicative of disequilibrium in proatherogenic versus
      antiatherogenic plasma lipoprotein levels, frequently due to low HDL-C concentration (<40
      mg/dl). Such conditions favor enhanced deposition of cholesterol in the arterial wall and
      progression of atherosclerotic disease.

      Atorvastatin is a potent synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor which markedly lowers plasma
      levels of LDL cholesterol (LDL-C); in addition, atorvastatin lowers plasma levels of
      triglycerides (TG) and TG-rich lipoproteins but equally raises levels of HDL-C and apoAI, the
      major HDL apolipoprotein. Atorvastatin-induced decrease in plasma TG is intimately related to
      decreased VLDL levels, accelerated VLDL turnover and normalized intravascular remodeling of
      apoB-containing lipoproteins. Importantly, atorvastatin reduces activities of plasma
      cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) and hepatic lipase (HL), thereby leading to the
      normalized remodeling of both LDL and HDL particle populations. Furthermore, recent studies
      have revealed that in atherogenic Type IIB hyperlipidemia, atorvastatin induces a
      dose-dependent and progressive increase in the capacity of both plasma and HDL to mediate
      cellular cholesterol efflux via the SRB1 receptor pathway.

      Plasma HDL is highly heterogeneous. When isolated on the basis of density by
      ultracentrifugation, human HDL is separated into two major subfractions, large, light HDL2
      and small, dense HDL3. HDL remodeling by CETP, HL and LCAT can alter absolute and relative
      concentrations of HDL2 and HDL3 in plasma. It remains contradictory however as to whether
      plasma levels of HDL2 or HDL3 are predictors of cardiovascular risk. HDL exerts a spectrum of
      antiatherosclerotic actions; central among them are reverse cholesterol transport, the
      capacity of HDL to protect LDL against oxidative stress, the anti-inflammatory actions of HDL
      on arterial wall cells as well as antithrombotic activities. We have recently found that
      small, dense HDL3 particles exert potent protection of atherogenic LDL subspecies against
      oxidative stress in normolipidemic subjects and that HDL-associated paraoxonase (PON) 1,
      platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH) and lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase
      (LCAT) activities can contribute to such antioxidative properties. HDL particles are however
      dysfunctional in diabetic dyslipidemias; for example, diabetic HDL are deficient in
      antioxidant activity, and in addition, their cholesterol-efflux capacity is impaired. Such
      dysfunction may lead to impairment of the antiatherogenic actions of HDL in diabetic
      dyslipidemia.

      Working hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that atorvastatin can increase plasma levels of HDL
      subfractions with potent antioxidant activity as a result of enhanced surface and core
      remodeling of TG-rich lipoproteins, (such as VLDL-1 and VLDL-2), reduced CETP activity, and
      stimulation of apoAI production. Indeed, Asztalos et al. showed that atorvastatin induced
      significant increase in the α1, α2, pre- α1 and pre-β1 HDL subfractions in dyslipidemic
      subjects with mean LDL-C, 198 mg/dl; mean TG, 167 mg/dl.
    
  