
    
      Ovarian carcinoma has become more and more important in recent years because it is the
      leading cause of death among all gynecologic malignancies. The annual incidence rate of
      ovarian cancer in the United States was 11.8 per 100,000 and the death rate was 7.8 per
      100,000 in 2009. According to the Department of Health Bureau's report, the incidence rate of
      ovarian cancer was 8.46 per 100,000 in 2010 and the death rate was 2.8 per 100,000. No
      specific symptoms, difficulty in early diagnosis, insufficient accurate tumor markers, and a
      lack of information regarding ovarian tumor biology all contribute to a poor prognosis.

      The standard treatment for ovarian cancer is surgical tumor debulking, followed by
      platinum-containing chemotherapy. The conventional adjuvant chemotherapeutic regimens of
      ovarian cancer are platinum combined with cyclophosphamide. Whereas, platinum combined with
      paclitaxel has been identified to be a better adjuvant chemotherapeutic regimens for those
      advance-staged disease. In United States, platinum combined with paclitaxel has been used as
      standard adjuvant chemotherapeutic regimens for all of ovarian cancer patients for decades.
      However, many countries including Taiwan still use platinum combined with cyclophosphamide as
      adjuvant chemotherapeutic regimens for early-staged ovarian cancer patients. There is no
      comprehensive result to demonstrate the differences between these two regimens the fields of
      efficacy, side effects, survival, cost-effectiveness, and so on. So the investigators conduct
      this study to answer the questions. This study will firstly focus on the early-staged ovarian
      cancer patients to analyze the data from the National Health Insurance (NHI) databank.
      Further this study will then validate the results from NHI databank from the cancer
      registration system of National Taiwan University Hospital.

      There are several aims in this proposal. First, the study will evaluate the differences of
      efficacy including the response rate, side effects, disease-free survival, and overall
      survival of the patients between these two chemotherapeutic regimens. Second, the
      cost-effectiveness of these two chemotherapeutic regimens will be identified. The results of
      this study will provide a more comprehensive picture of selecting optimal chemotherapeutic
      regimens for early-staged ovarian cancer patients. It can also be an important reference for
      the pay-off of National Health Insurance.
    
  