
    
      BACKGROUND

      Myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA) occurs in 1-13% of all
      patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). According to most studies MINOCA patients
      seem to have a more favorable prognosis compared to the obstructive AMI ones, but face a
      significant risk for recurrent events of angina. MINOCA consists a clinical entity
      characterized by a heterogeneous and poorly understood pathophysiological substrate (plaque
      disruption, coronary epicardial and microvascular spasm, thromboembolism, thrombophilia,
      spontaneous dissection, myocardial bridges, microvascular dysfunction), whereas current data
      leave significant knowledge gaps regarding the risk stratification and the proper
      therapeutical approach of these patients. Sympathetic nervous system (SNS) overdrive during
      the acute phase of an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is an expected reflex mechanism aiming to
      maintain homeostasis. On the other hand, it has been demonstrated that it has a deleterious
      impact on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and this is the reason why contemporary
      treatment strategy of ACS aims towards the inhibition of SNS mechanisms. In the setting of
      MINOCA, however, data are scarce regarding the prognostic role of SNS activation and the
      concomitant utility of a similar therapeutical approach.

      AIM OF THE STUDY

      The primary aim of this study is to investigate the potential role of SNS in cardiovascular
      prognosis of MINOCA patients. Furthermore, investigators will assess relations between
      various SNS parameters and clinical characteristics of these patients, as well as other
      indices of cardiovascular function (biomarkers, imaging). In the same context, this study is
      the first, to the investigators' knowledge, registry where the working diagnosis of MINOCA
      will be confirmed with cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging.

      METHODS

      This is an observational cohort study with a prospective follow-up of 18 months enrolling all
      patients aged 35-85 years old who fulfill the diagnostic criteria of MINOCA, on the condition
      that CMR does not reveal findings compatible with a diagnosis of myocarditis or Takotsubo.
      Patients will receive treatment according to the latest guidelines and consensus documents.
      During hospitalization, a complete medical history will be recorded and all basic clinical
      and lab parameters will be collected. Assessment of SNS will include calculation of indices
      of heart rate and blood pressure variability derived from 24hr monitoring using validated
      devices, as well as the measurement of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) during the
      first 14 days following the event. Follow-up will include a phone contact at 3, 6 and 12
      months to record potential primary endpoints and a clinic visit at 18 months to reassess
      clinical and lab parameters and record primary and secondary endpoints. Definition of primary
      endpoints includes hospitalization for new onset of ACS, heart failure, stroke or transient
      ischemic attack, cardiovascular death or death from any cause. Secondary endpoints include
      the burden of arrythmias estimated from 24hr ECG recording, recurrent angina assessed via
      Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) and the general health condition and quality of life (QoL)
      assessed using SF-12 questionnaire and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).

      - Sympathetic tone estimation:

      Α. MSNA. After patient's stabilization the test will be performed and the derived data will
      be the number of bursts per min and the average bursts per 100 beats.

      B. Ambulatory heart rate and blood pressure monitoring. Heart rate variability will be
      analyzed via Kubios software for short-term and long-term heart rate variability. Blood
      pressure short-term variability will be expressed as SD, wSD, ARV, CV, time rate of BP
      variation.

      For data analysis, SPSS 24.0 software will be used. Continuous parametric data will be
      expressed as mean and SD. For categoric parametric data results will be presented in means of
      frequency and percentage. Comparisons between categoric parameters will be done with test x2.
      Comparisons between the mean values for continuous parameters with normal distribution will
      be done via unpaired student's test. Comparisons between categoric parameters will be done
      with Mann Whitney U test. Normal distribution will be checked with Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
      Correlation analysis will be done via Pearson Phi coefficient or Spearman Rho. Statistically
      significant will be differences with p value < 0.05. Evaluation of correlations between
      selected variables and cardiovascular events and mortality will be via Kaplan Maier curves.

      STUDY LIMITATIONS

        -  Study will include MINOCA patients irrespective of the underlying pathophysiological
           mechanism. This is the result of the inablity of most centers to perform intravascular
           imaging (IVUS, OCT) on a routine basis and the tendency to avoid spasm provoking
           procedures during coronary angiography.

        -  Although most data will be recorded during the acute/hospitalization phase, the time
           frame of MSNA and CMR is expected to vary according to the clinical state of the
           participants and the technical capabilities of the centers. However, an effort will be
           made not to overlap the 14 days time limit proposed by the majority of investigators.

        -  CMR will be take place in different centers thus some extent of interobserver
           variability is expected. However results will be reassessed by a single investigator.

      ESTIMATED RESEARCH OUTCOMES

        -  It will be the first registry, to the investigators' knowledge, that will record data of
           SNS activation in patients will CMR-confirmed MINOCA.

        -  The results of the present study are expected to reveal the prognostic role of SNS
           assessment in patients with MINOCA with a potential clinical implication in a treatment
           approach towards the inhibition of SNS mechanisms.

        -  Furthermore, assessment of correlations between parameters of cardiac function and CMR
           imaging with the level of SNS activation will provide a valuable insight towards the
           elucidation of the potential role of SNS overdrive during the acute phase of MINOCA.

        -  Last but not least, follow up assessment will provide information regarding the
           long-term incidence of persistent or recurrent angina as well as the impact of MINOCA in
           future quality of life, sentimental state and general health status.
    
  