
    
      Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) with biventricular pacing has emerged as a novel
      treatment for congestive heart failure (CHF) not responsive to optimal drug therapy. CRT is
      associated with significant improvements in hemodynamics and functional status of patients
      with CHF. The physiologic effect of CRT is achieved via placing electrical leads in the right
      and left ventricular walls, and synchronizing ventricular contraction. Over time, this leads
      to ventricular wall reverse remodeling, and sustained improvements in left ventricular
      ejection fraction (EF).

      Currently, the indications for CRT include end-stage heart failure class II-IV with an EF <
      35%, and a QRS duration > 120ms. The QRS duration is used as an indicator of the degree of
      ventricular electromechanical dyssynchrony, however, a growing number of studies have
      postulated its inability to predict response to therapy. As a result, other measures of
      mechanical dyssynchrony are being sought to guide therapy. The vast majority of these studies
      have examined clinical, cardiac, electrocardiographic, and device-specific indices, however,
      a widely accepted predictor of response to CRT is lacking.

      CRT results in electromechanical synchrony, leading to an improved ejection fraction,
      exercise tolerance, and reduction of symptoms. Although electrical re-synchronization and
      intra-procedural hemodynamic improvement are achieved after the device is implanted, the
      sustained clinical improvement is likely due to ventricular reverse remodeling. A major issue
      with CRT is that approximately a third of patients receiving devices do not achieve improved
      clinical or functional status, and fail to undergo changes in ventricular geometry, and
      ventricular remodeling. It remains unknown whether this is due to abnormalities in the
      factors involved in lead placement or procedural strategies, geometric remodeling,
      alterations in cardiac energy metabolism, supply of energy (i.e. coronary blood flow), or
      inappropriate/inadequate microvascular proliferation.

      This study will evaluate a series of biochemical markers implicated in pathophysiology of
      heart failure, in predicting response to CRT with biventricular pacing.
    
  