
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the survival and quality of life of patients with resectable stage II or III
           adenocarcinoma of the stomach treated with epirubicin, cisplatin, and fluorouracil
           before and after resection vs resection alone.

        -  Determine the effect of perioperative chemotherapy on the resectability of gastric
           cancer in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by center and
      performance status (0 vs 1).

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radical total gastrectomy or radical subtotal distal
           gastrectomy, at the discretion of the surgeon, with perigastric lymph node dissection.
           Patients also may undergo lymphadenectomy at the discretion of the surgeon. At the
           beginning of the laparotomy, a pre-aortic, infra-colic node is sampled for staging
           purposes and frozen sections are examined during surgery. Patients who are found to have
           metastatic disease undergo palliative resection at the discretion of the surgeon and
           postoperative chemotherapy at the discretion of the oncologist.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive fluorouracil (5-FU) IV continuously for 3 weeks and cisplatin
           IV over 4 hours (beginning 4 hours after initiation of 5-FU infusion) and epirubicin IV
           on day 1 (ECF). Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 3 courses. Within 6 weeks after
           completion of course 3 and when blood counts recover, patients undergo resection as in
           arm I. Beginning within 4-6 weeks after surgery, patients receive 3 additional courses
           of ECF.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at completion of study therapy, and then every 6
      months for 2 years.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 500 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  