
    
      This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining
      this study intervention.

      In this research study, the investigators are looking at how the participants body and tumor
      respond to the combination of Nab-paclitaxel and Pembrolizumab. Also, the investigators will
      be examining the participants tumor tissue to learn more about the disease.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Pembrolizumab for this
      specific disease; but it has been approved in the United States for the treatment of other
      diseases.

      The FDA has not approved Nab-paclitaxel as a treatment option for this type of breast cancer;
      but it has been approved in the United States for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer
      (breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body).

      Pembrolizumab is a medicine that may treat cancer by working with the participant's immune
      system. The immune system is the body's natural defense against disease. The immune system
      sends types of cells called "T cells" throughout the body to detect and fight infections and
      diseases, including cancer. For some types of cancer, the T cells do not work as they should
      and are prevented from attacking the tumors. Pembrolizumab is thought to work by blocking a
      protein in the T cells called PD-1 ("programmed death 1"), which then allows these cells and
      other parts of the immune system to attack tumors.

      Nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane) is part of a class of medications called antimicrotubule agents. It
      works by stopping the growth and spread of cancer cells by blocking the action of proteins
      called microtubules.

      The combination of Pembrolizumab and Nab-paclitaxel is investigational. "Investigational"
      means that the combination of study drugs is being studied. The study drugs, when given
      separately, work in different ways to stop the cancer cells from growing and spreading.
      However, it is not known if giving the two study drugs at the same time will have a better
      anti-cancer effect than giving each treatment on its own.
    
  