
    
      Intubation and mechanical ventilation has long been the mainstay in managing infants with
      respiratory disease in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). However, in recent decades,
      the use of endotracheal mechanical ventilation (EMV) has been implicated as a major cause of
      ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI).Prolonged endotracheal intubation in the neonate has
      been linked with morbidities including bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), nosocomial
      pneumonia, air leak syndromes and subglottic stenosis. Moreover, BPD has been linked with
      impaired neurodevelopmental outcome.

      There has been a conscious effort amongst neonatologists to reduce the duration of EMV to
      minimize these undesirable side effects. Non-invasive ventilatory support has been
      increasingly used to that effect in recent years. Various forms of NIV including NCPAP,
      BP-NCPAP and nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) have become part of the
      ventilatory management of neonates in NICUs across the globe.

      Originally described in the early 1970s,9 the use NCPAP has seen renewed interest since the
      1990s when the significance of VILI became apparent. In retrospective studies, NCPAP has been
      shown to reduce the rates of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). A recent multi-center
      prospective randomized controlled trial of infants between 25 and 28 week gestation showed
      that infants treated with early NCPAP required fewer days of ventilation and had a reduced
      oxygen dependency after 28 days (although not at 36 weeks corrected GA). A subsequent
      analysis of these patients showed improved lung mechanics and gas exchange. However NCPAP use
      is not without its risks. Air leak syndromes, diminished cardiac output, gaseous distention
      and nasal injury/excoriations are well described complications of its use. Despite these
      drawbacks, NCPAP remains an efficacious modality to help reduce endotracheal intubation and
      limit VILI.

      Although successful in reducing the reliance on EMV, it is also well known that up to 43-80%
      of neonates with moderate to severe respiratory disease treated with NCPAP fail and require
      intubation. BiPhasic NCPAP and NIPPV have been used with increasing frequency in NICUs in
      recent years to help prevent re-intubation, but with limited evidence guiding their use.

      BiPhasic-NCPAP, described in the late 1980s as a form of augmented ventilation, provides two
      levels of non-invasive pressure support, typically cycled between 20-30 times per minute and
      the upper level of support usually lasting one second. As in NCPAP, the patient breathes
      around the two levels of pressures provided. However, there is currently no evidence to
      suggest that the use of BP-NCPAP offers any advantage over NCPAP. In a recent randomized
      controlled prospective study from the investigators centre comparing BP-NCPAP (N=69) and
      NCPAP (N=67), the former was not shown to be superior to the latter in facilitating sustained
      extubation in infants < 1,250 grams (67% vs. 58%, P = 0.27). Nevertheless, it is presumed
      that BP-NCPAP offers the same benefits as NCPAP, and remains in use as a rescue mode of NIV
      across many NICUs after NCPAP failure.

      NIPPV is yet another NIV mode, offering a combination of NCPAP superimposed with ventilator
      provided peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) via a non-invasive interface, designed to mimic and
      augment the spontaneous breathing of neonates as in EMV. The PIP provided can be both
      synchronized or non-synchronized with patient breaths. However there is potential for
      significant inaccuracies in the synchronization process. Furthermore, the Infant Star
      ventilator with the Graseby capsule, one of the prototype ventilators capable of providing
      synchronized NIPPV, is no longer available. Despite this limitation, NIPPV remains in use in
      both non-synchronized and synchronized forms.8 At this time, to the best of the investigators
      knowledge, no studies have compared BP-NCPAP and NIPPV directly. In fact, in the recently
      completed NIPPV trial by Kirpalani et al BP-NCPAP and NIPPV were included in the same arm,
      which failed to show a reduction in the incidence of BPD compared to the NCPAP arm.

      Based on studies conducted so far there is no firm consensus on what is the best non-invasive
      mode to be used and the modality of choice remains an individual decision depending on the
      preference and experience of the specific unit. Noninvasive high frequency ventilation is an
      alternative and relatively new mode of NIV and has been explored in 4 clinical studies so far
      (appendix A). In a study of 21 preterm and term infants, patients were switched from NCPAP to
      NIHFV to promote carbon dioxide (CO2) elimination and continued for a mean of 35 (2-144)
      hours. The authors reported that the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) decreased
      with the use of this modality from 8.3 to 7.2 kilo pascal (KPa). The major limitations of
      this study include the heterogeneity of patient population, the etiologies of primary lung
      disease, small sample size and lack of any control group. In a more recent study by Colaizy
      et al, NIHFV was used in 14 subjects for a period of 2 hours and a trend towards a decrease
      in PaCO2 levels was noted with the use of this modality. Limitations of this study include
      the short duration of NIHFV, small sample size and lack of a control group. The only
      randomized trial evaluating this modality included 40 term infants with clinically diagnosed
      transient tachypnea of newborn (TTN) and concluded that the use of NIHFV leads to quicker
      recovery of TTN compared with the use of CPAP. However the assessment of recovery was
      subjective, and in a study that was unblinded could be ridden with bias. As well, many of
      those patients may not have required any form of NIV in the first place. Lastly a study by
      Czernik et al evaluated a group of 20 neonates at high risk of post-extubation failure who
      were prophylactically placed on NIHFV. Fourteen of the infants were successfully weaned off
      to NCPAP, but there was no control group to compare these results with. None of the four
      trials reported any adverse effects related to the use of NIHFV, although they were not
      powered to evaluate such outcomes.

      At two of the investigators centres (Mount Sinai Hospital and the Hospital for Sick Children)
      NIHFV has been used as a rescue mode in recent months when NCPAP and/or BP-NCPAP has failed.
      In a review conducted [unpublished at this time] more than half the instances of its use (out
      of the 21 total cases) were due to increased spells (apneas, bradycardias and/or
      desaturations). In the six hours preceding and the six hours after initiation of NIHFV, the
      number of spells reduced from an average of 5.2 (±3.5) to 1.5 (±1.3). The majority of
      patients tried on NIHFV remained extubated, with less than a third eventually requiring
      re-intubation. As of yet, no reports of harm were directly linked with the use of NIHFV.

      Despite limited evidence, NIHFV holds promise as an alternate mode of NIV. It may be superior
      to NCPAP/BP-NCPAP with respect to PaCO2 clearance from the lungs and also has the advantage
      of not requiring breath-synchronization, an issue that has hindered the widespread use of
      NIPPV. However, definitive assessment of the efficacy of NIHFV requires a prospective,
      randomized controlled trial. The goal of this study is to compare the rates of intubation
      when using BP-NCPAP vs. NIHFV as rescue mode of NIV post NCPAP failure in infants < 1,250
      grams.
    
  