
    
      Atherosclerotic plaques at the origin of the internal carotid artery (ICA) can cause
      TIA/stroke, and are well-visualized with CT angiography (CTA). Those plaques associated with
      unstable free-floating thrombi (FFT) are at highest risk for embolization and stroke.
      Unfortunately, FFT have a similar appearance to stable ulcerated plaques on CTA: both appear
      as intraluminal filling defects of varying length and morphology. Distinguishing these
      entities is critical as it affects the choice and urgency of treatment (antithrombotics vs
      revascularization). Using a retrospective study, we have previously proposed a promising CTA
      imaging marker to distinguish FFT from stable ulcerated plaque. It is hoped that after the
      data is collected from this prospective study to one day initiate a multi-centre study.

      In our prior research, we proposed a reasonable "gold standard" for FFT diagnosis. We
      followed patients presenting with circular filling defects on CTA (doughnut signs) suspicious
      for either FFT or ulcerated plaque with serial CTAs after medical therapy. Those that
      diminished or resolved with antithrombotic treatment (or those that unfortunately "resolved"
      by embolizing distally) were presumed to be "true FFT" in contrast to those that remained
      unchanged. We then assessed the performance of a variety of imaging parameters to
      differentiate FFT from ulcerated plaque: we tested linear measurements, morphology, degree of
      stenosis, as well as relevant clinical factors. These parameters were measured by
      neuroradiologists as well as an innovative semi-automated shape analysis. Using a
      retrospectively established cohort, we were able to derive 3.8 mm as an optimal
      cranial-caudal length threshold of the filling defect that can potentially help distinguish
      FFT from plaque, with 88% sensitivity and 86% specificity.

      We will prospectively identify consecutive patients presenting with TIA/stroke within 72 hrs
      of symptom onset with an ICA intraluminal filling defect on CTA. We will review the imaging
      data and measure the cranial-caudal length of the filling defect. Patients will receive a
      follow-up CTA in one week as per the current clinical standard of care, and if the defect is
      still unresolved, a third CTA will be repeated after a second week if unresolved, and a
      fourth at one month (research). We will measure cranial-caudal length of the filling defect
      at each time interval, blind to the previous measurements. Resolution of the filling defect
      at any point is diagnostic of FFT, whereas its static appearance after 1 month is diagnostic
      of ulcerated plaque. For this pilot study, measure rate of enrolment, adherence to study
      protocols, attrition rates, and proportion of patients with FFT. For the exploratory
      objective, we will record treatment choice, dose, and duration.
    
  