
    
      - Subjects will be stratified by histology and biological markers (ERCC1, RRM1, TS, EGFR
      mutation). Randomization will be centralized at the coordinating centre site. Patients will
      receive chemotherapy with cisplatin + docetaxel or customized therapy for 3 cycles (60 days
      with gefitinib) before surgery.

      Every 4 months for 3 years and then every 6 months for 2 years following surgery, subjects
      will be assessed by the investigator for adverse events related to study drug, documentation
      of post study therapies received, DFS, and survival.

      - Periodic evaluations of the trial data will be conducted by an independent data monitoring
      committee to ensure subject safety and the validity and scientific merit of the study.

      Assuming that the study is not stopped at the planned futility analyses or for safety
      reasons, the final analysis will take place after the targeted number of events (pathological
      complete response) is reached, which is estimated to take place 24 months post study
      initiation.

      - The pathological complete response (pCR)in the two groups will be computed in the ITT
      populations and compared by means of the chi-square test without continuity correction. For
      exploratory purposes, a multivariate logistic regression model will be fitted to the data,
      with the pCR as the response variable and treatment (standard/ experimental) and
      histo/molecular subgroup as covariate. The heterogeneity of the relative efficacy of the
      tailored approach in the various subgroups (=subgroup analysis) will be evaluated by
      including in the model the appropriate set of treatment-by-subgroup interaction terms, using
      the standard likelihood ratio test. Time-to-event analyses (DFS and OS) will use standard
      Kaplan-Meier estimators (with the Log-rank test) and semi-parametric PH regression models.
      Safety will be summarized based on adverse events, vital signs and laboratory assessments. A
      group sequential design is used to compare the Overall Survival in the two study arms.
    
  