
    
      This will be a pilot randomized controlled trial of feasibility, safety and changes in
      fatigue and pain symptoms, measured quality of life, mental health status, and
      neuro-cognitive functioning of a group of GWVs after a 4 to 6 week sauna detoxification
      regimen as compared to control. For control subjects we will also have a group of GWVs
      receiving usual care who are randomly assigned to a waitlist and who will start the
      intervention after a four to six week delay. The waitlist group will also take part in the
      baseline tests a second time just prior to their treatment 4 to 6 weeks later and a 7-day
      post-treatment battery of tests the same as described for the treatment group. Finally, there
      will be a 3-month follow-up with both the groups. The Severna Park Health and Wellness Center
      (SPHWC) is a commercial center that offers the Hubbard detoxification program. The
      investigators will contract with SPHWC to provide the program to the subjects of this study
      and to provide office space for the Study Coordinator, so that all components of this project
      except the initial Physician evaluation and blood sample acquisition can be done at the
      Center, not just the detoxification.

      Study Variables: The investigators will examine feasibility of the research design, and
      safety of the regimen and estimate changes in:

        -  Quality of life as measured by the Veterans Short Form (SF36-V). The SF36-V also
           includes physical (PCS) and mental (MCS) component summary scores.

        -  Case status for GWI will be assessed utilizing the Kansas criteria.

        -  Symptoms of fatigue and pain in GWI will be measured wit, the Multidimensional Fatigue
           Inventory, and the short-form McGill Pain-2 Questionnaire.

        -  Cognitive function will be measured with a battery of neurocognitive tests. These will
           include visual motor, memory and executive functioning as measured by the Trailmaking
           test, Grooved Pegboard, Wechsler Memory Abbreviated test, and the Stroop color word
           test. To account for potential confounding in neurocognitive testing, mental health
           status will be evaluated using the Symptom Checklist 90 revised and the State Trait
           Anxiety Inventory.

        -  Physical health status will be assessed via standard medical examination and laboratory
           analyses of serum metabolic panel, lipid profile and hormones.

      Sampling Method: This will be a convenience sample and will consist of Gulf War Veterans who
      meet the Kansas case definition for Gulf War illness and reside in the Washington/Baltimore
      area or can travel to and reside in the area for several weeks. The individuals who show
      interest in this study, who meet eligibility criteria and subsequently agree to participate
      will be selected to enroll in the study.

      Randomization: Volunteers will be randomly assigned to a group when they enroll. One group
      will be the immediate experimental intervention group and one group will be the wait-list
      control group. Random assignment will be achieved by use of sequentially numbered, opaque,
      sealed envelopes. Both will undergo the detoxification protocol, but the control group will
      be tested twice prior to treatment.
    
  