
    
      The emotional and psychological well-being of women significantly affects the perception and
      experience of pregnancy and childbirth. Pregnant women with a fear of childbirth are more
      likely to give birth by caesarean section. An increased risk of obstetric interventions such
      as planned and emergency caesarean section was also identified. Childbirth education is an
      intervention that has a great impact on birth outcomes and childbirth experiences.

      A Cochrane systematic review found that the effects of antenatal education on childbirth and
      parenting are quite unknown. In a longitudinal cohort study, on a sample of 576 women,
      Bossano et al. investigated the impact of the vaginal birth method and the experience
      experienced on health after a decade. It was found that women with caesarean section were
      significantly more distressed than those who had delivered vaginally, and that the experience
      of childbirth remains in the memory even after a decade.

      A randomized controlled study conducted in Australia by Fenwick et al. divided a sample of
      339 pregnant women into a test and control group measured the impact of midwifery education
      on outcomes in childbirth, breastfeeding and the development of postpartum depression.
      Pregnant women of the interventional group received individual psychoeducation training by
      midwives in the second trimester of pregnancy. The control group did not undergo individual
      training. Finally, 184 female respondents with duly completed questionnaires were included in
      the analysis. In comparison with the control group, the caesarean section rate in the
      interventional was clinically but not statistically significantly lower (by 8%), and the need
      for an emergency caesarean section in the test group was less than 7%. There was no
      difference in the assessment of postpartum depression between the two groups. At 6 weeks
      postpartum, there was no statistically significant difference in the infant's diet between
      the two groups. In the interventional group, 83.5% were breastfed and 78.5% in the control
      group. It was concluded that the psychoeducation of pregnant women had the effect of reducing
      the overall rate of caesarean section. The impact of education on psychosocial health was
      found in a randomized controlled study called "Mindfulness - based program on the
      psychological health of pregnant women" in a sample of 104 women, divided into an
      interventional and control group. Pregnant women in the interventional group attended an
      eight-week program in groups between 13 and 26 weeks of gestation and used audio recordings
      at home, and had statistically significantly lower levels of stress and depression compared
      to the control group when measured at 36 weeks of gestation.

      The use of deep inhalation and exhalation breathing exercises has proven effective in
      reducing the perception of pain in childbirth. A randomized clinical trial by Yuksel et al.
      in a sample of 250 pregnant women divided into test and control groups, the aim was to
      determine the effectiveness of the exercise on the perception of pain and the impact on the
      Apgar score of the infant after 1 minute. Pregnant women underwent a series of exercise
      training sessions and practiced during the first delivery phase to reduce stress and
      relaxation. There was a statistically significant difference in the lower perception of pain
      in the interventional group compared to the control group. A VAS scale of pain was used to
      assess pain. There was no statistically significant difference in the value of the Apgar
      score.

      The therapeutic effects of listening to music on maternal and infant health have been proven
      in numerous studies. A lower incidence of anxiety and depression in women, a lower perception
      of pain during childbirth, a higher oxygen saturation in a newborn infant, and longer
      breastfeeding were found. A unique package with selected music has not been defined, but the
      choice is left to the creativity and knowledge of health professionals. A statistically
      significantly lower level of pain and anxiety at all measured time intervals was determined
      by a study in which a test group of 80 first-timers listened to music of their choice during
      childbirth compared to a control group who underwent childbirth without listening to music.

      Based on the results of various studies, it can be concluded that the influence of antenatal
      education on the reduction of the rate of caesarean section in relation to vaginal delivery
      and the perception of pain during childbirth. Listening to classical music and breathing
      exercises significantly contribute to the reduction of labor pain, affecting the length of
      breastfeeding and the mental health of women in the maternity ward. An area requiring
      research is the fear of childbirth and its consequent impact on both maternity outcomes and
      the mental health of women in the ward.
    
  