
    
      Lung cancer is a major cause of cancer death in Taiwan and throughout the world in both
      developed and developing countries. More than 75% of NSCLC patients are inoperable because of
      either distantly metastatic disease or disease confined to one hemithorax with one or more
      criteria of unresectability at the time of presentation. The prognosis of such inoperable
      metastatic patients is poor.

      The benefit of adding chemotherapy to radiation therapy for stage III disease of NSCLC is
      well-established. The largest of the prospective trials was sponsored by the Radiation
      Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG), ECOG, and the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG), and allocated
      490 patients to receive 2 months of cisplatin + vinblastine chemotherapy followed by 60 Gy of
      radiation at 2 Gy per fraction; or one of two radiation-alone arms. Overall survival was
      statistically superior for the patients receiving chemotherapy and radiation versus the other
      two arms of the study (13.2 months vs 12 months, vs 11.4 months, respectively; p=0.04).

      Administration of chemotherapy concurrently with radiation therapy theoretically improves
      local control by sensitizing the tumor to radiation, while simultaneously treating systemic
      disease, albeit at the expense of greater local toxicity. Two large phase III studies suggest
      improvement in both local control and survival with concurrent chemoradiotherapy as compared
      with sequential chemotherapy followed by radiation for patients with stage III NSCLC.
      Although rates of nonhematologic toxicity were higher on the concurrent arms, median survival
      time trended toward superiority in the concomitant chemotherapy plus daily radiation arm
      compared with the sequential arm.

      One source of debate is whether the addition of induction or consolidation chemotherapy adds
      anything to concomitant chemoradiotherapy, with numerous intergroup trials underway. CALGB
      has completed a randomized phase II study of two cycles of induction chemotherapy followed by
      two additional cycles of the same drugs with concomitant radiotherapy. The three treatment
      arms included four cycles of cisplatin (80 mg/m2) combined with either gemcitabine,
      paclitaxel, or vinorelbine. Radiotherapy was completed during the last two cycles to a total
      of 66 Gy. Response rates were similar, and median survival for all patients was 17 months
      with no clearly superior arm evident in this randomized phase II trial.

      We proposed this clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity profile of combination
      chemotherapy with paclitaxel and cisplatin in previously untreated, stage IIIa/IIIb NSCLC
      patients who received 1 cycle of induction chemotherapy, followed by concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy, with 2 cycles of consolidation chemotherapy.
    
  