
    
      Approximately 25% of Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is diagnosed in the pediatric age
      group, with the peak age of onset in the adolescent years. IBD adds additional stressors of a
      chronic disease with unpredictable and potentially embarrassing symptoms to the expected
      challenges of psychological and social adjustment that teenagers face. Various techniques,
      such as psychotherapy programs and IBD overnight camp experiences, have been studied to
      decrease psychological distress and improve quality of life. Stress, and particularly how
      stressful events are perceived, may play a role in triggering IBD flares. Complementary and
      alternative medicine (CAM), especially mind-body techniques are used often by pediatric IBD
      patients and may be beneficial in decreasing stress and improving quality of life (QOL). Yoga
      may be well suited as an adjunct to conventional IBD therapy to decrease stress, provide a
      greater sense of bodily control and improve QOL.

      The primary goal of this project is to determine if a structured Yoga program, in addition to
      standard medical therapy, improves HRQOL in pediatric patients diagnosed with inflammatory
      bowel disease (IBD). Investigators will also examine if the yoga program improves self
      efficacy, which is a person's belief about their ability to influence events that affect
      their lives. Disease response and remission rates will be followed as well, in order to
      stratify HRQOL outcomes in the yoga group.

      Patients will each serve as their own control and complete questionnaires at enrollment and
      at the start and end of the 12 week group yoga class sessions. They will also complete the
      questionnaires three months after finishing the class sessions. .The program will consist of
      a live group class session over 12 weeks. Baseline and follow-up questionnaires will be used
      to determine there are changes in QOL, self-efficacy, and disease response.
    
  