
    
      Retrograde intrarenal surgery (RIRS) has been considered as the first-line choice for the
      management of <20mm kidney stones. Insertion of a ureteral access sheath (UAS) before RIRS
      surgery is currently accepted as an effective method to improve the effectiveness of surgery,
      but can be accompanied by serious complications. In long-term clinical practice， the
      investigators has found that many ureteral injuries occur during UAS insertion of the ureter
      from ureteral orifice. And if we use rigid ureteroscopy to insert the UAS under direct
      vision, we can provide the UAS insertion success rate and reduce the incidence of
      complications.

      Options for the UAS insertion include inserted under fluoroscopy control or inserted by the
      experience of the surgeon. The former is more commonly used in the United States, while the
      latter is more commonly used in China. But neither is perfect. Moreover, Ibrahim Karabulut et
      al. and Mehmet Giray Sönmez et al. reported a different technique for placement ureteral
      access sheath called "Endovisional technique" in which the outer sheath of UAS was worn on
      the semirigid endoscope and placed into the ureter under direct vision. Nevertheless, They
      found that complication rate was lower in the patients who had the UAS placed under
      "Endovisional technique" when compared to the classical technique. But the difference was not
      statistically significant. In addition, the investigators are concerned that failure to use
      sheath cores may cause new damage to the ureter.

      So the investigators find a new way to insert UAS without damaging the ureter. In our new
      procedure, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a 0.035'' flexible tip
      guidewire is placed into the renal pelvis using a ureteroscope. Then take out the
      ureteroscope and insert the ureteroscope into urinary bladder beside the guidewire. A 12 Fr/
      14 Fr ureteral access sheath (UAS) is advanced into the ureteral over the guidewire under
      direct vision. When the UAS successfully enters the ureteral orifice a few centimeters, the
      ureteroscope is removed. Continue inserting the UAS into the proximal ureter or UPJ and use
      the direct urinary system X-graphy (DUSG) to confirm that the UAS is inserted into the
      correct position. A P5 or P6 Olympus flexible ureteroscope is passed through the UAS to
      finish lithotripsy.

      Until now, routine technique to insert ureteral access sheath during RIRS is still under
      discussion. The investigator aims to perform a prospective and randomized controlled trial
      comparing the safety and efficacy of under direct vision and under non direct vision during
      the insertion of UAS.
    
  