
    
      Study purpose and rationale:

      Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) commonly develop lower urinary tract symptoms as their
      disease severity progresses. The most frequent symptoms are nocturia (night time urinary
      frequency), urinary frequency and urgency. (1) The effects on voiding function of levodopa
      and dopamine agonists for the treatment of motor symptoms in patients with PD are not clearly
      understood because studies conclude conflicting results. (2) Their overactive bladder (OAB)
      symptoms are primarily managed with antimuscarinics with variable efficacy, and there is
      concern for possible heightened central side-effects such as cognitive or motor deterioration
      in this patient population. (3, 4) Current standard of care for PD patients with lower
      urinary tract symptoms requires a full evaluation with history and physical exam. This is
      followed by a microscopic urinalysis, a 3-day bladder diary along with several
      questionnaires. According to their symptoms, some patients may require a non-invasive
      uroflowmetry and assessment of post void residual, while others will undergo a full
      urodynamic studies. Management of their voiding symptoms will require initial conservative
      measures and behavioral modifications (reducing caffeinated drinks and smoking cessation,
      optimizing fluid intake, weight loss) and bladder training. If this fails to improve their
      symptoms, oral pharmacotherapy will be offered with antimuscarinics or beta-3 agonists.

      The purpose of this protocol is to compare the impact of fesoterodine to placebo on urinary
      urgency and nocturnal sleep problems in a heterogeneous population of PD patients in a
      cross-over fashion. Although OAB can be effectively treated, there is compelling and
      scientifically sound methodological reasons for its use as participants in the study will not
      face additional risks of serious or irreversible harm from exposure to placebo. Placebo
      controlled trials are the most rigorous test of treatment efficacy for evaluating a medical
      therapy and will require fewer subjects than active control trials. Lastly, anticholinergic
      studies have shown to have a very large placebo effect and are only partially effective in
      treating voiding symptoms, which justifies the use of a placebo arm.

      Sample size:

      This is an initial pilot study to identify the effect size of fesoterodine treatment on
      urgency episodes in patients with PD.

      Subjects will be randomized in both groups by stratifying them according to their age group
      (younger or older than 75 years-old) and gender.

      Power analysis and sample size calculation are not relevant in this study given its
      exploratory nature. The investigators expect to recruit a total of 60 patients to complete
      the cross-over study for analysis purposes. This number is based on similar design studies,
      particularly one by Wagg et al. looking at the effects of solifenacin and oxybutynin in older
      adults with mild cognitive impairment (6). Many other similar studies with groups of subjects
      varying between 40 and 77 have demonstrated efficacy differences of anticholinergics in a
      cross-over fashion (7-9).

      Design and description of methodology:

      This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, parallel-group study will be
      carried out in an outpatient clinic. Subjects are assessed and included in the study if they
      are willing to participate and fit the criteria at Visit 0. They are then randomized to group
      A or B and undergo a baseline evaluation. Both groups undergo a two-week washout period
      during which they are given placebo.

      Group A subjects will be started on fesoterodine 4 mg once a day in the morning after the
      two-week washout period. They will have the option to escalate to 8 mg (2 tablets of 4 mg
      each) after 4 weeks on fesoterodine. Patients will have the option to go back to one tablet
      (i.e., 4 mg) at any time in the study. At 10 weeks (2 weeks washout and 8 weeks of study
      tablets), subjects are assessed in the clinic (Visit 1).

      Group B subjects will be started on placebo tablets, similar to fesoterodine 4 mg, and will
      have the option to escalate as well.

      All subjects then have a 2-week washout period. After the washout period, subjects will be
      crossed over to the opposite arm in which the same patterns of outcome assessment and dose
      titration were maintained. The study will conclude at 20 weeks. At the end of 20 weeks (Visit
      2), the investigators' subjects will be interviewed about any side effects, vital signs will
      be examined, adverse reactions or events monitored, and outcome measures will be documented.
      Throughout the study, the subjects will be able to drop out anytime with instructions to
      inform us of their decision and about any adverse effects. Overall, each subject will have 3
      clinical visits after enrollment in the study.

      Data analysis plan:

      The comparison between the 2 arms of the study, the group that initially received
      fesoterodine with the one that received placebo, will be conducted using chi-square analysis.
      A 2-sample t test will be used to compare baseline scores between the 2 groups. The Wilcoxon
      rank-sum test will be used to calculate whether the mean difference of all the outcome
      measures between treatment and placebo periods is significant.

      Differences between placebo and treatments will be adjusted by baseline measures (where
      available and a 1-sample sign rank tested that the mean difference equated to 0). Any
      difference will be analyzed as a change from the baseline.

      The primary outcome measure will be the number of urgency episodes, with a P value less than
      .05 considered statistically significant. The present statistical analysis of secondary
      measures encompasses a number of formal comparisons, and thus a group-wise type I error could
      occur.

      Recruitment procedures:

      Study investigators will send a letter to colleagues asking for referrals of eligible
      patients interested in the study. The study investigators may provide the referring
      physicians an information sheet about the study to give to the patients. If interested, the
      patient will contact the investigator. Or, with documented permission from the patient (e.g.,
      note in medical record indicates primary care provider spoke with patient who agreed to be
      contacted), the investigaor may be allowed to contact patients about enrollment.

      Clinics maintain a separate CHR-approved recruitment protocol that asks patients if they will
      agree ahead of time to be contacted for research. Investigators contact patients about the
      study in accord with their signed consent. The investigators will consider recruitment when
      patients with PD present to their clinic with urination symptoms. They will be presented with
      the option and if they agree, they will then be assessed for inclusion. The investigators
      will be blinded to the treatment group.

      Details on confidentiality:

      All data will remain confidential and will be available for access by the investigators only.
      All records will be identified with a unique identifier, corresponding to the subjects, to
      maintain confidentiality. Records will be kept in one safe and locked location, and
      electronic records will be password protected. The study information will be kept for
      duration of 25 years.

      As this is an investigator-initiated trial, Pfizer Canada's role is restricted to providing
      the medications and placebo, as well as the budget required to do the study. They have
      approved the current protocol, and will not be involved in further decision-making or data
      analysis. There are no other potential conflicts of interest.

      Statement on ethical considerations:

      The study will be conducted according to ethical principles stated in the Declaration of
      Helsinki (2013), ethics approval will be obtained before initiating study-related procedures,
      consent forms will take into consideration the well-being, free-will and respect of the
      participants, including respect of privacy.
    
  