
    
      Though limited, research suggests school-based water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH)
      improvements are capable of reducing pupil absence from 35-42%. However, few studies have
      rigorously evaluated the impact of comprehensive WASH in Schools (WinS) improvements on pupil
      absenteeism; to date, no research on the impact of WinS has been conducted in Lao PDR. This
      study will use longitudinal data collection to quantify the impact of UNICEF's WinS program
      on pupil learning and health in Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR).

      Research activities will take place Saravane Province, Lao PDR. Schools are eligible if they
      are a primary, non-Community-Built Construction (CBC) school, and lacking WASH facilities. A
      total of 136 schools will be randomly selected from a pool of all eligible schools, and
      randomly assigned to either the intervention or comparison group (68 schools each). Directors
      of the selected schools will be contacted and informed about procedures prior to the start of
      the study, and they will provide permission to conduct the study at their schools if they so
      choose. At each school the investigators will randomly select up to 60 pupils in grades 1-5.
      Research staff will approach selected pupils at school to request informed oral assent for
      participation. The informed assent process and data collection will be conducted by local
      trained enumerators in the child's preferred language of Laotian or a local dialect. Oral
      rather than written assent was chosen due to varied literacy capabilities and to limit
      paperwork that identifies participants. A waiver of parental consent for pupil interviews has
      been secured from the Ministry of Education and Sports. At each school, school directors will
      be asked to sign in loco parentis ("in the place of parent") on behalf of the pupil
      participants.

      Data collection will take place at each school once every six to eight weeks for the duration
      of up to three school years. The investigators will conduct school observations and an
      interview with the school director about school conditions, handwashing behavior observations
      of children, and a review of aggregate school-wide academic record data including percentage
      of children obtaining a passing average, advancing to the next class, and drop-outs. None of
      these school activities collect personal data or identifiers. Data collection with pupils
      will be done with the same pupils every six to eight weeks and will entail a five-minute
      interview asking about recent absence, symptoms of diarrhea or respiratory illness, age, and
      grade. Select pupils in a subset of schools will undergo testing for cognition, attention,
      and hydration. Select pupils in a subset of school will provide a stool sample for analyses
      of helminth infection prior to school-wide de-worming. Data collection will also take place
      at the household of select pupils in a subset of schools. The investigators will conduct a
      household survey once at the beginning of each school year to assess the range of household
      WASH access among pupils in study selected schools.

      All data collection will occur at the school or the household, will be conducted by trained
      local enumerators, and will be stored on password-protected mobile data collection devices.
      Data will be uploaded to a password-protected server and will not contain personal
      identifying information, but rather a pupil identification . Enumerators will maintain a
      separate form that links identifications with names of pupils, which will be kept
      confidential. There are no direct benefits other than contribution to general knowledge that
      will inform future school WASH projects. There are no risks to participation other than a
      small amount of class time missed by pupils, and great efforts will be made to minimize time
      outside of class.
    
  