
    
      At the screening visit all patients underwent comprehensive ophthalmological examination
      including best corrected visual acuity assessment, slit lamp evaluation, IOP measurement
      using Goldmann applanation tonometry, and indirect dilated ophthalmoscopy with a 90 diopters
      lens. Visual field testing using Humphrey 24-2 SITA-Standard program (Carl Zeiss Meditec,
      Inc., Dublin, CA 24-2 program) was performed only for those patients with the last exam older
      than 3 months.

      Baseline visit was splitted in two visits scheduled 1 week apart 2 days, to evaluate ocular
      surface alterations by means of several tests.

      To minimize the influence of each test on the subsequent test, we performed first the least
      invasive and then the most invasive test. During the first baseline visit patients were asked
      to fill two questionnaires, the Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI) and the Glaucoma Symptom
      Scale (GSS) and then underwent the Break Up Time test (BUT), corneal and conjunctival
      staining evaluation using Oxford Staining Scheme, and Schirmer I test after 15 minutes of
      rest. During the second baseline visit, patients underwent conjunctival Confocal Laser
      Microscopy with the Rostock Module of Cornea of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT3,
      Heidelberg Engineering Gmbh, Heidelberg, Germany).

      At the end of the second baseline visit patients were randomized in two groups with a 1:1
      ratio according to a computer-generated randomization list.

      Group 1 (HA0.4%+TAU0.5%) was asked to self-administer 1 drop four times/day of a
      preservative-free ophthalmic solution containing 750KDa HA 0.4% and TAU 0.5% in both eyes,
      while Group 2 (HA0.2%) was asked to self-administer 1 drop four times/day of a
      preservative-free ophthalmic solution containing only 750KDa HA 0.2%, in addition to the
      ongoing hypotensive therapy.

      Follow-up visits were scheduled at 30 and 90 days and all the exams were repeated in the same
      order, as they were performed at the baseline visits.

      Both eyes were tested but only one randomly selected eye per patient was included in the
      analysis.

      The primary endpoint was the comparison of the changes over time of the CGC density between
      the two groups. Secondary endpoints were the between groups comparisons of the changes over
      time of BUT, Schirmer test, conjunctival staining, OSDI score and GSS score.

      All clinical measurements as well the statistical analysis were performed by investigators
      masked for the patients' treatment group.
    
  