
    
      Patients are referred into a Diabetes Self-Management Education (DSME) Support Program at
      Massachusetts General Hospital by a primary care provider at the time of diagnosis or as
      needed to gain better knowledge, awareness and understanding of their disease. Majority of
      the patients in the DSME program experience favorable outcomes; however, in key areas of T2DM
      management such as physical activity and nutrition, fewer patients experience success with
      their behavior goals, owing to the higher level of motivation required, and our inability to
      provide more frequent individually tailored feedback and coaching. In addition, we have
      observed that patients' behavior change is not sustained over time after finishing the DSME
      program.

      In the proposed study, the investigators intend to augment DSME's evidence-based approach
      with two key connected health cornerstones - objective data collection and targeted
      personalized feedback. Using these two tools, we hypothesize that patients will be able to
      acquire new behaviors much sooner than status quo, and also maintain them for longer. Also,
      the scalability of the mobile component of the innovation will help us offer this
      evidence-based program to a much larger pool of patients, contributing greatly to the overall
      quality of diabetes management at our hospital.

      The research team at Center for Connected Health will recruit participants from a pool of
      patients with T2DM who are participating in or who have gone through the DSME program at MGH
      Chelsea, MGH Revere or MGH Charlestown. These practices represent the most medically under
      served areas and serve low-income population. All of these practices have received
      recognition from the American Diabetes Association as having high-quality diabetes
      self-management education programs that meet the National Standards for Diabetes
      Self-Management Education.

      120 participants will be enrolled and randomly assigned to one of the two groups.
    
  