
    
      -  This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the
           safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in
           treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

        -  The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

             -  Venetoclax

             -  ibrutinib

        -  The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment
           including evaluations and follow up visits.

             -  Participants will be on the research study for up to 2 years on combined venetoclax
                and ibrutinib and 4 years of follow-up .

             -  It is expected that about 50 people will take part in this research study.

        -  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved venetoclax for your
           specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

           -- Venetoclax is a targeted therapy that blocks BCL-2, a protein that is important for
           the survival of WM cells. Laboratory studies and early clinical data have shown that the
           investigational new agent, venetoclax, may kill cancer cells and may cause tumors to
           shrink.

        -  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved ibrutinib as a treatment option
           for this disease.

           --Ibrutinib is a targeted therapy that blocks BTK. It has been FDA approved in chronic
           lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), mantle cell lymphoma
           (MCL), marginal zone lymphoma (MZL), chronic graft vs. host disease (cGVHD), and
           Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM). It is also used in research studies in
           participants with recurrent B-cell lymphoma), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and
           prolymphocytic leukemia. In a study of ibrutinib in relapsed/refractory WM patients,
           response rates were high and the treatment was well tolerated.

        -  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the combination of
           ibrutinib and venetoclax as a treatment for any disease.

        -  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the MYD88 test. This test
           is investigational.
    
  