
    
      This is a prospective, parallel and controlled clinical trial. The population evaluated in
      the study was selected at Science and Technology Institute (STI) -São José dos Campos,
      College of Dentistry.

      Patients were assigned to one of the three treatment groups:

        -  Group 1: ridge preservation surgery through free gingival graft and photobiomodulation
           (PBM) application through a gallium aluminum arsenide laser (GaAlAs) in the donor area
           using a 60 Joule/cm² dose

        -  Group 2: ridge of preservation surgery through free gingival graft and PBM through a
           gallium aluminum arsenide laser (GaAlAs) in the donor area using a 15 Joule/cm² dose

        -  Group 3: ridge preservation surgery through free gingival graft and PBM Sham.

      All surgeries were performed by the same expert periodontist (MPS). A blade 15c
      (Swann-Morton® - Sheffield, England) mounted on No. 3 scalpel handle will make an
      intrasulcular incision around the tooth indicated for exodontia. Then, the tooth will be
      extracted through the use of appropriate instruments in order to obtain a minimally traumatic
      exodontia.

      After the exodontia, curettage and irrigation of the dental socket will be performed. After
      that, the socket will be filled with xenogenous bone graft (GenOx Inorg; Campinas, SP), and
      sealed with a free gingival graft removed from the palate. For the free gingival graft
      removal, a circular template of 5 millimeters in diameter will be used. This mold has the
      objective of standardizing the palatal graft removal ensuring the wounds will have always the
      same size. After the circular incision, the graft will be removed with a thickness of 2
      millimeters. After free gingival graft removal from palate, it will be adjusted to the
      entrance of the socket and sutured with Vicryl® 5.0 reabsorbable (Ethicon Johnsons do Brasil,
      São José dos Campos - SP).

      The evaluated parameters were wound remaining area (WRA), scar and tissue colorimetry (TC),
      tissue thickness (TT) and postoperative discomfort (D), evaluated at baseline and 7, 14, 45,
      60, and 90 days after surgery.

      Statistical Analysis: All data were expressed as mean ± standard deviation or expressed in
      percentages during the descriptive phase. Data were analyzed according to distribution by the
      Shapiro-Wilk test. For the remaining wound area, tissue colorimetry, tissue thickness, and
      postoperative discomfort parameter analysis, two way repeated measures ANOVA was performed
      for intra- and intergroup analysis. T test was used for intergroup comparison of the number
      of analgesics taken. The presence or absence of scars was measured by Q-square test.
      Statistical analysis was performed using Sigma Plot 12.0. In all tests a significance level
      of 0.05 was chosen.
    
  