
    
      PROCEDURES. Walking Exercise Intervention. An individualized program of walking exercise is
      prescribed (walking up to 5 times a week for up to 30 minutes each session). The protocol for
      this walking intervention is based on exercise programs adapted from 12 research protocols
      for patients with NYHA Class II-III heart failure, one cardiac rehabilitation protocol in use
      for approximately 20 years; and the AHCPR Clinical Practice Guidelines for activity
      prescriptions for heart failure patients. The walking exercise prescription is based on a
      modified Naughton treadmill test and a 6-minute walk test, both conducted as part of
      eligibility screening and used as pretest measures. The target exercise heart rate range is
      calculated from the peak heart rate (measured on treadmill at the peak of oxygen utilization)
      minus the resting heart rate, multiplied by 40% to 60%, plus the resting heart rate. Weekly
      for 6 weeks, and then every other week for 10 weeks, the research nurse makes visits to
      initiate, monitor, and advance an individualized program of walking exercise.

      POPULATION. Our target population was persons diagnosed with heart failure (HF).

      Pretest and posttest measures include an exercise tolerance test; two nights of somnographic
      sleep and oxygen saturation recordings; one 24-hour recording of heart rate variability; and
      subjective reports of quality of life. One-way analyses of variances (ANOVA) will be used to
      test for control-treatment group differences in cardiac function (Aim 1) and sleep (Aim 2).
      Interaction will be examined in a two-way ANOVA of group (HF subjects with frequent vs. few
      apnea-hypopnea episodes walking vs.control) and time (before and after condition) to
      determine whether HF subjects with frequent apnea-hypopnea episodes who exercise have better
      outcomes than HF subjects with few apnea-hypopnea episodes who exercise, or the control group
      (Aim 3).
    
  