
    
      Introduction

      Elderly patients are usually presented with higher risk for developing cardiopulmonary
      complications after general anesthesia (GA). The risk of adverse events in elderly patients
      increases with the combination of intraoperative fentanyl, opioid premedication and
      neuromuscular blockers. Bilateral paravertebral block (PVB) has been associated with
      favorable outcomes in patients undergoing ventral hernia repair. Hence, elderly patients may
      benefit from PVB anesthetic technique.

      The objective of the study is to compare PVB versus GA for elderly patients undergoing major
      abdominal surgery. The primary outcome measure is admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
      The secondary objective is postoperative analgesic consumption.

      Methods

      Following approval from the Institutional Review Board, 60 patients aged 70 years or older
      scheduled to undergo major abdominal surgery from May 2016 till December 2020 will be
      included in the study. Consent will be obtained from the patients or their family member.
      Patients will be divided into two groups. Group I will receive PVB while group II will
      receive GA.

      Demographic variables including age, gender, height, weight, and ASA physical status will be
      collected for each patient. Intraoperative hemodynamic data such as mean arterial pressure
      (MAP) and heart rate (HR) are noted. Moreover, surgery duration, admission to ICU and
      hospital stay are recorded. Morbidity and mortality rates will also be obtained.

      General Anesthesia technique Anesthesia is induced with 1 µg/kg fentanyl, 1.5-2 mg/kg
      propofol and 1-2 mg midazolam. Then, endotracheal intubation is facilitated by 0.15 mg
      nimbex. Anesthesia is maintained by 1-1.5% sevoflurane, 0.5 µg/kg/h fentanyl, 0.05 mg/kg/h
      nimbex, 60% nitrous oxide and 40% oxygen. Any hemodynamic change of 25% results in a gradual
      increase or decrease of the sevoflurane concentration.

      Paravertebral Block Technique Bilateral nerve stimulator-guided PVB is performed while
      patients are in lateral decubitis position. The number and level of injections depend on the
      type of surgery and length of incision.

      The appropriate levels for the PVBs are determined by palpation of the spinous processes. An
      intervertebral line is drawn at the appropriate levels and the injection site is marked 2.5
      cm lateral to the midline on both sides. After aseptic preparation of the skin, 0.3 mL 2%
      lidocaine is infiltrated at the injection sites. A 22-G nerve stimulation needle (Stimuplex;
      B. Braun, Melsungen, Germany) is advanced 1-2 cm perpendicularly to the skin using a nerve
      stimulating current of 2.5-5.0 mA, while closely watching for contractions of the abdominal
      muscles. The tip of the needle is adjusted to continue to produce muscle contractions while
      reducing the stimulating current to approximately 0.5-0.6 mA.

      Depending on patient weight, 3-5 mL of the local anaesthetic mixture is injected at each
      injection site. Each 20 mL of the local anaesthetic mixture contains: 8mL lidocaine 2%, 8 mL
      lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 5µg mL-1, and 4 mL bupivacaine 0.5%.

      In case of PVB failure, patients will be converted to GA.

      Admission to ICU and hospital stay Patients who are hemodynamically stable, conscious and do
      not feel pain will be transferred from the PACU to the floor. On the other hand, patients
      will be admitted to ICU if they are unconscious, intubated, and hemodynamically unstable.
      Patients will be discharged from hospital when they are able to drink, eat and do not have
      complications.

      Morbidity and complications Morbidity is defined as having chest infection, kidney failure,
      myocardial infarction, and dementia.
    
  