
    
      Bicentric prospective study, evaluating bronchial THERMOPLASTY in patients with severe
      uncontrolled asthma and significant bronchial smooth muscle mass. Primary Objective is to
      determine patients who would be the best candidates for bronchial THERMOPLASTY which should
      improve control of the asthma, reduce day-to-day symptoms and severe exacerbations, and
      improve respiratory function. Primary Endpoint will be the reduction in smooth muscle surface
      area, objectified on bronchial biopsies before and after THERMOPLASTY in patients presenting
      severe asthma and secondary criteria are:

        -  number of severe exacerbations (with oral corticosteroids, emergency room visits,
           hospitalizations)

        -  time until the first exacerbation

        -  respiratory function

        -  control of the asthma (ACQ - Asthma Control Questionnaire)

        -  quality of life (AQLQ - Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire)

        -  fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FENO)

        -  measurement of the thickness of the bronchial wall using tomodensitometry (scan). The
           inclusion of period of 28 months is limited to a maximum of 80 subjects. The actual
           number will be determined using the two-stage stop method. An intermediate analysis will
           be carried out following the evaluation and statistical analysis of the 40 patients.

        -  If the primary endpoint p-value is <0.0294, success will be declared and the inclusions
           will cease.

        -  If the p-value is >0.0294, additional patients will be recruited up to a total of 80
           patients included and assessed. At inclusion, sociodemographic data will be collected,
           number of exacerbations per year, date of fibroscopy, data on asthma control (ACQ), data
           on quality of life (AQLQ), respiratory function (EFR), fraction of exhaled nitric oxide
           (FENO), thickness of the bronchial wall evaluated using scanner and surface area of
           smooth muscle in the bronchial sub-mucous layer will be evaluated. At 3 months
           post-THERMOPLASTY, same data will be collected. One year after THERMOPLASTY, number of
           exacerbations, data on asthma control (ACQ),and quality of life (AQLQ), respiratory
           function (EFR), fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FENO), thickness of the bronchial wall
           and possible complications will be collected.
    
  