
    
      This is a prospective observational cohort study. The study would take place at Meir Medical
      Center (Kfar-Saba, Israel), a secondary-level academic hospital. The investigators will
      enroll 50 newly diagnosed CD subjects. The diagnosis will be in accordance with the European
      Society for Gastroenterology Hepatology and Nutrition guidelines for the diagnosis of CD from
      2012 (6). The investigators will also enroll 50 control subjects. The control subjects are
      children visiting the pediatric gastroenterology clinic. Before enrollment the investigators
      will rule out chronic conditions involving the gastrointestinal tract including CD.

      All subjects will be enrolled after providing an informed consent and signing the consent
      form.

      The investigators will obtain the following measurements and evaluations at and 6 months
      after enrollment:

        1. Anthropometric measurements: Height, weight, body mass index (BMI) and total body fat
           will be evaluated using a TANITA scale. The z-score for each parameter will be recorded.

        2. A Godin leisure-time exercise questionnaire (7) will be filled by the subjects and their
           parents

        3. Evaluation of physical fitness by the Eurofit fitness testing (8). This series of
           physical fitness tests was developed to evaluate speed, stamina and strength in
           school-aged children.

             1. Flamingo balance test

             2. Seat and reach test

             3. Standing broad jump test

             4. Handgrip test

             5. Sit-ups test

             6. Bent arm hang test

             7. Twenty meter endurance shuttle run test

             8. Wingate anaerobic fitness test

        4. Bone speed of sound test will be performed by a bone sonometer - a non-invasive
           ultrasound based measurement of bone density.

        5. CD subjects will be evaluated for adherence to GFD via questioning by a pediatric
           gastroenterologist and a clinical dietitian and by serum tissue transglutaminase
           immunoglobulin A (IgA) level (or serum deamidated gliadin peptide immunoglobulin G level
           in IgA deficient subjects). This is part of the normal follow-up of CD patients.
    
  