
    
      Prostatitis is the most common diagnosis (>50%) in men visiting outpatient urological clinics
      .

      The NIH classification classifies prostatitis into 4 types: category I - acute bacterial
      prostatitis, which is very rare, affecting only up to 5% of patients; category II- chronic
      bacterial prostatitis, also affecting up to 5% of patients; category III- chronic
      nonbacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS), which is the most common, as
      it affects 90%-95% of cases; and Category IV- asymptomatic inﬂammatory prostatitis, which has
      unknown prevalence and also unknown clinical significance.

      Although category III or CP/CPPS is the most prevalent form of prostatitis, its causes are
      largely unknown and treatments often fail to alleviate symptoms in the long term. In
      contrast, patients suffering from type I and II prostatitis are successfully treated with
      antibiotics, as a uropathogen or an infectious agent is usually identified as the cause .

      CP/CPPS is characterized by pain in the perineum and tenderness in the prostate and various
      urological symptoms (urgency, frequency, low urethral pressure) and sometimes also
      ejaculatory symptoms, such as painful ejaculation.

      Currently used treatments for CP/CPPS are mainly pharmacological, including alpha blockers,
      5-alpha reductase inhibitors, anti-inflammatories, antibiotics, phytotherapy, allopurinol,
      botulinum toxin and traditional Chinese medicine . Non-pharmacological therapies include
      acupuncture, prostatic massage, extracorporeal shockwave therapy, pulsed magnetic field
      therapy, transrectal and transurethral thermotherapy and others . Some of the abovementioned
      therapies alleviate symptoms by improving vascularisation and blood flow of the prostate and
      peri-prostatic area. This is also the mechanism of action of the erbium:YAG (Er:YAG) laser
      with non-ablative SMOOTH™ mode - it works by thermal pulsing of the treated surface, with
      microsecond-range long pulses combined into long (several hundred millisecond range)
      sequences. Each laser micropulse sharply increases tissue temperature and acts as a
      stimulative trigger. Long pulse trains cause slower diffusion of heat to deeper layers of the
      skin or mucosa, causing initially vasodilation and then collagen remodelling and stimulation
      of fibroblasts with collagen remodelling. It has shown to improve vascularisation and
      alleviate symptoms of genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM) in women, including
      irritation, dryness and pain. It has also been used intraurethrally in women to alleviate
      urinary symptoms of GSM. Intraurethral thermal therapy has been previously shown promising in
      the treatment of CP/CPPS in men. In this study the investigators aimed to assess the safety
      and effectiveness of transurethral non-ablative Er:YAG laser therapy applied at the level of
      the male prostatic urethra and to compare it with pharmacological treatment of 5 mg oral
      tadalafil for the treatment of CP/CPPS.
    
  