
    
      The study is a double blind (observer blind, participant blind), randomized, controlled, dose
      escalation, Age deescalation, phase Ib study. It will include two parallel groups as follows:

        -  Group 1: 23 subjects (15 subjects receiving MSP3-LSP vaccine 15 µg and 8 subjects
           receiving Hepatitis B vaccine).

        -  Group 2: 22 subjects (15 subjects receiving MSP3-LSP vaccine 30 µg and 7 subjects
           receiving Hepatitis B vaccine).

      The Immunization schedule will be 0, 1, and 2 months for all cohorts and provisionally as
      following for each group:

        -  Study days 0, 28 and 56 for group 1

        -  Study days 14, 42, 70 for group 2 Vaccinations of groups 1 and 2 will be staggered:
           immunization in group 2 will start 2 weeks after group 1. This interval may be extended
           if deemed necessary in case of serious adverse events or other safety concerns.
           Randomization will be done for each group at the time of first vaccinations and only the
           study pharmacist will be aware of which vaccine is allocated to a particular study ID
           number. The pharmacist will have no other role and will be sworn to confidentiality.

      The study vaccine will be administered through the subcutaneous injection into right or left
      deltoid (alternately). Each child will be observed for at least 60 minutes after vaccination
      to evaluate and treat any acute adverse events.

      This will be followed by a Seven (7) day follow-up period for solicited adverse events (day
      of vaccination plus 6 subsequent days; twenty eight (28) day follow-up period for unsolicited
      adverse events (Vaccination day plus 27 subsequent days). The follow-up of serious adverse
      events (SAE's) for 12 months after the first dose of study vaccine (9 months after dose 3).
      Biological safety will be evaluated through regular physical examinations, blood sampling for
      routine clinical chemistry, and hematology). At the end of the follow-up period for
      unsolicited AEs (i.e., one month after the third dose), children will be followed by field
      workers at home at monthly intervals to record SAEs. There are 10 clinic visits planned,
      however, participants will be advised to report to the clinic any time they feel unwell.

      Data collection will be through participant record files from which transcription on to
      conventional Case Report Forms will be done. All the date on the CRFs will be verified by the
      clinical Monitor. The database will be locked after study day 84 to allow for an interim
      analysis to review safety and immunogenicity thus collected.
    
  