
    
      Various types of stem cells, specifically Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs) have been thoroughly
      investigated for their role in tissue engineering, regenerative medicine and regeneration of
      the attachment apparatus (bone, cementum, periodontal ligament) of the tooth (that is lost
      due to periodontal disease) through multidisciplinary integration of research and clinical
      practice.

      Recently population of progenitor/stromal cells have been isolated form gingival connective
      tissue that shows stem cell nature and is known as Gingival Mesenchymal Stem Cells (GMSCs).
      GMSCs have shown to have higher rate of successive culture and proliferation compared to
      other sources of stem cells, and have demonstrated multi-lineage differentiation in
      osteoblastic, adipocytic, chondrocytic, endothelial and neural directions, however most of
      our present understanding and elucidation models stem from in vitro cell culture and in vivo
      animal models, which do not entirely translate to human clinical situations. To bridge our
      current knowledge gaps of tissue development processes, deeper understanding of biological
      processes is required, before reliable biologically based regenerative therapies become a
      clinical reality. Palatal gingival connective tissue, which can be a great source of GMSCs,
      is harvested primarily for treating gingival recession around teeth or dental implants. There
      is very little studied on the histological, cellular make up and the soft and hard tissue
      regenerative potential of this tissue owing to the presence of GMSCs. Also, the clinical
      decision as to where to harvest the tissue from relies on the amount of available tissue,
      indication of the treatment, and the clinical preference of the operator rather than based on
      progenitor potential and regenerative capabilities of the underlying cells.

      Hence aim of this study is to investigate the progenitor potential of palatal GMSCs as well
      as characterizing and observing the functionality of isolated MSCs at two different palatal
      sites within the same patient.

      The study will retrieve human soft tissue (gum tissue) samples from the roof of the mouth
      (palate) that are collected during soft tissue (gum) grafting surgical procedures routinely
      performed and are standard of care for treating gum recession in the School of Dentistry's
      Periodontology Clinic. For research purposes an additional 4mm of soft tissue samples will be
      obtained from two sites that is 2mm from front site (premolar) and 2mm from back site (molar)
      from the roof of the mouth (palate). The samples will be placed in sterile vials in the
      carrier medium and will be immediately transferred to the laboratory for the analysis. The
      remaining soft tissue (gum) graft will be used to cover the gum recession defects in that
      patient's mouth. A plastic guard will be placed on the roof of the mouth (palate) after the
      procedure to reduce post-op discomfort.
    
  