
    
      Objectives:

      The objective of the study is to determine if a larger investigation of HIIT-based multimodal
      prehabilitation is feasible in AYA patients awaiting major ES surgery. Specific aims of the
      study are:

        -  To determine the feasibility of conducting a larger phase II investigation of HIIT-based
           multimodal prehabilitation according to three primary criteria, including (i) recruiting
           >=50% of otherwise eligible patients (OEP; i.e., patients meeting all eligibility
           criteria), (ii) no patient experiences a testing-related or an intervention-related
           serious adverse event (SAE), and (iii) patients achieve an exercise intervention
           adherence rate of >=70%.

        -  To further determine the feasibility of conducting a larger phase II investigation of
           HIIT-based multimodal prehabilitation according to the secondary feasibility criteria.

        -  To explore the effect of prehabilitation on global health score, preoperative
           cardiorespiratory fitness, physical function, short-term perioperative outcomes, and
           patient-reported outcomes (e.g., symptom burden and health-care utilization).

      Methods:

      This pilot study is a phase I, two-arm randomized control trial to assess the feasibility of
      high-intensity interval training-based multimodal prehabilitation in newly diagnosed AYAs
      with ES.

      Patients will be randomized to either the prehabilitation group or the usual care group.

      Patients in the prehabilitation group will be prescribed both physical and psychological
      prehabilitation prior to undergoing major extremity sarcoma surgery (described below).

      The usual care group will be counseled to continue their current level of activity and given
      the information on exercise as outlined in the Cancer Care Ontario guidelines. Patients in
      the usual care group will also be given the same physical activity trackers and weekly
      exercise tracking logs as the patients in the prehabilitation group to eliminate the effect
      of activity tracking as an intervention itself and to facilitate descriptive comparisons of
      physical activity engagement between the groups.

      Feasibility (e.g., recruitment, safety, tolerability), clinical, fitness, patient-reported
      outcomes and health system utilization outcomes will be evaluated. Outcomes will be measured
      at baseline (T0), immediately preoperatively (T1), and postoperatively at one (T2), three
      (T3) and six (T4) months.

      Feasibility data will be collected via logs completed by the research coordinators (during
      recruitment and postoperative follow-up) and by the study lead / research assistants (during
      the intervention period in person (during each supervised exercise session) and via weekly
      patient phone calls (usual care group only)).
    
  