
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the proportions of participants in the tomosynthesis mammography (TM) and
      digital mammography (DM) study arms experiencing the occurrence of an ?advanced? breast
      cancer at any time during a period of 4.5 years from randomization, including the period of
      active screening and a period of clinical follow-up after the last screen (T4).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the potential effect of age, menopausal and hormonal status, breast density, and
      family cancer history on the primary endpoint difference between the two arms.

      II. To compare the diagnostic performance of TM and DM, as measured by the area under the
      receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC), sensitivity, specificity, positive
      predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV).

      III. To compare the recall rates and biopsy rates for TM versus DM, with subset analyses by
      the same variables as listed in aim II.

      IV. To compare the rate of interval cancers for TM and DM and to assess the mechanism of
      diagnosis for these interval cancers with categorization by symptomatic versus (vs)
      asymptomatic, and how detected: diagnosed via physical examination, mammography, ultrasound
      (US), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or other technologies.

      V. To examine the correlation between Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BIRADS)
      imaging features and histologic and genetic features, such as invasive ductal and invasive
      lobular histology, high grade, high stage at diagnosis, and aggressive genetic subtypes.

      VI. To assess different combinations of TM and synthesized 2 dimensional (2D) or DM in reader
      studies to assist in determining the optimum balance between diagnostic performance,
      radiation exposure and technique.

      VII. To estimate and compare breast-cancer-specific mortality between the two study arms.

      VIII. To estimate and compare the prevalence of breast cancer subtypes (luminal A, luminal B,
      HER2+, basal-like) low, medium or high proliferation via PAM50 proliferation signatures, and
      p53 mutant-like or wild-type-like according to a validated p53 dependent signature in the two
      arms, overall and stratified on whether cancers were detected through screening or as
      interval cancers, and whether cancers were invasive or in situ.

      IX. To classify histologically malignant (true positive cases) and benign lesions (false
      positive cases) as normal-like or tumor-like using the PAM50 gene expression assay subtype
      (luminal A, luminal B, HER2, basal-like,), and low, medium, or high proliferation according
      to PAM50 proliferation signatures, and p53 mutant-like or wild-type-like according to a
      validated p53-dependent signature.

      X. To assess the agreement between local and expert study pathologists for all breast lesions
      (benign and malignant) biopsied during the 4.5 years of screening with TM or DM.

      XI. To create a blood and buccal cell biobank for future biomarker and genetic testing.

      XII. To compare health care utilization (including cancer care received) and cost of an
      episode of breast cancer screening by TM versus DM, overall and within subsets.

      XIII. To implement a centralized quality control (QC) monitoring program for both 2D digital
      mammography (DM) and tomosynthesis (TM), which provides rapid feedback on image quality,
      using quantitative tools, taking advantage of the automated analysis of digital images.

      XIV. To assess temporal and site-to site variations in image quality, breast radiation dose,
      and other quality control parameters in TM vs. DM.

      XV. To refine and implement task-based measures of image quality to assess the effects of
      technical parameters, including machine type, and detector spatial and contrast resolution on
      measures of diagnostic accuracy for TM.

      XVI. To evaluate which QC tests are useful for determination of image quality and those that
      are predictive of device failure, in order to recommend an optimal QC program for TM.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients undergo bilateral screening DM with standard craniocaudal (CC) and
      mediolateral oblique (MLO) views at baseline, 12, 24, 36, and 48 months if pre-menopausal or
      at baseline, 24, and 48 months if post-menopausal.

      ARM B: Patients undergo manufacturer-defined screening TM at baseline, 12, 24, 36, and 48
      months if pre-menopausal or at baseline, 24, and 48 months if post-menopausal.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for at least 4.5-8 years after study
      entry.
    
  