
    
      Diesel exhaust has been classified as a probable carcinogen by the International Agency for
      Research on Cancer and as a potential carcinogen by the National Institute for Occupational
      Safety and Health (NIOSH). The carcinogenicity of this pollutant is of concern not only for
      the one million workers who are exposed occupationally, but also for the general population.
      Over 30 epidemiologic studies of diesel exhaust exposure have been performed, and the results
      suggest an increase in lung cancer risk. However, the association is not well defined. Past
      studies have suffered from the use of crude indicators of exposure, inadequate control of
      confounding, and/or short follow-up periods, low exposure levels, and small numbers of
      observations.

      NCI and NIOSH are collaborating on two related studies of diesel exhaust under the NCI/NIOSH
      Interagency Agreement. First, a retrospective cohort mortality study of about 8,200 non-metal
      miners will be performed to investigate lung cancer mortality in relation to quantitative
      measures of diesel exhaust exposure, and to determine whether there is evidence of elevated
      mortality from other causes of death among diesel exhaust exposed miners. The retrospective
      cohort study will be performed using existing records and information and has been exempted
      from IRB review. NIOSH is the lead agency on the retrospective cohort study.

      The proposed study is a case-control study nested in the retrospective cohort of non-metal
      miners. The study is expected to include at least 160 members of the cohort who died from
      lung cancer and four matched controls for each case. Using a structured questionnaire,
      detailed information will be collected on each subject's lifetime exposure to diesel exhaust,
      as well as information on smoking and other confounders. This information will allow
      investigators to examine the association between lung cancer and different quantitative
      measures of diesel exhaust exposure, adjusted for smoking and other potential confounders.
    
  