
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects over 1.6 million people
      in the United States and whose incidence increases with age, affecting over 1% of people over
      the age of 65. The neuropathological processes involved in PD are widespread throughout the
      brain, and are reflected in a constellation of motor, cognitive, mood and other non-motor
      symptoms. Treatments to date have largely focused on dopamine replacement strategies or deep
      brain stimulation, both symptomatic treatments.

      As neurodegenerative diseases progress, there are major changes throughout the body and
      brain. These changes are transmitted in the body via the circulatory system between organs,
      tissues and cells. Recent findings from multiple laboratories have shown that infusions of
      young plasma into aging rodents can have beneficial effects on cognitive functions. This
      suggests that the circulating components of plasma can improve cognitive and disease-relevant
      symptoms. This has motivated the field to treat multiple disorders with blood products and
      their constituent active components.

      The established safety of blood transfusions allows the investigators to test whether
      infusions of young plasma can ease the neurological symptoms in human subjects with
      neurodegenerative diseases. A related study of plasma infusions has already been completed at
      Stanford in patients with Alzheimer's disease (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT02256306).

      The investigator proposes to test the safety and efficacy of transfusing young plasma into PD
      participants, in order to establish its effects on motor and cognitive functions in
      participants in a Phase 1 study. The successful completion of this study will inform the
      design of future, larger and multicenter studies with the goal to determine whether infusions
      of young plasma can ameliorate the neurodegenerative symptoms and underlying pathophysiology
      in Parkinson's disease.
    
  