
    
      Efforts to reduce early mortality in persons with serious mental illness (SMI) have largely
      focused on providing integrated primary care in a "health home". Yet medical care alone
      accounts for a disproportionately small contribution to reductions in early morality in
      comparison to improving self-management and health behaviors. Illness self-management
      training (SMT) in the general population has been shown to improve health outcomes and lower
      costs associated with chronic health conditions by teaching and coaching individuals on
      monitoring symptoms, self-administering treatments, and improving health behaviors. More
      recently, the use of technologies such as Automated Telehealth (AT) has been shown to improve
      outcomes and potentially prevent expensive emergency room and acute hospitalizations in the
      general population by daily prompting of self-management and remote monitoring by a nurse who
      can pre-emptively intervene, guided by disease management algorithms. To the investigators
      knowledge, neither of these approaches has been empirically evaluated as an integrated
      component in a behavioral health home for persons with SMI. The investigators will conduct a
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) of 300 persons with SMI and medical comorbidity to evaluate
      outcomes for n=100 in a Community Based Health Home alone (CBHH), compared to n=100 also
      receiving Self-Management Training (CBHH+SMT), and n=100 also receiving Automated Telehealth
      (CBHH+AT). The investigators will test the following 3 hypotheses:

      Primary H1: CBHH+SMT and CBHH+AT compared to CBHH alone, will be associated with greater
      health self-management (measured by the Self Rated Abilities for Health Practices Scale) and
      (Exploratory E1) greater mental health self-management (measured by the Illness Management
      and Recovery Scale) at 4, 8, 12, and 24-months. Primary H2: CBHH+SMT and CBHH+AT compared to
      CBHH alone, will be associated with greater reduction in risk of early mortality (as measured
      by the Avoidable Mortality Risk Index) and (Exploratory E2) in psychiatric symptoms (BPRS) at
      4, 8, 12, and 24 months. Primary H3: CBHH+SMT and CBHH+AT compared to CBHH alone, will be
      associated with less acute service use (emergency room visits and hospitalizations) and
      (Exploratory E3) less acute service use costs at 4, 8, 12, and 24-months.

      In order to differentiate CBHH+SMT and CBHH+AT if both are found to be effective, the
      investigators will evaluate the persistence of primary outcomes from intervention endpoint
      (at 12 months) to the final follow-up (at 24 months) and will calculate the additional
      incremental costs of implementing and providing SMT and AT. The investigators will also
      explore differences in subjective health (SF-12) and in individual cardiovascular risk
      factors (e.g., BMI, tobacco use, blood pressure, glucose, lipids), comparing CBHH+SMT,
      CBHH+AT, and CBHH alone. Finally, the investigators will explore hypothesized mechanisms of
      action (potential mediators) for the Aim 2 primary outcome of reduced risk of early mortality
      (i.e., improvement in health self-management) and for the Aim 3 primary outcome of less acute
      service use (i.e., medication adherence and number of nurse preemptive interventions).
    
  