
    
      Phase 2 case study

        -  Two subjects will be fitted with a heart rate monitor and with an adapted waist belt
           with mobile phone attached.

        -  RPL alignment will be verified.

        -  The subjects will use the RPL in parallel bars 10 times and take rests as needed in a
           chair.

        -  The subjects will perform the timed up and go test (TUGT), 10-meter walk test (10MWT),
           and the 6-minute walk test (6MWT).

        -  The subjects will be fitted with retro-reflective markers.

        -  The subjects will be fitted with a portable oxygen uptake analyzer.

        -  A 4D motion-capture camera system will be used while performing TUGT and five times sit
           to stand (5XSTS).

        -  The subjects will perform the above tests in their prescribed daily-wear prosthesis, and
           then in the RPL.

        -  The subjects will complete the activities-based balance confidence (ABC) scale test.

        -  The subjects will be asked a series of open-ended questions regarding the experience,
           while being audio recorded.

      Phase 3 pilot study

        -  Twenty subjects will be randomized into three treatment arms (no prosthesis, prescribed
           prosthesis, RPL).

        -  The subject will be fitted with a heart rate monitor.

        -  The subject will be fitted with a portable oxygen uptake analyzer.

        -  The subject will be fitted with the RPL, and the alignment of the RPL will be confirmed
           before testing.

        -  The subject will be fitted with retro-reflective markers.

        -  A 4D motion-capture camera system and force-plate will be used while performing the
           5XSTS test in the assigned randomized condition. The test will be performed three times
           in each condition.

        -  The subject will return two more times to complete the tests in the remaining randomized
           conditions, with a two-week washout period between sessions.

        -  The subject will be given the ABC scale test in the beginning and at the end of this
           study.

        -  The subject will complete the technology attitudes questionnaire (TAQ).

        -  In total, subject participation will last 1 hour per day, for three sessions, two weeks
           apart.
    
  