
    
      Plantar fasciitis represents the most frequent cause of chronic heel pain, usually occurs in
      patients 40 years or older, overweight, sedentary or with intense physical activity.

      The plantar fascia function is to prevent foot collapse by its anatomical orientation and by
      its tensile forces; It originates at the base of the calcaneus and extends distally to the
      phalanges. The plantar fascia stretching prevents the displacement of the calcaneus and the
      metatarsals and maintains the medial longitudinal arch. Simulates a cable attached to the
      calcaneus and metatarsophalangeal joints. The windlass mechanism described by Hicks, for the
      action of the plantar fascia is usually explained when a dorsiflexion of the fingers occurs,
      this leads to an effective shortening of the length of the plantar fascia causing an
      elevation of the arch. The extension of the fingers increases the arch of tension with the
      metatarsophalangeal joint as axis or anchor point. The shortening of the plantar fascia
      resulting from the dorsiflexion of the hallux is the essence of the windlass mechanism. When
      a fasciotomy is performed, this mechanism is lost, decreasing the stability of the arch and
      this does not allow a phase of stable terminal stay.

      Historically the development of plantar fasciitis is attributed to biomechanical defects such
      as hyperpronation, this contributes to excesive mobility of the foot, which increases the
      stress applied to the musculofascial structures and soft tissue through an elongation of
      plantar fascia. There are other studies that have shown that one of the main factors for the
      appearance of this disease is the mechanical overload and it has been reported that the
      tension necessary for the rupture of the windlass mechanism ranges from 1.4 to 3.4 of the
      body weight of the subject.

      There is a great variety of therapies reported for the treatment of this pathology,
      intralesional application of steroids, platelet-rich plasma, intralesional botulinum toxin A,
      treatments such as extracorporeal shock waves, all of which are assisted by stretching
      excercises of the gastrocnemius and sole muscles or stretching of the plantar fascia.

      The clinical use of botulinum toxin A has expanded beyond the original indications by its
      effects on cholinergic neurons. The increased interest in the potential role to treat
      conditions of chronic pain is partially based on the effects of the toxin on the modulation
      of the release of substance P, on the calcitonin-related gene peptide and glutamate. On the
      other hand, the toxin has shown its effect on the inhibition of inflamatory pain and on the
      release of neurotransmitters from primary sensory neurons in a rat model. It also inhibits
      peripheral sensitization, which leads to an indirect decrease in central sensitization. It is
      unclear whether the treatment of chronic plantar fasciitis with botulinum toxin A works by
      causing muscle paralysis or by analgesic anti-inflamatory effects or by both mechanisms. A
      combined effect, induction of paresia of the muscles originating in the medial calcaneus
      process and direct analgesia due to analgesic anti-inflamatory properties.

      We performed a previous study, where we compared the use of botulinum toxin A against
      intralesional steroids; The application of botulinum toxin A was performed in the twin and
      sole muscle wombs, while dexamethasone was applied in the area of greatest fascia pain.
      Patients who received botulinum toxin had a faster and more sustained improvement than
      patients who received steroids.

      Another common form of treatment for plantar fasciitis is the application of intralesional
      steroids; however, there are reports of complications associated with these drugs and one of
      the main ones is the rupture of the plantar fascia, which ranges from 2.4% to 5.7% ; Despite
      pain relief due to rupture, many patients have other associated complications such as lateral
      plantar nerve dysfunction, stress fractures, among others, mainly after 2 applications.

      Objective and originality: The aim of our study is to demonstrate that the use of botulinum
      toxin A for the treatment of plantar fasciitis is superior to treatment with intralesional
      steroids. We try to establish a safer and less painful treatment therapy for the patient,
      since the use of steroids is associated with complications. We believe that the botulinum
      toxin A can also be applied intralesional, since there is information that indicates that
      this toxin has analgesic and anti-inflammatory effect in its local application and not only
      by the action of muscle relaxation by blocking the release of acetylcholine at the
      neuromuscular junctions.

      General objective:

      To assess the therapeutic effect of botulinum toxin A in patients diagnosed with plantar
      fasciitis.

      Hypothesis:

      The application of botulinum toxin A presents better results in the treatment of plantar
      fascitis than the use of intralesional steroids.

      Material and Methods:

      All patients who are recruited for the study will be explained regarding the treatment
      protocol, and will also sign informed consent prior to inclusion in the study. Measurement of
      the plantar fascia using ultrasound and measurement of ranges of movement of ankle flexion,
      as well as measuring and weighing patients to know their body mass index. They will be
      randomized into one of three treatment groups. Group 1 (control) treatment with 5 ml of
      anesthetic (Ropivacaine 7.5%), Group 2 (steroids) application of 1ml of Betamethasone plus 3
      ml of local anesthetic and Group 3 (botulinum toxin A) 250 U, in the insertion zone of the
      plantar fascia. All patients will receive a detailed explanation of the stretching exercises
      of the plantar fascia, as well as their frequency and duration. Afterwards, the patients will
      be evaluated by a blinded investigator, at 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after
      infiltration; evaluation scales will be applied: Visual Analogue Scale (EVA), Maryland Foot &
      Ankle Score, Foot & Ankle Outcome Score (AOFAS), Foot & Ankle Disability Index (FADI).
    
  