
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare disease characterized by an increase in
      pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance, which result in right heart
      hypertrophy and decompensation. It crucially affects exercise capacity, quality of life and
      prognosis. Idiopathic and heritable forms of PAH (IPAH and HPAH) are often associated with
      mutations of the bone morphogenetic protein receptor 2 (BMPR2) accompanied by disease
      development at an earlier age, more severe hemodynamic phenotype and a higher mortality rate.
      Other forms of PAH also show reduced expression levels of BMPR2, even if no BMPR2 mutation
      has been identified in these patients. Moreover, the balance of iron metabolism was shown to
      be disturbed in IPAH patients. IPAH patients suffered from iron deficiency with low levels of
      serum iron concentrations and while at the same time displaying high levels of the iron
      uptake regulating hormon hepcidin. The hormone hepcidin, which inhibits iron absorption from
      the intestine, is upregulated by the BMPR2 signaling pathway (via BMP6). The impact of BMPR2
      expression on iron homeostasis, however, has not been investigated yet.

      Mutation and non-mutation carriers with invasively diagnosed PAH by right heart catheter and
      under optimized medical therapy will be enrolled in this study. An explicit exclusion
      criterion is intravenous iron supplementation in the last 2 months to capture their natural
      iron metabolic status. Subjects will be recruited at the Center for Pulmonary Hypertension at
      Thoraxklinik Heidelberg University Hospital. The measurement of BMPR2 expression will be
      performed with real-time polymerase chain reaction. In addition, routine laboratory
      parameters of iron metabolism and clinical parameters will be statistically correlated with
      the BMPR2 expression of BMPR2 mutation carriers and non-mutation carriers. Clinical
      examinations will comprise of routine diagnostic workup. No study specific clinical
      assessments will be performed. For diagnostic workup, an extended blood analysis for BMPR2
      expression will be performed, which is mentioned in the informed consent document.

      In addition, healthy controls will be invited to participate in this study.Healthy controls
      will only receive a blood collection to obtain control values for hepcidin, BMPR2 expression
      rate and levels of BMPR2 pathway members such as Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2 and 6 (BMP2 and
      BMP6). They will not receive any further examinations. BMPR2 mutation status will not be
      investigated. The control group will be age and gender matched to non-BMPR2 mutation
      carriers.

      Therefore, this study aims to investigate whether PAH patients with a reduced expression rate
      of BMPR2 have altered serum levels of hepcidin and further iron related metabolites compared
      to PAH patients with normal expression levels and whether these patients present with more
      pronounced limitations in clinical parameters. This study could help to understand iron
      metabolism in PAH and generate new therapeutic targets for the treatment of the disease.
    
  