
    
      Schedule of visits:

      Prior to the screening visit, subjects will be asked to avoid cruciferous vegetables (list
      will be provided to them), corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications for
      1 week prior to the initial visit and again for 1 week prior to all remaining visits. They
      will to also be asked to avoid antioxidant vitamins as well as juices/drinks with added
      vitamin supplements for 2 days prior to enrollment through study completion.

      Baseline screening: obtain informed consent, review medical history, concomitant medications,
      vital signs (VS's), urine collection for analysis of cotinine and SFN metabolites for all
      subjects and urine pregnancy test for females of child bearing potential (all female subjects
      unless they are s/p oophorectomy), physical exam by study MD, complete symptom scoring,
      collect nasal lavage, and nasal biopsy (both nares), buccal swab collection and venipuncture
      (up to 75 cc's) will be performed for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) test, baseline SFN
      level, immune mediators and SFN-induced gene expression changes. Food diaries will be
      provided with instructions for subjects at this visit

      After successful completion of the screening, the subject will be randomized to receive
      broccoli sprout homogenates or alfalfa sprout homogenates during the next 4 study visits.
      Subjects will return 2-4 weeks after screening for 5 daily sequential visits (Monday through
      Friday).

      Monday (Day -1): VS's, review of concomitant medications, urine collection for analysis of
      cotinine and SFN metabolites for all subjects and Hcg for females of child bearing potential,
      nasal lavage, observed ingestion of initial dose and continue food diaries started 3 days
      prior.

      Tuesday (Day 0): VS's, symptom/adverse event evaluation, review of concomitant medications,
      urine collection for analysis of cotinine and SFN metabolites, observed ingestion of 2nd
      dose, NL, administration of LAIV, continue food diaries.

      Wednesday (Day 1): VS's, symptom/adverse event evaluation, review of concomitant medications,
      urine collection for analysis of cotinine and SFN metabolites, observed ingestion of 3rd
      dose, NL and continue food diaries.

      Thursday (Day 2): VS's, symptom/adverse event evaluation, review of concomitant medications
      and observed ingestion of 4th dose. Two hours after ingestion, urine collection for analysis
      of cotinine and SFN metabolites, venipuncture (up to 10 cc's for SFN level), nasal biopsy
      (left nare) and NL will be performed. Continue food diaries.

      Friday (Day 3): VS's, symptom/adverse event evaluation, review of concomitant medications,
      urine collection for analysis of cotinine and SFN metabolites, NL, continue food diaries.

      Day 7 (+/- 1 day): VS's, symptom/adverse event evaluation, review of concomitant medications,
      urine collection for analysis of cotinine and SFN metabolites, nasal biopsy (right nare), NL,
      continue food diaries.

      Day 21 (+/- 1 week): VS's, symptom/adverse event evaluation, review of concomitant
      medications urine collection for analysis of cotinine and SFN metabolites, NL, venipuncture
      (up to 45 cc's) for immune mediators as well as SFN-induced gene expression changes and
      anti-influenza antibody level, collect completed food diary
    
  