
    
      Exercise training is the cornerstone of comprehensive rehabilitation programs in patients
      with COPD. Exercise training improves skeletal muscle oxidative capacity and efficiency that
      leads to a less alveolar ventilation at a given work rate. Patients can tolerate a heavier
      work load with less dyspnea under exercise. To date, it remains unclear whether and to what
      extent markers of low-grade systemic inflammation may affect trainability in clinically
      stable patients. Although specific exercise modalities can be applied to reverse muscle
      dysfunction, exercise intolerance, and reduced health-related quality of life, there is a
      substantial heterogeneity in the response to exercise training among patients with clinically
      stable COPD. Endurance exercise training has been reported to have consistently high clinical
      efficacy. Most pulmonary rehabilitation programs are hospital based and ask patients with
      regular supervision and monitoring in order to achieve persistent and optimal physiological
      benefits. However, compliance and time consuming with regular visits to the hospital or
      clinics are major stumbling blocks to the success of these programs. Recently, the
      investigators have developed a home-based exercise training program for stable COPD patients
      by asking them to walk at a speed controlled by the tempo of music from a program installed
      in a mobile phone. The tempo of music was set to keep the same walking speed at the intended
      level for endurance exercise training for all patients. Our mobile phone-based system
      provides an efficient home endurance exercise training program with good compliance and
      clinical outcomes in patients with moderate-to-severe COPD. This study was therefore designed
      to further explore whether the circulating level of inflammatory markers, such as CRP, IL-6,
      TNF-α, and IL-8, will be reduced in patients with COPD undergoing a mobile-phone assisted
      home-based exercise training program
    
  