
    
      Efficient translation of clinical trial results into practice is an enduring challenge in
      critical care, with many critically ill patients not receiving evidence-based therapies
      proven to save lives. One approach to speed the translation of clinical trial evidence into
      practice is through qualitative research to better understand the barriers to evidence-based
      care and help design innovative interventions to overcome those barriers.. This work need not
      wait until the clinical trial is complete-an emerging literature highlights the value of
      qualitative research concurrent with the conduct of a clinical trial. Such research has
      several potential benefits, including facilitating implementation of the intervention in the
      real world, identifying the potential mechanism of action, and identifying contextual factors
      necessary for the treatments effectiveness.

      The Reevaluation Of Systemic Early Neuromuscular Blockade (ROSE) study, conducted by the
      NHLBI PETAL Clinical Trials Network, is an ideal trial for which to perform a concurrent
      qualitative implementation study (NCT02509078). NMB has the potential to substantially reduce
      mortality in ARDS. Yet NMB remains incompletely adopted for reasons that are poorly
      understood but likely relate to clinical equipoise, historical concerns about safety, and the
      inherent difficulties in providing complex practices in the intensive care unit (ICU). A
      better understanding of provider views regarding NMB will provide essential data to aid
      interpretation of study results and design an implementation study should ROSE demonstrate a
      survival benefit with NMB.

      To examine this issue the investigators will perform a prospective qualitative study using
      semi-structured interviews health care professionals providing direct care for patients
      enrolled in ROSE. A trained research coordinator will perform semi-structured interviews with
      consenting participants. Interviews will be transcribed and uploaded into commercially
      available qualitative data software. Trained qualitative researchers will read and code each
      interview based on Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research, a widely accepted
      conceptual theory of evidence-uptake.
    
  