
    
      Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS, RSH, OMIM #270400) is an autosomal recessive, multiple
      malformation, mental retardation syndrome due to an inborn error of cholesterol biosynthesis.
      Specifically, these patients have a deficiency of 3 beta-hydroxysterol Delta 7-reductase
      activity due to mutation of the 3 beta-hydroxysterol delta 7-reductase gene (DHCR7). This
      enzymatic deficiency impairs the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) to cholesterol in
      the last step of cholesterol biosynthesis via the Kandutch-Russel biosynthetic pathway. The
      clinical manifestations of SLOS are extremely variable and the phenotypic spectrum is broad.
      At the severe end of the spectrum SLOS is a lethal disorder with multiple major congenital
      anomalies, and in mild cases SLOS combines minor physical stigmata with behavioral and
      learning disabilities. Based on clinical studies, the incidence of SLOS is on the order of
      1/10,000 to 1/60,000. Molecular studies have shown a carrier frequency of about 1% for the
      most common SLOS mutant allele in North American populations. Currently therapy is based on
      dietary cholesterol supplementation. Although clinical improvement has been noted, serum
      cholesterol levels are rarely normalized and elevated serum 7-DHC levels persist. Because
      elevated 7-DHC levels may have toxic effects, treatment of SLOS patients with an HMG-CoA
      reductase inhibitor has been proposed. Two small (two-patient) open trials of simvastatin
      therapy in SLOS have been reported. One of these trials showed improved clinical status,
      decreased 7-DHC levels and increased cholesterol levels. The second trial showed decreased
      7-DHC levels; however, treatment had to be discontinued in one patient with preexisting liver
      disease. The goal of this clinical research protocol will be to test the clinical efficacy
      and safety of simvastatin therapy in mild to classical SLOS patients using a double blinded,
      crossover design.
    
  