
    
      Dietary fibers are indigestible carbohydrates, which are present in several daily foods such
      as beans, legumes, whole grain products, and whole fruits and vegetables. The Food and Drug
      Administration recommends a daily fiber uptake of 25 g. However, in 2009-2010 the mean fiber
      intake of US adults was 17 g/day. Fiber cannot be digested by human enzymes and reach the
      colon undigested. Depending on the chemical structure (solubility, degree of polymerization)
      of the fiber, it can or cannot be fermented by the intestinal bacteria. Insoluble,
      unfermented fibers such as cellulose help to prevent constipation by enhancing bowel movement
      and the transit time of the feces. Most soluble fibers like inulin can be fermented by
      intestinal bacteria. During the bacterial fermentation short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) such as
      acetate (C2), propionate (C3), and butyrate (C4) are produced. The production is highest in
      the proximal colon where the abundance of fiber is the highest. The colonocytes absorb more
      than 90 % of the SCFAs, the rest is excreted with the feces. Most of the butyrate is oxidized
      in the colonocytes, being their main energy source. Propionate gets metabolized by the liver.
      In particular acetate enters the systemic circulation and might have anti-inflammatory and
      immune modulating effects. Indole and isovalerate are products of bacterial amino acid
      fermentation. Indole is solely produced by bacterial enzymes from the essential amino acid
      tryptophan (TRP) and isovalerate from branched-chain amino acids.

      In COPD an enhanced pulmonary inflammatory response causes a combination of small airways
      disease (e.g., obstructive bronchiolitis) and/or a destruction of lung parenchyma
      (emphysema). This leads to a progressive and persistent airflow limitation. It has been shown
      that a healthy overall diet as well as a diet high in fiber can be associated with a good
      lung function and a decreased COPD prevalence. A diet rich in fermentable fiber altered the
      gut and lung microbiota composition in mice, mainly through a decrease in the
      Firmicutes-to-Bacteroidetes-ratio, which was accompanied by elevated concentrations of
      circulating SCFAs. These mice were protected against allergic inflammation in the lungs.
      Previous human research has demonstrated that the composition of the intestinal microbiota
      influences the asthma risk and it was associated with early life exacerbations in cystic
      fibrosis, which demonstrates a gut-lung cross-talk. Halnes et al. found a significantly
      reduced airway inflammation in asthma patients four hours after the ingestion of a meal
      containing soluble fiber and prebiotics compared to a placebo meal. Stable tracer studies are
      needed to examine the colonic production and metabolic fate of SCFAs in healthy and ill
      subjects.
    
  