
    
      Attention impairment is ubiquitous in TBI survivors. This is a devastating impairment because
      attention is the backbone of cognitive systems. Attention is requisite for other cognitive
      processes that are vital to everyday functioning such as memory, problem solving, language
      skills, and the cognitive control of behavior. Studies of attention training have shown
      improved attention on laboratory measures, but limited translation to real-world tasks.
      Notably, these previously-tested rehabilitation approaches have not included training in the
      very cognitive processes needed for translation of training to everyday tasks which include
      internal verbalization and self-monitoring, also called metacognitive strategies. One
      training method for metacognitive strategies has shown promise, but is lacking in basic
      attention training. Rehabilitation specialists have recently argued for a rehabilitation
      approach wherein both basic foundational attention and metacognitive strategies should be
      synergistically combined. Consequently, the investigators will test an innovative combination
      of direct-attention training and metacognitive training for which the other compensates
      disadvantages of each. Because of the promise of each type of training separately, and the
      potential additive effects of the combination, it is critical to test this combined attention
      and metacognitive training in Veteran survivors of chronic moderate-to-severe traumatic brain
      injury (TBI). The investigators will address the following two specific aims: the
      investigators propose to conduct a pilot study to examine cognitive rehabilitation therapy
      (CRT) effects in a group of Veterans with chronic moderate to severe TBI (m/sTBI), focused on
      remediating attention-control impairments using both direct-attention and
      metacognitive-strategy training approaches in a AB/BA crossover design with 1-month follow-up
      to address the following two specific aims: 1) Test treatment response to combined
      direct-attention and metacognitive-strategy training in Veterans with chronic m/sTBI; and 2)
      identify mechanisms and biomarkers of rehabilitation-related neuroplasticity. Under the first
      aim the investigators will test for effects of combined direct-attention and
      metacognitive-strategy training on measures of complex functional activities and
      neurocognitive tests of attention-control functions. Under the second aim, the investigators
      will test effects of the their CRT approach on behavioral and brain activity while
      participants perform a well-validated attentional task that probes the function of three
      dissociable attentional systems. The approach is innovative because it combines a
      theoretically motivated and novel approach to address a significant source of disability in
      Veteran survivors of TBI. The proposed research is significant because findings will form the
      foundation for a larger-scale trial to enable us to determine the durability of gains and the
      functional impact of treatment on Veteran's real world activities and to more positively
      shape healthcare for our Veterans who are suffering from TBI. Outcome measures will include
      standardized tests of neurocognitive functioning such as attention and other cognitive
      skills, measures of self care, ability to live independently, social role participation, life
      satisfaction, TBI-related quality of life, mood/anxiety, and attention-related scalp-recorded
      brain event-related potentials (ERPs, derived from electroencephalography).
    
  