
    
      Opioid use disorders (OUDs) are common among Veterans. Despite the availability of opioid
      replacement therapies, many individuals continue to abuse opioids and relapse rates remain
      high. Veterans are nearly twice as likely to die from accidental opioid overdose than the
      general population. Approximately 60% of Veterans returning from the Middle East and more
      than 50% of older Veterans in the VA health care system have chronic pain. Further,
      post-traumatic stress disorder, a common comorbidity in the Veteran population, has been
      shown to negatively impact early engagement and retention of individuals in OUD treatment. As
      is the case with other substance use disorders, opioid craving is commonly described by
      abstinent patients whether or not they are stabilized on buprenorphine. Subsequently, a
      treatment that reduces pain and craving, while also improving early engagement and retention
      in treatment, would improve recovery from opioid addiction. Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic
      Stimulation (rTMS) is capable of non-invasively altering cortical function. rTMS is an
      FDA-approved treatment for major depressive disorder. Preliminary evidence suggests that rTMS
      can also reduce pain in chronic pain conditions and craving in substance use disorders.
      Single sessions of rTMS produce small temporary effects, while multiple sessions of rTMS
      result in larger, more durable effects. The investigators' group recently completed a
      blinded, sham-controlled crossover trial in non-treatment seeking OUD participants. A single
      session of rTMS reduced cue-induced craving and increased thermal pain thresholds. Given that
      multiple sessions of rTMS produce larger and more durable treatment effects than single
      sessions of rTMS, it follows that multiple treatment sessions applied to OUD patients may
      result in a clinically relevant reduction in pain and cue-induced craving, which could
      improve clinical and functional outcomes.

      In this SPiRE pilot proposal, the investigators will perform a randomized, double-blind,
      sham-controlled trial delivering an accelerated course of rTMS to a cohort of OUD Veterans
      with chronic pain receiving treatment through the Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center
      Substance Treatment and Recovery program. The goal of this proposal is to evaluate the
      feasibility and acceptability of delivering rTMS to the dorsolateral pre-frontal cortex in
      Veterans with OUD and chronic pain. The investigators will also preliminarily explore the
      feasibility of evaluating potential outcome measurements in preparation for a larger trial,
      including abstinence, treatment retention, community reintegration and functional outcomes,
      pain, and opioid craving. Positive results from this pilot project will inform a future MERIT
      application and have the potential to significantly improve treatment outcomes in this
      difficult to treat Veteran population.
    
  