
    
      An increment of 20 mmHg of systolic blood pressure (or approximately equivalent 10 mmHg
      diastolic blood pressure) is associated with more than a two-fold increase in risk of fatal
      stroke, and with a two-fold increase in fatal ischemic heart diseases in individuals aged
      40-69 years. The management and control of high blood pressure is therefore one of the most
      important components of primary and secondary strategies for prevention of cardiovascular
      mortality and morbidity. Current guidelines for the clinical management of hypertension in
      adults recommend to achieve and maintain blood pressure levels of <140/90 mmHg. However, it
      is uncertain what proportion of individuals identified with high blood pressure in primary
      care actually reach blood pressure control, what factors are associated with attainment of
      control and to what extent blood pressure control attainment is associated with
      cardiovascular diseases in a contemporary population of individuals diagnosed with high blood
      pressure. This is important for clinicians and policy decision makers in order to design and
      implement effective strategies for patient management.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the extent to which patients achieve blood pressure
      control and associated risk factors, time to attainment of blood pressure control and whether
      this time is associated with an increased risk of CVD onset, all-cause and cardiovascular
      disease and end-stage renal disease.

      The study will use data from the CALIBER data set of clinically collected electronic health
      record data from England.

      This study is part of the CALIBER (Cardiovascular disease research using linked bespoke
      studies and electronic records) programme funded over 5 years from the National Institute for
      Health Research (NIHR) and Wellcome Trust. The central theme of the CALIBER research is
      linkage of the Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP) with primary care
      (Clinical Practice Research Datalink - CPRD) and other resources. The overarching aim of
      CALIBER is to better understand the aetiology and prognosis of specific coronary phenotypes
      across a range of causal domains, particularly where electronic records provide a
      contribution beyond traditional studies. CALIBER has received both Ethics approval (ref
      09/H0810/16) and ECC approval (ref ECC 2-06(b)/2009 CALIBER data set).
    
  