
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess whether screening rates for colorectal cancer (CRC) can be substantially
           increased among adults in primary care through the use of a personal electronic health
           record that provides a link to a validated web-based tool to estimate an individual's
           risk of CRC and electronic scheduling of CRC screening exams.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Participants are stratified according to participating
      Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates (HVMA) center. Participants are randomized to 1 of 2
      arms.

        -  Intervention arm: Participants receive an electronic message within their MyHealth
           account on behalf of their primary care physician providing a link to a web-based tool
           to allow them to assess their personal risk of colorectal cancer (CRC). The tool
           provides an estimate of an individual's personal risk of developing different types of
           cancer over the next 10 years relative to others of the same age and sex. The tool also
           recommends steps that individuals can take to reduce their risk. The tool includes
           questions about family history; prior screening tests; dietary habits (red meat, fruits,
           and vegetables); weight and height; and use of folate, aspirin, estrogen therapy,
           alcohol, and tobacco. In addition, the electronic message provides information regarding
           options for CRC screening, emphasizing colonoscopy every 10 years per the current HVMA
           guidelines, followed by the secondary recommendation of annual fecal occult blood
           testing. Detailed information is provided in the form of a link to online educational
           materials. Participants may request either colonoscopy or fecal occult blood testing by
           responding to the electronic message and indicating their preference. Participants who
           request colonoscopy are contacted by the gastroenterology department to proceed with CRC
           screening; participants who request fecal occult blood testing will receive a stool card
           test kit in the mail from their primary care physician.

        -  Control arm: Participants receive no intervention.
    
  