
    
      Self-reporting questionnaires: demographic, general health, sleep patterns and difficulties,
      and prevalence and exposure patterns to digital media screens.

        1. Demographic: the participants report their age, gender, family status, education, and
           employment status including shift work.

        2. General health: The subjective general health evaluation was measured with the question
           "Please rate how do you assess your health condition?" on a 5-point Likert scale with
           numbers and a description: 1 = "not good," 2 = "fine," 3 = "good," 4 = "very good," and
           5 = "excellent." the participants report chronic sickness, prescription and
           non-prescription medications, height and weight, visual and sight condition ("Do you
           wear glasses? Do you suffer from cataracts?"). The participants self reports their level
           of concentration in the morning ("Please rate your level of concentration in the
           morning.") on a 9-point Likert scale. All of the numbers have valid point values, but
           only the odd numbers have descriptions: 1 = "extremely poor concentration", 3 = "not
           able to concentrate," 5 = "neutral, neither unable to concentrate or concentrate," 7 =
           "able to concentrate," and 9 = "extremely good concentration."

        3. Sleep: The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was applied to evaluate sleep timing,
           sleep onset latency, sleep duration, sleep difficulties, and sleep quality. The PSQI is
           a self-reporting questionnaire that assesses sleep quality over a 1-month time interval.
           The PSQI consists of 19 individual items comprising seven components that produce one
           global score. The PSQI is a standardized sleep questionnaire for clinicians and
           researchers to use with ease and for multiple populations, used in many research and
           clinical settings to diagnose sleep disorders (Buyess et al., 1989; Shocat et al.,
           2007). The Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS) was used to assess sleepiness and
           tiredness. It is a nine-point Likert scale; all of the numbers have valid point values,
           but only the odd numbers have descriptions: 1 = "extremely alert," 3 = "alert," 5 =
           "neither alert nor sleepy," 7 = "sleepy," and 9 = "extremely sleepy" (Akerstedt and
           Gillberg, 1990; Gillberg et al., 1994)

        4. Exposure to screens of digital media devices: The participants were asked about the
           presence and usage habits of digital media devices equipped with a screen (for example,
           TV, computer, tablet, and smartphone) and reported whether they had a TV, computer,
           tablet, and smartphone in their homes and bedrooms. They reported the duration of
           exposure time to digital screens of any digital media device for different time-periods
           of the day beginning in the morning until bedtime or sleep during weekdays and on
           weekends. We asked the participants to report on their exposure time to screens of
           digital devices the mean time in minutes of each separate time-period: early morning,
           before work or school, during work or study time, after work or study, until bedtime,
           and after bedtime. Digital media usage for all devices (TVs, computers, smartphones, and
           tablets) were computed for each 4-time periods of the day (sum-morning, Sum-day,
           sum-evening, and sum-night) reflecting the summation time in minutes to overall exposure
           time of digital media screens devices in each time segment of the day.
    
  