
    
      This will be a phase 1, open-label, multicenter, safety study of nab-paclitaxel based
      chemotherapy regimens administered prior to and/or in combination with nivolumab in
      Pancreatic Cancer, NSCLC and mBC. This is a six arm study assessing two treatment arms per
      tumor-type/indication:

        -  Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with 1 prior systemic chemotherapy (Arm A, Part 1 only);
           and subsequently no prior chemotherapy, surgery or radiation therapy for locally
           advanced or metastatic disease (Arm A, Part 2 and Arm B):

             -  Panc Ca Arm A: nab-paclitaxel with nivolumab starting at Cycle 1.

             -  Panc Ca Arm B: nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine with nivolumab starting at Cycle 1.

        -  Stage IIIB or IV NSCLC with no prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease and who are not
           candidates for curative surgery or radiation:

             -  NSCLC Arm C: nab-paclitaxel/carboplatin x 4 cycles with nivolumab starting Cycle 1
                and continuing as monotherapy starting at Cycle 5.

             -  NSCLC Arm D: nab-paclitaxel/carboplatin x 4 cycles with nivolumab starting Cycle 3
                and continuing as monotherapy starting at Cycle 5

        -  HER2-negative recurrent metastatic breast cancer after one prior regimen for mBC,
           including an anthracycline unless clinically contraindicated:

             -  mBC Arm E: weekly nab-paclitaxel with nivolumab starting at Cycle 3.

             -  mBC Arm F: q3weekly nab-paclitaxel with nivolumab starting at Cycle 3. Enrollment
                in each treatment arm will be conducted in two sequential parts to allow for the
                evaluation of the DLT in Part 1 prior to expanding the treatment arm in Part 2.

      Part 1:

      Part 1 will assess the Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) of the nivolumab dose in combination with
      nab-paclitaxel regimens in each treatment arm.

      Subjects who meet the entry criteria will be assigned to the respective treatment arm based
      on tumor type and indication as outlined above. Panc Ca Arms A and B, as well as NSCLC Arms C
      and D, will enroll sequentially in Part 1. The safety of nivolumab in combination with
      nabpaclitaxel, without gemcitabine, will first be assessed in Arm A in subjects with one
      prior systemic chemotherapy regimen for locally advanced or metastatic disease. Panc Ca Arm B
      may begin enrolling subjects in Part 1, if Panc Ca Arm A is deemed safe, based on DLT
      criteria. Similarly, NSCLC Arm D will begin to enroll in Part 1 after NSCLC Arm C is deemed
      safe to expand in Part 2. However, Arm D may be initiated, even if Arm C is not to proceed
      for Part 2, if the totality of data from Arm C and emerging data from this and other studies
      in NSCLC with nivolumab in combination with platinum chemotherapy doublets support the
      decision. Unlike the Panc Ca and NSCLC arms, the two mBC arms (Arms E and F) will be
      initiated simultaneously. Subjects will be assigned randomly between treatment arms of a
      tumor type/indication whenever both treatment arms are enrolling. An IRT system will be used
      to ensure the central random allocation of subjects.

      Part 2:

      Treatment arms deemed safe within each tumor-type/indication may be expanded using the RP2D
      with an additional approximately 14 subjects (to attain a total of 20 nivolumab-treated
      subjects) to further assess safety and tolerability, as well as explore anti-tumor activity
      of the proposed regimens. Since the primary population for the pancreas arms is in subjects
      with no prior chemotherapy, surgery or radiation therapy, enrollment in Part 2 for Panc Ca
      Arm A will continue until 20 such subjects have been treated with at least one dose of
      nivolumab. Additionally, in Parts 1 and 2 overall, each mBC Arm (E and F) will enroll a
      minimum of 9 subjects with triple- negative breast cancer (TNBC), treated at the RP2D.

      For both Part 1 and 2, subjects may continue to receive their assigned treatment regimen
      until Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 defined progression or until
      unacceptable toxicity. However, the chemotherapy doublet will only be given for 4 cycles in
      the NSCLC arms; thereafter, nivolumab will be given as monotherapy.
    
  