
    
      This will be a "double-dummy" study in that there will be no placebo only arm. Medications
      will be administered in a double blind randomized fashion. Patients would be enrolled in Arm
      A or Arm B depending upon the initial randomization. Arm A would include 0.3 mg/kg ketamine
      into a 100 cc normal saline IV bag and normal saline injection (1ml) while Arm B would
      receive 100cc of normal saline and 30mg of ketorolac intravenously.

      An order would be placed by the medical resident, medical attending, a study investigator who
      is a physician, or a pharmacist under the permission of the attending physician into
      Allscripts for a study intervention. Upon receiving the order in Allscripts, the order would
      be verified by the pharmacy. All medications will be prepared in pharmacy, which will
      maintain a master list of contents of each sealed envelope. Once notified of which envelope
      has been pulled, the pharmacist will prepare either arm. ED personnel will obtain the
      infusion preparation from pharmacy. It will be labeled for the patient, with study number,
      but without other identifying marks. When the study medication is picked up, pharmacy will
      open the sealed envelope to confirm which medication arm was prepared in order to internally
      verify the correct preparation. The nurse assigned to the patient would administer the
      intervention. A research associate or a study investigator would approach the patient to
      assess and record primary outcomes, secondary outcomes at designed time intervals. The data
      will be recorded on the data collection instrument. If additional medication is requested by
      the patient, the orders would be placed by the medical resident or attending who are assigned
      to the patient in the ED. Upon completion of the treatment portion of the study, patients
      will be asked of the participant's satisfaction with therapy. Only the patient who signed the
      consent form will be allowed to answer the questions.

      All data retrieved from the paper data collection sheets will be transcribed into an
      encrypted and password protected electronic database by the research associate. All patient
      identifiers would be de-identified in the database. All participants would be assigned a
      study participant number.
    
  