
    
      Patients at risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) are often prescribed statins, which are
      medications that reduce the amount of cholesterol in the blood. By lowering cholesterol
      levels, these patients have a lower incidence of coronary artery disease, ischemic stroke,
      and peripheral arterial disease and so on. But there are many patients whose hyperlipemia are
      not well controlled.If investigators are simply doubling the statins, that only 6% of the
      benefit can be received.And it often bring significant side effects in elder patients.
      Several studies have suggested that the use of berberine can effectively lowering blood
      lipids.The chemical structure and mechanisms of drug is clearly, and the side effects are
      seldom, the price of berberine is very cheap. The purpose of this study is to observe the
      therapeutic effects of combination of statins and berberine on the patients with hyperlipemia
      whose level of the lipid are not well controlled when only using statins.

      This study will enroll patients who currently take cholesterol-lowering medications，but the
      level of lipid is not controlled well. Patients will be assigned to receive 500mg of
      Berberine twice a day(meanwhile they are taking 20mg of Atorvastatin daily for 8 weeks or
      10mg of Rosuvastatin daily for 8 weeks). Investigators will occur at baseline and Weeks 4 and
      8. Blood will be collected for laboratory testing, and standardized psychological
      questionnaires will assess fatigue at baseline and weeks 4 and 8. Pill count will be used to
      assess adherence of Berberine and statins treatment at weeks 4 and 8. At weeks 4 and 8,
      medication side effects will be monitored and tests of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and
      creatine phosphate kinase (CPK) will be performed. At weeks 4 and 8, medication efficacy will
      be assessed and test of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) will be performed.
    
  