
    
      This is a multi-center, open-label randomized phase 2 study designed to evaluate the PFS of
      treatment-naïve patients with unresectable (locally advanced or metastatic) pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma following treatment with either ARQ 197 (ARQ arm) or gemcitabine alone (GEM
      arm). The study will also evaluate other efficacy and safety parameters including ORR, OS and
      adverse events in the two treatment arms. Patients randomly assigned to the GEM arm will
      receive gemcitabine alone. Patients assigned to the ARQ arm will receive oral ARQ 197 alone.

      ARQ 197 is an investigational oral drug supplied as capsules in multiple strengths. For the
      study initial shipment the capsules were 120 mg each, 30 count. In the ARQ arm, patients will
      take 120 mg of ARQ 197 twice daily, once in the morning and once in the evening one hour
      prior to or two hours after a meal. ARQ 197 treatment will be continued until unacceptable
      toxicity, documented progression of disease, or another discontinuation criterion is met.

      Gemcitabine is a commercially available drug for the treatment of patients with locally
      advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. In the GEM arm, gemcitabine will be
      administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes at a dose of 1000 mg/m2. The dosing
      schedule of gemcitabine will be once weekly for the first cycle (4 weeks), then once weekly
      for 3 consecutive weeks followed by a week of rest for each subsequent cycle. Gemcitabine
      therapy will be continued until unacceptable toxicity, documented progression of disease, or
      another discontinuation criterion is met.

      A treatment cycle is defined as 28 days for both treatment arms. Cycles may be repeated every
      4 weeks (28 days) based on toxicity and response. The assigned treatment should continue
      until unacceptable toxicity, disease progression (clinical or radiological) or another
      discontinuation criterion is met.

      Tumor evaluations: Tumor evaluations will be performed in 8-week intervals. Tumor response
      (complete response, partial response, stable disease, progressive disease and ORR) will be
      evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).

      Progression-free survival: The time of disease progression-free will be calculated from
      randomization until disease progression per RECIST or death due to any cause. Patients who
      are alive and progression free will be censored at the date of their last tumor evaluation.

      Overall survival: Overall survival time will be calculated from the date of randomization
      until death due to any cause.

      Safety assessments: Data on vital signs, physical examination, adverse events, serum
      chemistry, hematological laboratory tests, and electrocardiograms will be collected.

      This study is designed to establish potential efficacy of ARQ 197 in treatment naive
      pancreatic cancer patients in a controlled, randomized study. The sample size of 30 Evaluable
      patients per treatment group is considered adequate to provide meaningful estimates of the
      PFS and ORR and OS rates, however, this study is not powered to show statistically
      significant differences between the treatment groups. Therefore, the analyses will be
      primarily descriptive in nature. Taking into account an anticipated
      drop-out/loss-to-follow-up rate of 20%, the total sample size will be 72 patients.

      Primary and secondary objectives will be analyzed in the two treatment arms using appropriate
      patient populations and statistical methods.
    
  