
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the impact of a short-duration respiratory muscle training (RMT) program on
      respiratory muscle strength in patients undergoing resection for lung cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the extent of diaphragm atrophy and catabolic/anabolic pathway activation between
      RMT responders and non-responders evaluated for gene expression and candidate and candidate
      causative protein levels.

      II. Determine the effect of the short-duration RMT program on health related quality-of-life
      measures.

      III. Assess the impact of the short-duration RMT program on postoperative outcomes.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the financial sustainability of a transitional home-based prehabilitation
      program targeting respiratory muscle weakness prior to lung resection.

      II. Analysis of molecular markers to correlate with patient outcome and potentially
      differentiate responders from non-responders.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (USUAL CARE): Patients receive usual care consisting of physical therapy once weekly,
      receiving pre-surgical information, instruction on the use of a spirometer device, and
      wearing a Fitbit to track activity. Patients then undergo video-assisted thoracic surgery or
      laparoscopic surgery. Patients continue to track activity using the Fitbit for 3 months
      post-surgery.

      ARM II (RMT + USUAL CARE): Patients use a power lung device to complete 3 sets of 15 RMT
      exercises over 30 minutes 6 days per week over 2-4 weeks for a minimum of 12 sessions prior
      to surgery. Patients also receive usual care consisting of physical therapy once weekly,
      receiving pre-surgical information, instruction on the use of a spirometer device, and
      wearing a Fitbit to track activity. Patients then undergo video-assisted thoracic surgery or
      laparoscopic surgery. Patients continue to track activity using the Fitbit for 3 months
      post-surgery.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months.
    
  