
    
      Over 100 million patients in the United States suffer from chronic pain. Chronic pain
      conditions are often debilitating, taking a toll on a patient's physical and mental welfare.
      Though a variety of pain management techniques currently exist, the most common nonsurgical
      options provide slow-acting and/or short-term relief. Medication, often in the form of
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and opioids, comes with an array of side
      effects such as nausea and vomiting. Medication also presents the possibility of more serious
      effects such as increased risk of heart attack and stroke, and tolerance or dependency
      issues. Surgical strategies tend to be reserved for more severe cases and are limited by the
      risks and complications typically associated with surgery including bleeding, bruising,
      scarring, and infection. A nonsurgical, minimally invasive, long-lasting approach to chronic
      pain management is desirable.

      Myoscience, Inc. (Redwood City, CA) has developed a pain management device - the Cryo-Touch
      III - for a novel, minimally invasive procedure using focused cold therapy to target sensory
      nerve tissue and offer long-lasting pain relief through cryoanalgesia. The device operates on
      the well-established cryobiology principle that localized exposure to controlled, moderately,
      low temperature conditions can alter tissue function. The therapy treats nerves via a probe
      in the form of an assembly of small diameter needles, creating a highly localized, low
      temperature treatment zone around the probe. This focused cold therapy creates a conduction
      block that prevents nerve signaling. Prior studies of the Cryo-Touch, Cryo-Touch II,
      Cryo-Touch III (a.k.a. PCP 1.0) devices have provided preliminary evidence of effectiveness
      on motor nerves and have been shown to be safe with no serious device-related adverse events.

      Though studies have proven efficacious in targeting motor nerves, the device's effect on
      sensory nerves has yet to be investigated in the clinical setting. The goal of the study
      described herein is to evaluate the degree and duration of effect of the Cryo-Touch III in
      reducing chronic pain by targeting sensory nerves.
    
  