
    
      Subacromial surgery of the shoulder is performed often. It concerns space creating
      interventions (open and arthroscopic subacromial decompression) and rotator cuff surgery
      (open and arthroscopic). In this kind of surgery good wound healing and tissue recovery is of
      great importance to achieve optimal results. Wound healing disorders, pain and the formation
      of adhesions may negatively influence the postoperative course and lead to extended
      rehabilitation. This has an unfavourable influence on the personal well being of the patient
      and the possibility to return to labour. Especially in cuff surgery the course is strongly
      influenced by the healing of the attachment of the cuff to the bone. Besides the development
      of minimal invasive techniques, it's necessary to look for possibilities to decrease the
      morbidity of these procedures. Recent studies show that growth factors play a major role in
      wound healing. This concerns particularly TFG-B (transforming growth factor B) and PDGF
      (platelet derived growth factor) present in thrombocytes. They act as chemotactic agents for
      polymorphonuclear leucocytes, macrophages, fibroblasts and lymphocytes. Both growth factors
      stimulate the wound healing and cause improved angiogenesis and fibroplasia. They also play a
      role in wound retraction and remodelling. In animal-experimental models it is proved that the
      application of TGF-B and PDGF improves woundhealing and leads to better mechanical properties
      of the scar tissue. Faster and better wound healing and decreased development of adhesions
      after subacromial surgery can possibly be influenced favourably by using thrombocyte
      concentrate. In the treatment with autologous thrombocyte concentrate a thrombocyte rich
      concentrate is obtained by a centrifuging method (Gravitational Platelet System (GPS),
      Biomet, Warsaw USA) (platelet rich plasma or PRP), that can be applied in the operating
      field. The concentrate is harvest from the patients own blood, sampled during the procedure.
      At random the concentrated is applicated and both groups are compared postoperatively.
    
  