
    
      Objective Depression can present a significant threat to long-duration space missions, and
      crews need the ability to recognize it and treat it effectively. We are developing a
      prototype computer-based system that includes a module for the recognition and treatment of
      depression. Before being used by astronauts, this system needs to be further developed and
      tested for efficacy in an analog population. The countermeasure we are developing is intended
      for use both in pre-flight training and on the International Space Station. The program has
      substantial Earth benefits.

      Aims

        1. Complete development of the module for recognizing and preventing depression. We will
           complete this module, moving from the prototype stage to a completed computer-based
           tool. We will modify the design based on data from our usability and acceptability study
           with astronauts at NASA Johnson Space Center. We will pilot-test the module with five
           participants and make revisions based on their input.

        2. Develop the module for implementing computer-based Problem-Solving Treatment (PST).
           Currently, problem-solving treatment is done using a practitioner who guides the patient
           through this structured therapy and follows their progress. These practitioners are
           trained to administer the therapy through a formalized training program that
           incorporates a workbook and instructional videos. These materials are well suited for
           presentation via multimedia on computers to make the treatment self-guided. The PST
           intervention will be modified from its current video/workbook form to a computer-based
           form that can be used by astronauts or other professionals who are suffering from
           depression.

        3. Evaluate the efficacy of the computer-delivered PST module for depression in a
           randomized, controlled trial. Hypotheses related to this aim are that, compared to a
           waiting-list control:

             -  Individuals receiving computer-delivered PST will show a greater reduction in
                depression symptoms, as rated by a clinician.

             -  Individuals receiving computer-delivered PST will show a greater reduction in
                depression, as rated by self-report.

             -  A greater proportion of individuals receiving computer-delivered PST will have
                remitted at post-treatment.

      Earth-based Applications of Research Project Depression is widespread, and effective
      treatments are not available to all persons who have it. This computer-based depression
      treatment, with simple modifications and revisions, could be adapted for use in other
      isolated, operational environments, such as polar research stations, submarines, commercial
      ships, oil rigs and underwater research facilities. Furthermore, even greater value could be
      derived by making similar psychosocial support systems available to the public in settings
      such as primary care practices, public and mental health centers, schools, social services
      offices, places of worship, military bases, prisons, and eventually at home or in any
      location, through broadband Internet.
    
  