
    
      Purpose and aims The overall purpose is to integrate peer-mentor supervised regular physical
      exercise in the open care of persons affected by psychosis. For specific research questions
      see separate information.

      Recruitment of units and mentors Psychiatric open care units who are responsible for care of
      persons affected by psychosis will be contacted. First in Stockholm then in the rest of
      Sweden.

      Those who are interested will assign 1-2 local contact persons from the staff and recruit 4
      potential peer mentors among their patients.

      Peer mentor education The peer mentors will be educated to be able to lead physical exercise
      sessions for other patients. Two units (8 mentors) will be educated together and the local
      contact persons will also attend. The education consists of three half days and is lead by a
      person educated in health pedagogics and physical exercise. It consists of theory and
      practice about physical exercise sessions with focus on circular training. A lof of emphasis
      will be put put on leadership and encouragement. The curriculum of the education is based on
      the pilot study.

      Recruitment of participants The local contact persons together with the health care staff at
      the local units will recruit participants to the exercise sessions.

      They will also perform the initial and 6 month follow up examinations. In order to do this
      they will receive education and support from the research team. A carefully written
      instruction is administered. This procedure is described in detail in the study protocol.

      Exercise sessions Each included unit will have exercise sessions at the unit. Numbers/week
      depends on the number of recruited participants. Schedule will be done by the local peer
      mentors and the local contact person together. The sessions will be entirely led by the peer
      mentors.

      Before the sessions the local contact persons will register the participants when they
      arrive. After the session the peer mentor will report to the local contact person how the
      session went. These data will be transferred to the research team.

      Support to the peer mentors For six months the educated peer mentors will have support from a
      health pedagogical team. The support is both face-to-face and electronic.

      Time period The study will record data for 6 months.
    
  