
    
      The participant will be provided a letter of information and an informed consent form. Once
      they have signed the informed consent form, the following procedures will take place:

      Phase I:

        -  Initial biological confirmation of carbon monoxide reading: Participant will briefly
           blow air into a Smokelyzer (device which assesses how much carbon monoxide in parts per
           million is present in the breath of a smoker)

        -  Baseline questionnaires: Participant will be asked to fill out to the best of their
           ability the following questionnaires:

             1. Demographic questionnaire (Asks you identifiable information concerning, your age,
                email telephone number)

             2. Smoking history questionnaire ("What is the approximate date and time of the last
                cigarette you have smoked?")

             3. Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence ("How many cigarettes do you smoke each
                day?")

             4. Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire ("In the last 7 days, how many times have
                you completed mild intensity exercise for 15 minutes or more?")

             5. Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire ("Do you feel pain in your chest at
                rest?")

             6. Urge to Smoke ("I have an urge for a cigarette")

             7. Heart rate will be measured with a heart rate monitor. Blood pressure will be
                measured with an electronic blood pressure cuff.

        -  Cognitive computer task: Participant will be asked to complete a computer task which
           assesses inhibitory control (the cognitive ability to suppress responses to stimuli).
           The Antisaccade Task will be used to assess inhibitory control in this study.

      Phase II:

        -  Smoking abstinence period: The participant will be instructed at the end of Phase I that
           they will have to complete a 12 hour smoking abstinence period (refraining from smoking
           cigarettes or consumption of any tobacco products) at home before coming back into the
           lab. The participant will be also notified that the co-investigator will be able to
           assess whether they completed this abstinence period through assessing the carbon
           monoxide reading on the Smokelyzer.

        -  Biological confirmation of carbon monoxide reading: Participant will briefly blow air
           into a Smokelyzer (device which assess how much carbon monoxide in parts per million is
           present in the breath of a smoker). The participant will have to blow below 10 parts per
           million carbon monoxide to have successfully abstained and thus participate in Phase II.

        -  Questionnaire: Participant will be asked to fill out to the best of their ability the
           following questionnaire:

           f. Urge to Smoke ("I have an urge for a cigarette")

        -  Cognitive Computer Task: Participant will complete the same Antisaccade Task as outlined
           in Phase I.

        -  Intervention Participant will be randomly assigned (through a randomly generated number
           sequence) to either 20 minutes of aerobic exercise or 20 minutes of sitting.

        -  Aerobic Exercise Intervention: The participant will complete a 20 minute walking
           exercise on a treadmill.

        -  Non Exercise: The participant will be in a seated position in the lab waiting room. They
           will be provided with magazines and computer access.

        -  Post Intervention:

        -  Questionnaire: Participant will be asked to fill out to the best of their ability the
           following questionnaire:

           f. Urge to Smoke ("I have an urge for a cigarette")

      The participant will then be told to notify the co-investigator of when they light their next
      cigarette through a time-stamped email or text message. The time in minutes from when they
      leave the lab (time: 0) until the message is received will be calculated.
    
  