
    
      Background: Evaluating the autonomic system is conducting, among others, by comparing the
      relationships between the two sub-systems that assembler it: the sympathetic and the
      parasympathetic systems. In normal conditions, there is balance between both systems which
      reflects in a highly dynamic heart rate and heart rate variability. As part of the brain
      injury after stroke, the autonomic system is also damaged. The heart rate variability is
      decreased and the 24-hour circadian rhythm of heart rate changes.

      Purposes of the research: 1. To describe the 24-hour circadian rhythm of heart rate among
      patients after stroke in the sub-acute phase during 3 days. 2. To examine the differences in
      the circadian rhythm of heart rate along 3 days between patients after stroke in the
      sub-acute phase and control group matched by age and gender. 3. To describe the reaction and
      examine the differences in reactions of the heart autonomic system during rest, paced
      breathing and activity in both groups- stoke and control.

      Methods:

      Population: 15 patients after cerebrovascular accident (CVA), 1-3 weeks after the stroke. The
      patients will be hospitalized in the neurology department at the geriatric "Beit-Rivka"
      hospital. The control group will be 15 patients from the orthopedic department of the
      hospital' matching by age and gender. Tools: monitoring heart rate and heart rate variability
      by Polar watch (Polar RS800CX heart rate monitor). Monitoring activity will measure by
      accelerometer. Methods: after attaching to RS800CX watch, each participant will complete two
      tests: the response of heart rate to deep breathing and the response of heart rate
      variability to prolonged hand grip. The department nurse will be asked to answer a
      questionnaire regarding autonomic functions and the examiner will asses the functional
      independence of the participant by the "Functional Independence Measure" (FIM). In the
      research group will be additional assessments regarding the motor function by the "Stroke
      Activity Scale" and the "Scandinavian Stroke Scale". The watch and the accelerometer will
      stay on the participant for 3 day (72 hours) and the records regarding the daily activity
      such as meals, sleep, and all kind of treatments will be taken from the department's diary.
      At the end of three days, the data will be collected and analyzed on computer software.
    
  