
    
      The investigators will perform a prospective comparison of the genotype distribution of
      autophagy pathway-related genetic polymorphisms between those with and without NAFLD in a
      cohort of obese children and adolescents.

      [Subjects] Obesity is defined as the BMI value > 95 percentile by different age- and gender
      groups according to the standards of the Department of Health in Taiwan.

      [Data collection] The following data were obtained for each subject: age, gender, BMI, waist
      and hip circumference. The investigators will measure total serum bilirubin, alanine
      aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, γ-glutamyltransferase fasting glucose,
      triglyceride, total cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, insulin, glucose,
      and adiponectin.

      [Liver ultrasonography] All participants will receive an ultrasonographic study of the liver.
      NAFLD is defined as the presence of an ultrasonographic pattern consistent with the following
      criteria: liver-kidney echo discrepancy, attenuated echo penetration and visibility of
      diaphragm, and obscure hepatic vessel structures.

      [Genotyping] Genomic DNA will be extracted from 3 cc venous blood from each participant.
      After extraction, the genomic DNA will be immediately stored at -80°C. The TaqMan genotyping
      assays will be performed for selected SNPs genotyping on ABI 7300 Real-Time PCR System
      (Applied Biosystems).

      [Sample size] Sample size was estimated by Epi InfoTM 7 (CDC, USA) program. Because there was
      no previous data regarding to the effect of autophagy related gene on NAFLD, the
      investigators estimate the odds ratio to vary between 60-80%. The investigators used a
      confidence level of 95%, power of 80%, the ratio of controls to NAFLD cases of 25%, percent
      of controls exposed of 25-35%, the samples size required would be a total of 291-872
      subjects.
    
  