
    
      Background:

      The treatment of multiple sclerosis was evolving in light of specific drug therapies to treat
      the disease, refinements and acceptance of imaging with MRI to diagnose and monitor the
      disease process, and progress in understanding the pathogenesis of the inflammatory
      demyelinating process. The result was to raise new issues in the treatment of the disease,
      which are then being addressed by studies, including when to initiate treatment and the
      treatment of partial responders to existing therapies. Paralleling strides in treatment, and
      of particular importance to the Veterans Administration, was the effectiveness of such
      therapies, both in terms of cost to the VA Health Care System and quality of life of veterans
      with multiple sclerosis. This study addressed these issues.

      Objectives:

      To consider how then currently used drug therapies for MS in veterans, e.g., Interferon
      beta-1b, interferon beta-1a and glatiramer acetate impact health related quality of life
      (HRQoL), physical function and disability and use of health care resources within the VA.
      Comparisons with other groups of veterans with specific chronic medical conditions will be
      made in order to develop a model of health care utilization based on indices derived from
      disability and impairment evaluations and HRQoL instruments.

      Methods:

      One hundred and twenty four veterans with a clinically definite multiple sclerosis at more
      than 30 VAMCs participated in this observational, prospective study. Prior to starting
      interferon beta-1b [IFNB-1b: Betaseron (tm)], interferon beta-1a [IFNB-1a: Avonex (tm)] or
      glatiramer acetate [Copaxone (tm)] baseline assessments were obtained: disability and
      impairment using the Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) and Functional Scales
      (FS), and health related quality of life (HRQoL) using a veterans-modified version of the
      Short Quality of Life scale (SF-36V). Follow-up evaluations were performed at three months
      and every six months thereafter for three years. Veterans were monitored in terms of changes
      in their condition, side effects from drugs, and changes in therapies. Health utilization
      data obtained includes clinic stops, inpatient hospitalizations, cost of medications and
      supplies, training, referrals for prosthetics, rehabilitative therapies and long term care.

      Status:

      Completed.
    
  