
    
      The ProVena trial is a non-randomised multi-centre trial, aiming to assess the suitability of
      the ProVena vein support.

      Currently, autologous veins are preferred to prosthetic grafts (Klinkert et al. 2004), but
      they are not considered to be suitable if they are varicose.

      Some early data indicate that these veins can be used if an external support is applied
      (Moritz et al. 1993, 1992, Neufang et al. 2003). The proVena vein graft has been tested in
      animal experiments. All bypasses showed a reduced intima hyperplasia, no disadvantages were
      found. Nevertheless, as a ProVena-coated bypass cannot be regarded as completely autologus,
      it is necessary whether the coating does not increase the risk of

        -  infections

        -  scar formation, reducing the patency

        -  higher incidence of seroma

      ProVena is made from polyester filaments, similar to the material used for prosthetic grafts.
      As the material is used since years in peripheral bypass surgery, we do not expect increased
      risks.

      It is planned to include 50 Patients in 10 centres. Patients can be included if they match
      the eligibility criteria, need to undergo peripheral bypass surgery and have varicose veins
      normally not suitable to form a bypass graft. If patients agree to take part and give
      informed consent, baseline data are collected and the surgery is protocolled. Patients are
      followed up after 3 ands six months by duplex sonography. The inflammation parameters are
      detected via analysis of a blood sample. Main endpoints and secondary endpoints are as
      follows:

      Main endpoints:

        -  Infection rate

        -  primary patency

        -  primary assisted patency

        -  secondary patency

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  complication rate

        -  occurence of bypass stenosis

        -  time needed for preparation of the bypass vein

        -  technical success i. e. successful implatation of the ProVena Graft
    
  