
    
      In this single-center double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel group study, 55 type 2
      diabetes patients from the Kyiv City Clinical Endocrinology Center were selected. They were
      randomly assigned to receive "Symbiter Smectite" or placebo for 8 weeks, administered as a
      sachet formulation in double-blind treatment. Randomization was done by the study
      statistician based on a computer-generated list. The groups were homogeneous according to
      age, sex and diagnostic criteria. The assignment of groups was blind to participants,
      research staff and outcome assessors moreover, to maintain blind parallel study the
      statistician was not aware of the allocation of participants to intervention.

      The "Symbiter Smectite" was supplied by Scientific and Production Company "O.D. Prolisok". It
      contains a biomass of alive probiotic microorganism symbiosis, colony forming units - CFU/g:
      Lactobacillus - 1.0х109, Bifidobacterium - 1.0х109, Lactococcus - 1.0х108, Propionibacterium
      - 1.0х108 and Acetobacter - 1.0х105; and smectite gel (250 mg). Over 8 weeks of
      interventional period, the patient received 1 sachet (10 grams) of probiotic-smectite and
      placebo per day. All sachets were identical with similar organoleptic characteristics (e.g.,
      taste and appearance).

      The pre-randomization period was designed to minimize the effects of dietary changes on
      metabolic markers. For this purpose, 2 weeks before the study start, after inform consent
      signed, patients were instructed in one-on-one sessions with a dietitian to follow a
      therapeutic lifestyle-change diet as classiﬁed by the NCEP. In addition, participants were
      instructed to continue with stable anti-hyperglycemic treatment and received standardized
      mild physical training for 1 hour per day.

      Patients who underwent the study were instructed to take the trial medication as prescribed.
      Throughout the study, weekly phone follow-up visits were provided for assessment of
      compliance, adherence to the protocol, as well as the recording of adverse events. The
      effectiveness of therapy was compared and evaluated separately in the two groups.
    
  