
    
      Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is the protective fluid that fills the empty spaces around the
      brain and spinal cord. CSF is naturally produced and absorbed, but with age abnormal
      metabolism and clearance of amyloid beta proteins can lead to accumulation of these proteins,
      resulting in plaque formation, a leading contributor to the progression of Alzheimer's
      disease (AD). The shunt treatment is designed to drain CSF with these toxic elements from the
      skull and allow replenishment of normal CSF. This clinical study is designed to determine if
      this device will stop or slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease.

      The COGNIShunt速 System is a proprietary device designed to increase the flow of cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF) and improve clearance of putative neurotoxins from the CSF that are believed to
      contribute to the progression of Alzheimer's disease symptoms. This clinical study is
      designed to determine if this device will stop or slow the progression of Alzheimer's
      disease. The pivotal study is a prospective, randomized double-blinded, placebo-controlled
      trial to evaluate the effect of flow-regulated ventriculoperitoneal CSF drainage with the
      COGNIShunt速 system on cognitive and clinical function in approximately 250 participants with
      Alzheimer's Disease (NINDS/ADRDA criteria). Study participants will be permitted to continue
      anti-dementia drug therapy if their drug regime has been stable for 3 months prior to entry.
      This is a two-part study. In Part I, participants will be randomized to receive either a
      functioning COGNIShunt速 System (test/intervention group) or an occluded shunt
      (control/placebo group). The duration of Part I is nine months, to be followed by an
      extension phase of an additional 9 months, constituting Part II. During Part II, subjects
      with occluded shunts have the opportunity to receive a functioning COGNIShunt速, so that all
      study participants may have open devices during Part II. The total duration of the study is
      18 months. Visits to the site include: for screening and baseline (may be done in one or two
      visits); surgery; and a visit the 1st, 3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th month after
      surgery.
    
  