
    
      The study is a randomized and controlled study. 30 patients will be included to study who
      apply to Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation Clinic with the complaint of spasticity after stroke, aged between 18-75
      years. These patients will be divided in three groups randomly (group1 n:10, group 2 n:10,
      group 3 n:10).

      First group: 20 minutes of hot pack application to the medial gastrocnemius muscle. Then the
      patient will do stretching exercises to the gastrocnemius muscle, which will be done for 20
      minutes. In hot pack for hot application; While the patient is lying in a prone position, a
      warm package, a towel between the skin and the skin will be applied on the gastrocnemius
      muscle and applied for 20 minutes.

      Second group: 20 minutes to apply a cold pack to the medial gastrocnemius muscle, followed by
      stretching the patient for 20 minutes to the gastrocnemius muscle. The cold pack is available
      for cold application; While the patient is lying in a prone position, a cold pack will be
      placed on the gastrocnemius muscle, and a towel will be applied for 20 minutes.

      Third group: 20 minutes of stretching and stretching exercises will be applied.

      In stretching exercises, stretching will be done for 30 seconds. The stretching exercise will
      be performed by the same physiotherapist with maximal tension to the ankle in the supine
      position of the patient in the hip and knee extension.

      These applications will continue as 5 sessions. Evaluations will be made before treatment,
      immediately after the first session and at the end of the 5th session. All patients will be
      evaluated for 3 times, before and after treatment and 5 session after the treatment with
      ultrasonographic measurements, ankle range of motion and spasticity degree.

      Primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of hotpack and cold pack applicatios on
      Madial gastrokinemius ultrasonographic changes. For this purpose, medial muscle fascicule
      length, pennat angle and achilles tendon length with ultrasonographic measurement.

      Secondary aim is evaluating the effect of hot and cold pack on spastisity and ankle range of
      motion. Spastisity will be measured by Aschwort scale and range of motion will be measured by
      goniomertry.
    
  