
    
      Background:

      The intake of common table sugar (sucrose) in the industrialised countries is relatively
      high. In Denmark the daily intake of sugar is in the range of 30-40 g/d exclusive the intake
      of sugar containing drinks. The health consequences of this relatively high sugar intake are
      heavily debated in the media. One of the arguments is that a high sugar intake may be one of
      the factors involved in the development of the metabolic syndrome, including overweight,
      increased blood glucose and insulin levels as well as impaired insulin action.

      L-arabinose is widely distributed in plants and is a common component in plant cell walls in
      maize, wheat, rye, rice, plant gums etc. The isolated 5-carbon sugar has been shown to
      suppress the increase of blood glucose and plasma insulin after ingestion of sucrose in rats
      by inhibition of sucrase activity. In vitro studies on Caco-2 cells indicate that L-arabinose
      is a potent inhibitor on sucrase activity, possibly in a non-competitive way.

      Potential nutritional advantages of consuming L-arabinose in combination with sucrose may
      therefore be a delayed digestion of sucrose and a lower absorption of glucose, resulting in
      both lower blood glucose and insulin levels. A delayed digestion of sucrose will reduce the
      energy utilisation with the potential of reducing weight gain in human subjects.

      Methods:

      This dose-response study with 14 healthy male volunteers has a randomised cross-over design
      based on four single "meals" separated by one week wash-out periods. Sugar rich drinks
      supplemented with different doses of L-arabinose will be tested with respect to postprandial
      blood glucose, insulin, triglyceride, glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) and
      glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1). Postprandial blood samples will be taken every 15 to 30 min
      for 180 min. Appetite sensations will be measured every 30 min during the experiment. After
      180 minutes a lunch will be served and energy intake (EI) will be registered.
    
  