
    
      Osteoarthritis of the knee (kOA) is one of the main causes of disability. Population-based
      studies revealed that symptomatic kOA is present in 20-30% of the elderly population aged >65
      years, and its prevalence is increasing due in part to the aging of the population. The goals
      of management of patients with kOA are to control pain and to minimize disability.
      Evidence-based guidelines from National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE)
      and Osteoarthritis Research International (OARSI) suggest that the treatment should be
      multidisciplinary. Optimal management requires a combination of non-pharmacological (changes
      in lifestyle, pacing of activities, weight reduction, regular aerobic, acupuncture, muscle
      strengthening and range of motion exercises) and pharmacological modalities (paracetamol)
      when additional treatment is required. Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) should be considered for
      patients with significant symptoms, and/or functional limitations associated with a reduced
      health-related quality of life, despite conservative therapy. However, there are some fragile
      patients who are at high risk during surgery and other patients who are not willing to
      undergo surgery. Because the number of patients will increase as the population ages,
      alternative approaches to alleviate their joint pain other than conventional treatments are
      necessary. Ultrasound-guided pulsed radiofrequency of the genicular has recently become a
      promising treatment option in the management of osteoarthritis related knee pain.

      This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, parallel design. 142
      out-patients with kOA will be recruited from Mallorca, Spain. Participants will be randomly
      allocated into two groups: Ultrasound-Guided Sham Genicular Nerve Pulsed Radiofrequency
      without active treatment (Sham GENPRF) and Ultrasound-Guided Real Genicular Nerve Pulsed
      Radiofrequency (Real GENPRF). All patients will be examined before and 1, 3, 6 and 12 months
      after the treatment (sham or active).
    
  