
    
      Rationale: This multicentre, randomized, open label trial aims to compare two treatment
      strategies used in usual care: upfront autologous HSCT versus usual care with (intravenous
      (i.v.) cyclophosphamide (CYC) pulse thera-py followed by mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and HSCT
      as rescue option). HSCT has been implemented in (inter)national treatment guidelines for
      diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (dcSSc) and is offered in clinical care and reimbursed
      by national health insurance in several European countries. However, data and specific
      guidelines on the best timing of HSCT in the course of dcSSc are lacking.

      In particular, it is unclear whether HSCT should be positioned as upfront therapy or as
      rescue treatment for patients not responding to conventional im-munosuppressive therapy.
      Given the risks and costs associated with HSCT, it may be preferable to evaluate the
      patient's response to immunosuppressive therapy before proceeding to HSCT. Considering HSCT
      as a rescue treatment could significantly delay the need for a potentially harmful treatment
      and may be an efficient approach from a health economic perspective as HSCT is a highly
      specialized, resource intensive and expensive medical procedure. On the other hand, in the
      time frame needed to evaluate the effect of immunosuppressive therapy, pulmonary and cardiac
      involvement may develop, negatively influencing a patient's prognosis and possibly leading to
      a contra-indication for HSCT. We hypothesize that upfront HSCT results in less toxicity and
      medical costs in the long run. Therefore, we propose a multicentre randomized open label
      trial in chemotherapy naive patients with early dcSSc.

      Objective: To determine the optimal treatment strategy in early dcSSc: the effect of HSCT as
      upfront therapy compared with that of immunosuppressive medication in early dcSSc, with
      respect to survival and prevention of major organ failure (referred to as 'event-free
      survival' which is considered as primary endpoint), safety and the impact on skin thickening,
      visceral involvement, functional status, and quality of life

      Secondary goals are to evaluate (in both treatment arms) whether disease activity correlates
      with immunological parameters, including immunopathology of skin, immune reconstitution, and
      autoantibodies. We will also de-termine the cost-effectiveness of HSCT as first line
      treatment versus usual care and try to identify factors associated with response to
      treatment.

      Study design: This investigation is an international multicentre, prospective, randomized,
      open label trial com-paring two treatment strategies used in regular care: upfront autologous
      HSCT versus immunosuppressive thera-py with i.v. CYC pulse therapy followed by MMF and HSCT
      as rescue option.

      Study population: Patients aged between 18 - 65 years with an established diagnosis of dcSSc
      according to the ACR/EULAR criteria. Patients disease duration (non-Raynaud's symptoms)
      should be ≤ 2 years and mRSS ≥ 15 (diffuse skin pattern) and /or clinically significant organ
      involvement (heart and lung involvement).

      Intervention: One group (A) receives upfront autologous HSCT and the other group (B) receives
      12 monthly i.v. pulses CYC (750 mg/m2), followed by at least 12 months of oral MMF (max 3
      grams daily) at one year after start of treatment. Rescue therapy may be considered in both
      arms in case of insufficient response or clinically relevant flare, but preferably not within
      the first 6 months after randomisation. For patients from Arm A methotrexate, mycophenolate
      mofetil or mycophenolic acid, or rituximab can be (re)instituted, according to local
      preference. Based on earlier studies, the clinical benefits of i.v. pulse cyclophosphamide
      may take between 6-12 months. Therefore it is recommended to then switch patients from arm B
      to HSCT only in case of rapidly progressive disease, which is arbitrarily defined as ≥30%
      increase in mRSS or ≥20% relative decline in FVC, TLC, or DLCO predicted.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameter is event-free survival after
      randomisation/treatment start.

      Secondary efficacy endpoints: Overall Survival (OS), progression-free survival, number of
      participants that need rescue therapy (i.e. the alternative treatment) due to treatment
      failure. Treatment related mortality, treatment toxicity, and changes in mRSS, FVC, TLC and
      DLCO, nailfold microscopy, immunological markers in skin and blood, cardiac MR and 18FDG-PET.
      The CRISS at 12 months. Safety and tolerability outcomes according to CTC-criteria (CTCAE
      v5.0). Patient reported outcomes at 12 and 24 months include: Quality of life (EQ-5D), SHAQ,
      Gastrointestinal complaints (UCL SCTC GIT 2.0), sexual functioning.
    
  