
    
      Background Doctors are regarded as "professionals" both by the public and by their peers
      [Medical Protection Society, 2017]. They are the most trusted profession among the public,
      and this has been the case for many years. Medical professionalism is not a new concept and
      has been present in the history of medicine in the form of a Hippocratic Oath taken by
      physicians [Seif-Farshad M, Bazmi S, Amiri F, et al, 2016]. However, medical professionalism
      is difficult to define and remains poorly understood [Riley S, Kumar N, 2012]. While
      professionalism has become a widely emphasised subject in medical education and medical
      practice, there is still a lack of common understanding about the meaning of the concept.
      Discussions on the subject have thus been unsystematic, as the word "professionalism" has
      multiple meanings, complexities, and subtle differences [Seif-Farshad M, Bazmi S, Amiri F, et
      al, 2016].

      Professional healthcare groups have their own set of norms (codes) which guide members of
      that profession in terms of how they should behave professionally. [Monrouxe V, Rees C, 2017]
      These are designed and implemented by the profession's regulatory body, so differ according
      to different healthcare professions and countries. Over one hundred different dimensions of
      professionalism have been identified. Swick [2000] proposes that medical professionalism
      consists of specific behaviours (Table 1).

      Concerns about professionalism in medicine have made the explicit teaching and learning of
      ethics, professionalism and personal development necessary. The General Medical Council in
      the UK, and other professional bodies in both Europe and the Americas, have emphasised the
      need to enhance the teaching and learning of professionalism in medical schools, particularly
      the development of good attitudes, appropriate and competent skills, and the inculcation of a
      value system that reflects the principles of professionalism in medicine [Sivalingam, 2004].

      A study investigating tutors' and students' perspectives of the delivery of professionalism
      in the early years of Glasgow's learner-centred, problem-based learning (PBL) medical
      curriculum found that [Goldie J, Dowie A, Cotton P, et al, 2007]: early patient contact
      experiences were found to be particularly important, and that learning activities promoting
      critical reflection were most effective. However, a systematic review found no unifying
      theoretical or practical model to integrate the teaching of professionalism into the medical
      curriculum [Birden H, Glass N, Wilson I, et al 2013]. There is no consensus about how best to
      teach professionalism [Stockley AJ, Forbes K, 2014], and few studies have explored the
      effectiveness of different teaching and learning methods for professionalism [4].

      Research on students' understandings of professionalism identified 19 dimensions [Monrouxe V,
      Rees C, 2017]. Of these, patient-centredness was the second most discussed dimension (after
      'professionalism as rules'). Students' ideas of patient-centred professionalism came from a
      variety of sources: formal lectures on ethics, informal learning through role models, and
      from formal assessments. In the patient-centred clinical method, both the physician's and the
      patient's agendas are addressed by the physician and any conflict between them dealt with by
      negotiation [Levenstein JH, McCracken EC, McWhinney IR, et al, 1986]. This means that the
      physician aims to gain an understanding of the patient as well as the disease, and it is in
      contrast to the disease-centred method in which only the doctor's agenda is addressed.
      Summarising patient-centeredness elegantly, McWhinney describes the patient-centred approach
      as one where the "physician tries to enter the patient's world, to see the illness through
      the patient's eyes" [McWhinney 1989]. Evidence suggests that patient-centred care is
      associated with a number of favourable biomedical, psychological and social outcomes [Bauman
      AE, Fardy HJ, Harris PG, 2003], and it has been recognised as an important aspect of quality
      in health care [Institute of Medicine Committee on Quality of Health Care, 2001].

      There have been more than 900 papers published that measure patient-centred care or one of
      its components [de Silva, 2014]. However, only two measurement instruments for attitudes
      towards patient-centredness in undergraduate medical students have been identified: the
      Doctor Orientation Scale and the Patient-Practitioner Orientation Scale (PPOS); of these two,
      the PPOS has been used much more extensively [Archer E, Bezuidenhout J, Kidd MR, et al,
      2014]. The PPOS was developed in 1999 to measure the attitudes of medical students towards
      patient-centredness [Krupat E, Hiam CM, Fleming MZ, et al, 1999]. It differentiates between
      patient-centred versus doctor-centred or disease-centred orientation, measuring attitudes
      along 2 dimensions: 'sharing' and 'caring' [Tsimtsiou Z, Kerasidou O, Efstathiou N, et al,
      2007]. It has been used to assess attitude changes towards patient-centredness in medical
      student cohorts as they progress through the clinical curriculum.

      The PPOS is available in 13 languages. It has been translated into German and the degree of
      medical students' patient-centeredness assessed in 2 student samples in Freiburg, Germany and
      in Basel, Switzerland [Kiessling C, Fabry G, Rudolf Fischer M, et al, 2014]. Construct
      validity was tested using factor analysis. Based on factor analysis and tests of internal
      consistency, a shortened version with 6 items for each of the 2 subscales "sharing" and
      "caring" was generated (PPOS-D12). PPOS-D12 (see Appendix 1) was found to be a reliable
      instrument to assess patient-centeredness among medical students in German-speaking
      countries.

      In a longitudinal survey of medical students' attitudes toward patient-centred care in
      Greece, students' attitudes were significantly less patient-centred at the end of their
      studies compared to the beginning of their clinical curricula (mean score in year 4: 3.96;
      mean score in year 6: 3.81; P < 0.001) [Tsimtsiou Z, Kerasidou O, Efstathiou N, et al. 2007].
      In a South African study, medical students from all undergraduate six years took the PPOS
      survey. There was a decrease in mean scores (from 2.65 in first-year students to 2.25 in
      final-year students), with the most pronounced decrease in the first two years of study
      [Beattie A, Durham J, Harvey J, et al, 2012]. In a year-long study of resident physicians at
      a university hospital in Tokyo, PPOS scores reduced significantly over the year (mean score
      at start of year: 4.5, SD 0.48; mean score at end of year: 4.39, SD 0.51; change: -0.11, SD
      0.42) [Ishikawa H, Son D, Eto M, et al. 2018].

      The investigators have only identified one study that assessed the effect of an intervention
      on students' levels of patient-centredness. In this uncontrolled UK study, first-year dental
      undergraduates were given an attitudinal questionnaire to complete before and after their
      behavioural science course. No significant difference was found between their mean pre- and
      post-course PPOS scores (pre-course mean scores: 3.44 SD 0.33; post-course mean score: 3.37,
      SD 0.19; P > 0.05). The investigators have found no controlled trials that test the effect of
      interventions on medical students' levels of patient-centredness, and no trials that look at
      the effect of early patient contact in the form of an unaccompanied visit to a patient in
      their home.

      Aim of the study The aim of this study is to assess how a structured, in-depth, home-based
      interview with a patient with a chronic illness affects first-year medical students'
      patient-centredness.

      A nested study will assess whether the GP's level of patient/doctor-centredness affects
      changes in their student's level over the year.

      Methods

      Study setting The study will take place in the Berner Institut für Hausarztmedizin (BIHAM) at
      the University of Bern, Switzerland, and a subset of the >700 General Practitioner (GP)
      teaching practices that are affiliated to it.

      Study participants The population will be medical students who are in the first year of their
      studies (their first Bachelor year) at the University of Bern, during their longitudinal
      placements in primary care. The GP teachers are family doctors that are accredited by BIHAM
      to take medical students.

      Study design This will be a randomised controlled trial. During their first Bachelor year,
      each medical student will spend a series of six half-days at the practice of a GP teacher
      that she/he has been allocated to. Students will be randomly assigned to either the
      intervention or the sham comparator which will take place during their last half-day in their
      practices. All students will complete an on-line version of the PPOS-D12 questionnaire at the
      start of the academic year and once more after the last half-day at their GP teachers'
      practices.

      Intervention The intervention will be a structured in-depth interview with a patient with a
      chronic illness that has been chosen by the student's allocated GP teacher. These chronic
      diseases are the four conditions at the top of a list of diseases with high
      disability-adjusted life years (DALY) scores in Switzerland: ischemic heart disease, low back
      pain, major depressive disorder and COPD [Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, 2010].
      GP teachers who only see children are asked to choose a patient who has a chronic cardiac
      condition, a chronic lung disease, or another chronic illness that has a significant effect
      on the child's quality of life, the interview to be carried out at the child's home with one
      or both parents, and the child if she/he is old enough to take part in the interview.

      GP teachers and students will be told that the students' intervention interviews need to be
      unaccompanied and at patients' own homes, but in justified, exceptional cases, and after
      consultation with a member of the research team, the interview may take place in the GP
      teacher's practice premises. The interview will be followed by a structured interview with
      the practice nurse and then a structured debriefing interview with the GP teacher.

      Sham comparator In the sham comparator, the student's allocated GP teacher will give the
      student time to read a document that gives information about consultation skills, and asks
      questions that the student will need to discuss with the GP teacher. The document is designed
      to have real educational value, and to complement BIHAM's department-based consultation
      skills teaching. The use of this approach as the sham intervention is based on a study that
      found that a behavioural science course (including consultation skills teaching) had no
      effect on students' PPOS scores [Beattie A, Durham J, Harvey J, 2012].

      Data collection At the start of the academic year (i.e. before the interventions), students
      will complete a SurveyMonkey questionnaire that asks for demographic information (gender,
      history of serious chronic illness in the participant, a friend or close relative, history of
      training or patient contact other than in medical school) and the PPOS D12 form.

      At the end of their GP attachment (i.e. after the interventions), students will complete a
      SurveyMonkey questionnaire that asks whether they had the intervention or sham comparator or
      neither (and if neither, why), and the PPOS D12 form. Consent to use these data for research
      will also be requested.

      At the end of their students' attachments, their GP teachers will complete a SurveyMonkey
      questionnaire that asks them to complete the PPOS D12 form. Consent to use these data for
      research will also be requested.

      Each of these questionnaires will ask for the participant's name, so that pre-intervention,
      post-intervention, and GP's data can be linked and compared.

      Outcome measures The primary outcome measure will be the change in students' PPOS-D12 scores
      from base-line (at the start of the academic year) to the end of their year-long primary care
      attachment.

      Secondary outcomes will be the effect of students' gender, previous experience and prior
      exposure to chronic illness in the participant or her/his close relatives and friends on
      their PPOS-D12 scores A nested study will measure the strength of association between the GP
      teachers' own levels of patient/doctor-centredness and changes in their students' levels over
      the year.

      Development of the intervention Following a literature review and discussion, RF, A-LC and MH
      developed a patient interview pro-forma which was designed to identify patients' views on
      their illnesses, how it affects their lives in physical, psychological and social terms, and
      how their relationships with their GPs impacts on their lives. The sections of the interview
      pro-forma map across to Mead and Bower's conceptual framework of patient-centredness given
      above [Mead N, Bower P 2000].

      Six medical students who had been visiting their GP teachers for eight half-days per year
      since their first year of study agreed to pilot the intervention in November 2017. The GP
      teachers were asked to select a patient with a chronic illness for their students, and to
      organise 2.5-hour interviews, half of the students at the patients' home and in the other
      half in the teaching practices. Students were asked to use the questionnaire pro-forma. In
      addition, the students each had a 30-minute interview with a practice nurse to assess their
      perceptions of the effect of the illnesses on their patients, and finally a one-hour
      discussion with their GP teacher to reflect on their encounters with the patients, discuss
      their findings, and talk about any difficulties that may have arisen.

      Following this, RF conducted a focus group interview with the participating students. The
      discussion was recorded and transcribed in full. A-LC and MH analysed parts of each the
      transcript independently, then independently developed a coding frame. Their coding and
      thematic analysis was similar. The findings (the experiences, suggestions and criticisms of
      the piloting students) were used to make improvements in the organisation and in the
      information sheets for patients, students, MPAs and GPs. The themes, findings and
      improvements needed are shown in Appendix 2.

      Three medical students then piloted the re-designed interview pro-forma with one of the
      researchers (A-LC) role-playing the patient), and they gave feedback with recommendations on
      how the pro-forma could be further improved. Following this, RF, A-LC and MH reviewed the
      pro-forma and designed the final version. The final version of the interview proforma, in
      German, is shown in Appendix 3. The interview proforma and instructions on implementation of
      the intervention will be sent to students and their GP teachers before the students' final
      visits to their teaching practices.

      Development of the sham comparator MH wrote an English-language 'Communication skills for
      BIHAM medical students' didactic document, which included sections on 'Why should I learn
      about communication skills?', 'What do patients want from a doctor?', What information are
      patients looking for?', What consultation skills should I use when I interview patients?',
      'Do good communication skills really matter?', 'How can I learn good interpersonal and
      consultation skills?', 'How is a good consultation structured?', and 'Questions to discuss
      with your GP teacher'. This document was translated into German by A-LC. The resulting
      1,850-word, 9-page document and instructions on implementation of the intervention will be
      sent to students and their GP teachers before the students' final visits to their teaching
      practices.

      Randomisation Participants will be allocated to intervention or sham intervention through
      random sequences generated in the SPSS statistical package.

      Blinding procedures

      This study will be partially blinded:

      Screening and enrolment. A person blinded to the purpose of the interventions (i.e. that one
      is the intervention, the other is a sham comparator) will enrol participants and allocate
      them to their arm of the study. This person will work separately from the rest of the trial
      team and all team members will be asked to sign a form stating that they will not disclose
      the purpose of the interventions to this person.

      Students. In a tailored informed consent procedure, students will be given a 'high-level
      description' of the study objectives with only superficial information on the study
      interventions, as accepted by ethics committees in similar studies. They will be informed
      that they are randomised to one of two study groups, without revealing that one is an
      intervention and the other is a sham comparator. The aim of this is to minimise performance
      and other reporting biases.

      GP teachers. A similar approach with be taken with information for the GP teachers, so that
      they also have only a 'high-level' description of the study objectives.

      Statistical analysis Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the relationships
      between student demographics and PPOS scores. Mean pre- and post-test PPOS scores will be
      compared using paired t tests. Differences between PPOS scores in the intervention and
      control groups will be examined with unpaired t tests. For the nested study, GPs' PPOS scores
      and changes in their students' PPOS scores will be compared using paired t tests.

      The sample size calculation for the primary outcome was based on reported mean reduction of
      0.11 in the PPOS score over one year in a group without any intervention [20], and a mean
      increase of 0.05 in the intervention group. The investigators therefore assumed a mean
      difference 0.16, with a standard deviation of 0.42. The study was designed with a 5% level of
      significance and a 90% power to reject the null hypothesis of equivalence between the two
      groups. To achieve this objective, 220 students would be required (110 for each group).
      Assuming a 20% drop-out, the investigators therefore aimed to enrol a total of 275 students.

      Discussion This research will consider the effect of an in-depth, structured interview with a
      patient with a chronic illness on changes in first-year medical students' levels of
      patient-centredness. There is existing evidence that medical students' levels of
      patient-centredness reduce over their student years, and this study will contribute to an
      understanding of how this reduction can be minimised or reversed.

      Strengths To the investigators' knowledge, this is the first randomised controlled trial that
      has been designed to study the effect of an intervention on medical students' levels of
      patient-centredness. The intervention materials were carefully developed and piloted by GP
      teachers and medical students, and therefore grounded in their clinical and educational
      experience.

      Limitations Although the research team will give participants information about the study in
      a presentation and in correspondence, there is a risk that fewer students than anticipated
      consent to take part in the study. While the researchers aim to blind participants to the
      nature of the comparison, i.e. that one intervention is the intervention and the other is a
      sham comparator, control intervention, participants may guess the researchers' intentions,
      and this may result in bias in their responses. The power calculations have been based on
      data from other published studies, but these may not be directly comparable to the
      investigators' own study. The control intervention has been chosen because of evidence that
      teaching dental students about communication skills does not affect their levels of
      patient-centredness, but it is possible that the investigators' communication skills
      intervention will indeed have an effect the levels of medical students' patient-centredness,
      and thus not be a truly inactive control.

      Expected impact

      One of the aims of BIHAM's clerkships in primary care is to shift the medical students' focus
      towards 'professionalism', and patient-centredness is an important aspect of professionalism.
      This study will assess whether a single in-depth structured interview with a patient,
      followed by a de-briefing interview with the patient's GP, can contribute to achieving this
      aim.
    
  