
    
      Bipolar type II (BP II) depression affects 2.5% of the U.S. adult population. People with BP
      II disorder do not experience the manic episodes that are characteristic of BP I disorder,
      but rather they experience more modest mood swings with a greater number of major depressive
      episodes (MDEs). These MDEs are associated with high rates of disease and death. The
      treatment of BP II depression remains a challenge for clinicians. Mood stabilizer (MS)
      monotherapy is the current recommended treatment for BD II MDE, but there is reason to
      believe that antidepressant drug (AD) monotherapy could also be an effective treatment.
      However, concerns over AD-induced manic switch episodes have limited the use of this
      treatment option. Preliminary studies using the ADs fluoxetine or venlafaxine have shown
      success in treating and lowering the manic switch rate of those with BP II MDE. This study
      will compare the safety and effectiveness of AD monotherapy versus MS monotherapy in treating
      people with BP II major depression.

      Participation in this double-blind study will last up to 9 months. After screening, which
      includes a medical and psychiatric history review, a physical exam, an electrocardiogram
      (EKG) test, clinical laboratory tests, a urine-based drug test, and a pregnancy test if
      applicable, participants will be randomly placed into one of two treatment groups.
      Participants in the AD monotherapy group will be treated with venlafaxine, and participants
      in the MS monotherapy group will be treated with lithium. During the first 12 weeks, there
      will be a total of nine study visits lasting between 45 and 60 minutes. In these visits,
      participants will receive their study drug and will undergo various assessments, including a
      review of medication history and side effects, vital sign measurements, and questionnaires
      about depression and daily functioning. Blood samples will be taken at most visits.

      Participants who respond well during the initial 12 weeks of therapy with either drug will
      have the option to continue treatment for 6 additional months. During this time, participants
      will continue their assigned treatment and will attend five monthly study visits that will
      repeat previous assessments and procedures.

      For information on a related study, please follow this link:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00044616
    
  