
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the immunomodulatory effectiveness of the combination of rintatolimod and aspirin
      with or without recombinant interferon alfa-2b (interferon [IFN]-alpha), in participants with
      localized prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and toxicity of the treatment combinations in participants with
      localized prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy.

      II. Assess the antitumor activity between treatment arms.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the resected tumor tissue specimen and surrounding tissue samples of both study
      arms (pre versus [vs] post-chemokine modulatory [CKM] treatment, with vs without CKM, CKM
      doublet vs CKM triplet) with regards to infiltrating T cell subtypes, effector T cell
      (Teff)/regulatory T cell (Treg) ratios, CD11b+ myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC); the
      expression of chemokine receptors and immune checkpoint molecules on immune cells; local
      expression of Teff-attracting chemokines and Treg/MDSC-favoring chemokines; ribonucleic acid
      (RNA) signatures of groups of immune-regulatory genes that are modulated by the CKM regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive aspirin orally (PO) two times a day (BID) from day -7 to 7 days prior
      to surgery. Patients also receive recombinant interferon alfa-2b intravenously (IV) over 20
      minutes and rintatolimod IV over 2 hours on days 1-3, and 8-10 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo radical prostatectomy on or
      between day 17-24.

      ARM II: Patients receive aspirin PO BID from day -7 to 7 days prior to surgery and
      rintatolimod IV over 2 hours on days 1-3 and 8-10 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo radical prostatectomy on or between day 17-24.

      ARM III: Patients undergo radical prostatectomy about 4 weeks after enrollment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  