
    
      Perioperative chemotherapy has been shown to significantly improve the R0 resection rate, the
      disease free survival and the overall survival in patients with adenocarcinoma of the distal
      esophagus, the gastro-esophageal junction and the stomach. Therefore perioperative
      chemotherapy is the new therapeutic standard (Cunningham NEJM 2006, MRC, Lancet 2002, Boige
      ASCO 2007). The best evaluated regime is the combination of Epirubicin, Cisplatin and 5-FU
      (ECF) (Cunningham, NEJM 2007). Cisplatin and 5-FU seem to be the most important components
      forming the backbone of this regime (Boige ASCO 2007).

      Docetaxel is a new and highly active agent in gastric cancer. In a randomized phase II study
      the dual combination of Docetaxel and 5-FU seemed to show similar activity as ECF,
      administered as first line palliative treatment (Thuss-Patience, JCO, 2005). The three drug
      combination Docetaxel, Cisplatin, 5-FU has significantly superior efficacy than a combination
      of Cisplatin und 5-FU, superior quality of life and significantly superior overall survival
      (Van Cutsem, JCO 2007).

      It has been shown that Capecitabine the oral prodrug of 5-FU is similarly active as 5-FU and
      can replace intravenous 5-FU in combination with Cisplatin in the treatment of gastric
      cancer. Capecitabine therefore is FDA approved for gastric cancer (Cunningham, ASCO 2006,
      Kang ASCO 2006).

      It seems reasonable to optimize perioperative chemotherapy by including modern
      chemotherapeutics. The old standard ECF may be improved by integrating Docetaxel und
      Capecitabine. By adding Docetaxel to the Cisplatin / flouropyrimidin backbone the efficacy of
      the regime may be improved. The replacement of 5-FU by Capecitabine may improve patients´
      convenience and possibly effectiveness of the combination. Therefore the 3 drug combination
      of Docetaxel, Cisplatin, Capecitabin (DCX) seems to be a highly promising regime regarding
      effectiveness and convenience.

      In this study patients with adenocarcinoma of the stomach, gastro-esophageal junction or the
      distal esophagus who seem operable with curative intent according to oncological and surgical
      assessment are treated with 3 preoperative cycles of DCX followed by surgical resection,
      followed by 3 postoperative cycles of DCX.

      The first application of study medication has to be within 21 days of tumour assessment.
      There will be 3 preoperative cycles every 3 weeks. The experimental perioperative regime
      evaluated in this study will be Docetaxel/Cisplatin/Capecitabine DCX (75/ 60/ 1875 mg/m2).The
      operation will be performed 3 to 6 weeks after the end of the third preoperative chemotherapy
      cycle (counted from day 21 of cycle 3).

      Postoperative chemotherapy will start within 6 - 12 weeks after the operation. 3 weeks after
      the end of the last chemotherapy the final investigation (end of study visit) will be done.
    
  