
    
      Stage I - Main Study:

      All the eligible patients will be randomized to receive either favipiravir + supportive care
      or placebo + supportive care. The treatment duration with the IMP will be for a period of 10
      consecutive days. If the patient is discharged before Day 10, the patient will be required to
      continue the remainder of the treatment course of the assigned IMP at home. Patients in both
      the groups will receive supportive care, as appropriate. The duration of supportive care will
      be based upon Investigator's judgement and as per individual patient's requirement. The study
      data collection period will be up to 28 (+2) days.

      Day 10 will be considered as the End of treatment (EOT) assessment.

        1. If the patient remains in the hospital until Day 10, the EOT will be performed at the
           site and all the scheduled assessments for Day 10 will be performed

        2. If the patient is discharged before Day 10, the EOT can be performed either as an onsite
           visit or will be performed at the patient's home :

             1. On-site visit: If the patient is able to visit the hospital on Day 10, procedures
                for an unscheduled visit will be performed.

                OR

             2. At home: If the patient is unable to visit the hospital for the EOT, study nurse or
                phlebotomist will visit the patient at his/her residence to collect blood sample
                for safety assessments. A telephonic follow up will be performed to enquire on
                treatment emergent AEs experienced, concomitant medication and COVID-19 associated
                symptom for assessment of clinical relapse.

      Day 28 will be considered the end of study visit. If patient is discharged from the hospital
      before Day 28, the assessments mentioned in the end of study visit (Day 28) will be performed
      before the patient is discharged. After discharge, telephonic follow up will be performed on
      Day 10 (applicable only for patients who are discharged earlier than Day 10 and if patients
      are unable to visit the site for EOT on Day 10), Day 14, Day 21 and Day 28. The telephonic
      follow up will be as applicable for the individual patient, depending upon the actual day
      when (s)he is discharged. A 2-day window period is allowed for telephonic follow up.

      In case the patient remains admitted in the hospital beyond Study Day 28, the end of study
      assessments will be performed for the patient on Day 28 (+2) days.

      Stage I of the study will be completed when the 'Day 28' assessment is completed either as an
      in-patient assessment if the patient is still hospitalized, or as a telephonic follow up
      assessment if the patients are discharged earlier to Day 28.

      Once all the patients complete the Stage I of the study, the database would be locked, and
      analysis will be performed.

      Stage II - Extended Follow Up:

      All the patients will be followed up for AEs or for 'clinical relapse' of COVID 19. Two
      telephonic follow up assessments will be performed on Day 42 and Day 60. An additional visit
      to the hospital (for further assessment) may be scheduled for such patients, if required.
    
  