
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is the leading cause of newly diagnosed blindness in the working age
      (20-74) population in the United States1 and diabetic macular edema (DME) is the leading
      cause of vision loss in diabetic retinopathy. DME is the result of the breakdown of the
      retinal capillary endothelium in patients with diabetes mellitus (Type I and II).

      A key factor in the development of DME is the permeability of the blood-retinal barrier. The
      breakdown of the endothelial tight junctions of the capillary walls in the retinal
      vasculature leads to increased permeation of salts, proteins, and water from the capillary
      luminal side of the barrier and the accumulation of fluid in the extracellular space.
      Multiple agents appear to contribute to the disruption of the blood-retina barrier,including
      vasoactive agents, prostaglandin and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). VEGF is a
      peptide that promotes neovascularization and increases vascular permeability. If the
      resulting fluid is more than the amount that can be removed through the active pump mechanism
      (retinal pigmented epithelium), fluids continue to accumulate and edema develops. When
      thickening evolves or threatens the center of the fovea there is a high risk of visual loss.

      Cand5 is a synthetic double stranded RNA (dsRNA) oligonucleotide. The molecule is a duplex
      formed by the hybridization of two partially complementary single strand RNAs in which the 3'
      end are capped with 2 deoxyribose (dT) units. Hybridization occurs across 19 ribose base
      pairs to yield the Cand5 molecule. Cand5 has a molecular weight of 13,345 grams/mole. Cand5
      selectively silences the mRNA encoding for VEGF.

      A comparison will be made between the three (3) treatment arms with regard to safety,
      efficacy, and duration of effect to determine a safe and efficacious dose of Cand5
      appropriate for evaluation in future pivotal trials.
    
  