
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of bortezomib, cetuximab, and radiotherapy with
           or without cisplatin in patients with stage IV squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
           neck.

        -  To identify the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib for further clinical phase II
           development.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the objective response rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival
           of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To determine the effects of bortezomib and cetuximab with or without cisplatin on
           inhibiting activation of the NF-kB, EGFR, MAPK, and STAT3 signal pathways, expression of
           pro-survival and pro-angiogenesis genes regulated by these pathways, and on
           proliferation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of bortezomib. Patients are
      simultaneously accrued to 1 of 2 treatment groups. Patients are initially accrued to group I
      until there are a sufficient number of patients to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      of bortezomib. Patients are then accrued to group II.

        -  Group I: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43,
           and 50. Patients also receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22,
           25, 29, 32, 43, 46, 50, and 53. Beginning on day 8 or 9, patients undergo standard
           intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) once daily, 5 days a week, for up to 8 weeks.

      Once the MTD of bortezomib is determined, at least 6 and up to 10 additional patients are
      accrued and treated at the MTD.

        -  Group II: Patients receive cetuximab, bortezomib (beginning at one dose level below the
           MTD determined in group I), and IMRT as in group I. Patients also receive cisplatin IV
           over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50, and 57.

      Once the MTD of bortezomib is determined, 6 additional patients are accrued and treated at
      the MTD.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative laboratory studies.
      Samples are analyzed for biomarkers by immunohistochemistry, quantitative reverse
      transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and ELISA.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 2-5 years.
    
  