
    
      Wild Polio Virus 1 (WPV1) is the only responsible virus for wild polio cases across the
      globe. The world has successfully eradicated wild poliovirus (PV) 2 and 3. Poliomyelitis
      eradication has entered its last phase with only three remaining endemic countries, of which
      Pakistan is one and has highest number of WPV1 cases in 2019. The main stream strategies by
      the Global Polio Eradication Initiative has made the substantial progress towards the
      eradication of poliomyelitis ever since the World Health Assembly has sanctioned it as an
      emerging global Public Health threat. These strategies focus on high-quality immunization
      activities (routine and supplemental) that target children from birth to age 5 years with
      oral poliovirus vaccines (OPVs), and maintaining a system for acute flaccid paralysis
      surveillance.

      Pakistan has uninterrupted circulation of polioviruses and this may threaten the entire
      global community and implies impending failure of goal of global eradication. According to
      the Polio endgame strategy 2019-2023, Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only countries in
      which WPV transmissions continues to be reported. The genetic sampling and environmental
      surveillance have revealed that WPV1 has predominantly persisted in Pakistan and Afghanistan
      and are closely linked as they constitute one epidemiological block. Bivalent OPV (bOPV),
      which protect against types 1 and 3, is used for routine immunization. However, type-3 wild
      poliovirus is on the verge of eradication, therefore mOPV1 is important to achieve
      eradication of type-1 poliovirus whose appearance has been continually been confirmed by the
      genetic and environmental samplings.

      The main rationale of the study is to interrupt WPV1 circulation and stopping the outbreaks
      of VDPVs with the help of mOPV1 instead of bOPV2 for routine immunization, which contains
      live poliovirus, and will eventually lead to complete eradication and containment of type 1
      WPV, vaccine-related (VDPV) and Sabin polioviruses. The study rationale is in line with the
      Goal 1- Eradication of GPEI. This study will provide data to National Immunization
      Authorities in order to make strategic decisions about their polio vaccination schedules in
      anticipation of the potential global bOPV2 to mOPV1 switch and will provide data on the
      proposed responses to type 1 poliovirus outbreaks.

      Research Questions and Main Objectives :

      Overall Objectives of the study will be:

        -  To assess the serum immunity against type 1,2 and 3 polioviruses achieved with two
           different mOPV1 routine immunization schedule (mOPV1+fIPV (fractional dose intradermal
           IPV); mOPV1+FIPV (full dose intramuscular IPV))

        -  To compare the serum immunity against type 1,2 and 3 polioviruses achieved with two
           different mOPV1 routine immunization schedule with bOPV2 routine immunization schedules
           (mOPV1+fIPV, mOPV1+FIPV with bOPV2+fIPV, bOPV2+FIPV)

        -  To assess the type 2 response after One full dose IPV with mOPV1 and bOPV2 routine
           immunization schedule

        -  To assess the type 2 response after two fractional doses of IPV with mOPV1 and bOPV2
           routine immunization schedule
    
  