
    
      The purpose of this study is to design, implement and evaluate a community based lifestyle
      intervention that integrates a leadership skills training for Palestinian women living in
      East Jerusalem.

      Stage 1: A pre-post study design will be utilized, where all community participants will be
      exposed to intervention components. The sample was selected from pre-existing groups in the
      local community center, based on their leadership potential. The Community-Based Lifestyle
      Intervention (CBLI) was developed by integrating leadership skill training to the gold
      standard Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP). According to social cognitive theory, engaging in
      lay leadership can help maintain health behaviors by providing leaders with social support,
      behavioral reinforcement, outcome expectancies, reciprocal determinism, and building
      self-efficacy. Fostering social change and empowering individuals, mobilizing community
      members is also an effective, low cost method for widespread impact on health behavior and
      health outcomes within the members' community. This is particularly true for women and
      minority populations. All intervention components were adapted to the specific culture,
      language, gender, and religious sensitivities of Palestinian female society.

      The program will consist of 22 sessions presented by multiple professionals (nutritionists,
      exercise trainers, health coaches, and psychotherapists). Session content includes
      Mediterranean diet education, social support, food tasting and cooking, goal setting,
      self-monitoring, planning, conscious eating, leadership and lay leader training,
      initiative-taking, group dynamics, project design, community needs assessment, and project
      evaluation. The study is implemented in partnership with local community centers.

      It is hypothesized that Arab women who participate in this community intervention will have
      improved - and maintained- healthy eating behaviors (i.e. Mediterranean Diet), reduced
      unhealthy eating behaviors (i.e. Western diet), increased engagement in physical activity and
      reduced risk of obesity (weight, BMI).

      The second stage of the trial will not include the leadership component, but instead it will
      incorporate resiliency training and it aims to evaluate the effect of increased resiliency on
      the main outcomes including improvement in healthy behaviors such as adherence to
      Mediterranean diet and as well as a reduction in sedentary lifestyle and increased engagement
      in physical activity. In addition, resiliency training is likely to improve the maintenance
      of these behaviors.

      Resiliency can be defined as a personal trait that contributes to the individual's ability to
      recover from stressful events. It is the ability to achieve, retain, or regain a level of
      physical or emotional health after illness or loss (bounce back). This characteristic is also
      considered a protective strength against mental problems, and the ability to effectively
      adapt to changes and recover from stressful events. Psychological stress is associated with
      increased risk of non-communicable diseases pose the greatest burden to public health,
      including heart disease. Additionally, people experiencing psychosocial challenges like
      isolation and life stress, are found to be less physically active, which is considered an
      independent risk factor for heart disease. Therefore, effective interventions that aim to
      reduce stress and anxiety and improve social connectedness are potential means of preventing
      and managing chronic diseases.

      The present study (stage 2) will employ a cluster-randomized trial in which community centers
      will be assigned to either intervention group or attention control group. The intervention
      group will receive the CBLI content curriculum (as described above) in addition to the
      resiliency training (hence CBLI+RT). The attention control group will receive the core
      curriculum of the CBLI (CBLI-) only without the resiliency training. The sessions of the
      resiliency training will be replaced with sessions on health topics that do not contribute to
      our outcome (increased resiliency).

      All intervention components were adapted to the specific culture, language, gender, and
      religious sensitivities of Palestinian female society.

      It is hypothesized that Arab women who participate in this community intervention will have
      improved - and maintained- healthy eating behaviors (i.e. Mediterranean Diet), reduced
      unhealthy eating behaviors (i.e. Western diet), increased engagement in physical activity and
      reduced risk of obesity (weight, BMI).

      The integration of positive psychology which focuses on individual's strengths through the
      resiliency training in the second stage of this trial, is hypothesized to be associated with
      improving-and maintain- healthy behaviors such as healthy diet, increased engagement in
      physical activity, and reducing unhealthy behaviors such as the consumption of western diet.

      The first group will be assigned as a pilot study. This group will not be randomized but will
      receive the CBLI+RT in order to develop a resiliency training manual to be implemented in the
      following groups that will be assigned to receive RT in addition to the CBLI core curriculum.
    
  