
    
      Atherosclerosis is the most common cause of myocardial infarction, stroke and peripheral
      arterial disease. Research has clearly demonstrated that inflammation plays a key role in the
      initiation, progression and manifestations of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerotic lesions begin
      as an accumulation of lipid-laden cells (primarily macrophages) beneath the endothelium, and
      progress with the further accumulation of cells, connective-tissue elements, lipids and
      debris through immunological and inflammatory activation. Neutrophils and other inflammatory
      cells have been shown to invade culprit atherosclerotic lesions in acute coronary syndromes.
      It is likely that the inflammatory process is responsible for the high rate of cardiovascular
      events despite significant advances in the treatment of risk factors such as
      hypercholesterolemia and hypertension. It is vital to improve our understanding of the
      inflammatory nature of atherosclerotic disease and modify the inflammatory process with
      targeted therapies. Prospective cohort studies have consistently shown that high sensitivity
      C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) and several other biomarkers of inflammation are independently
      associated with increasing risk of future cardiovascular events in different populations.
      This together with animal models showing that reduced inflammation has anti-atherosclerotic
      effects, create the impetus to test the hypothesis that treatment of the underlying
      inflammatory process will contribute to improved cardiovascular clinical outcomes. Colchicine
      is an inexpensive, yet potent, anti-inflammatory drug approved for acute use in patients with
      gout and chronic use in patients with Familial Mediterranean Fever. The mechanism of action
      is through the inhibition of tubulin polymerization and potentially also through effects on
      cellular adhesion molecules and inflammatory chemokines. Colchicine may also have direct
      anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting key inflammatory signaling networks known as the
      inflammasome and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Through the disruption of the cytoskeleton,
      colchicine is believed to suppress secretion of cytokines and chemokines as well as in vitro
      platelet aggregation. Considerable work has highlighted the potential of colchicine in the
      treatment of cardiovascular diseases mediated by pro-inflammatory processes. More recently
      colchicine has been evaluated for its effect on cardiovascular events in patients with
      coronary artery disease (CAD).
    
  