
    
      Lyme disease is the most common vector borne disease in the United States. Although
      antibiotic therapy is clinically effective in treating the symptoms of Lyme disease for most
      patients early in the course of disease, a significant number of patients who receive therapy
      report persistent symptoms. The cause of persistent symptoms after antibiotic therapy for
      Lyme disease is an area of great controversy. Recent studies have shown that the organism
      (Borrelia burgdorferi) may persist in animals after antibiotic therapy and can be detected by
      using the natural tick vector (Ixodes scapularis) to acquire the organism through feeding
      (xenodiagnosis). Whether this occurs in humans is unknown. Currently available tests for
      human Lyme disease do not allow determination of persistent infection after antibiotic
      therapy.

      We performed the first study of the use of I. scapularis larva for the xenodiagnosis of B.
      burgdorferi infection in humans. Our pilot study showed that xenodiagnosis was well tolerated
      with no severe adverse events (AEs). The most common AE was mild itching at the site. In this
      small pilot study, xenodiagnosis for B. burgdorferi was positive in 2 participants and
      indeterminate in 2 participants. Further studies are needed to determine the sensitivity of
      xenodiagnosis in evaluating the infection status of Lyme disease patients.

      In this proposal, we want to further investigate the utility of xenodiagnosis for identifying
      persistence of infection with B. burgdorferi in treated human Lyme disease. Our objectives
      include assessing the link between detection of B. burgdorferi by xenodiagnosis and
      persistence of symptoms in patients diagnosed with Lyme disease, within 1 year, post therapy;
      compare the rate of detection of B. burgdorferi by xenodiagnosis after therapy in
      participants with posttreatment Lyme disease symptoms; identify subject characteristics
      related to the likelihood of detecting B. burgdorferi by xenodiagnosis including: time from
      infection, time between infection and therapy, time from therapy; and continue to assess the
      safety of xenodiagnosis in humans.

      The results of study have the potential to resolve this long-standing controversy in Lyme
      disease pathogenesis. While xenodiagnosis is unlikely to be widely used in clinical practice
      due to the labor intensity and speed of testing, if our study shows a linkage between
      positive xenodiagnostic testing and persistence of symptoms after B. burgdorferi infection,
      it may prove to be a useful tool for testing new strategies for treatment and for correlation
      with more generally applicable diagnostic markers. Understanding the pathogenesis of
      persistent symptoms following Lyme disease, and identifying reliable diagnostic tests for
      determining the success of antibiotic therapy, is critical to the medical management of these
      patients.
    
  