
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the safety and tolerability of in vitro expanded autologous WT1 specific T
           cells, when administered alone or in combination with non-myeloablative,
           immunosuppressive conditioning, in patients with recurrent or persistent, advanced,
           WT1-positive, ovarian epithelial cancer, primary peritoneal cavity cancer, or fallopian
           tube cancer.

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of autologous WT1 specific T cells in these
           patients.

        -  To quantitate alterations in the concentration of WT1 specific T cells in the blood at
           defined intervals post infusion with or without non-myeloablative, immunosuppressive
           conditioning in order to gain estimates regarding their survival and proliferation.

        -  To assess the effects of the adoptively transferred T cells on the growth and
           progression of advanced ovarian epithelial cancer, primary peritoneal cavity cancer, or
           fallopian tube cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of WT1 peptide-specific T cells.

        -  T-cell generation and isolation: Patients undergo collection of peripheral blood stem
           cells (PBMC) from which T cells are purified, stimulated in vitro with WT1
           peptide-pulsed autologous EBV BLCL, and expanded ex vivo.

        -  Stem cell mobilization and harvest: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously
           daily for five days. PBMC are collected by leukapheresis on the fifth day and then
           cryopreserved for subsequent reinfusion into the patient, in the event of prolonged
           cytopenia.

        -  Autologous T-cell infusion with or without conditioning chemotherapy ( fludarabine
           treatment closed as of 12/01/2009): Approximately 4-6 weeks after T-cell sensitization,
           patients receive an infusion of autologous WT1-specific T cells over 5-10 minutes on day
           0. Patients enrolled in dose levels II and III also undergo pre-infusion lymphodepletive
           conditioning comprising cyclophosphamide IV on day -2 and fludarabine phosphate IV over
           approximately 30 minutes on days -6 to -2. After a 48-hour rest period, patients receive
           autologous WT1-specific T cells. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 4 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with responsive or
           stable disease after completion of therapy, may receive additional courses of autologous
           WT1-specific T cells every 14 days.

      Blood samples are obtained at baseline and periodically during study and assayed for
      alterations in circulating levels of WT1 peptide-specific T cells, for biochemical indices of
      tumor burden, and for radiologic evidence of tumor response. Serum CA125 levels are measured
      and the number of T cells generating interferon gamma in response to autologous EBV BLCL is
      quantitated.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for up to 12 weeks.
    
  