
    
      HAART eligibility screening entails presenting to the study site within 2 weeks of
      pre-screening, undergoing laboratory testing and providing a medical history, and returning
      for results within the subsequent four weeks. Any potential subjects who appear to be acutely
      intoxicated will be asked to return the next day or at a later date or time of their
      choosing. All participants will be asked to return for their results within four weeks after
      screening. Subjects will have 70 mL of whole blood collected by venipuncture by a trained
      study nurse. Laboratory tests will include HIV confirmatory testing (antibody and Western
      blot), CD4 cell count and plasma HIV-1-RNA level (plasma viral load; pVL), Hepatitis A, B and
      C serology, pregnancy test for women of child-bearing potential, complete blood count (CBC)
      with differential and platelet count, chemistry profile (creatinine, urea and electrolytes),
      and transaminase levels (ALT, AST). All participants will also have a medical history taken
      and undergo a physical examination. Recorded data will include subject gender, age,
      ethnicity, race, area of residence and living arrangement (categorized as homeless/on the
      street, unstable [defined as living primarily in a single room occupancy hotel, boarding
      room, or transition house] or stable). Additional features which will be recorded will
      include nature and frequency of illicit substance use, and participation in other cohort
      studies or methadone maintenance programs. All clinical past medical history and
      co-morbidities and laboratory data will be recorded for assessment of subject HAART
      eligibility.

      All subjects who return for the results, whether HAART-eligible or not, will have their
      laboratory results explained to them and will be counseled as to a recommended course of
      clinical care by the study nurse. Those eligible for HAART will be offered enrollment into
      Part II of the study. Those not eligible for HAART will be invited to re-evaluate their
      eligibility for antiretroviral therapy at yearly intervals through the study site. Once 150
      subjects have been randomized to each of the two study arms (total n=300), recruitment will
      be temporarily halted and statistical analysis will determine whether the reinforcer resulted
      in a significant and clinically relevant increase in the proportion of subjects who complete
      HAART eligibility screening.
    
  