
    
      The core research objective of this project is to measure the distribution of electric field
      generated by tDCS in the human brain in vivo using clinical sEEG technology, and to study the
      influence of different tDCS stimulation parameters on the distribution of intracranial
      electric field intensity, so as to provide scientific basis for evaluating the effectiveness
      of tDCS, optimizing the stimulation parameters of tDCS, and realizing the individuation of
      tDCS. The project involves many scientific issues and key technologies such as "stimulus
      recording platform construction -- clinical trial design -- comparative research method". The
      main research contents are as follows.

        1. Transcranial electrical stimulation and intracranial space electric field measurement
           system based on sEEG and tDCS.

           Multi-channel transcranial direct current stimulation technology is studied to realize
           the integration of parameters setting, constant current output, overcurrent protection,
           electrode connection status detection and other modules. Based on sEEG intracranial
           electric field measurement system, weak electric field measurement with spatial
           positioning information can be realized accurately. The integrated control system of
           transcranial electric stimulation and intracranial space electric field recording was
           studied to realize the linkage control of multi-channel tDCS and space electric field
           recording and data processing and analysis.

        2. Clinical implementation protocol design of tDCS combined with sEEG.

           To study the implementation protocol of tDCS combined sEEG applicable to clinical
           practice, and to develop inclusion and exclusion criteria for clinical volunteers, based
           on MRI data and actual disease conditions of volunteers, individual differentiation
           planning of sEEG implantation and stimulation parameters and stimulation sites of
           combined tDCS; Intraoperative sEEG-based intracranial spatial electric field measurement
           protocols were studied, including implementation procedures for tDCS stimulation and
           sEEG recording, individualized experimental paradigm design, practical procedures and
           data recording.

        3. Individual head model electric field simulation analysis method.

      An electric field distribution simulation model based on individual head model was
      established to realize the finite element simulation calculation of spatial electric field
      distribution under different individual head model structure, different electrical properties
      of tissues, different tDCS stimulation combinations and stimulation parameters. According to
      the electric field data recorded by sEEG and MRI data, the actual electric field distribution
      model of individual head model was established. The spatial electric field distribution
      characteristics of tDCS acting on different intracranial depths and distances were analyzed
      under different external stimulation parameters, and compared with the simulation model. The
      existing simulation model is optimized based on the measured data.
    
  