
    
      Patients presenting to labor and delivery for delivery will be screened for eligibility. If a
      patient meets the inclusion and exclusion criteria, she will be offered enrollment in the
      study. After the project and informed consent are reviewed with the patient and all questions
      are answered, she will be asked to sign the informed consent. At this point, she will be
      considered a candidate for randomization.

      If the patient subsequently undergoes a cesarean delivery, she will be randomized to either:

        1. Group A - Placement of Seprafilm® prior to abdominal closure

        2. Group B - Routine closure without placement of Seprafilm® The chances of being assigned
           to either group will be equal (i.e., 1:1 randomization). The patient will be blinded
           with regard to Seprafilm placement.

      The investigators will collect additional data about the patient, her antepartum course,
      intra-operative events, and post-operative course. There are no additional tests or
      procedures ordered or performed during the hospital stay as part of this protocol. Enrollment
      in this study is not expected to alter the patient's length of stay.

      The antepartum, operative, and post-operative care of the patient will as directed by the
      patient's physician and participating institutions's standard policies and procedures. This
      study in no way changes or directs the care the patient would receive, except with regard to
      the placement of Seprafilm® Adhesion Barrier.

      A short-term telephone follow-up will be conducted approximately 6-8 weeks following
      randomization to assess for immediate post-operative complications.

      If a patient becomes pregnant again and undergoes a repeat cesarean delivery at a
      participating institution, the location and severity of adhesions (if any) would be assessed
      at the time of repeat cesarean delivery. The investigators will extract additional data from
      the chart including operative times, blood loss, and complications. An evaluation of
      adhesions would conclude the patient's participation in the study.
    
  