
    
      Lifestyle behaviors, such as diet and physical activity, have been linked to the development
      of a number of diseases, including cancer, diabetes, and heart disease. Adopting a healthy
      diet and other preventive health practices are effective ways to reduce associated diseases.
      However, cancer, diabetes, and heart disease are etiologically complex with multiple risk
      factors (e.g., genetic, environmental, lifestyle) that tend to cluster in families. Thus,
      families are an important social context for intervention and lifestyle-focused disease
      prevention. Our previous research indicates that intergenerational encouragement can motivate
      behavior change and parents and women tend to be natural encouragers of health behaviors.
      Therefore, a mixed-method pilot study will be conducted to explore how dietary habits and
      healthy behaviors are transmitted across family generations and the motivational influence of
      family health history regarding diseases associated with overweight and diet on improving
      health behaviors. This pilot study will also assess participants comprehension of an
      intervention tool outlining family health history and disease risk assessment that will be
      used in a larger intervention study.

      Participants for the paper-based Family Health Package (FHP) Evaluation Phase will be
      recruited from an existing database developed by the Immersive Virtual Environment Testing
      Area (IVETA) within the Social and Behavioral Research Branch, NHGRI, consisting of mothers
      in the Washington, DC area, and through local advertisement and posting on
      clinicaltrials.gov. Participants will complete a survey interview, providing us with a
      detailed family health history. From this information, we will create a paper-based FHP that
      will be sent to participants, consisting of a pedigree, disease risk algorithms, and health
      guidelines. Participants will be invited to complete a follow-up survey interview, and focus
      groups will be conducted with a subset of participants. Two initial focus groups will provide
      feedback on the feasibility and acceptability of the FHP materials. After incorporating
      revisions, an additional focus group will evaluate the FHP materials. All of the focus groups
      will also explore diet and health behavior through semi-structured questions. Thematic
      analysis will identify factors such as influences on health behaviors across generations and
      the potential impact parents have on initiating and maintaining food choices within their
      household and the influence of their family of origin on these choices. We have completed an
      evaluation of the FHP within a predominantly under-resourced, African American community.
      While the FHP was well received, participants suggested a need for an in-person,
      community-based, family history health education program centered around concepts presented
      in the FHP. To that end, we will develop and pilot test a health education program to
      introduce the FHP to the community. Additional evaluations may be conducted, as necessary, to
      improve the FHP and reach diverse populations.

      The paper-based version of the FHP will be translated into an electronic version, the Family
      Health ePortal (FHeP). Participants for the electronic Family Health ePortal (FHeP)
      Evaluation Phase will be recruited from the general population through local advertisement
      and posting on clinicaltrials.gov. Eligible participants will be consented and invited to
      access the FHeP. The initial FHeP Evaluation Phase participants will access the FHeP
      individually to provide feedback on the feasibility and acceptability of the FHeP materials
      through surveys and a semi-structured interview. After incorporating revisions, subsequent
      participants will be asked to invite their family members to access the FHeP and evaluate the
      FHeP materials. FHeP participants will provide demographic, diet, and health behavior
      information through pre- and post-test surveys as well as survey items within the FHeP.
      Additional evaluation waves may be conducted, as necessary, to improve the FHeP and increase
      reach to diverse populations.

      We anticipate that the outcomes of these evaluations will 1) provide us with an effective
      intervention tool for health education and minimizing disease risk within the family, and 2)
      inform future intervention research. Further study can be directed toward providing family
      members with appropriate tools to act as family genetic health educators in order to
      disseminate disease risk information and encourage health promoting behaviors.
    
  