
    
      Conducting work where exposure to trauma occurs requires specific resources and skillsets to
      manage the immense mental and emotional side effects that can arise. Notably, some nurses and
      personal support workers (PSWs) deal with trauma on a regular basis, yet often do not have
      access to such training. It is not surprising, then, that estimates of compassion fatigue and
      burnout are a staggering 40-60% among healthcare workers, This has been shown to have direct
      negative effects on personal wellness, patient care, workplace functioning, and the hospital
      system. Factors that contribute to compassion fatigue include being exposed to another's
      suffering and stressful work environments. Notably, the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated
      these factors. Furthermore, reduced staffing, increased exposure to trauma, and enhanced
      perceptions of workplace threat during a pandemic are additional factors that have been shown
      to significantly impact the mental health and wellness of frontline workers. The need for
      adequate supports for these frontline workers is essential during and beyond the COVID-19
      pandemic. The vast majority of workplace-based organizational interventions for mental health
      concerns among healthcare workers are delivered in a group setting, primarily focused on
      psychoeducation and stress reduction techniques.Very few programs include a component
      involving one-on-one psychotherapy with a licensed therapist, and when offered, it is
      typically an event-triggered counselling session (i.e., a therapist is made available to a
      participant in the case where they experience a traumatic stressor at work, such as a
      bereavement case or managing a patient with traumatic injury. Numerous editorials have been
      published since the start of the pandemic calling for mental health support for healthcare
      workers. Among the supportive measures that have been consistently recommended in these
      reports are the following: provide education on stress and mental health to validate
      experience; offer stress management, resilience and coping skills training; incorporate
      debriefing practices; facilitate morale boosting; and offer psychological support through a
      licensed therapist. We have developed the Supportive Trauma Exposure Preparation (STEP)
      program to address these unmet critical needs and suggested recommendations. The STEP program
      is an 8-week psychotherapy intervention designed to teach concepts, skills and coping
      strategies to healthcare workers with the aim of improving mental health and building
      resilience in the face of trauma/stress exposure in the healthcare workplace setting. This is
      a pilot study exploring the effectiveness and feasibility/acceptability of the STEP
      intervention in reducing burnout, building resilience and improving mental health outcomes
      for nurses and personal support workers at Providence Healthcare. The STEP program has the
      potential to be widely accessible and fit the demanding work schedule of healthcare workers.
      Such a program would be useful even beyond the pandemic, given the nature of the healthcare
      providers' work and what is known about the high prevalence and consequences of stress and
      compassion fatigue in the pre-COVID-19 pandemic context.
    
  