
    
      BACKGROUND:

      It is well known that cardiovascular disease is inversely associated with SES. However, SES
      may change over time and for socially mobile individuals it is not clear whether the
      association with cardiovascular disease (CVD) differs for early life SES vs. mid-life SES.
      Another issue is that an individual may have a relatively high income and/or wealth, but may
      live in a low SES neighborhood. It would be desirable to separate out the effects of
      individual level vs. aggregate level SES. Finally, there is limited evidence that the
      association of SES with CVD may vary according to ethnic group. The bi-ethnic character of
      the ARIC population makes it a fertile environment to test this hypothesis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Mechanisms will be identified which explain the strong inverse association between
      socioeconomic status (SES) over the life course and cardiovascular disease morbidity and
      mortality in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) , a bi-ethnic population-based
      sample of four U.S. communities. Health outcomes will include non-invasively measured
      subclinical cardiovascular disease, as well as fatal and non-fatal clinical disease
      manifestations ascertained over the course of 10 years of follow-up. Earlier life course
      socioeconomic status and measurements of current socioeconomic status and biomedical
      cardiovascular risk factors will be integrated with geocoded contemporary social
      environmental exposures to assess their impact on cardiovascular function, metabolic
      impairments, allostatic load, and subclinical and clinical disease. Multilevel analyses will
      be performed with the goal of identifying pathways by which socioeconomic status is related
      to cardiovascular disease, considering relevant health behavior, life styles, psychosocial
      stressors/support mechanisms, chronic infection/chronic inflammatory burden, autonomic
      nervous system dysfunction, and sustained metabolic impairments. The potential modification
      of the above associations by the social environment will be addressed by these analyses, as
      well as putative differences by gender and ethnicity.

      These staged analytic goals are made possible by linking Census-based indicators of the
      social environment to the rich data resources of the ARIC Study, a bi-ethnic, community-based
      sample of men and women aged 45-64 years at the time of their baseline examination in
      1987-1989. This cohort was re-examined every three years through January, 1999 with
      ascertainment of SES during childhood, early adulthood and in mid-life, health-relevant
      behaviors, numerous measurements of risk factors, and measures of subclinical cardiovascular
      disease such as carotid artery wall thickness, arterial distensibility, retinopathy, and
      lower extremity arterial disease. These data, as well as validated information on hospital
      discharge diagnoses and on cause-specific mortality accrued over 10 years of follow-up are
      available. Additional life course information on the members of the ARIC cohort will be
      collected during Year 1 of the study.
    
  