
    
      Dysfunction in endogenous pain inhibitory systems has been proposed as a factor in the
      development and maintenance clinical pain disorders particularly in Temporomandibular
      Disorder (TMD). Dysfunction has been observed with a model known as diffuse noxious
      inhibitory controls (DNIC), but other models that engage inhibitory systems (offset
      analgesia) have not been fully evaluated in chronic pain patients.

      DNIC evaluates an individual's capacity to engage endogenous pain inhibition. The paradigm is
      a spatial inhibition model based on the principle that "pain-inhibits-pain" in which pain in
      a local area is inhibited by a second pain that can be anywhere else in the body. DNIC is
      traditionally studied by observing a reduction of pain produced by a focal pain stimulus
      (contact heat) as a result of a second painful stimulus. Research from our lab and others
      suggests that pain inhibition is reduced in a number of chronic pain conditions. The
      investigators preliminary data suggests that pain inhibition during DNIC is modulated in part
      by endogenous opioids; however, results from other DNIC studies have been mixed. In addition,
      it is possible that reductions in the ability to engage endogenous inhibitory systems in
      chronic pain patients are due to a weakening of the endogenous opioid system. While
      pharmacological studies have been conducted with healthy cohorts, only one study has examined
      the opioid involvement in chronic pain patients.

      Offset analgesia is thought to reflect a form of temporal pain inhibition which is usually
      defined by three stimulus temperature phases: a baseline phase followed by a manipulation
      phase in which the temperature is briefly increased and returns to the baseline temperature
      during an "offset" phase. A reduction in pain ratings is observed approximately 15s after the
      temperature drop (third phase), which is ~50% lower than ratings at the same time point for
      "constant" trials that continued 48°C for 40s. No studies have examined offset analgesia in a
      chronic pain cohort or its sensitivity of opioid blockade.
    
  