
    
      Background and Rationale Axial spondyloarthritis (axial SpA) is an inflammatory arthritis
      characterised by inflammatory back pain and includes both ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and
      non-radiographic axial SpA. Axial SpA is associated with pain and stiffness in the spine
      and/or sacroiliac joints, reduced spinal mobility, fatigue, reduced physical activity,
      psychological consequences such as depression, and reduced function, work productivity and
      quality of life. Effective management in axial SpA requires a combination of pharmacological
      and non-pharmacological interventions. While there have been significant advances in
      pharmacological therapies, particularly with the introduction of TNF-inhibitors, there have
      been few advances in how physiotherapy and the non-pharmacological therapies are delivered.
      This is despite physiotherapy being recognised as the 'cornerstone' in the overall management
      of people with AS, in terms of both managing symptoms and maintaining function. Physiotherapy
      comprises of education and exercise programmes aimed at improving or maintaining spinal
      mobility, reducing spinal pain, increasing strength and stabilising or slowing down
      disability progression. Physiotherapy is required long-term and in combination with
      pharmacological therapies. A Cochrane Review in 2008 concluded that both home and supervised
      individual exercises were beneficial for people with AS, with group exercise more beneficial
      than home-based exercise. However, to be beneficial, exercise needs to be done at least five
      times per week, for at least 30 minutes per session and continued on a long-term basis.
      Patients with axial SpA are increasingly diagnosed and treated earlier, have reduced disease
      activity as a result of treatment with TNF-inhibitors and are more likely to be younger and
      in employment than was traditionally the case. For these reasons, patients find it difficult
      to attend and maintain regular traditional physiotherapy sessions, particularly in the
      long-term. Practically, then, exercise programmes must include some degree of home-based
      exercise since this level of exercise cannot be delivered on a long-term basis by the NHS or
      other services. Despite the requirement for regular physiotherapy, a recent NASS patient
      survey revealed that 60% of patients had not had physiotherapy in the previous 12 month
      period. There is therefore a need to find alternative service models which support and
      facilitate people with axial SpA to exercise regularly and on a long-term basis.

      The Office of National Statistics reported that 86% of the adult population (aged over 16
      years) in the UK had used the internet and 73% (36 million adults) used it on a daily basis.
      In addition, there are increasing numbers of people using the internet for health care
      information and resources. Thus the almost ubiquitous availability and use of the internet
      provides an ideal opportunity to deliver tailored, individualised, interactive exercise
      programmes for people with long-term conditions, including axial SpA. Web-based interventions
      are available 24 hours a day and thus the patient can choose the time and location in which
      they participate to suit their own personal circumstances. Physiotherapy-led, personalised
      web-based exercise therefore offers a potentially cost-effective mechanism to deliver this
      important long-term component in axial SpA and warrants evaluation.

      Two groups based in the Netherlands have examined web-based interventions to increase
      physical activity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA). Van Den
      Berg compared a 12 month individually targeted, physical intervention delivered online with
      12 months of general online advice and education regarding physical activity in people with
      RA. In addition, the intervention group received regular emails from the physiotherapist and
      also attended group meetings every 3 months. The study demonstrated that the intervention was
      effective in increasing the proportion of participants achieving the national physical
      activity recommendations compared to the general training group. There was no difference
      however in function or quality of life and the authors noted that the website usage reduced
      over time. The study by Bossen et al (2013) investigated an internet delivered physical
      activity programme but in patients with hip and/or knee OA. The Join2move programme was a
      nine-week programme of nine modules to be completed by the participant. The results showed an
      increase in physical activity and time spent in moderate intensity physical activity but not
      significantly more so than a waiting list control. The study reported high attrition rates
      which were attributed mainly to the fully automated nature of the intervention and absence of
      human contact or support. Thus there is some evidence for the use of web-based interventions
      to increase physical activity in people with RA or OA however no previous studies have
      investigated axial SpA nor regular physiotherapy delivered via the internet.

      We have developed a website in collaboration with patient groups and the Scottish Accessible
      Information Forum which is a platform for delivering individualised web-based physiotherapy
      (demonstration page: www.webbasedphysio.com (log in: testphysiopatient@gmail.com, password:
      password). We have evaluated the short term effectiveness of this approach (maximum of 12
      weeks) in a number of patient groups. Kelders et al. (2012) reported that not all users
      continue to use web-based interventions in the desired way and that as usage reduces so does
      the effectiveness of the intervention. Since the evidence base suggests that people with
      axial SpA should exercise five days per week, it is important to evaluate the
      compliance/adherence to this web-based physiotherapy programme over a longer period.

      Study Design Pilot cohort study

      Aim The aim of this prospective cohort study is to assess the feasibility, sustainability and
      acceptability of a 12 month individualised web-based physiotherapy programme in people with
      axial SpA.

      Research objectives

        -  Over a one year period how often do people with axial SpA use the web-based
           physiotherapy programme?

        -  What do people with axial SpA think of the web-based physiotherapy programme?

        -  What can we do to help people with axial SpA use the web-based physiotherapy programme
           long-term?

        -  What is the effect of one year of web-based physiotherapy on pain, stiffness, physical
           function, physical activity, quality of life and employment?

        -  Which patients are most likely to benefit from the web-based physiotherapy programme?

      Research questions Primary Research Questions

      • What are the four weekly compliance rates with this web-based physiotherapy programme over
      a one year period?

      Secondary Research Questions

        -  What are the views of users of this web-based physiotherapy programme?

        -  Why do people stop using this web-based physiotherapy programme?

        -  Is there an association between compliance and patient outcomes?

        -  What are the associations between baseline characteristics and compliance and/or patient
           outcomes?

        -  Which patients are most likely to benefit from the intervention?

        -  Does 12 months of web-based physiotherapy have the potential to positively alter pain,
           disease activity, functional ability, exercise capacity, quality of life, physical
           activity and employment in axial SpA?

      Plan of Investigation Fifty people with confirmed axial SpA, will receive 12 months of
      individualised, remotely monitored, web-based physiotherapy. They will be asked to do their
      exercise programme five times per week. The main outcome will be compliance to the programme
      measured every four weeks. Secondary outcomes (baseline, 6 and 12 months) are function,
      disease activity, spinal mobility, quality of life, exercise capacity, health status,
      employment, physical activity, and attitude and motivations toward exercise. Interactions
      with health care professionals and medication usage will be documented using a weekly paper
      diary. A smaller sample of 10 participants, a mixture of participants who do and do not
      adhere to their programme (a maximum variation sample), will be interviewed at 6 and 12
      months to gather their views of the web-based physiotherapy programme and factors affecting
      compliance.

      Website development The website consists of a home page, exercise pages, exercise diary and
      an advice/information section. Each exercise page within the website consists of a video
      demonstrating the exercise, text explaining the exercise, an audio description of the
      exercise and a timer. The site contains a catalogue of exercises, each with four levels of
      difficulty, as well as a warm up and cool down. The website can be easily accessed via a
      personal computer, tablet or smart television and will is customised for use for patients
      with axial SpA.

      The programme incorporates a number of behavioural change techniques known to be successful
      in promoting and maintaining exercise behaviour eg. goal setting and monitoring. We have
      mapped the behavioural change techniques within the current website with the Behaviour Change
      Techniques Taxonomy proposed by Michie et al. (2013). Currently the programme incorporates
      goals and planning, feedback and monitoring, shaping knowledge, natural consequences,
      comparison of behaviours, repetition and substitution and antecedents. The website is being
      continually revised and the functionality will be improved depending on the results of our
      other studies and also from the results of this mapping exercise. The current exercise
      catalogue has been adapted and expanded to include AS-specific exercises based on the popular
      Back to Action programme (http://nass.co.uk/back-to-action) produced by the National
      Ankylosing Spondylitis Society (NASS) (permission has already been granted by NASS) and
      specifically developed for patients with axial SpA. The NASS Back to Action programme is
      currently available as a pdf/app, so the proposed web-based physiotherapy programme differs
      in that it will be (a) individualised (b) based on effective behavioural change techniques
      (discussed above) and (c) interactive, being regularly monitored and altered remotely by the
      physiotherapist.

      Study sites NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde Health Board (Stobhill hospital, Gartnavel General,
      Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Southern General Hospital, Inverclyde Royal Hospital, New Victoria
      Hospital, Royal Alexandra Hospital).
    
  