
    
      This study will look at the effect of FBT on cognitive function in older adults.
      Additionally, the investigators aim to explore whether a single bout of aerobic exercise
      prior to Fit Brains training would magnify the training effect on both cognitive and brain
      outcomes.

      Objectives:

      1) To compare the effect of Fit Brains training (FBT) and the effect of a single bout of
      aerobic exercise prior to FBT (Ex-FBT) with a Balanced And Tone (BAT; control) program on
      cognitive performance in both older adults; 2) To explore the effect of FBT and Ex-FBT with
      BAT on brain structure and function i; 3) To explore whether the intervention effects (i.e.,
      FBT and Ex-FBT) are moderated by cognitive status (i.e., MCI or not); 4) To explore whether
      Ex-FBT has additional benefits compared with FBT; and 5) To explore whether potential
      benefits are maintained at 1-year follow-up.

      Research Method:

      The investigators will conduct an 8-week proof-of-concept, assessor single-blinded randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) with 120 older adults (i.e., 40 in each experimental group). A subset
      of participants will perform MRI scans at baseline and 8-weeks.

      To reduce bias, all assessors will be blinded to group allocation of participants.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the three groups (i.e., FBT, Ex-FBT, or
      SCT). Participants in the FBT group will be required to attend 3 formal training sessions per
      week, for 8 weeks, at the Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health or the Centre for Hip
      Health and Mobility. Each session will be for 60 minutes. Additionally, the participants will
      be asked to complete 3 additional one-hour training sessions at home per week. Thus, the
      participants will complete a total of 48 hours of cognitive training over 8 weeks.

      Participants who are randomized to Ex-FBT will be required to attend 3 formal training
      sessions per week, for 8 weeks, at the Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health or Centre
      for Hip Health and Mobility. Each session will be for 1 hour. The participants will start the
      training with a 15-minute walk outside. The 15-minute walk is followed by a 45-minute FBT
      session (FBT program). Additionally, participants will be asked to complete 3 additional
      1-hour training sessions at home (i.e., 15-minute walk followed by 45-minutes of FBT
      training). Thus, the participants will complete a total of 48 hours of cognitive + walking
      training over 8 weeks.

      Participants who are randomly assigned to the BAT group will be required to attend 3 formal
      training sessions per week, for 8 weeks, at both the Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain
      Health and/or the Centre for Hip Health and Mobility. Specifically, the participants will
      complete a total of 8 hours of sham cognitive training, 8 hours of sham exercise training
      (Centre for Hip Health and Mobility) and 8 hours of education over the 8 weeks. Thus, the
      participants will complete a total of 24 hours of sham training over 8 weeks.
    
  