
    
      Clinical procedure:

      For the operation standard procedures for anaesthesia, surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass
      will be used. This includes installment of a pulmonary artery catheter and performing a
      transesophageal echocardiography. For the purpose of this study additional TEE images and a
      transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) will be obtained in order to correlate different
      echocardiographic indices with haemodynamic measurements and investigate any differences
      between TTE and TEE measurements.

      Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE):

      Basic TTE will be performed after anaesthesia induction, before surgery commences and
      repeated immediately after arrival at the ICU.

      Image acquisitions from TTE:

        -  2D apical 4-chamber view for right ventricular fractional area change (RVFAC)

        -  M-mode tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE).

        -  M-mode lateral mitral annular plane systolic excursion (MAPSE) measurements

      Transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE):

      After probe placement and before commencing surgery a TEE will be performed. The probe will
      be left in place during surgery for continuous imaging. Standard views used for patient
      treatment will be acquired in accordance with the requirements of the treating
      anaesthesiologist and surgeon.

      Additional views will be added in order to obtain standard 2D measures, M-mode measures,
      spectral doppler measures, myocardial doppler tissue imaging, strain and 3D measures of RV
      function.

      Measurements will be performed at different stages throughout surgery following a period of
      relative hemodynamic stability defined as: 1 minute of no more than 10 beats/min variation in
      heart rate, maximum variation of 10 mmHg in mean arterial pressure, maximum variation of 3
      mmHg in central venous pressure and no change in administration of vasoactive drugs. If
      hemodynamic stability cannot be achieved an annotation comment will be entered.

      Time points for echocardiography:

      TEE will be performed at four different time points during and immediately after surgery:

      Stage 1: After induction of anaesthesia. Stage 2: After full sternotomy Stage 3: After
      completion of cardiopulmonary bypass Stage 4: Immediately after arrival at the ICU and will
      be repeated after each intervention

      Interventions Each intervention will be investigated separately and before each intervention
      the patient will return to hemodynamic baseline.

      Trendelenburg position for 5 minutes will be investigated. Following positive end-expiratory
      pressures will be investigated: 0 cm H2O, 5 cm H2O and 10 cm H2O.

      Following fractions of inspired O2 will be investigated: 0.5 and 1.0 for 10 minutes at each
      setting.

      Following pacemaker settings will be investigated: Atrioventricular pacing 10 bpm over the
      patients' intrinsic rhythm, atrial pacing 10 bpm over the patients' intrinsic rhythm,
      ventricular pacing 10 bpm over the patients' intrinsic rhythm
    
  