
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine if phytoestrogen intake affects breast cancer progression and survival in
           women with breast cancer.

        -  To consider the influence of other phytochemicals on breast cancer progression in these
           patients, using samples of patient blood and urine and patient-derived data.

        -  To develop a database of food, dietary supplements, and phytoestrogens based on data
           derived from these patients.

        -  To consider influences of diet and dietary supplements on quality of life of these
           patients.

        -  To measure 17 phytoestrogens in blood and urine samples from these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo blood and urine sample collection once a year for 5 years during routine
      clinical follow-up after breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. Blood samples are frozen for
      future analysis of body hormones, tumor markers, and immune reactions, as well as vitamins
      and plant chemicals reflecting patient diet and supplements. Blood samples are also analyzed
      for genetic studies of cancer risk factors and polymorphisms. Urine samples are analyzed for
      the presence of phytoestrogens and their metabolites by immunoassays, high performance liquid
      chromatography (HPLC), and mass spectrometry. Some samples are analyzed for estrogenic
      potency by the estrogen receptor-mediated chemical activated luciferase gene expression test
      to assess total plasma levels of estrogen-mimics not previously detected by the other tests.
      Phytochemicals are also assessed.

      Patients also complete a series of questionnaires once each year for 5 years and an EPIC
      7-day Food Diary in years 2 and 4 to assess the role of diet and lifestyle in breast cancer
      survival. The questionnaires include the EORTC Quality of Life-30 to assess lifestyle; the
      General Health Questionnaire 12 to assess general health and levels of anxiety; and up to two
      Food Frequency questionnaires to assess habitual dietary intake of phytoestrogens. Patients
      are also asked about their use of dietary supplements and complementary and alternative
      medicine.
    
  