
    
      Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is an immune-mediated necroinflammatory disease of the liver
      characterized by elevation of IgG, presence of characteristic autoantibodies, and
      histological feature of interface hepatitis. Standard therapy consists of a combination of
      corticosteroids and azathioprine, which is efficacious in 80% of patients. However, current
      treatment strategies are complicated by frequent relapse after drug withdrawal, medication
      intolerance, and refractory disease. Alternative medical therapy may be need for AIH.

      The potential for stem cells to differentiate into hepatocytes cells was recently confirmed.
      In particular, bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BM-MSC) transplantation has been
      applicated in the clinic for treat several human disease such as GVHD, cardiac injury and
      brain injury, and displayed good tolerance and efficiency. Recently, umbilical cord-derived
      MSCs (UC-MSC) has also been used to treat severe autoimmune diseases, such as immune
      thrombocytopenia, systemic lupus erythematosus, and therapy-resistant rheumatoid arthritis.

      The purpose of this study is to learn whether and how UC-MSC can improve the disease
      condition in patients with autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). This study will also look at how well
      UC-MSC is tolerated and its safety in AIH patients

      Participants in the study will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms:

      Arm A: Participants will receive 12 weeks of UC-MSC treatment plus conventional treatment
      (combination of corticosteroids and azathioprine) Arm B: Participants will receive 12 weeks
      of placebo plus conventional treatment. (combination of corticosteroids and azathioprine)
      UC-MSC will be prepared according to standard procedures and is collected in plastic bags
      containing anticoagulant. UC-MSCs are given via i.v. under sonography monitoring. After cell
      therapy, patients are followed up at week 12, 24, 36, 48, 72, 96. The evaluation of some
      clinical parameters such as the level of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST), γ-globulin, total bilirubin (TB), prothrombin time (PT), albumin
      (ALB), prealbumin (PA) and IgG, are detected at these time points. MELD score, Liver
      histology, treatment side effects, relapse rate and clinical symptoms were also observed
      simultaneously.
    
  