
    
      Background: Recent evidence suggested that individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD)
      demonstrated greater context-dependency during motor learning than age-matched non-disabled
      adults. Context-dependent learning (CDL) is a phenomenon that an individual demonstrates
      superior motor performance in the environmental context in which a task was originally
      learned and practiced, while the performance may decrease if carried out in a novel context.
      It has often been observed that after individuals with PD learned how to walk in a clinical
      setting, they appear to have difficulty generalizing the learned walking ability back to
      their home or community. To date, no effective intervention approaches have been designed to
      resolve this CDL for people with PD.

      One approach that could potentially reduce CDL is to practice a motor task in multiple
      contexts. Based on the research conducted with healthy young adults, learning a task in
      multiple contexts would make the participants less likely to rely on the inconsistent ambient
      contextual information. Multiple practice contexts could also facilitate the generation of
      stronger motor program and schema, leading to better transfer performance and less
      context-dependency. No studies to date have investigated the effects of multiple practice
      contexts on reducing CDL in people with PD. It is also not clear the characteristics of the
      participants who would benefit from this type of intervention.

      Objectives: This study aims to investigate the effects of gait training in multiple practice
      contexts on CDL in individuals with PD. Additionally, this study aims to identify the
      characteristics of the participants who benefit from the intervention.

      Methods: A total of 64 participants diagnosed with idiopathic PD will be recruited and
      randomized into 2 groups: Single-room and Two-room groups. The participants will receive
      one-on-one therapy including 45 minutes of treadmill training and 15 minutes of over-ground
      gait training for a total of 12 sessions. Throughout the 12 training sessions, the
      Single-room group will practice walking in the same room, while the Two-room group will
      receive gait training in 2 distinct rooms. All participants will be assessed by a blinded
      evaluator before, immediately after, and 4 weeks after the intervention. The participants
      will undergo a series of cognitive, motor behavioral, and neurophysiological examinations.
      Cognitive assessments will include measures of CDL, Montreal Cognitive Assessment, and the
      Stroop Color-Word test. Motor behavioral measures will include the Unified Parkinson's
      Disease Rating Scale, five times sit-to-stand test, 10-meter walk test, timed up and go test,
      the Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale, and Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39.
      Neurophysiological outcomes will be examined with transcranial magnetic stimulation to
      determine the changes in corticomotor excitability associated with the interventions.

      Group × time repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) and the partial eta square (η2)
      will be calculated to determine the intervention effects on the outcome measures. Multiple
      linear regression analyses will be performed to determine the demographic, cognitive and
      motor behavior, and neurophysiological characteristics of participants who benefit from the
      proposed interventions.
    
  