
    
      Background: Levodopa is the gold standard in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD).
      However, in low-income areas worldwide, most patients with PD cannot afford chronic therapy
      with levodopa. It is therefore mandatory to identify an interventional strategy designed to
      ease the economic burden of pharmacological management of PD in developing countries. A
      potential therapeutic option for them is the use of a legume called Mucuna Pruriens variant
      Utilis (MP), which has seeds containing high LD concentrations and grows spontaneously in all
      tropical and subtropical areas of the world, including South America, Africa and Asia. It is
      considered an invasive plant, as it grows rapidly without any particular measure needed to
      ensure its growth. The cost of home preparation of MP roasted powder is negligible and it is
      easy to store for a long time. LD was isolated from MP seeds for the first time in 1937 and
      its concentration therein was estimated to be 4-6%. MP is also known as Ayurvedic remedy for
      PD since ancient times.

      Preliminary data: Published studies in parkinsonian rats, primates and humans suggest that MP
      may be used to improve PD motor symptoms without major side effects.

      In a preliminary study, we analyzed 25 samples of MP from Africa, Latin America and Asia and
      measured the content in LD and anti-nutrients. We found that LD concentration in roasted
      powder samples was consistent with previous literature (median[Inter-Quartile Range]
      5.3%[5.17-5.5]) and found no harmful anti-nutrients in all MP samples.

      Study population: patients with diagnosis of idiopathic PD, including sustained response to
      levodopa and presence of motor fluctuations defined as predictable wearing-off, unpredictable
      ON-OFF fluctuations and sudden OFF periods.

      Setting: Clinica Niño Jesus, Santa Cruz (Bolivia). This setting is chosen because the local
      neurologist Dr. Janeth Laguna has long-term experience on MP therapy in patients with PD
      (approximately 10 years). She started using MP because patients living in rural areas asked
      her to use this cheap source of LD to reduce the monthly cost of anti-PD therapy. In her
      experience, J.L. never recorded any serious adverse event (personal communication).

      Preliminary Laboratory Test: The levodopa content in the powder obtained from roasted seeds
      of Bolivian black ecotype of MP was tested in a laboratory in Milan (Italy) and found to be
      5.7%. No alkaloids or major antinutrients were found.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to assess the efficacy of acute challenge of MP roasted powder
      compared to Levodopa formulations with a dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor (LD-DDCI) and without
      (LD+DDCI), and placebo. Levodopa dose with DDCI is administered at 3.5 mg/kg, while Levodopa
      without DDCI is administered at the equivalent dose. This conversion factor is 5-fold, based
      on published studies comparing clinical and pharmacokinetic Levodopa effects with and without
      a DDCI and a previous double blind study on MP in patients with PD. For example, 100mg of
      Levodopa plus DDCI (either Benserazide or Carbidopa) corresponds to 500mg of Levodopa without
      any DDCI, obtained by administration of 8.75 grams of MP roasted powder (considering 5.7% of
      Levodopa in the bolivian ecotype of MP). Levodopa dose from MP is planned to be administered
      at not only at the equivalent dose of LD+DDCI (i.e. 5-fold), but also at the lower dosage of
      3.5-fold.

      Design: double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled, crossover study of acute response to
      levodopa-based therapies Duration: 3-6 hours for each treatment arm.

      The secondary objectives include additional measures of efficacy of acute intake of MP as
      well as efficacy and safety of chronic use of MP as the only source of levodopa compared to
      optimized home LD+DDCI therapy. This latter part is performed after completion of the acute
      challenge part of the study.

      Design: single-blind, randomized, crossover study of chronic response to levodopa-based
      therapies.

      Duration: 8 weeks per treatment arm plus 3-week dose adjustment period. Initial
      levodopa-based therapy regimen (either MP therapy or Levodopa/Benserazide) may be adjusted
      for a period up to 3 weeks to optimize daily motor status during waking hours. After this
      period, patients enter the study and levodopa daily dose must be left unchanged throughout
      the 16-week course of the study.
    
  