
    
      The day before surgery the procedure will be explained to the patient and the written consent
      will be obtained. In the operating room, intraoperative monitoring will include
      electrocardiography (ECG), noninvasive blood pressure, oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry
      (SpO2) and heart rate (HR). Two peripheral intravenous catheters wil be placed for fluid
      replacement and administration of drugs.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the following groups:

      Group A: Women will receive 4 milligrams (mg) of ondansetron diluted in 100 milliliters (ml)
      of normal saline 0.9 percent 10 minutes before spinal anaesthesia

      Group B:Women will receive 8 mg of ondansetron diluted in 100ml of normal saline 0.9 percent
      10 minutes before spinal anaesthesia

      Group C:Women will receive 100ml of normal saline 0.9 percent 10 minutes before spinal
      anaesthesia

      Subsequently, after receiving 500ml of colloid solution, spinal anesthesia will be performed
      at level L3-L4 or L4-L5 in the vertebral space with 1.6ml of 0.75 percent ropivacaine and
      15mcg of fentanyl, using a 27-gauge pencil point spinal needle with patients in a left
      lateral position. After subarachnoid infusion, participants will be placed supine with left
      uterine displacement and anesthetic and motor blockage will be evaluated every one minute
      until anesthetic blockage reaches the level of T4 neurotome and the motor block becomes
      complete (Bromage grade 3). This time will be called Time to max effect (Tmax).

      Hypotension, defined as systolic blood pressure below 100 millimeters of Mercury (mmHg), will
      be treated using 5mg ephedrine if the heart rate is less than 100 beats per minute or with
      20mcg of phenylephrine if the heart rate is greater than 100 beats per minute. Bradycardia,
      defined as a fall in heart rate below 60 beats per minute will be treated with atropine
      (0.6mg).

      Immediately after the delivery of the neonate, all women will receive a solution of oxytocin
      (20 units) intravenously. Half an hour before the end of the procedure they will receive an
      additional 1g of paracetamol and 75mg of diclofenac.
    
  