
    
      This is a single-institutional, prospective study at the Johns Hopkins Hospital which will be
      conducted from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2018. All patients who present to the Johns
      Hopkins Hospital with a pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) for evaluation of treatment by
      chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and/or surgery will be approached to participate in this
      study, but only those who consent to the study will be included. All patients who consent to
      participate in this trial will have blood drawn (approximately 50 ml or 3-4 tablespoons) at
      the time of diagnosis but before any treatment had been administered. Further blood will be
      drawn after any treatment. For example, those patients that undergo surgical resection will
      also have blood drawn after resection prior to discharge. Those patients that undergo
      treatment with chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and or biologic/vaccine therapy will have
      blood drawn once after this treatment is completed. If a patient undergoes chemotherapy and
      then surgical resection, he or she will have blood drawn after chemotherapy but before
      surgical resection, and then again after surgical resection, all in addition to the
      pre-treatment blood sample (see schema included in IRB). For the first 2 years following
      surgery samples will be collected every 3-4 months. Beyond that the investigators will
      collect samples every 6 months for the next two years. For all patients found to be alive and
      disease free beyond 4 years after surgery samples will be collected once every year. This
      blood will be stored in the investigators' research facility and as such will be labeled with
      a de-identified code. If a patient refuses further blood draws at any time during the study
      or is loss to follow-up, the samples that have been collected will still be utilized.

      The blood will be processed on the day of collection, within 6 hours of being drawn. Twenty
      (20) ml of blood, collected in two purple topped tubes, will be used for isolation of
      circulating tumor cells (CTCs) through the Isolation by Size of Epithelial Tumor Cells assay
      (ISET), which separates tumor cells by size onto a membrane which can be used for further
      experiments. These 20 ml of blood will be mixed with ISET buffer per standard protocol and
      filtered through the ISET machine onto membranes. These membranes will be stored at -20
      degrees C under a de-identified number, and remain at these conditions for several years with
      full preservation of the cells. Further experiments will be done on these membranes, which
      include immunofluorescent staining, laser capture microscopy, and genetic analysis. The
      remaining 30 ml of blood, collected in red and purple topped tubes, will be processed by a
      standard protocol within 6 hours of collection. Blood will be double spun to remove white
      blood cells, and plasma and will be frozen. Driver gene mutations characterized in the
      resected tumors will be monitored by digital droplet Polymerase Chain Reaction (ddPCR),
      including the Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (k-ras), p53, p16/cdkn2a and the
      Deleted in Pancreatic Cancer-4 gene (DPC4/SMAD4) to identify the presence of ctDNA and
      whether levels are rising.

      Data will be collected, de-identified and analyzed as a single dataset at the Johns Hopkins
      Hospital. Data will be obtained from patient electronic and paper clinical charts from the
      John Hopkins Hospital starting on 1/1/2015, with only data in existence as of 1/1/2015
      collected. More specifically, radiology, chemotherapy, operative and pathology reports,
      discharge summaries, and clinic notes will be reviewed and data from these sources collected.
      For patients lost to follow-up, the Social Security Death Index (but will not need to collect
      social security numbers) will be searched for evidence of death. Collected patient data will
      be entered into a dedicated database. Data will only be collected in order to correlate
      outcomes and tumor characteristics with the biomarkers identified during this study.
      Following data accrual and prior to analysis, all personal identifiers will be deleted and no
      identifiable information will be present at the time of statistical analysis. The subject
      data generated will not appear in the subject's medical record and will be used for research
      purposes only. The data will be recorded in a password-protected, secure database within the
      Principal Investigator's office and will be accessible only by the key personnel. After all
      data for a particular subject is collected, the subject's identity will be deleted to assure
      confidentiality.

      The data that are collected in this study will not be used for the clinical management of any
      patient on study.

      Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

      The investigators will include all patients who present to the Johns Hopkins Hospital for
      treatment with a diagnosis of a pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Subjects will only be included if
      they are over the age of 18 year old and plan to undergo their treatment at the Johns Hopkins
      Hospital. All patients with non-primary pancreas tumors, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, or
      benign pancreatic masses will be excluded. Patients will be excluded if they have already
      undergone treatment of any kind at another institution.

      The investigators aim to include data from at least 200 patients over the three years of this
      study. The primary outcome will be the identify biomarkers in the blood from patients with
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma and the changes in these biomarkers over time in relation to
      treatment. These biomarkers will include specific antibodies, circulating tumor cells (CTCs)
      and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). Secondary outcomes will include the relationship of
      pre-treatment biomarker levels or changes in biomarker levels to disease-free and overall
      survival, risk of metastases, recurrence of disease and response to treatment. Patient,
      tumor, and surgical characteristics will be collected for all patients included in this
      study. Differences between characteristics will be statistically compared between patients.
      In addition, these characteristics will be analyzed as possible predictors of survival using
      univariate and multivariate analyses through the log-rank test and Cox-proportional hazard
      models. These characteristics will include:

        1. Patient and tumor clinical demographics including age, gender, race, primary tumor
           location, location of metastases, tumor grade, and Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 (CA19-9)
           levels pre- and post-chemotherapy and pre- and post-resection.

        2. Chemotherapy variables including type, number of cycles, response, and timing
           (neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant).

        3. Operative variables including type of resection, number of lymph nodes resected,
           vascular proximity of tumor, histopathology, and post-operative mortality and
           complications.

        4. Long-term variables including presence and location of recurrence and status
           (alive/dead).

        5. Levels of specific biomarkers at the various time points of blood draws.

        6. Numbers of circulating tumor cells at each time point in addition to genetic mutations
           present in the cells.

      For all patients, overall survival will be calculated as the time between the date of the
      first pre-treatment blood draw to the date of the last known follow-up visit or death,
      whichever comes first. For patients who undergo surgical resection the investigators will
      calculate time to disease recurrence as measured from the day of surgery for pancreatic
      resection to the date of documented disease recurrence or death, whichever comes first. Time
      to disease recurrence and overall survival will be described with Kaplan-Meier curves and
      will be compared by log-rank test. The 1- and 5-year overall survival rate will be estimated
      with its 95% confidence interval. Statistical significance will be set for a p-value at or
      below 0.05.

      The primary risks to this patient will be associated with the blood collection, but are no
      more than minimal given collection with be by venipuncture and no more than 50 ml will be
      taken at a time. The general risks associated with venous blood draw include bruising or
      minor bleeding at the site of venous puncture, which would be managed with the application of
      pressure.

      There will be no direct benefit to patients in this study, as results generated will not be
      used for management of these patients. This study has the potential to benefit future
      patients by identifying methods for early diagnosis of patients with pancreatic cancer and
      predicting overall survival, response to treatment, or risk of metastatic spread, and
      predicting recurrence of disease, all of which has the potential advantage of improving
      outcomes for this deadly disease.

      There will be no compensation given to subjects in this study. Costs in this study will be
      related to the cost of blood draws during various scheduled clinic visits. These will be
      minimal.

      All patients who agree to participate in this study will be required to sign a consent form
      for the collection, storage, and use of their blood.
    
  