
    
      Diabetes mellitus is an important risk factor for foot ulcers often leading to minor or even
      major amputations, all with functional impairment.

      The pathophysiology of diabetic foot wounds is multifactorial, and a combination of treatment
      modalities is required to accomplish wound healing. As such, infection control (by means of
      surgery as well as antibiotics), off-loading and revascularization all contribute to a
      successful outcome.

      Wound healing invariably requires some degree of tissue regeneration, which is an anabolic
      process that requires ample access to nutrients and energy. In spite of malnutrition being
      detrimental to wound healing, the nutritional status of the diabetic foot patient is rarely
      taken into account when devising up a treatment regimen. This is remarkable, as diabetic
      patients are prone to inadequate energy intake because of three important reasons.

      First, they lack insulin, which is considered the main anabolic hormone of the body. Insulin
      regulates the uptake, storage and conversion of several crucial nutrients, like
      carbohydrates, fats and proteins, and plays such a pivotal role in energy house holding that
      diabetes affects almost all cellular processes in the body. Second, diabetic patients are
      invariably put on a dietary regime in order to maintain strict glycemia control. This
      requires a patient to schedule meals at very regularly timed intervals, of consistent caloric
      quantity. In addition, dietary intake has to be adapted to prior or scheduled physical
      exercise. The primary objective of a diabetes diet being glycemia control may consequently
      mean that it falls short as an optimal regimen for wound healing.

      Third, diabetic foot patients that undergo surgery frequently deviate from their customary
      diet. Fasting is often mandatory for anesthesia, and is usually prolonged due to neuropathic
      gastroparesis. Antibiotics may interfere with gastro-intestinal uptake. Hypermetabolic stress
      due to infection or surgery may temporarily increase energy expenditures.

      Low-extremity ulcers are an important health issue, with an extended impact on patients and
      health. Nutrition as a therapeutic intervention is well established in several domains of
      medicine, such as the treatment of critically ill patients. A nutritional treatment can alter
      outcome, when performed in an individualised, patient-tailored setting.

      In a randomized prospective way, the investigator's research group proved patient relevant
      outcome changes when an adequate nutritional therapy was applied: newly diagnosed cancer
      patients experienced significant less unplanned hospital admissions and saw a decline in the
      need of dose reduction of their anticancer treatment, as well as a rise in survival. A
      similar success was seen in a prospective intervention in patients planned for cardiac
      surgery: a program of close clinical monitoring and interventions by the use of dietary
      modifications, oral supplements or enteral or parenteral nutrition (or a combination thereof)
      resulted in a better survival of female patients and a lowered infection rate in male and
      female CABG and valve surgery patients. There were less episodes of postoperative arrhythmia,
      and the pneumonia rate went down.
    
  