
    
      The investigators would like to assess a cohort of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
      infected individuals at the Ian Charleson Centre, Royal Free Hospital to assess the rates of
      latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) using both tuberculin skin test (TST) and interferon
      gamma release assay (IGRA), systematically investigating for active tuberculosis (TB) with a
      symptom questionnaire and chest X ray, and test for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTb) in their
      sputum, both coughed up spontaneously where possible and by inducing sputum using a saline
      nebuliser and testing this using microscopy and culture (the established method for detecting
      MTb), nucleic acid amplification testing (using Xpert.TB, a new genetic test for TB that
      decreases the time required for detection) and a novel 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (RNA)
      test, used to look for TB burden.

      A cohort of people with HIV infection will be invited to take part in the study. Subjects
      will have varying place of origin, TB exposure risk, blood cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4)
      cell count, HIV viral load, exposure to antiretroviral drugs used to treat HIV. All patients
      with a new diagnosis of HIV will be invited, as will a group of subjects already undergoing
      HIV care (selected by stratified sampling) in order to recruit 180 subjects originating from
      sub-Saharan African countries and 120 from lower TB incidence countries (such as the United
      Kingdom, UK and Western Europe). The study is powered to detect a difference between all
      forms of TB infection in subjects from sub-Saharan Africa to those from the UK (or other low
      TB prevalence countries) with 80% power, allowing a 5% type I error.

      The participants will be recruited and a questionnaire, X ray, sputum induction, TST and IGRA
      can be taken in one visit. They will need to return 48--72 hours later to have the TST read
      on their arm. Those with evidence of LTBI (with positive TST or IGRA) will be invited to
      TB/HIV clinic and quality of life scores recorded as part of the study.

      Research Questions:

        1. To determine the feasibility, yield and cost--effectiveness of testing for M.
           tuberculosis infection in UK HIV infected individuals.

        2. To determine the prevalence of subclinical and active TB in a UK HIV infected clinic

        3. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of systematic screening questionnaires for
           detecting cases of active TB outside of high TB prevalence settings

        4. To determine concordance between TST and blood IGRA (T-Spot.TB) in latent TB infection

        5. To identify risk factors for latent TB infection in the clinic population

        6. To determine the underlying frequency of airways disease (using spirometry) and of
           respiratory symptoms

        7. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of 'Xpert MTB/RIF' polymerase chain
           reaction (PCR) testing of sputum and induced sputum compared to mycobacterial microscopy
           and culture

        8. To compare the Molecular Bacterial Load (MBL) assay, based on 16S rRNA, and other
           available molecular assays, with Xpert MTB/RIF for detection of Mtb

        9. To determine quality of life scores (EQ-5D) for those with HIV infection, with and
           without latent TB infection and/or undergoing treatment

           On those with evidence of LTBI:

       10. To determine uptake of latent TB therapy (6 months isoniazid treatment)

       11. To determine cost of latent TB treatment (including screening costs, clinic time)

       12. To determine quality of life and rate and severity of adverse events on latent TB
           treatment

       13. To determine rate and time until active TB in those with LTBI on or off antiretroviral
           therapy (ART) and/or isoniazid prophylaxis

           In all patients (over 20 year follow up):

       14. To determine the rate of incident active TB

       15. To determine the time until progression to active TB with in patients with abnormal
           radiographic changes consistent with old tuberculosis exposure or disease

      Data will be generated by the Research team and University College London (UCL) Statistics
      team.
    
  