
    
      The proper knowledge of anatomical structures and their precise position is of a paramount
      importance for different dental specialties. The inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) canal is one
      of the most important anatomical landmarks in the mandible Shaban et al., 2017. By definition
      the inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) is a terminal division of the mandibular branch of the
      trigeminal nerve, it is confined within the mandibular canal and innervates all the
      mandibular teeth. The IAN initiates from the mandibular foramen and goes obliquely downward
      and forward in the ramus, and then horizontally within the body of the mandible. The IAN
      gives off the mental nerve, which exits the mandible through the mental foramen, supplying
      sensory branches to the chin, lower lip, mucous membranes and the gingiva; from the midline
      to about the second premolar region. It then continues its path anteriorly and turn into the
      mandibular incisive nerve, which innervates the mandibular canines and incisors Siddiqui et
      al. 2018. Before leaving the mental foramen and branching into the incisive nerve, the IAN
      may continue anteriorly and form an anterior loop (Al). This anterior loop is the part where
      the IAN directs mesially and occlusally before reversing direction and coursing distally
      towards the mental foramen Ragu et al., 2019. During implant planning and other surgical
      procedures knowing the presence of the anterior loop and its length is very crucial to avoid
      its injury. Specially concerning implantology where the location of the mental foramen and
      anterior loop determines the most distal point for implant placement in the interforaminal
      area; in order to avoid any injury resulting in sensory disturbances in this area Panjnoush
      et al., 2016 Recently, several studies have been published discussing the prevalence and
      length measurement of the anterior loop in many populations. However, no published researches
      were done on the Egyptian population. Therefore, this study is designed to assess the
      presence of the anterior loop and its length in a sample of Egyptian population using CBCT.
    
  