
    
      The overall survival of patients with pancreatic cancer (PC) is dismal and has only improved
      slightly during the last decades primarily due to combination chemotherapy. Early detection
      of PC is difficult and less than 25% of all PC patients are operated. No validated biomarkers
      to identify PC at an early stage and to predict treatment outcomes in the individual patient
      exist. The objective of the present study is to find diagnostic, prognostic and predictive
      biomarkers, which can be used to 1) diagnose PC early in the disease course with high
      specificity and sensitivity, 2) improve prognostication, or 3) predict and monitor treatment
      effectiveness and tolerability for the individual patient.

      BIOPAC is an observational and translational open cohort study with prospective collection of
      biological materials and clinical data in patients with PC treated in routine care and also
      patients who were suspicious for malignancy in the pancreas but then operated without
      evidence of malignancy. Patients contribute with blood samples (i.e. serum, EDTA plasma and
      buffy coat, and blood in PAXgeneRNA tubes) before operation or start of adjuvant or
      palliative chemotherapy and during treatment with blood sampling before 2. cycle of
      chemotherapy and longitudinally every time of CT scan until disease progression. This
      schedule is repeated if patients are treated with subsequent lines of chemotherapy. The
      patients are followed until death. Demographics, disease characteristics, comorbidities and
      lifestyle factors are registered at inclusion; weight and performance status at each
      treatment cycle; routine blood tests (i.e. haematology, creatinine, liver enzymes, bilirubin,
      carbohydrate antigen 19-9, C-reactive protein); type of operation; types of chemotherapy and
      number of cycles given; date of disease recurrence in operated patients; date of disease
      progression for each line of chemotherapy; and date of death. Biomarker analyses will include
      a range of molecules with different characteristics such as DNA, Single Nucleotide
      Polymorphism (SNPs), RNA, microRNA, proteins and metabolites. Data will be analysed using
      appropriate methods and statistical analyses.
    
  