
    
      The Neurologic AIDS Research Consortium (NARC) designs and carries out clinical trials to
      improve the therapy for HIV induced neurologic disease, and neurologic conditions associated
      with the AIDS virus.

      Complications of HIV are dynamically evolving over time. In general, neurologic complications
      that typically occur in advanced disease stages are increasing in incidence while some of the
      early complications associated with AIDS are less commonly found due to improved preventive
      therapy. The impact of the new generation of antiretroviral drugs, and of predominantly
      multi-drug therapy remain to be seen. Several key new drugs fail to penetrate the brain, thus
      making it possible for the incidence of neurologic disease to continue to increase. NARC
      develops studies based on the current challenges of the AIDS epidemic.

      Erythropoetin (also known as epoetin alfa or Procrit) is naturally produced in the body.
      Procrit or epoetin alfa is an injectable form of synthetic erythropoietin. In this trial,
      scientists will evaluate the effect of epoetin alfa on HIV-associated neuropathy by measuring
      changes in nerve fiber density and pain ratings. The goal of the trial is to determine if
      epoetin alfa increases the number of nerve fibers in the skin of people with HIV-associated
      neuropathy, and improves symptoms of neuropathy. This study will also find out if Procrit is
      safe and well-tolerated for treating the painful neuropathy associated with HIV.

      After two screening visits, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:
      group 1 will receive Procrit once every three weeks, and group 2 will receive Procrit every
      week. Follow-up treatment visits will occur at weeks 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48. During the
      visits, participants will have their blood pressure and heart rate measured. During several
      of the follow-up visits participants will be asked to rate the intensity of their pain using
      the Gracely Pain Scale and the McGill Pain Questionnaire. Duration of this trial for
      participants is 52 weeks or 1 year.
    
  