
    
      After a complex resection for breast cancer (e.g. mastectomy), a microvascular flap
      reconstruction can be used to fill up the tissue defects. A deep inferior epigastric artery
      perforator (DIEP)-flap is one of the most used microvascular flap reconstructions. Skin and
      fat from the abdomen are used to reconstruct a new breast.The success ratio of this type of
      surgery is high, more than 95%. Nevertheless, free flap failure can have disastrous
      consequences.The flap can be injured by surgical factors such as vascular complications.This
      is one of the major concerns and it usually occurs in the first hours after surgery. The
      success rate of the free flap depends on the continuous arterial inflow and the venous
      outflow through the new microvascular anastomoses. Thrombosis, kinking or external
      compression on the micro- and macrovascular blood vessels can cause necrosis of the flap. It
      is essential to recognize these complications as fast as possible to maximize the potential
      for flap salvage. Physical examination is still the gold standard for flap monitoring.
      However this monitoring is subjective, labor intensive and requires experience. Because of
      these disadvantages, a more objective method is desirable. In this suggested project, the
      flap will be monitored with FORE-SIGHT ELITE monitor( CAS Medical Systems incorporated)
      during the first 12 hours postoperatively. In this period most complications occur. The
      FORE-SIGHT ELITE Absolute Tissue Oximeter is a non-invasive device that measures absolute
      tissue oxygen saturation. It operates on the principle that blood contains hemoglobin in two
      primary forms, oxygenated hemoglobin (HbO2 ) and de-oxygenated hemoglobin (Hb), which absorb
      near-infrared light in different, measurable ways.The FORE-SIGHT ELITE incorporates CAS
      Medical Systems exclusive technology to project harmless near-infrared light in five precise
      wavelengths (690, 730, 770, 810 and 870 nanometer). An algorithm analyzes the reflected
      wavelengths. The algorithm is specially designed for the tissue with attention to unique
      characteristics of the tissue. Reflected light is captured by detectors positioned on the
      sensor for optimal signal collection. After analyzing the reflected light, the FORE-SIGHT
      ELITE displays the tissue oxygen saturation level on the monitor as an absolute number and
      provides a graphical representation of historical values.The FORE-SIGHT ELITE has been
      validated to determine cerebral tissue oxygen saturation amongst other in brain surgery.
      Tissue oxygen saturation (StO2) levels are determined by the ratio of oxygenated hemoglobin
      to total hemoglobin at the microvascular level (arterioles, venules, and capillaries) in the
      region to which the sensor is applied. This technique is called Near Infrared Spectroscopy
      (NIRS).Validated use of NIRS would be a major advantage to detect ischaemia in DIEP flaps. In
      the study pediatric sensor size is used to ensure proper depth of light penetration in a
      limited operating zone. By application of small neonatal sensors ( Foresight®-sensors
      (CASMED, Branford, CT, USA), on unilateral or bilateral DIEP flaps,light penetrates at 1.25cm
      depth.This reflects the perfusion and the oxygen consumption in the free flap.

      A control pediatric sensor is placed on the abdomen where tissue is taken to perform the DIEP
      flap. This sensor reflects the normal tissue oxygenation of the patient. NIRS uses this
      technology for the detection of ischemia and hypoxia. It is a real-time, continuous,
      non-invasive method.
    
  