
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare rates of recurrent use (surrogate for
      abuse liability and likeability) of Morphine Sulfate Immediate Release,
      Oxycodone/Acetaminophen (Percocet), and Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen (Vicodin) at discharge from
      the ED (by comparing a percentage of patients in each group at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months
      that are still using the same opioid analgesics for presumably non-medical use.

      Objective and Hypothesis:

      The outcome of the study is to evaluate and compare the rates of recurrent use of prescribed
      opioids at discharge from the ED by comparing a percentage of patients in each group at 1
      month, 3 months and 6 months that are still using the same opioid analgesics for presumably
      non-medical use that will be used as a surrogate for comparison of abuse liability and
      likeability. Our goal is to prove that MSIR will have the lowest recurrent use rates at
      specified time periods than Percocet and Vicodin and that MSIR should be considered as the
      opioid of choice at discharge from the ED. Our hypothesis is that MSIR is associated with
      lower number of patients with recurrent use at specified time periods than Percocet and
      Vicodin due to the lesser abuse liability and likeability.

      Methodology:

      This is a prospective randomized, clinical trial comparing recurrent use of Morphine Sulfate
      Immediate Release (MSIR), Oxycodone/Acetaminophen (Percocet), and Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen
      (Vicodin) at discharge from the ED for opioid-naive adult patients presenting with
      moderate-to-severe pain. At discharge, patients will be randomized to receive either 5 mg of
      Oxycodone/Acetaminophen (Percocet) tablet 4 times a day for 5 days, 5 mg of
      Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen (Vicodin) tablet 4 times a day for 5 days, or 15 mg Morphine
      Sulfate Immediate Release (MSIR) tablet 4 times a day for 5 days. At 1 month, 3 months, and 6
      months patients' prescription's history will be accessed by using the DoctorFirst Drug
      Database to determine the recurrent use that will serve as a surrogate marker of likeability
      and abuse liability of each prescribed opioid.

      Statistical Analyses:

      The nominal variables will be presented as percentages with confidence intervals (CIs), and
      continuous variables will be presented as means with SDs, or medians with interquartile
      ranges when appropriate. The odds ratios of recurrent use will be compared with logistic
      regression to adjust for age, sex, race, chief complaint, and opioid prescription filling. In
      addition, to test for proportional difference with respect to recurrent opioid use, we will
      use a Pearson Chi-square test.
    
  