
    
      This is a single centre, randomised, double-blind, parallel group study (3-Arm) of healthy
      subjects aged 18-30 years designed to demonstrate whether two active lactobacilli in the
      Experimental Gingivitis Model modify plaque accumulation, gingival status, immunological and
      microbial markers compared to placebo. Participants will be screened at a pre-baseline visit
      by a Study Dentist to determine their suitability for the study which will include healthy
      volunteers and exclude subjects with initial signs of gingival inflammation. Those volunteers
      considered to be suitable for the study will receive a pre-baseline dental prophylaxis.
      Participants will be required to return to the Study Centre 14 days following the screening
      visit and volunteers who comply with all the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      randomly allocated to one of three treatment groups at the baseline visit. Two of the groups
      will receive one of two probiotics containing either Lactobacillus (A) or Lactobacillus (B).
      The third group will receive placebo (P) which does not contain any active ingredient. Each
      subject will receive a fluoride toothpaste (Colgate Regular) and toothbrush (Oral-B) at the
      pre-baseline visit to reduce any carry-over (anti-microbial) effects from their normal
      toothpaste usage.

      The initial brushing with the gum shield in place will be conducted under supervision by the
      study staff at the study centre to enable participants to be familiar with using the gum
      shield during their unsupervised brushing at home. Each participant will be given both verbal
      and written instructions, to enable them to correctly insert the gum shield under
      supervision; the placement of the gum shield will be checked by a study staff member,
      followed by supervised brushing of the upper teeth.

      At the baseline visit those participants who fulfil the inclusion/exclusion criteria will
      receive a fluoride toothpaste (Colgate Regular) and toothbrush (Oral-B) for use throughout
      the duration of the study. All treatments will be unsupervised at the subject's home.
      Participants will be provided with a participant diary at the screening visit to check for
      compliance with tooth brushing throughout the study period. At the baseline visit those
      volunteers who successfully completed the inclusion/exclusion criteria will continue to
      complete the participant diary for compliance with twice daily tooth brushing, the test and
      control products and the placement of the gum shield over the lower teeth when brushing the
      upper teeth during the study. Those participants who fail to satisfy the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will return the diary together with the fluoride toothpaste and toothbrush at the
      baseline visit.

      Participants will be instructed to abstain from all methods of tooth cleaning in the lower
      (mandible) jaw for two weeks apart from the fluoride toothpaste provided by the study centre.
      A soft acrylic stent (gum shield) will be fabricated to cover the teeth in the lower jaw
      (mandible) whilst brushing the teeth in the upper (maxilla) jaw and will be removed 10
      minutes after brushing. The soft stent can be easily inserted and removed without disturbance
      of the developing plaque whilst ensuring participants do not brush their lower teeth and thus
      disrupt plaque formation. Modified Gingival Index (MGI) (Lobene et al. 1986) assessments will
      be undertaken prior to the other assessments as this is non-invasive assessment. At baseline
      and after two weeks (+ 14 days) four sites/tooth (mesial, mid-buccal, distal and lingual)
      will be probed using the Gingival Bleeding Index [GBI]) as defined by Saxton & van der
      Ouderaa (1989) to assess the health status of the gingiva. Probing following one week of
      plaque accumulation will be avoided as bleeding in the gingival crevice may influence the
      developing biofilm. Non-invasive samples of gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) will however, be
      collected at all-time intervals before the BOP measurements or plaque sampling as the volume
      of GCF (Kistler et al. 2013) has been shown to increase before the development of clinically
      evident inflammation e.g. GBI. The GCF samples will be collected from the mesio-buccal sites
      of 4 selected sites (two teeth in each quadrant of the lower [mandible] jaw) on perio strips
      (ProFlow Inc. Amityville, NY) (Thunell et al. 2010). The strip will be applied in the
      gingival sulcus for 30 seconds to collect a standardised GCF fluid sample. The GCF samples
      will be pooled from 4 sites of each participant as indicated above at each time point and
      analysed on an individual basis. The number of sites with clearly visible plaque following
      the disclosing of the teeth in the lower (mandible) jaw (modified Quigley-Hein) (Turesky et
      al. 1970) will be recorded. Plaque will be collected from the buccal and lingual surfaces of
      teeth in the lower (mandible) jaw excluding 3rd molars from each participant using a sterile
      curette and placed in tubes with saturated saline-DMSO buffer. The plaque samples, and GCF
      samples in tubes with Phosphate Buffered Saline (PBS), will be transported on dry ice and
      stored at -80°C. All assessments and sample collection will be undertaken by trained and
      calibrated personnel. After two weeks, all participants who complete the study will receive a
      dental prophylaxis following the collection of samples and will be asked to resume their
      normal oral hygiene regime.
    
  