
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, and because
      no specific treatment is available, early acknowledgment is needed. The incidence of AKI and
      chronic kidney disease (CKD) have been increasing over time but it is not until the past
      decade there is an understanding of a bidirectional nature between AKI and CKD, where AKI
      predisposes to CKD and vice versa. The criteria for diagnosing AKI is through serum
      creatinine (sCr) and/or urine output. As detection of sCr-increases are delayed by 48-72
      hours it is not an optimal biomarker for early recognition of AKI. In contrast the biomarker
      neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) has shown to predict AKI within 12h of
      critical disease or postoperative, and without the requirement of prior measurements for
      comparison.

      The purpose of the project is to investigate if the relatively new biomarker NGAL (neutrophil
      gelatinase-associated lipocalin), which is known to be able to detect AKI in an early phase,
      can be used to detect development of CKD and potential future hospital admissions in a
      relatively large and diverse cohort of patients admitted to the Acute Emergency Department at
      North Zealand Hospital.

      The study is designed as a longitudinal prospective study where there is an enrollment
      estimation of 3600 unselected patients over one year. Blood tests will be taken when admitted
      and thereafter every day for the first week and subsequently every once a week throughout
      hospitalization. Patients that are sent home the same day, will still be included in the
      study but without further NGAL analyses. There will be follow-up time in all patients
      included in the study, up to one year after admission through the Danish National Patient
      Register and medical journals to see if the patients are reinstated, what they are diagnosed
      with and if they have had other hospital contacts. This will further be done to examine if
      NGAL is better at predicting the number of hospital contacts, up to one year after discharge.

      Primary endpoint:

      If NGAL can predict development of CKD defined as eGFR < 60ml/min per 1.73 m^2 and/or
      albumin/creatinine ratio >= 30mg/g over 3 months in patients upfilling the AKI criteria with
      a delta-creatinine >= 26,5 umol/l during the initial hospital admission, within one year from
      first admission. Cystatin C values will be compared to NGAL.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  The risk assessments (risk factor and risk patients) described by The Danish Society of
           Nephrology will be operationalized and interpreted. The data will be collected from
           medical records, Danish National Patient Registry (DNPR) and Danish Register of Causes
           of Death (DRCD) in patients with AKI.

        -  Patients meeting >= 1 of the either "risk factors" or "risk patients" in risk of
           developing AKI and with a delta-creatinine >=26,5 l mol/L and/or an sCr increase by 50%
           in seven days during the primary hospital stay, will be compared with NGAL and
           information from medical records, hospital discharge diagnosis, DNPR and DRCD.
    
  