
    
      The purpose of this project is to validate quantitative lung structure assessment using an
      automated analysis software (VIDA), for application to low dose computed tomography (LDCT)
      acquired for lung cancer screening. Currently the software runs on standard dose CT data. In
      addition, it is the plan to incorporate algorithms into the software to address assessment of
      any identified pulmonary lesions.

      The Lung Cancer Screening Clinic is a new program that screens a group of patients that meet
      a predetermined criteria, set by the program, for lung cancer. At this time primary care
      providers, within the UIowa network, have the ability to place an order for this screening
      process for their patients. The hope is to expand this program to any primary care provider
      in the future. Clinic staff look over the patients past medical history to determine if they
      fit the clinic criteria.

      For this study, the study team will ask the patients seen in the lung cancer screening clinic
      at the University of Iowa to undergo an additional standard dose CT scan during that same
      visit(for comparison/validation of the software performance). For those subjects that agree
      to participate, the study team will also ask to collect the data and CT scans that were also
      collected for their clinical Lung Cancer Screening visit. For this group the study team will
      also ask to collect all medical records associated with nodules found at this Lung Cancer
      Screening visit.

      The study team propose to test the performance of VIDA's existing image analysis tools for
      the assessment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), when applied to the LDCT data
      acquired for lung cancer screening. The study team will also develop new lung nodule
      evaluation functions to specifically address the clinical needs within the at-risk lung
      cancer patient population.

      To carry out the work, the study team propose two specific aims:

        1. Validate VIDA's quantitative computed tomography (QCT) metrics for COPD and emphysema
           utilizing the lung cancer LDCT screening cohort as compared to the standard quantitative
           high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scanning protocol. With collaboration between
           the University of Iowa and VIDA, the study team will establish a tightly controlled, CT
           data acquisition protocol in our local lung cancer screening program. Data collected
           will incorporate thin-slice and iterative reconstructions, breath coaching to target
           lung inflation levels for patients and HRCT data acquisition in a sub-cohort. The VIDA
           analysis will be refined and the appropriate reconstruction setting identified such that
           the outputs from the LDCT data correlate to the HRCT (current standard) outputs.

        2. Complete and refine development of VIDA's novel lung nodule segmentation algorithm for
           solid and non-solid nodules using the standardized lung cancer LDCT screening protocol.
           Automated nodule segmentation in CT scans is challenging due to border ambiguity with
           neighboring structures (such as vessels and the pleura), poor boundary contrast of more
           subtle nodules, and noise associated with LDCT. The study team will develop a novel
           method that robustly segments pulmonary lesions by allowing mutual interaction between
           the nodules and surrounding structures, leading to a highly accurate segmentation with
           less manual corrective actions for a high volume lung cancer screening workflow.
    
  