
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is a leading infectious cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide,
      accounting for 10 million new cases and 1.6 million deaths in 2017. The disease burden is
      disproportionately concentrated in low- and middle-income countries with over 95% of TB
      deaths contributed by these regions. In 2016, the number of new TB cases was estimated at 10
      million, and nearly 40% remained undiagnosed. Limited access to health care, high treatment
      cost, and social stigma of TB contributed to delayed detection and poor treatment uptake.
      Other risk factors such as poor living conditions and overcrowding further perpetuated the
      transmission of TB, which, in turn, leads to social and economic insecurity. Cambodia is one
      of the countries with the world's highest burden of TB, with an estimated incidence of active
      TB of 326 (95% CI: 224-447) per 100,000 population in 2017. Through the years, TB control
      programs in Cambodia has achieved significant milestones made possible by committed partners
      and focused efforts at the grassroots, national, and international level. In 2016, the TB
      incidence was approximately half of that in the year 2000, and a similar decline was observed
      in the TB mortality rate. Furthermore, the country has made notable progress in the fight
      against TB by achieving a treatment success rate of 94%, one of the highest among the 30 high
      TB burden countries.

      However, the successes are impeded by a significant proportion of undiagnosed cases.
      Globally, it is estimated that 36% of the TB cases were undiagnosed in 2017, and a similar
      proportion is observed in Cambodia. Traditionally, TB cases are captured and passively
      notified when people with TB present themselves to a health facility. In recent years, a more
      proactive strategy to increase TB case notification, namely active case finding (ACF) has
      gained traction and is reported to be effective. Alongside passive case finding (PCF), the
      ACF strategy has been adopted by countries affected by the epidemic, including Cambodia, to
      reach people with TB effectively. Nevertheless, despite increased efforts to improve case
      detection, TB case finding remains a great challenge due to limited resources, geographical
      barriers, and social stigma. The current approaches rely solely on skilled healthcare workers
      and community health volunteers to find TB cases. Its utility and sustainability, in the long
      run, have yet to be substantially demonstrated.

      Empirically, a snowball approach (seed-and-recruit mechanism) has been widely accepted to
      reach concealed populations such as populations who are at-risk for HIV in many countries,
      including Cambodia, due to its practical feasibility. A community-based peer-led strategy as
      such has been an inherent component in HIV responses worldwide, and successes have been
      reported. However, little is known about the feasibility and effectiveness of ACF with the
      snowball model in improving TB case notification. However, given the comparable hard-to-reach
      nature of HIV and TB populations, it is a concept worth exploring. In partnership with KHANA,
      the National Center for Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control (CENAT), and the Cambodia
      Anti-Tuberculosis Association (CATA), this project seeks to examine the effectiveness of
      different ACF strategies in increasing TB case notification in the community and its impact
      on treatment outcome. This project is congruent with the global plan to end TB. and the
      Global Fund's strategy 2017-2022 by informing sustainable and evidence-based solutions for TB
      control in Cambodia.

      We will conduct a cluster randomized controlled trial with four arms comparing ACF with the
      seed-and-recruit model, other ACF approaches, and PCF approach in eight operational districts
      in Cambodia. The project will be carried out over two years. ACF with the seed-and-recruit
      model by KHANA, ACF targeting household and neighborhood contacts by CENAT, ACF targeting the
      older population using mobile screening units by CATA will be implemented in the intervention
      arms and PCF will be implemented in the control arm. These case finding strategies have been
      piloted in Cambodia, and they are endorsed by the national TB program in Cambodia. This study
      will randomize currently underserved operational districts (without active intervention, at
      least in the past six months from the implementation date). The interventions will be carried
      out as per the protocol devised by the partner organizations, respectively.

      This study aims to 1) evaluate the effectiveness of an ACF strategy using a seed-and-recruit
      model for increasing TB case notification (case notification rate, additionality, comparing
      the yield in each arm with its respective historical baseline and the cumulative yield over
      the implementation period) in Cambodia, 2) establish the effect of ACF strategies on TB
      treatment outcomes, 3) evaluate number needed to screen to detect one TB case and the
      cost-effectiveness (costs per TB case notified) of different ACF strategies.
    
  