
    
      The NutBrain Study aims to understand the biological mechanisms through which diet influences
      cognitive disorders with a special focus on the impact of nutrition on gut microbiota and
      brain characteristics, by applying a novel multi-level approach that integrates traditional
      epidemiological methods with neuroimaging and gut microbiota profiling. Aims of the NutBrain
      study are: i) to estimate the occurrence of MCI and other cognitive disorders in
      community-dwelling older people aged 65 + years; ii) to investigate the association between
      lifestyle habits and cognitive ageing outcomes; iii) to explore the role of diet, in
      modulating the gut microbiota composition, which in turn impacts on brain structures and
      functions as well.

      The NutBrain Study is an ongoing population-based cohort study promoted by the Institute of
      Biomedical Technologies of the National Research Council (ITB-CNR, Segrate, Italy) and the
      Hospital IRCCS Fondazione Mondino (Pavia, Italy). The NutBrain Study is structured in three
      phases:

      T=1 Participant's recruitment. The study is performed in two sites in the outskirt of
      North-Milan: Bollate and Baranzate. A random sample is drawn from the official register of
      residents in the two municipalities. Inclusion criteria are: attending a medical appointment
      in the research facility, living at home in one of the two municipalities, and being 65+
      years. Eligible population is contacted by means of a letter of invitation, in which people
      are invited to contact the ITB-CNR by phone to schedule the first visit during which he/she
      is asked to bring last instrumental and clinical exams prescribed by their general
      practitioner. A comprehensive communication campaign is implemented to publicize and promote
      the project as well as to foster recruitment. To ensure a high enrolment rate, the Mayors of
      the two municipalities have been actively involved since the earliest planning stages of the
      recruitment and have granted patronage to the project. Additionally, the study is promoted
      and advertised at the community level through different channels: by printing brochures and
      setting posters in senior recreation centres, shops, pharmacies, medical doctors office, and
      patients associations; by articles and advertisements in local newspapers, institution
      websites, as well as in social media (e.g. Facebook,
      https://www.facebook.com/TheNutBrainStudy/). The NutBrain Study has a website
      (www.nutbrain.it) where potential participants are directed for further information and can
      register interest to participate. In addition, to raise awareness, several public events
      describing the objectives of the proposed study are organized for recruiting eligible people.

      T=2 Screening evaluation. Participants are visited at the research facility in their
      residence town (arranging home visits for disabled individuals) by a trained team. Informed
      consent form is completed at the research facility prior to data collection. In those
      individuals without capacity to give full informed consent, proxy consent is collected from
      relatives or caregivers. This 2-hours interview includes a face-to-face administration of a
      neuropsychological battery of tests and questionnaires to inquire about socio-demographic,
      occupational, and social-economic data, education, medical conditions and drug use, lifestyle
      habits, functional status, and dietary behaviours. At the end of the visit, a stool sampling
      kit, consisting of a sterile faeces container with instructions explaining the procedure for
      the stool sample collection, and a 3-day food diary is provided to each participant. The
      first visit serves to screen each participant for cognitive functions and for identifying
      inclusion/exclusion criteria in a more comprehensive manner.

      T=3 Clinical evaluation. Individuals suspected to have cognitive impairment at the screening
      neuropsychological tests undergo a clinical examination. Participants are transported from
      their own home to the Hospital using a private transport service, whose cost is covered
      entirely by the study. The hospital visit includes a standard neurological examination
      performed by a neurologist and a 3T Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanning. At this stage,
      blood and stool samples are collected from each participant and stored in the biorepository
      at the Hospital until processing. For each subject with a clinical diagnosis of MCI, two
      cognitively intact controls of the same sex and of the closest date of birth are enrolled and
      visited at the Hospital (case-control design), undergoing the same protocol as MCI
      individuals.

      Date security Data are handled, monitored, computerised, and stored in accordance with the
      European General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) (https://gdpr-info.eu/). All
      study records, including the consent forms, are kept in a locked filing cabinet at the
      ITB-CNR where the file server for data storage is located. The file server is firewalled
      within the ITB-CNR intranet. For privacy and security, a password granted only to the server
      administrator is required to access to the database. The data forms are double checked for
      missing data and inconsistencies. Quality of the database entered data is monitored by
      checking entry for a random sample of participants. Data transfer is protected by means of
      crypting/decrypting policy and password protection. In the final dataset a unique key
      identifies each subject to guarantee anonymity. Personal data are regarded as strictly
      confidential and removed before the exportation procedure. Security of data is guarantee via
      automatic backups.
    
  