
    
      Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) is the most prevalent Anxiety Disorder after Specific
      Phobia. It is characterized by persistent and excessive anxiety and worry about different
      domains of life that is difficult to control, and the individuals can experience physical
      symptoms, like restlessness or feeling keyed up or on edge, being easily fatigued, difficulty
      concentrating or mind going blank, irritability, muscle tension, and sleep disturbance. Also,
      GAD is one of the most common mental disorders in primary care settings, and it is associated
      with increased use of health care resources and disability, functional impairment,
      psychiatric and medical comorbidities.

      Despite its prevalence and impairment, this disorder is under-recognized, and less than
      one-third of patients are adequately treated. The literature demonstrates that either
      psychotropic medications or cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) appear to be effective for
      treating GAD. However, a substantial number of patients do not respond to initial treatment,
      and, although the response rates are inconsistent across studies, only 38% of the treated
      patients have a remission after five years. Moreover, GAD is usually a chronic disorder with
      a waxing and waning course, requiring a long-term treatment.

      In relation to some biological mechanisms in GAD, some studies report an enhanced
      Error-Related Negativity (ERN) and a lower Heart Rate Variability (HRV) in GAD patients. The
      first biological marker could be associated with anxious apprehension and the main findings
      are found in GAD while the second one reflects a reduction in parasympathetic modulation. On
      the other hand, it is already known that mindfulness meditation practice is associated with
      increase in autonomic regulation by stimulating the parasympathetic system. In relation to
      cognitive factors, the literature demonstrates that GAD patients have a higher level of
      experiential avoidance and distress about emotions, more negative believes about worry and
      meta-worry.

      Mindfulness is a practice developed to foster self-regulation. Historically, the mindfulness
      exercises used in clinical protocols are linked with the Buddhist framework in which it is a
      means to alleviate suffering and cultivate compassion. In the West, the role of mindfulness
      in health promotion has been the target of studies since the 70s and it has been incorporated
      in cognitive-behavioural treatments. The Body in mind training (BMT) is a treatment protocol
      that focuses on movement and motor system as a tool for mindfulness practice. More than three
      decades of studies have shown the positive effects of mindfulness based interventions (MBIs)
      in both mental and physical health and quality of life either in general population or
      clinical populations. Also, MBIs seem to be effective and a lasting alternative to treat
      anxiety. In relation to GAD, some studies have shown that MBI's are effective, but, in
      generally, they are limited by the small sample size or the use of waiting list control
      instead of an active control group.

      So, the objective of this research is to evaluate the effectiveness of BMT intervention and
      compared to Fluoxetine and a Quality of Life Group in the treatment of GAD patients. Also, we
      intend to evaluate some biological and cognitive mechanisms of these different treatments
      through mediators analysis.

      It is a single blind Randomized Controlled Trial with three arms of treatments. The
      individuals will be recruited in the community. Generalized Anxiety patients (according to
      Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview) will be randomly allocated (in a 1:1:1 ratio)
      to receive either antidepressant: BMT: Control Group. Research assessors will be masked.
      Because of the nature of the interventions, patients and clinicians will be aware of
      treatment allocation. The duration of the treatments is 8 weeks.

      Before, in the week 5, and after the interventions, participants will be assessed with the
      Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Anxiety Sensitivity
      Index (ASI), Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ), Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale
      (DERS), Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ), Self-Compassion Scale (SCS), Action and
      Acceptance Questionnaire (AAQ), Ruminative Response Scale (RRS), Metacognition Questionnaire
      (MCQ-30), Meta-worry Questionnaire (MWQ), WHOQOL-Bref. Also, before the interventions,
      participants will answer the Early Life Experiences Scale (ELES) and Early Memories of Warmth
      and Safeness Scale (EMWSS). The HRV and ERN will be assessed before and after the
      interventions.
    
  