
    
      Breast reduction mammoplasty is an increasingly popular procedure in this country due to not
      only the perceived cosmetic benefit of the procedure but additionally the improvement in
      musculoskeletal pain, headaches, sleeping difficulties, breathing, depression, self-esteem,
      and eating disorders. Despite these benefits, outcome satisfaction the typical inverted-T
      scar of the Wise pattern reduction has been limited by the resulting scar formation on the
      breast tissue. One study demonstrated that although 86% of patients were highly satisfied
      with their surgery, 65% were dissatisfied with their scars, with the majority of those
      dissatisfied , 65%, being bothered by the horizontal component of the scar. To address
      cosmetic outcomes of the procedure multiple techniques have been purposed in the literature
      including: superior pedicle technique, vertical mammoplasty, and circum-areolar breast
      reduction. By selectively injecting the horizontal component of the mammoplasty scar our
      analysis should be independent of surgeon surgical approach if it should include a vertical
      incisional scar. Aesthetic results of breast mammoplasty have also been attributed to
      analysis of breast meridian length, modifying areolar shape and most importantly tailoring or
      the medial inframammary crease. Tension across the inframammary crease requires appropriate
      shaping in order to reduce scar hypertrophy.

      Mechanical stress from wound tension has been thought to play a major role in hypertrophic
      scar development. Cellular and biochemical studies have demonstrated that excessive forces on
      tissues are tightly linked to changes in the extracellular matrix such as the induction of
      wound fibrosis and inhibition of fibroblast apoptosis. Recently, botulinum toxin type A has
      been reported as a treatment agent to counteract these effects. Although its precise
      mechanism is not yet completely understood, botulinum toxin type A is thought to promote
      apoptosis of fibroblasts derived from hypertrophic scars, leading to reduced tensile forces.
      In an in vivo study, human hypertrophic scars treated with botulinum toxin type A had
      significantly reduced fibroblast proliferation compared to a control, and had synergistic
      effects with intralesional steroid injections, which is a commonly used treatment but with
      multiple adverse effects.

      Botulinum toxin type A is a potent neurotoxin used in a wide scope of clinical settings, and
      has been injected for cosmetic purposes for more than two decades. Its clinical use
      specifically for hypertrophic scars, including those of the face, has recently been
      demonstrated. Furthermore, a randomized double-blinded split scar study has demonstrated the
      safety and efficacy of botulinum toxin type A injection into thyroidectomy scars for scar
      prevention. Although a well-controlled and designed study, its weaknesses include the
      difficult applicability of the Korean population to that of the United States, the relatively
      small number of patients included in the trial, the injection of botulinum toxin type A
      post-surgery instead of at the time of surgery (as the latter is often reported in other
      studies and is thought to be more beneficial). This protocol is designed to test the ability
      of botulinum toxin type A to improve post-surgical breast scarring in a randomized,
      double-blinded, controlled clinical trial at Henry Ford Hospital. It expands upon previous
      studies that have already demonstrated its safety and good tolerance profile, and will
      combine the expertise of the Dermatology department and Plastic surgeons. We will study
      breast reduction scars, as this will allow patients to serve as their own control group.
    
  