
    
      Clinical research in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) documents
      improvements in disease free intervals, disease free survival, and the severity of treatment
      related toxicities. Those who survive, however, continue to experience side-effects and
      psychological difficulties for years following allogeneic HSCT. Long term complications occur
      as delayed effects of the conditioning regimen and the transplant as well as side effects
      from medications required to maintain the new donor-derived immune system. In addition to
      various biological complications, long-term effects on the psychological, social, physical,
      functional and symptoms experience (growth and limitations) have been documented.

      Although some knowledge exists to help us understand the experience of various groups of
      allogeneic HSCT patients, the face of allogeneic transplant has changed considerably over the
      last five years and limits the application of existing reports. Patients with new types of
      diseases e.g. solid tumor and those who are older (greater than 55 years) and with more
      significant debilitation are undergoing allogeneic HSCT. It is important for patients and
      families to know the effects they can expect following an allogeneic transplant. This lack of
      clarity of the research limits our ability to focus future intervention studies to begin
      making a difference for patients at high risk for poor health outcomes following allogeneic
      HSCT.

      Understanding of factors associated with variability in recovery following allogeneic HSCT
      can increase the likelihood that patients will ultimately return to a normal, productive
      life. Existing research regarding the recovery of adult survivors of allogeneic HSCT
      indicates that many patients experience difficulties in a variety of Health Related Quality
      of Life (HRQL) domains. A critical issue which has remained unexamined concerns the extent to
      which domains improve, remain static, or perhaps even deteriorates with the passage of time
      after allogeneic HSCT. Results will be discussed with respect to their implications for both
      the encouragement of realistic expectations for recovery following allogeneic HSCT as well as
      the development of interventions.

      The long term goal of this study is to characterize longitudinally the functional health,
      psychosocial adjustment, HRQL and symptom experience associated with long term survival after
      allogeneic HSCT. This study has two specific aims:

        1. To examine the functional status, psychosocial adjustment and HRQL of patients greater
           than or equal to 3 years following allogeneic HSCT.

        2. To examine the symptom experience of patients greater than or equal to 3 years following
           allogeneic HSCT.

      Data will be analyzed using methods of longitudinal analysis, such as the generalized
      estimating equations, mixed-effects models and growth mixture modeling to evaluate change
      over time for each outcome variable.
    
  