
    
      Cryptorchidism is the most common genitourinary anomaly in male children. Its incidence can
      reach 3% in full term neonates, rising to 30% in premature boys . The treatment of the crypt
      orchid testicle is justified by the increased risk of infertility and malignancy, as well as
      an associated inguinal hernia and the risk of trauma to the ectopic testicle against the
      pubis. Furthermore, the psychological stigma of a missing testis for the patient, as well as
      the parents' anxiety is also factors that justify this type of treatment .

      About 20% of crypt orchid testicles are non palpable. The treatment of non-descended
      testicles is mandatory due to the increased risk of infertility, present in up to 40% of the
      patients, as compared to 6% of control groups, including malignancy, which reaches 20 times
      that of normal adults .

      The treatment of the crypt orchid testis before 2 years of age is recommended, treatment is
      necessary not only for the risk of malignancy, but also for the satisfaction and improvement
      in the quality of the patient's life and parents´ concern for their children's health.

      In relation to diagnosis, despite a sensitivity of 70-90% in the diagnosis of inguinal
      testes, ultrasonography is not useful in intra-abdominal cases . Although presenting a better
      quality, both computed tomography and nuclear magnetic resonance lack sufficient sensitivity
      and specificity to be considered as gold standard diagnostic tools . More recently, the
      magnetic angioresonance was introduced with sensibility of 96% and specificity of 100%, but
      it is still a new method, with high costs, also requiring general anesthesia in children .

      In relation to the treatment, the use of gonadotrophin for un descended testes presents a
      success rate of definitive descent to the scrotum of 21 to 56%, with better results in
      bilateral cases . Surgical treatment via an inguinal incision is the main treatment option
      for palpable testicles, but can also be employed for the evaluation and treatment of
      non-palpable testis. In this situation, however, surgical exploration can often require large
      incisions and extensive dissections, especially in bilateral cases. This can be avoided using
      laparoscopic evaluation, with a sensitivity and specificity reaching more than 90%
    
  