
    
      Chronic pain affects over 100 million Americans, and arthritis is the most common cause.
      Existing treatments for chronic arthritic pain are only mildly effective, and risks of
      medications used to treat pain are numerous and continue to be discovered.

      Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist that is FDA approved in an oral daily dose of 50 mg to
      prevent recidivism in alcoholics. At much lower doses of 4 - 4.5 mg daily, however, it has
      been shown in small, blinded, randomized trials to improve pain in fibromyalgia,
      gastrointestinal symptoms in Crohn's disease, and quality of life in multiple sclerosis. The
      only other published data are case reports in complex regional pain syndrome, low back pain,
      and scleroderma. However, advocacy of low-dose naltrexone (LDN) by internet-based MDs and
      patients is high, and since LDN can be prescribed off-label, its use greatly exceeds what is
      justified by evidence. The drug can be prescribed only via compounding pharmacies, so its use
      costs a patient ~$40/month.

      Among the many unproven treatments that are widely used, LDN is of particular interest
      because results of surveys of patients are particularly impressive, because it is quite safe,
      and because its benefit is plausible pharmacologically. There is evidence both for modulation
      of central pain-processing pathways and for down-regulation of inflammatory pathways in
      microglia. Considering the diversity of conditions proposed to benefit from LDN and the
      unequivocal need for better approaches to pain relief in chronic conditions, high-quality
      clinical trials are needed in both inflammatory and non-inflammatory conditions. This small
      but placebo-controlled study, powered to detect an effect size as small as that seen with
      NSAIDs or the most beneficial non-pharmacologic approaches, is being conducted as a
      prerequisite for considering a pivotal trial.

      The proposed study is a randomized, double-blinded, cross-over, placebo-controlled trial in
      adults with osteoarthritis or inflammatory arthritis and persistent pain. Thirty patients
      will be enrolled for 16 weeks, during which they will receive LDN for 8 weeks and placebo for
      8 weeks. Widely accepted patient-reported outcome measures will be used. The co-primary
      endpoints are reduction in pain severity or pain's interference with function during 8 weeks
      of LDN compared to 8 weeks placebo, using the Brief Pain Inventory. Other patient-reported
      data will be used both as secondary outcomes and as covariates in analyzing determinants of
      response to treatment. Data from this study will be analyzed in combination with data from a
      study conducted with 30 patients at the VA, to be completed in 2019. A total of 60 patients
      in the two studies is sufficient to detect benefit similar to what is seen with NSAIDs.
    
  