
    
      Occluded enteral access devices (EADs) are a significant problem for pediatric patients, with
      occlusion rates ranging from 12.5% to 35%. Occluded EADs can lead to extended times of
      decreased energy intake, resulting in patients quickly exhausting their energy reserves and
      developing dehydration with electrolyte abnormalities. Current methods used to restore
      patency to an occluded EAD at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) involve
      application of enzymes and chemicals (e.g., Clog Zapper), which have variable rates of timely
      success. If these methods are unsuccessful and patency cannot be restored, the EAD must be
      replaced and may require radiological intervention with exposure to radiation and contrast
      material. TubeClear速 addresses this clinical need to safely and efficaciously restore patency
      to occluded EADs at the patients' bedside while the EAD remains in the patient. Additionally,
      this reduces the need to transport the patient to the radiology suite with subsequent
      exposure to radiation and contrast material for EAD location conformation after replacement.

      Current Study (Phase I): Feasibility and tolerability of TubeClear速 intervention in 15
      consecutive eligible Subjects with occluded Enteral Access Devices who have not attained
      their 18th birthday.

      Following successful completion of Phase I as deemed by the Institutional Review Board (IRB),
      the Study will proceed to Phase IIA and IIB to run concurrently.

      Future Studies:

      Phase IIA: Ability of TubeClear速 intervention to restore patency in 15 consecutive eligible
      Subjects with occluded Enteral Access Devices who have not attained their 11th birthday.

      Phase IIB: Randomized efficacy comparison between 17 subjects using the TubeClear速
      intervention and 17 subjects using CHOP Standard Treatment in eligible Subjects with occluded
      Enteral Access Devices who are between 11 years of age and have not attained their 18th
      birthday.
    
  