
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of sirolimus combined with docetaxel and
      carboplatin in the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).
      (Phase I)

      II. To assess the effectiveness of sirolimus in suppressing the induction of the
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage secretory component WNT16B in tumor stroma following
      docetaxel and carboplatin. (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess maximal prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response to sirolimus combined with
      docetaxel and carboplatin. (Phase I)

      II. To assess PSA response duration to sirolimus combined with docetaxel and carboplatin.
      (Phase I)

      III. To assess response of measurable disease. (Phase I)

      IV. To assess time to progression of bone lesions or measurable disease (Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1). (Phase I)

      V. To assess effect of sirolimus with docetaxel and carboplatin on DNA damage surrogates in
      cancer associated stroma compared to untreated and docetaxel and carboplatin treated stroma.
      (Phase I)

      VI. To assess maximal PSA response to sirolimus combined with docetaxel and carboplatin.
      (Phase II)

      VII. To assess PSA response duration to sirolimus combined with docetaxel and carboplatin.
      (Phase II)

      VIII. To assess response of measurable disease (RECIST 1.1). (Phase II)

      IX. To assess time to progression of bone lesions or measurable disease (RECIST 1.1). (Phase
      II)

      X. To assess toxicity of the RP2D dose of sirolimus with docetaxel and carboplatin. (Phase
      II)

      XI. To determine the effect of docetaxel and carboplatin therapy on the DNA damage secretory
      program (DDSP) in serum. (Phase II)

      XII. To determine response to sirolimus, docetaxel and carboplatin in tumors with mutation of
      DNA repair pathway genes (breast cancer gene 2 [BRCA2], ataxia telangiectasia mutated [ATM]
      and other Fanconi anemia complementation groups [FANC] pathway members). (Phase II)

      XIII. To correlate the presence of DNA repair pathway mutations in circulating tumor cells
      (CTC) and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) with tumor biopsy and correlate changes in CTC number
      and ctDNA mutation levels with clinical responses. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose de-escalation study of sirolimus followed by a phase II
      study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive sirolimus orally (PO) on day -2*. Patients also receive docetaxel
      intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 30-60 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Beginning in cycle 2 and continuing in subsequent cycles, patients also receive
      sirolimus PO on day -2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 10 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive sirolimus PO on day -2. Patients also receive docetaxel IV over
      30-60 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      * NOTE: Patients receive sirolimus 2 days prior to chemotherapy day 1 (there is no day 0).
    
  