
    
      Current pharmacological agents used to treat Parkinson disease (PD) tremor and essential
      tremor (ET) provide suboptimal benefit and are commonly associated with significant adverse
      effects. Botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) has been shown to be effective for wrist tremor
      though functionally bothersome muscle weakness frequently occurs. This is the longest study
      to date demonstrating that BoNT-A therapy coupled with kinematic guidance can provide
      efficacious outcomes for upper limb tremor with minimized unwanted weakness. A total of 28 PD
      and 24 ET participants with bothersome, disabling tremor, received six serial BoNT-A
      treatments every 16 weeks starting at week 0 with a follow-up visit 6 weeks following a
      treatment, totaling 96 weeks. Clinical scales, including Fahn-Tolosa-Marin tremor rating
      scale (FTM), and sensor-based tremor assessments were conducted at each visit. Kinematics was
      utilized to identify which arm muscles contributed to the tremulous movements and the
      experienced injector used clinical expertise in determining BoNT-A dosages. Following BoNT-A
      treatment, clinical ratings of tremor severity and functional ability (FTM) showed
      significant improvements following the first treatment which was maintained up to week 96 in
      PD and ET. Kinematics detected a significant reduction in PD and ET tremor amplitudes by 70%
      and 76% over the treatment course, respectively. By objectively distinguishing tremulous
      muscles and tremor severity, adverse effects were limited to mild perceived weakness by
      participants in injected muscles during follow-ups. Following the fourth treatment, BoNT-A
      dosages in flexor and extensor wrist muscles and biceps were reduced for those experiencing
      residual weakness which ultimately did not interfere with tremor relief or arm function.
      Kinematics is an objective method that can aid clinicians in assessing and determining
      optimal BoNT-A parameters to alleviate both PD and ET tremor. BoNT-A injections are tolerable
      and effective when focal therapy regimens are determined and optimized kinematically over a
      long-term
    
  