
    
      Countries in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) are experiencing an epidemic of cardiovascular disease
      (CVD) propelled by rapidly increasing rates of hypertension. Barriers to hypertension control
      in SSA include poor access to care and high out-of-pocket costs. Although SSA bears 24% of
      the global disease burden, it has only 3% of the global health workforce. Given such limited
      resources, cost-effective strategies, such as task shifting, are needed to mitigate the
      rising CVD epidemic in SSA. Ghana, a country in SSA with an established community health
      worker program integrated within a national health insurance scheme provides an ideal
      platform to evaluate implementation of the World Health Organization (WHO) task-shifting
      strategy. This study will evaluate the comparative effectiveness of the implementation of the
      WHO Package targeted at CV risk assessment versus provision of health insurance coverage,on
      blood pressure (BP) reduction.

      Using a cluster randomized design, 32 community health centers (CHCs) and district hospitals
      in Ghana will be randomized to either the intervention group (16 CHCs) or the control group
      (16 CHCs). A total of 640 patients with uncomplicated hypertension (BP 140-179/90-99 mm Hg
      and absence of target organ damage) will be enrolled in this study (20 patients per CHC). The
      intervention consists of WHO Package of CV risk assessment, patient education, initiation and
      titration of antihypertensive medications, behavioral counseling on lifestyle behaviors, and
      medication adherence every three months for 12 months. The primary outcome is the mean change
      in systolic BP from baseline to 12 months. The secondary outcomes are rates of BP control at
      12 months; levels of physical activity, percent change in weight, and dietary intake of
      fruits and vegetables at 12 months; and sustainability of intervention effects at 24 months.
      All outcomes will be assessed at baseline, six months and 12 months. Trained community health
      nurses will deliver the intervention as part of Ghana's community-based health planning and
      services (CHPS) program. Findings from this study will provide policy makers and other
      stakeholders needed information to recommend scalable and cost-effective policy with respect
      to comprehensive CV risk reduction and hypertension control in resource-poor settings.
    
  