
    
      Craniosynostosis, the premature ossification and fusion of one or more cranial sutures, is a
      common craniofacial abnormality occurring in 1 of 2,000 live births. 1 2 Craniosynostosis can
      lead to increased intra-cranial pressure in between 12-50% of those affected which may have
      delayed neuro developmental implications.

      The crucial neurodevelopment occurs in the first years of life and is most rapidly
      progressing during the first year of life. Premature closure of the cranial sutures decrease
      the intracranial volume and space available for the rapidly developing brain. Cranial vault
      remodeling (CVR) is the current standard of care to mitigate any possible developmental delay
      secondary to craniosynostosis and also improve the head shape. CVR is a combined surgery
      between the neurosurgeon who takes off the cranial bone/bones, and the craniofacial surgeon
      who assists and reconstructs the cranium with absorbable plates and screws.

      After surgery, although there is no doubt that there is an improvement in head shape, the
      craniofacial skeleton and the soft tissues, but there is less data, and virtually no
      functional imaging information available addressing the effect of CVR surgery on the growing
      brain.

      The main objective of this project would be to begin to explore the relationship of CVR and
      it requisite effects on the growing brain with a cohort of patients who are set to undergo
      CVR, while performing a battery of neurodevelopmental and imaging studies pre- and
      post-operatively and compare with normative controls. This is one part of a three-center
      study collaborating with craniofacial units at Yale University and Wake Forest University in
      which similar, if not identical protocols will be carried out. We hope that analyses of these
      data will provide better insight into and greater definition of the effect of CVR and the
      secondarily available increase in intra-cranial volume on the growing brain in the clinical
      setting of craniosynostosis.
    
  