
    
      Study Design and Methods This study has a pragmatic mixed methods explanatory design,
      consisting of a clinical trial and a qualitative study. The results of the trial will be used
      to inform the interview protocol for the qualitative study, the data from which will be
      analysed to explore and elaborate on the results from the trial.

      Phase one: Clinical Trial Design This is a parallel controlled, single blinded trial. The
      outcomes of the patients cared for by nurses who have undergone UBC will be compared with the
      outcomes from patients who have received usual care.

      Population: All patients referred to the caseload of the community nursing teams will be
      considered for inclusion in this trial. If the patients are on the community caseload they
      will be considered housebound at the time of treatment as this is the criteria for acceptance
      onto the caseload. The criteria of infrequent absences from home which are short in duration
      and require taxing effort is used in line with the Medicare definition of homebound (U.S.
      Department of Health and Human Services 2010).

      Blinding: The patients will not be told whether or not they are being cared for by nurses who
      have received UBC training.

      Randomisation: It is intended that a trial resulting from this study would have a random
      controlled cluster design to overcome this. All eligible patients in one locality will be
      exposed to the intervention and all eligible patients in the other locality will not be
      exposed. Randomising at community nursing team level in a cluster trial could lead to
      contamination, as within the locality nurses may cover for other teams at weekends and during
      periods of staff absence. If this feasibility study leads to a larger trial, it would be
      possible to randomise at locality level to reduce bias. Non-randomised feasibility studies do
      not have reduced validity (Craig et al 2008).

      Setting: This feasibility study is planned to take place within two neighbouring Clinical
      Commissioning Groups (CCG) that serve a population of 335,000 people (Office for National
      Statistics 2011). The intervention locality has nine community nursing teams linked to GP
      practices and grouped as three clusters. The patients in the usual care arm of the trial will
      be recruited from a neighbouring CCG which has a similar configuration of community nursing
      teams, including community matrons and specialist nurses. All the nursing working with
      patients in the intervention cluster will be trained in UBC.

      Sample: All patients are potential participants if they are admitted to community caseloads.
      In the locality where UBC is to be used, all the patients seen by the nurses will be exposed
      to motivational techniques. The participants will be those patients who are newly and
      consecutively referred to the caseload of either the intervention community nurse teams or
      the control teams and are expected to have three or more contacts with the community nurses.

      Recruitment procedure All patients are potential participants if they meet the inclusion
      criteria. Once identified the staff caring for them will explain the study and give them the
      information sheet. If they are interested in participating they will be given a consent form.
      They will be contacted the next day by phone to ask if they are willing to participate. If
      they are willing, at the next visit, the usual carer or the investigator will discuss the
      study with them and determine their understanding of participating. If they understand they
      will be asked to sign a consent form. Their part in the trial will consist of completing
      questionnaires at the start and 3 months into their treatment. The questionnaires will be
      administered by either a member of the care team or the researcher. The final Questionnaire
      will be given to them by a member of the usual care team or the researcher. The
      questionnaires can be administered either face to face or by phone depending on the
      participants' wishes. Questionnaires will be supplied with envelopes to encourage candid
      responses. Health service use will be measured through the investigator accessing this data
      from electronic records, with the patients consent, at referral and three months after
      intervention.

      Intervention: Understanding Behaviour Change (UBC) training. UBC training is structured on
      the Prevention and Lifestyle Behaviour Change: Competency Framework (National Institute for
      Health and Clinical Excellence 2007). The training is accredited by the Royal Society for
      Public Health (RSPB). The training aims to enable learners to understand behaviours
      associated with active listening, effective hearing, reflecting, checking understanding and
      their use in effective communication. UBC training also identifies enabling approaches to
      building relationships, knowledge of behaviour change models and how to explore an
      individual's motivation to adopt positive health behaviours. The training will enhance the
      trainees' skills in supporting individuals to develop strategies to enable them to plan and
      implement changes in their lifestyle or health behaviour. The training is supported with role
      play to develop communication skills.

      Sixteen members of staff from the community nursing team leads, community matrons, and
      specialist nurses will be trained as motivational champions with UBC consisting of two days
      of face-to-face training. The motivational Champions will take a multiple-choice exam set by
      an external examiner to assess their knowledge. The remaining 20 staff will have one session
      of four hours training, face-to-face, and including role play. The training will be provided
      by the KCHT Improvement Team in a venue within the locality. The champions will provide
      supervision and encouragement in the use of the UBC Intervention through monthly action
      learning sets. The action learning sets will be attended by two motivational champions and
      two or three other staff. This allows the staff to reflect on their experiences of using UBC
      and share the learning they have acquired. To evaluate their professional development the
      champions will be asked to complete a questionnaire before undertaking the training and one
      month afterwards. This will explore their knowledge and confidence in behaviour change and
      the barriers and facilitators to implementing their learning. Themes from the questionnaires
      will be discussed in the action learning sets.

      Intervention fidelity All staff will have an assessment of a patient audiotaped and assessed
      by the researcher for use of UBC using the Peer Proficiency Assessment (PEPA) (Mastroleo et
      al 2009). This process will be explained to patients when they first consent to being part of
      the study and again before the recording takes place. The audio-recorder will be encrypted
      and the recordings will be analysed using the PEPA tool, by the investigator, and then
      deleted. The PEPA tool was developed to evaluate the fidelity to use of MI skills in
      undergraduate peer counsellors. PEPA is a valid tool which is simple to use and demonstrates
      high inter-rater reliability between master coders, experienced peer counsellors and
      minimally trained peer counsellors (Mastroleo et al 2009).

      Phase two: Interview study Aim: To explore the intervention arm patients' experience of the
      service they receive, their interactions with the nurses and any impact it has on their
      ability to care for themselves.

      Design: Qualitative Method: An interview protocol will be developed, informed by the analysis
      of the quantitative data. Interviews allow rich data to be collected, guided by topic
      headings in the specific research area. This creates flexibility and focus but depends upon
      the interviewer having the skills to listen actively, reflectively and attentively while
      guiding and controlling the quality of the data (Polit & Beck 2008). Each interview is
      expected to take about an hour but may be shorter, depending on the wishes and health of the
      individual patient. The interviews will be audio taped with permission and the interviewer
      will take additional anonymised notes identifying patients with a unique number.

      Sample: Six patients from the intervention group will be interviewed for rich qualitative
      data, to explore their views and perception of how the community nurses talked to them and
      any impact it has had on how they care for themselves. The sample to be interviewed will be
      selected to represent the extremes of results from the Consultation and relational empathy
      measure (Mercer et al 2004). It is initially intended to interview six participants, but if
      important themes and differences are found it may be necessary to widen this inquiry to
      explore the phenomena fully (Kelly 2010).

      Analysis: The audiotapes will be transcribed verbatim, by the investigator or an agency used
      for medical transcription by KCHT, and checked for accuracy by the interviewer. The
      transcripts will be shared with the patient to check that they are a true representation of
      their intended meaning. The audio tapes will be deleted after transcription; transcripts will
      be anonymised using a patient identification number. The transcripts will be read with the
      notes taken during the interview for meaning. They will be re-read to identify themes that
      best capture the essential qualities of that interview. Themes from within each section of
      the transcript will be identified, and possible or likely connections between themes sought.
      A qualitative code book will be developed. The data will be coded and the codes assigned
      labels. The codes will be grouped into themes, interrelated and assigned to a smaller set of
      categories. Computer assisted data analysis software NVivo will be used to organise and
      support rigorous data analysis (St John & Johnson 2004).

      Bias: The researcher, who will not be delivering care to this group of patients, will
      interview the participants using critical reflexivity, to guard against personal bias, and
      the writing of memos to acknowledge personal preferences, theoretical leanings and investment
      in the research process (Polit & Beck 2008).

      Integration of quantitative and qualitative results:

      The quantitative data will be examined with the data from the qualitative phase, to test and
      refine the explanations for the outcomes (Cresswell & Plano Clark 2012) and inform the design
      of a future study.
    
  