
    
      In this randomized controlled study in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) the
      investigators plan to compare the effects of a structured patient group education (IBS
      School), which previously has been evaluated and found to efficacious for symptom improvement
      (1-3), with a similar education provided via the internet in a non-inferiority design. The
      investigators hypothesize that structured patient education provided via the internet is not
      inferior compared to structured patient group education.

      Men and women from 18 years of age, with IBS according to the Rome III criteria, who are
      referred from physicians in primary care and secondary/tertiary care to receive patient
      education will be included. The education, both the IBS School and the internet based
      version, will be managed at the GI outpatient clinic at Sahlgrenska University hospital in
      Gothenburg. Patients with an organic GI disease and/or with another disease potentially
      affecting the GI symptoms are excluded. Likewise, patients with a disability to communicate
      in the Swedish language or to use a computer and/or do not have access to a computer or
      internet are excluded.

      Moreover, patients with a severe psychiatric disease are excluded due to potential problems
      to participate in a group intervention. In order to allocate an equal number of patients to
      both of the interventions during the study, a number of up to 20 patients will be invited in
      a block and the patients will be randomly divided into two groups with an equal number of
      patients in each group. The groups will then be randomized 1:1 to either start the IBS School
      or to start the patient education via internet within two to three weeks. After the
      randomization all patients will receive a personal login to the database and an e-mail with
      information on how to log in and complete the questionnaires online. All questionnaires will
      be completed by the patients on-line, i.e. all data will be registered directly into the
      database.

      The interventions:

      Both interventions in the study are designed based on the self-efficacy theory, and the
      general theory of nursing. Moreover, the education is performed based on a biopsychosocial
      model considered to be important in functional GI disorders. The IBS School consists of
      three, two hour sessions held once per week in a group setting with eight to ten patients in
      each group. A nurse and a dietician lead the education and issues are chosen with the aim to
      cover a wide spectrum of issues related to IBS. A lot of space is given for discussion within
      the group. At the first session, general information is provided about IBS, symptoms,
      pathophysiology and treatment options. At the second session, food related issues is
      discussed and at the third session the effects from other life style factors like stress,
      physical activity and relaxation is discussed.

      The patient education provided via the internet covers the same areas of issues related to
      IBS that are covered in the structured group education. The participants in the internet
      group will receive and read information which is divided into three steps, once weekly. At
      the end of each treatment week the patients will have a contact via the internet with the
      nurse and dietician and thereby receive feedback on questions that were raised during the
      treatment week. The patients are also encouraged to attend (anonymously) a specific, closed
      internet forum where they have the opportunity to discuss and reflect over information
      material from the last week with other patients attending the internet based intervention.
      The time consumed to read the information and reflect is estimated to two hours weekly.
    
  