
    
      Ovarian follicular responsiveness to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) with
      gonadotropins is extremely variable between patients and even from cycle to cycle for the
      same patient. Achieving an ideal follicular response is critical to the success of assisted
      reproduction treatment (ART). Since the early years of ART, patients have been classified as
      'poor', 'normal' or 'high' responders. Although these terms are widely used in research and
      in daily clinical practice, their precise definitions are not fully agreed upon.
      Distinguishing them has been based on various measures of ovarian reserve. The first
      description of a poor responder occurred in 1983, and the first international consensus
      criteria for poor responders (the Bologna Criteria) was published in 2011. Poor responders,
      in general, exhibit an inadequate response to hormonal stimulation and diminished
      reproductive outcome. In contrast to poor responders, high responders are characterized by an
      exaggerated ovarian responsiveness, accompanied by a higher risk for ovarian hyperstimulation
      syndrome (OHSS). In most IVF clinics, "normal responders" comprise the majority of their
      patients. These patients are characterized by an adequate response to gonadotropins
      stimulation, a relatively low risk for OHSS, and a low cancellation rate. However, even with
      their relatively good prognosis, it is still important to develop treatments with high
      efficacy, lower multiple birth rates, and a lower complication rate. In addition, ovum donors
      are a unique population of patients with special characteristics and challenges. Egg donation
      has proven to be an effective treatment option for the treatment of various forms of
      infertility. However, ovum donors are a young population with a significant OHSS risk.
      Moreover, studies regarding this population provide an ideal opportunity to determine the
      effects of various triggering regimens on implantation (endometrial effect) from those
      attributable to the oocyte cohort alone (follicular effect). In an era of evidence-based
      medicine and with special emphasis on reducing IVF risks (mainly OHSS and pregnancies with
      multiples, it is very important to find optimal and safe ovulation induction and triggering
      regimens for each patient population. The use of GnRH agonist (GnRHa) triggering among high
      responders in order to reduce or eliminate OHSS is an example of an important breakthrough in
      the clinical management of IVF patients. Although GnRHa triggering was shown to be as
      effective as human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) at inducing oocyte maturation more than 20
      years ago, its use to trigger ovulation was not possible until the introduction of GnRH
      antagonists for pituitary suppression. In contrast to hCG triggering, GnRHa triggering is
      characterized by simultaneous LH and FSH surges, similar to natural ovulation. Early results
      with GnRHa triggering were disappointing, as reported in several RCT"s, where higher
      pregnancy loss rates and lower ongoing pregnancy rates were observed. Subsequently, outcomes
      were dramatically improved after the adoption of adjusted regimens to enhance luteal support.
      A pivotal study by Engmann et al (2008) included high responder patients during their first
      IVF cycle and patients with a history of high response in a previous cycle. The authors
      reported no cases of OHSS in those patients who underwent GnRHa triggering together with
      intensified estrogen and progesterone supplementation, while maintaining comparable
      reproductive outcome to those receiving HCG triggering. Moreover, increased safety of GnRHa
      triggering has been reported among ovum donors in several reports. Another well designed RCT,
      recruited patients with OHSS risk factors (PCOS as well as oligo/amenorrhea) and further
      differentiated them on the triggering day into "low" vs. "high" OHSS risk according to their
      actual ovarian response. These researchers emphasized the fact that pre-stimulation
      classification as a high responder does not optimally correlate with actual response to
      hormonal stimulation. Therefore, there is a need to distinguish between a) pre-stimulation
      assessment based on clinical, laboratory and ultrasonographic parameters (such as previous
      OHSS, anti-müllerian hormone (AMH) and antral follicle count (AFC), respectively) and b) the
      actual response evaluated by the number and size of recruited follicles and serum estradiol
      concentration. Another prominent trend in ART in recent years has been the introduction of
      dual triggering, which involves a combination of GnRHa plus hCG for triggering. This regimen
      creates simultaneous LH and FSH surges by the GnRHa, which resembles physiologic ovulation
      triggering, together with sustained LH-like activity from the hCG, which stimulates the
      corpus luteum to excrete sufficient hormonal endometrial support. Since its introduction,
      dual triggering has been gaining popularity due to outstanding results in retrospective
      studies among both normal and high responders. Griffin et al, 2012 reported that among high
      responders, their dual-trigger group (GnRHa plus 1,000 IU hCG) had a significantly higher
      live birth rate (52.9% vs. 30.9%), implantation rate (41.9% vs. 22.1%), and clinical
      pregnancy rate (58.8% vs. 36.8%) as compared to GnRHa alone, without a higher risk for OHSS.
      A large retrospective study, which included 376 normal responders patients with 378 completed
      cycles, resulted in a significantly higher implantation (29.6% vs. 18.4%), clinical pregnancy
      (50.7% vs. 40.1%), and live-birth (41.3% vs. 30.4%) rates with an hCG (6,500 IU) together
      with GnRH agonist, as compared to hCG alone. Additionally, dual triggering was found as
      efficient method to improve final oocyte maturation among patients with a high immature
      oocyte rate and in patients with a low number of oocytes retrieved per number of
      pre-ovulatory follicles. To the best of our knowledge, there are no reports on the effect of
      dual triggering on IVF outcome among poor responders or OHSS occurrence in ovum donors.
      Moreover, in spite of the encouraging retrospective reports, prospective RCTs on dual
      triggering have not been reported to date. The aim of the current proposed study is to
      compare the efficacy of dual triggering and conventional triggering among the three IVF
      populations (high, normal and poor responders), as well as ovum donors. The current proposal
      includes three different protocols, which will be implemented in four populations in separate
      simultaneous RCT's:

        1. Dual triggering with 1000 units hCG vs. GnRH agonist alone in high responder IVF
           patients and in ovum donors.

        2. Dual triggering vs. 5000 units hCG in normal responders

        3. Dual triggering vs. 10000 units hCG in poor responders
    
  