
    
      It is known that the glucose metabolic pathway (glycolysis) is the primary fuel generator in
      the brain and nerve tissue, the heart and vascular tissue, the eye, the kidney and the liver
      Deficient metabolic states such as seen in the glucose metabolism of diabetics can lead to
      sequelae. These damaging effects are exacerbated by altered cellular metabolites,
      specifically the increase in catabolic and decrease in anabolic factors. It has been shown
      over the past twenty years that normalization of metabolism in diabetic patients can be
      accomplished by mimicking the normal endogenous insulin pattern (ie., in pulses). Pulsatile
      insulin infusion has been demonstrated to reverse the diabetic metabolic state from primary
      fat utilization to carbohydrate utilization. This has been correlated with a stabilization of
      kidney function in patients with overt diabetic nephropathy, stabilization of blood glucoses,
      stabilization of blood pressure patterns, and reversal of hypoglycemic unawareness.

      The Diabetes Impact Measurement Scale was originally developed to assess quality of life in
      patients with types 1 and 2 Diabetes Mellitus. This study measures whether the reversal of
      abnormal metabolism in patients with diabetes is correlated with an improvement in their
      quality of life.The respiratory quotient (RQ) is a measurement of CO2 exhaled and O2 inhaled
      and is proportionate to the fuel sources being used by the body, primarily the liver over
      short periods of time. The higher the RQ, the more glucose and less alternative fuel sources
      are being utilized. Following the RQ change helps determine the effectiveness of
      physiological insulin administration in increasing anabolic functions in diabetic
      individuals. By improving the body's glucose metabolism and thereby causing beneficial
      effects of anabolic factors, the possibility of serious complications can be decreased. In
      addition the use of oral carbohydrate at the same time along with the physiologic insulin
      administration stimulates the appropriate gut hormones which augment this effect, a response
      which cannot be duplicated with intravenous glucose. The purpose of our studies is to
      determine whether the physiologic administration of insulin along with the augmenting effect
      of oral carbohydrates will normalize metabolism in diabetic patients and improve their
      quality of life indices.

      The RQ is determined by the use of a metabolic cart. Individuals breathe into a mask for 3-5
      minutes after a rest period of 30 or more minutes. The ratio of exhaled volume of CO2 to the
      inhaled volume of O2 is determined as the RQ. The physiologic range is 0.7 to1.3. Individuals
      using fat as a primary fuel have a ratio of 0.7, protein or mixed fuels is 0.8-0.9 and
      carbohydrate is 0.9-1.0. Those taking excessive calories will have RQ's higher than 1.05. The
      RQ can be followed serially and this is done before and after each pulsatile IV insulin
      treatment, during the 3 successive sessions on a single treatment day. The amount of
      intravenous insulin and oral glucose given is determined by the RQ changes during the
      previous session.pulsatile IV insulin therapy encourages the glucose metabolism in diabetics
      to normalize in multiple organs, especially muscle, retina, liver, kidney and nerve endings.
      The process fundamentally requires the administration of high dose insulin pulses similar to
      those found in non diabetic humans by their pancreas into the surrounding portal circulation.
      Oral carbohydrates are given simultaneously to augment the process and prevent hypoglycemia.
      The process is monitored by frequent glucose levels and respiratory quotients (RQ). RQ is
      measured by a metabolic cart which determines the ratio VCO2/ VO2. This ratio is specific for
      the fuel used at any one time by the body. The glucose levels are monitored to keep glucose
      levels appropriate and the RQ determines the need to readjust the infusion protocol in each
      patient for subsequent insulin infusion sessions.Patient is evaluated post session and
      discharged when stable.

      Frequent monitoring of RQ is necessary as these levels change rapidly, depending on the fuel
      being utilized by the body. Pulsatile IV insulin therapy shifts metabolism from primarily
      fatty acid metabolism to primarily glucose metabolism. This shift is reflected by the
      increase in respiratory quotient. However during rest periods the RQ may fall back to lower
      levels. Therefore RQ's are done at the beginning and at the end of each insulin infusion
      session of 1 hour in order to appropriately monitor and adjust insulin and carbohydrate loads
      to reach optimal activation in each session.
    
  