
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is an important cause of mortality and morbidity in
      patients with congenital heart disease with a shunt.

      These congenital cardiac shunts are responsible for PAH, which evolves towards higher
      pulmonary vascular resistance if they are not closed early.

      Patients with significant pulmonary flow and low pulmonary vascular resistance fully benefit
      from surgical shunt closure with complete disappearance of pulmonary hypertension after
      closure. In contrast, patients with low pulmonary flow and high pulmonary vascular resistance
      will have no benefit because they keep a deleterious pulmonary hypertension after closure of
      the shunt.

      In certain situations, especially late discovery of heart disease, the issue of operability
      of these patients is crucial because closing the shunt inappropriately worsens the
      spontaneous prognosis. Currently, in case of doubt on the operability, there are several
      clinical and hemodynamic criteria used empirically, but their predictive value is uncertain.

      It is therefore necessary to stratify patients into operable and inoperable groups to improve
      their overall outcome after surgery.

      In this research project we propose to assess the predictive performance of the pulmonary
      vascular reactivity to acetylcholine test on the presence of elevated PAH 1 year after the
      closure of the shunt. This reactivity test will be evaluated on a population of patients for
      whom the decision of the surgical closure of the shunt has been adjudicated on the basis of
      explorations and usual tests (and therefore blind to the knowledge of the result of the
      reactivity test). The test in this study is designed with repeated injections and increasing
      doses with a continuous flow of acetylcholine in the left lower lobe of the pulmonary artery.
      The last injection consisted with adenosine with inhaled O2/NO (potentiating effect) for
      maximum vasodilatation. The parameter of interest is the Doppler flow velocity in the
      pulmonary artery endothelium-dependent vasodilation by acetylcholine relative to the speed at
      maximum vasodilatation (adenosine + in nitric oxide (NO) inhalation)
    
  