
    
      The device can evaluate trans-valvular flow as well as valvular regurgitation with the use of
      the color flow function. In many situations hTEE enables imaging not feasible by
      transthoracic echocardiography due to wounds, dressings, lines or edema.

      The hTEE does not provide the visual acuity and detail of formal TEE, but it has the
      advantage of requiring a significantly smaller probe (hence the decreased risk of possible
      injury) with the ability of providing rapid, repeatable and sequential assessment by
      caregivers intraoperatively or at the bedside.

      Data will be reviewed for outcome measures comparing efficiency, accuracy and clinical
      decision making capability of the FDA approved hTEE cardiac monitoring system vs. the
      standard of care Swan-Ganz/ echocardiographic information for publication. The ultimate goal
      will be to demonstrate whether or not after implementation of probes in surgical trauma and
      CVICU patients, there is a difference in:

        1. Mortality and Morbidity

        2. Organ dysfunction and failure

        3. Blood product administration

        4. Length of ICU stay

        5. Hospital stay

      2. Study Design and Statistical Procedures This is a two phase, single center, non-blinded,
      non-randomized, observational and retrospective study to be carried out at Memorial Hermann
      Hospital. The data from the hTEE study group will be compared to the control group (in-house
      OR-Trauma and CV surgery databases) and will be analyzed on a patient to patient basis for
      its impact on clinical decision-making.

      Based upon our literature review, we hypothesize that hTEE will help guide point-of-care
      management upwards of 75 percent of cases. A decrease in iatrogenic complications from
      inappropriate blood product administration, volume resuscitation and or drug intervention
      based off of antiquated protocols and inaccurate technology is expected. Its use may benefit
      the hospital financially by decreasing the incidence of organ failure and mortality and
      allowing for the fulfillment of discharge criteria earlier from the hospital.

      3. Study Procedures

        1. Initiation A. Development of protocol and datasheet. (1 month) B. Training of anesthesia
           attendings, fellows, residents and technicians. (1 month) C. Formal presentation at
           Grand rounds. (1 month)

        2. OR- Trauma/ CVICU:

           A. Training of the primary proceduralists. Board runners - 892 office. (1 month) B.
           Recording of real-time hemodynamic transesophageal echocardiographic movies of 60
           patients. (3 months) C. Image analysis for clinical decision making with research
           assistants. (3 months)

        3. Database retrospective review of above stated endpoints. (3 months)

           After admission to the OR and fulfillment of inclusion criteria, the hTEE probe will be
           placed by a trained attending or fellow as per standard care. A standardized exam will
           be performed that includes a: (1) superior vena cava view, (2) trans-esophageal
           four-chamber view and a (3) trans-gastric short axis view.

           As per current standard care, the information will be documented in the medical record
           and discussed with the PI, key study personnel and the patient's physician.

           For the purpose of the study, we will document carefully what impact the hTEE assessment
           has on the management plan on the first 60 patients who meet criteria and compare
           results to the standard of care use of CVP/ Echocardiography combination in terms of
           clinical decision making. Subsequent hTEE assessments will be made sequentially as
           clinically indicated, and the information obtained will be analyzed in the same way. All
           images will be stored for clinical interpretation on the machine itself, which is
           accessible to authorized personnel only. All patient data that is collected for the
           study will be coded; No subject identifiers will be recorded on study forms. See the
           privacy and confidentiality section for details.

        4. Study Drugs or Devices: N/A

        5. Study Instruments: N/A

        6. Study Subjects:

      Inclusion criteria:

      • All study subjects 18 to 85 years old.

        -  OR-Trauma patients Presenting w/ hemodynamic instability. W/ expected intubation greater
           than 24 hours.

        -  CVICU patients Requiring non-isolated cardiac and vascular surgery

      Exclusion criteria:

      Current or previous esophageal injury
    
  