
    
      Depression is a major health problem associated with significant disability and economic
      costs. Although depression can be treated effectively with several psychological and
      pharmacological treatment options, many sufferers still seek or receive inadequate therapy or
      no therapy at all. Internet-based treatments may help to serve this demand, being accessible
      anytime and anywhere making it easier for underserved populations and people living in remote
      areas to receive treatment. The present study aims to assess the efficacy of an
      internet-based CBT intervention for depression (Deprexis), directly comparing the benefits of
      a low intensity therapist-guided with an unguided self-help version. A waiting-list control
      group will be included. Individuals meeting the diagnostic criteria of major depression or
      dysthymia will be randomly assigned to one of the three conditions. While unguided self-help
      will not include any contact with a therapist or the study team during the treatment, guided
      self-help will include a weekly scheduled e-mail feedback by a therapist and the possibility
      to ask questions via e-mail. While in an earlier study Deprexis was assessed as an add-on to
      TAU, this study will examine the efficacy of the program when delivered as a stand-alone
      intervention (i.e., only individuals who currently do not receive psychotherapy will be
      included). Moreover, this study will include a structured diagnostic interview at
      pretreatment. Only participants fulfilling the criteria of a depressive disorder (major
      depression or dysthymia) will be included in the trial. Participants will be recruited in
      Switzerland and Germany via articles in national and regional newspapers and a national
      television interview. All questionnaires will be administered via the internet. The 21-item
      BDI-II will be used as the main outcome measure. Secondary outcome measures will include the
      Brief Symptom Inventory (53-item BSI), the Inventory of Interpersonal Problems (64-item IIP),
      and the WHOQOL-BREF.
    
  