
    
      The study will be conducted using a randomized, double-blind approach with individuals being
      provided two doses of either 15 grams of rice or 15 grams of whey protein over an 8-week
      supplementation period while completing a heavy resistance training. One dose will be
      ingested within one hour of completing each workout and the other dose will be ingested
      within an hour of going to bed. On non-workout days, one dose of 30 grams will be ingested
      within 60 minutes of going to bed. The resistance training protocol will follow a linear
      periodization, split-body resistance training design consisting of two upper body and two
      lower body workouts each week resulting in each muscle group being trained twice each week.
      To minimize the influence of training experience and any learning effect, individuals with at
      least 12 months of resistance training history will be recruited. Participants will also be
      required to complete a two-week lead-in period (8 total workouts) before beginning the
      supplementation regimen to become accustomed to the training program and to account for any
      early neurological adaptations. Participants will then continue to follow the resistance
      training program for an additional 8 weeks. To assess the efficacy of the two different forms
      of protein supplementation on resistance training adaptations, changes in fat-free, lean, and
      fat mass will be determined using DEXA. Maximal strength and endurance of both upper and
      lower-body muscle groups will be determined while anaerobic capacity markers will be measured
      with the completion of a Wingate anaerobic capacity test. Participants will also be provided
      nutritional recommendations in order to ensure adequate energy and macronutrient consumption
      to facilitate positive training adaptations and eliminate any potential influence of
      differing dietary intakes.
    
  