
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the early efficacy and safety for the combination of intratumoral nanoplexed
      poly I:C BO-112 (BO-112) in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have progressed on prior anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To further elucidate efficacy endpoints of the combination the combination of BO-112 with
      pembrolizumab.

      II. To demonstrate the efficacy of BO-112 from its hypothesized mechanism of action.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. Peripheral blood will be collected to assess changes in circulating cluster of
      differentiation 4 (CD4+), cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8+), natural killer (NK), and
      dendritic cells.

      II. Peripheral blood will be collected to assess leukocyte expression of interferon beta
      induced genes in conjunction with intratumoral studies to demonstrate increased intratumoral
      interferon beta and other hypothesized biomarkers.

      III. A baseline biopsy will be collected on cycle 1 day 1 and at cycle 2 day 15 (done at the
      same time as intratumoral injection).

      IIIa. From these biopsies, intratumoral CD4+, CD8+ expression and cluster of differentiation
      56 (CD56+) expression (NK cells) will be measured by immunohistochemistry on the baseline
      biopsy and the biopsy on cycle 2 day 15.

      IIIb. Myeloid dendritic cells will be assessed by flow cytometry, as their activity
      correlates with Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) activation.

      IIIc. Percentage of cells with apoptosis and necrosis will be assessed. IIId. The tumor
      microenvironment will be assessed by ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression profiling with
      nCounter Pancancer Immune Profiling Panel given its extensive validation to date.

      IV. To assess the potential of immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) (iRECIST) to determine disease control as compared to RECIST 1.1.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of odd number
      cycles. Patients also receive BO-112 by intratumoral injection on day 1, 8, and 15 of cycle
      1, and day 15 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 17 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 8 weeks for 1
      year, and then every 12 weeks thereafter.
    
  