
    
      In adult Cochlear implant users, programming is a relatively straightforward task as
      psychophysical measurements can be explained, and patients quickly understand the link
      between the mapping process and the output of their system . In young children or infants,
      the mapping process is more complex, especially comfort levels. Setting the threshold level
      requires the child to respond to the presence or the absence of a sound. Although the same
      techniques are used in setting the comfort level, the child is now required to make a
      judgment about the sound beyond its simple presence or absence. Young children often lack the
      attention span, patience, and cognitive and language skills necessary to perform these tasks
      with good reliability and repeatability .The use of objective measures in the CI process has
      greatly contributed to the definition of the dynamic field, as they provide specific values
      that serve as the basis for the start of the mapping process, especially in cases of infants
      and young children. Some examples of these measures are electrically evoked stapedius reflex
      threshold , neural response telemetry , brainstem auditory evoked potential , and P300, among
      others.The electrically evoked compound action potentials, which are closely related to the
      electrically evoked brainstem responses, would also show a similar correlation with the
      behavioral threshold . Determining threshold levels requires subjective responses to a series
      of sophisticated psychophysical percepts. This is often difficult for cochlear implant
      patients. However, the neural response telemetry system renders possible the measurement of
      the compound action potential threshold . Electric stapedial reflex threshold measurements
      are performed using the same software platform and electrical stimulus utilized for fitting
      the cochlear implant . Thus, stimulus parameters, including pulse duration and repetition
      rate, can be identical to those used to obtain behavioral judgments for psychophysical levels
      .For most implant recipients , even the first introduction of electric stimulation from a
      cochlear implant evokes activity in the auditory brainstem , which can be measured as clear
      electric auditory brain stem response waveforms . Therefore this test can be used in the
      functional evaluation of the auditory system between the time of initial implant activation
      and after chronic cochlear implant use.
    
  