
    
      The overall goal of this project is to improve the health and quality of life of persons
      living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH). To this end, we will implement an innovative model of enhanced
      early integrative palliative care services (EPC) for persons diagnosed with AIDS. Patients
      will be recruited from either the inpatient service or outpatient infectious disease program
      (IDP) at the Grady Health System (GHS) in Atlanta, Georgia. The AIDS EPC Package includes use
      of motivational interviewing (MI) to facilitate adjustment to disease and advance care
      planning decision making. The project has three specific aims:

      Aim 1. Conduct a research clinical trial (RCT) to examine the efficacy of the AIDS EPC
      Package intervention vs. standard HIV care (SOC) and compare outcomes at 12 months post
      baseline. Our hypothesis is that those in the AIDS EPC group will have:

      i. Better clinical outcomes: a lower one year mortality, higher proportion who initiate
      antiretroviral therapy (ART), higher proportion with virologic suppression, higher CD4 gain,
      fewer opportunistic infections (OI), fewer hospitalizations, lower depression scores, and
      better symptom management (including cognitive dysfunction).

      ii. Better psychosocial outcomes: Better coping skills, higher perceived social support,
      higher spirituality, higher levels of self-advocacy, lower proportion who report substance
      use.

      iii. Better Quality of Life (QOL) and a higher proportion who report advance care planning
      activities: named a surrogate; set personal goals regarding life saving measures; and
      discussed these goals with a surrogate.

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES:

      Aim 2. Evaluate the cost effectiveness and cost utility of the AIDS EPC Package compared to
      SOC where the outcomes are valued as survival and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)
      respectively.

      Aim 3. Promote engagement and retention in HIV care as evidenced by attending a greater
      proportion of scheduled appointments and reporting higher satisfaction with care compared to
      SOC.
    
  