
    
      The primary goal of the Swedish national rehabilitation plan on pain is to reduce disability
      and facilitate return-to-work. However, there is a lack of treatment strategies that
      effectively target and affect return-to-work and reduce sickness absence, and that in
      addition are sufficiently easy and feasible to administer in primary care. A new activity and
      life-role targeting rehabilitation program (ALAR) has been developed to reduce psychosocial
      barriers to rehabilitation progress, promote re-integration into life-role activities and
      facilitate return-to-work. The program will be implemented and provided as one of the pain
      treatment modalities available through multi-professional teams in primary care in one
      Swedish county. This study aims to evaluate the effect of an activity and life-role targeting
      pain rehabilitation program on the outcome variables return-to-work and sickness absence.

      Patients seeking care due to disabling back, neck or shoulder pain at seven primary health
      care units in the County of Dalarna, Sweden, was randomly allocated to ALAR or usual
      multimodal rehabilitation. Between and within-group differences on return-to-work, sickness
      absence and disability will be evaluated at 10 weeks, six months, one and two years
      post-treatment.

      The enrollment of patients was ended on preterm in june 2013. Due to changes in the
      organization in primary health care it was no longer possible to ensure that treatment arms
      could be delivered as intended. Data collection up to 1-year follow-up is completed. Data
      from longterm follow-up at 2 years will be completed in june 2015. Data analyses and
      reporting of results is presently undertaken. The number of enrolled participants is not
      enough to reach statistical power. Thus, results will need to be interpreted with caution.

      Still the results of this pragmatic study will be of importance for the planning of a full
      scale study to accurately evaluate the effects of ALAR, to be conducted in primary care.
    
  