
    
      Humidified oxygen therapy via high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) is a recently available
      technique delivering heated and humidified high flow oxygen through simple nasal prongs. HFNC
      provides flows up to 60 L/min of heated air and oxygen at a constant fraction of inspired
      oxygen (FiO 2 ) up to 1.0. Several studies (1-3) have demonstrated that in immunocompetent
      patients HFNC can help generating low levels of CPAP due to the high flow of fresh gas,
      improving comfort and oxygenation, and it attenuates signs of respiratory distress compared
      with non-rebreathing oxygen face mask such as Venturi mask. Moreover, HFNC is considered to
      have several physiological advantages compared with other standard oxygen therapies,
      including the provision of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), constant FiO2, and good
      humidification. More importantly, it can reduce the anatomical dead space. Several studies
      (1-4) demonstrated the efficacy of HFNC in reducing signs of respiratory distress compared to
      conventional oxygen delivery such as Venturi mask. For its advantages over conventional
      oxygen delivery system in patients undergoing abdominal surgery or Thoracoscopic Lobectomy
      (5,6), the investigators are currently and according to clinical practice using HFNC oxygen
      delivery in Liver transplantation after extubation, in our Post-Operative Intensive Care Unit
      (PICU).

      Due to recipients' generally poor preoperative clinical conditions, the extensive surgical
      field and long operating times, post-operative respiratory disorders are very common after
      liver transplantation and they significantly contribute to the related morbidity and
      mortality, both in the acute postoperative stage and in the long term. Several factors are
      involved in the onset of postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs), and many preoperative
      and intraoperative variables have been associated with different degrees of severity of
      respiratory impairment after liver transplantation (7). Although refinements in surgical
      techniques, antimicrobial prophylaxis, immunosuppression, anesthesia, and intensive care
      management have most likely altered the frequency and overall spectrum of post-liver
      transplantation respiratory disorders, it is still common for pulmonary infiltrates,
      atelectasis, pleural exudates, and other radiological abnormalities to be documented on chest
      X-ray at any time during a patient's stay at an intensive care unit. All of these respiratory
      disorders can affect lung compliance and alveolar gas exchange and, when severe, may
      necessitate tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. In the early stages after
      transplantation, pulmonary complications may prolong intubation time and increase the risk of
      systemic infective complications. Prolonged mechanical ventilation due to refractory
      respiratory failure is an extremely morbid event, as this event is a marker of poor recipient
      recovery, predisposes a recipient to long term ventilator dependency and predicts further
      complications.

      In this patients with high risk of PPCs, the application of increased flow rates through HFNC
      could progressively reduce inspiratory effort and improve lung aeration, dynamic compliance
      and oxygenation as demonstrated in patients with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure (8).

      In this matched control study, the investigators hypothesize that HFNC treatment might be
      superior to conventional oxygen therapy in terms of post-operative gas exchange and
      post-operative pulmonary complications for patients undergoing liver transplantation after
      extubation.
    
  