
    
      Otosclerosis is the main cause of acquired hearing loss in young to middle aged Caucasian
      population. Social, personal and medico-economic impacts triggered by this affection make it
      a major public health matter. Historically, the surgical treatment of otosclerosis has always
      been considered one of the best indications of otologic surgery. The external hearing aid was
      then an alternative to surgery considered as a more restrictive and less effective management
      of otosclerosis. With the recent technological developments of hearing aids, comparing these
      two treatments otosclerosis should be studied. The absence of scientific data from the
      literature concerning this subject justifies this study which purpose is to describe the
      evolution of the quality of life and hearing performance of a same patient after taking over
      by these two approaches.

      This is a French pilot study in the Toulouse University Hospital that will include a minimum
      of 30 patients with proven unilateral or asymmetric otosclerosis. Each one will receive a
      hearing aid for a minimum of 2 months and then undergo otosclerosis surgery.

      The primary outcome will be based on a study of the quality of life (score of 0-100 to
      quality of life validated questionnaire Glasgow Health Status Inventory (GHSI)). The
      questionnaire will be given to the patient at the pre-enrollment visit, after a period of two
      months of external hearing aid trying and 2 months after the surgery. Secondary outcomes will
      be studied: simple hearing performance (voice and tone audiogram), complex hearing
      performance (speech audiogram in noise recognition stamp), specific questionnaires for
      hearing (SSQ), for hearing aids (APHAB, GBI equipment), for tinnitus if present (THI and VAS
      discomfort / intensity) or for surgical treatment (surgery GBI). Data about treatment's side
      effects and the number of potential patients refusing surgery after testing the hearing aid
      will also be collected.
    
  