
    
      A reduction in epithelial lining fluid height in cystic fibrosis (CF) as a consequence of
      decreased function of the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane conductance Regulator (CFTR) chloride
      channel and related increased activity of the Epithelial sodium (Na) Channel (ENaC) results
      in impaired mucociliary clearance (MCC), mucus stasis, inflammation, infection, and
      ultimately progressive bronchiectasis. Inhalation of hypertonic saline (HS), through a direct
      osmotic effect on the airways, results in an increase in epithelial lining fluid height in
      vitro and an increase in MCC in vivo as measured following inhalation of a radiotracer with
      gamma scintigraphy (Sood, et al 2003). MCC as a biomarker is being validated in the clinic,
      as administration of inhaled hypertonic saline (HS) to cystic fibrosis patients results in
      short- and medium-term improvements in MCC (Donaldson, et al 2006), while long-term
      administration of HS is associated with improvements in the registration endpoints of lung
      function and pulmonary exacerbations (Elkins, et al 2006). Based in large part on these
      studies, HS has gained acceptance in the CF community, with estimates of up to 50% of
      patients being treated with this therapy. MCC/CC is thus an excellent choice as a Proof of
      Concept endpoint for exploratory clinical studies of ENaC modulators. Prior clinical
      experience with the ENaC blocker amiloride, which improves MCC acutely in healthy volunteers
      (Sood, et al 2003) but failed to improve lung function in long-term studies in CF (Pons, et
      al 2000), suggests that durable ENaC modulation will be required for clinical success. It is
      believed that modulation of ENaC for a period of at least 4 hours will be required to achieve
      the necessary durability. This durability should also enable twice daily dosing. For
      comparison we need to know the effectiveness of HS over this same period. Thus, this study is
      intended to assess 1) the duration of action out to 4 hours for inhaled hypertonic saline
      (7%) in adult CF patients and 2) the variability of MCC/CC measurements with and without HS
      treatment. These assessments at UNC will be compared to similar measures at Johns Hopkins
      University (JHU) for Novartis to determine the feasibility for future multicenter studies
      using MCC/CC as a primary endpoint.
    
  