
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The objective of this study is to determine if treatment with a flex pad impregnated with
      static/permanent magnets that can penetrate over 70 mm may improve the quality of chronic
      lumbar pain with reduction of pain scores.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      It is my hypothesis that the application of a flex pad active magnetic therapy vs. sham if
      utilized daily during waking hours can reduce back pain and/or radicular pain. The null
      hypothesis is that treatment of subjects with chronic back pain with exposure to
      static/permanent magnetic fields have no measurable effect on chronic back pain scores and
      will be equal to the underlying placebo.

      SIGNIFICANCE:

      This is a low-cost, safe and effective, non-invasive treatment for musculoskeletal pain and
      specifically for chronic low back pain. An effective outcome would reduce dependency on
      pharmacological interventions with attempt at reductions in known side effects.

      DESIGN:

      This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study which will consist of two
      treatment groups. Treated subjects will receive a static/permanent magnetic flex pad with a
      nominal strength of less than 1000 Gauss. Control subjects will receive physically identical
      flex pad without magnet with a nominal surface field strength of 0 Gauss (placebo). The
      magnets will be contained in a pad with a Velcro cover and subjects will wear the pad
      attached to their undergarments/skin during waking hours. Dr. Weintraub will examine
      participants initially to look for presence or absence of radiculitis, range of motion,
      presence of absence of spasm, etc. The primary outcome measures will be reduction of chronic
      low back pain in comparison with prior baseline scores. It is recognized that these changes
      are subjective in nature. Patients will maintain their VAS scores on a monthly basis and at
      the end of the study, individuals will return all forms and be reevaluated by Dr. Weintraub.
      They will be asked specific questions regarding PGIC for bias, etc.

      PARTICIPANTS:

      Forty (40) outpatients with chronic low back pain will be enrolled.

      PROTOCOL:

      A DOUBLE-BLIND, RANDOMIZED, PLACEBO-CONTROLLED STUDY ON MAGNETIC FIELD THERAPY TO IMPROVE
      CHRONIC LUMBAR PAIN

      INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        -  Female or male subjects age 18-80.

        -  Capable of understanding and complying with study protocols.

        -  Chronic lumbar pain for at least six months.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        -  Unable to understand informed consent (mental retardation, psychosis, communicative
           impairment).

        -  Cardiac pacemaker or other mechanical internal devices.

        -  Tumor in the spine/history of malignancy or tumor.

        -  Pregnancy.

        -  Prior spine surgery.
    
  