
    
      In preoperative period, all eligible participants are admitted to the hospital for undergoing
      TKA. The detailed protocol, including how to rate visual analog pain score, times to take the
      blood for checking hematocrit levels, criteria for blood transfusion, time to measure the
      knee and thigh circumferences and plan of ambulation program, is informed again. The routine
      preoperative preparation is done. The participant is asked for answering preoperative Oxford
      Knee Score questionnaire. Participants' baseline characteristics are also recorded.

      During intraoperative period, all participants receive the same anesthetic method (spinal
      anesthesia without morphine and peripheral nerve block). Two experienced surgeons (CK and NR)
      perform all procedure with the same surgical technique. A 750 mg intravenous tranexamic acid
      is administrated before inflating tourniquet and 3 hours after the operation. A tourniquet
      pressure of 300 mmHg is used and inflated before skin incision. Pre-incisional local
      injection with 10 ml of 1% lidocaine with adrenaline is done. A mini-medial parapatellar
      approach is performed. Cemented TKA prostheses (Nexgen LPS-Flex, Zimmer, Warsaw, Indiana) are
      implanted in all participants without patellar resurfacing. Periarticular analgesic injection
      is done with 20 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine, 20 ml of normal saline, 30 mg of ketorolac and 1 ml
      of 1% lidocaine with adrenaline. A number-10-gauge drain is placed intra-articularly and
      connected to the Ultravak pressure drainage bottle (Poly Medicure Limited, India). Extensor
      mechanisms are repaired and the wound closure is performed in the routine fashion.

      At the end of operation, the randomized sequence is opened by a scrub nurse. Then, the
      participants are randomly assigned into two groups; Group 1 or MRJB group and Group 2 or
      non-compressive dressing (NCD) group. A tourniquet pressure is deflated after the dressing is
      applied.

      In postoperative period, MRJB is left in place for 24 hours and then changed to NCD. All
      participants obtain the three-hour interval drain clamping protocol. After tourniquet
      release, the drain is clamped for three hours, released for three hours, re-clamped for three
      hours, and then the clamp is run continuously. Mechanical prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis
      by ankle pumping exercise and ambulation on the bed is started as soon as possible. After 24
      hours postoperatively, range of motion exercise and out-of-bed ambulation program are
      started. Ice packs are placed around the knee for at least 8 hours per day. The drain is
      removed at 48 hours after operation.

      For operational definition, MRJB is defined as a three-layers of thick cotton wool and
      two-layers of elastic bandages. The wool layers are put on firmly and overlapped the previous
      one by half at each turn. The elastic layers were pulled snugly with more tension distally
      than proximally. Before wrapping in each turn, the elastic bandage was stretched
      approximately 2 and 1.5 inches at below and above tibial tuberosity level, respectively. The
      whole bandage attains a thickness of about two inches and extends above the ankle joint to
      six inches above the knee joint. Before applying this bandage, the sterile gauze pads were
      placed over the wound and followed by WebrilTM padding (Covidien, Mansfield, MA, US). While
      NCD is made by placing the sterile gauze pads over the wound and covering with the
      hypoallergenic self-adhesive, non-woven fabric tape.

      All patients receive the same postoperative pain managements, including (1) parecoxib 40 mg
      administrated as intravenous bolus every 12 hours for 2 days, then diclofenac 25 mg orally
      every 8 hours until discharge, (2) acetaminophen 300 mg with codeine 15 mg orally every 8
      hours until discharge, (3) morphine 2 mg intravenously pro re nata (prn) for pain every 2
      hours as a rescue drug.

      During the first and second 24 hours after surgery, the maximum of visual analog pain scores
      at rest and during the ambulation are assessed. The circumferences of knee and thigh at
      postoperative 24 and 48 hours are measured by single blinded assessor.

      To evaluate of blood loss and determine criteria for blood transfusion, hematocrit levels are
      measures at 24 and 48 hours after surgery. The patients will receive a transfusion of one
      unit of packed red cells, if their hematocrit levels are less than 30% or if the compromised
      clinical criteria (such as hypotension, tachycardia, symptoms of anemia that are relative to
      the preoperative medical condition) necessitated blood transfusion. If hematocrit levels are
      less than 24%, two units of packed red cells are transfused. The hematocrit levels are
      reevaluated at 4 hours after the end of transfusion and blood transfusion is considered again
      using the same criteria. Drainage blood loss and amount of blood transfusion are recorded at
      24 and 48 hours postoperatively.

      At discharge, range of motion is measured again. Clinical venous thromboembolism, peroneal
      nerve palsy, infection and wound complications are also assessed.

      During follow-up period, range of motion, clinical venous thromboembolism, infection, wound
      condition and other complications are reassessed at 2 and 6 weeks after TKA. The functional
      outcomes, including Oxford Knee Score and time up and go test, are evaluated at 6 weeks
      postoperatively.

      Primary outcome in this study is IBL. It means invisible red blood cell (RBC) volume loss
      that can be calculated according to the following steps; first, the patient's blood volume
      (PBV) is calculated using the Nadler formula.

      PBV = k1 x height (m)3 + k2 x weight (kg) + k3 When k1= 0.3669, k2 = 0.03219, k3 = 0.6041 for
      men; k1= 0.3561, k2 = 0.03308, k3 = 0.18331 for women Then, multiplying the PBV by the
      hematocrit (Hct) will give the total RBC volume. The change in RBC volume can be calculated
      from the change in Hct [20]. In this study, total RBC volume loss at postoperative 48 hours
      is calculated using the following formula; Total RBC volume loss = PBV x (Preoperative Hct -
      Postoperative Hct at 48 hours) At 24 hours after surgery, the volume of drained blood is
      measured and then multiplying by the preoperative Hct will give the drainage RBC blood volume
      at 24 hours. During 24-48 hours after surgery, the volume of drained blood is measured and
      then multiplying by the postoperative Hct at 24 hours will give the drainage RBC blood volume
      at 24-48 hours. The summation of drainage RBC blood volume at 24 hours and at 24-48 hours is
      total drained RBC volume. If the patient receives blood transfusion, the volume of packed red
      cell is also recorded. Finally, invisible blood loss is calculated using the following
      formula; Invisible blood loss = Total RBC volume loss - Total drained RBC volume + Transfused
      blood volume
    
  