
    
      BACKGROUND There is good evidence from multiple sites, including in Ghana, that malaria is
      massively over-diagnosed. It could be argued that where microscopy is not available it can be
      introduced, and elsewhere it can be improved, but high-quality microscopy is not easy to
      sustain. If substantial over-diagnosis continues in Ghana in an era where an ACT is now the
      first-line treatment, it will lead to the intervention being substantially more expensive due
      to over-prescription than it should be, potentially rendering it unsustainable.

      The introduction of rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) has the potential to provide a way of more
      accurately directing ACTs to those that need them and may also encourage clinicians to
      consider alternative diagnoses in test-negative cases, reducing the risk of missing
      treatable, and potentially fatal, alternative causes of febrile illness. RDTs to direct ACT
      use also have the possibility to be cost-effective, but only if clinicians prescribe
      logically on the basis of test results.

      Initial data from Tanzania suggests that providing RDTs in the context of formal healthcare
      settings may have little impact on clinician behaviour, but the health system in Ghana is
      very different, and both clinician and patient beliefs about malaria are likely to be
      different.

      Additionally, this has not been properly tested in areas with little or no access to
      microscopy, nor where ACTs are currently available, which may influence clinician behaviour.
      Many believe this is the most useful setting for RDTs, and may limit over-prescription of
      anti-malarials but there are no data to support this belief, nor are there data on the
      cost-effectiveness of this approach. This trial aims to test the impact of RDT use on
      clinician behaviour directly by means of a randomised trial.

      OBJECTIVES Principal Objective To determine by means of a randomized trial the impact of the
      introduction of Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDTs) on the appropriate prescription of
      anti-malarials in the two public healthcare settings found in Ghana.

      Specifically,

        1. To determine by means of a randomized trial the impact of introducing RDTs on the
           appropriate prescription of anti-malarials in a setting where diagnosis is currently
           purely clinical.

        2. To determine by means of a randomized trial the impact of introducing RDTs on the
           appropriate prescription of anti-malarials in a setting where microscopy is available.

        3. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of RDTs in the diagnosis of malaria.

        4. To explore clinician and patient perceptions on the use of RDTs versus clinical
           diagnosis in the management of malaria.

        5. To explore clinician and patient perceptions on the use of RDTs versus microscopy in the
           management of malaria.

        6. To determine the cost-effectiveness of RDTs for diagnosis of malaria in both settings.

      In both cases RDT is being compared to the standard of care in the health centre.

      METHODS The study will be carried out in the Dangme West District in the southern part of
      Ghana. It will be an individually randomized controlled trial

        1. Baseline data will initially be collected for a period of one month to document the
           normal pattern of diagnosing malaria by clinicians in each health facility. At the
           health centre, all patients for whom microscopy is requested will have a research slide
           taken at the same time and the laboratory results of the clinic slide documented.

        2. Exit interviews with patients and record reviews will be conducted to find out whether
           patients had been prescribed an anti-malarial and confirm whether this was done on
           clinical grounds or on the basis of microscopy. Their prescriptions will be documented.
           At the community clinics as well, a research slide will be taken for all patients with
           diagnosis of malaria or who are prescribed an anti-malarial. Record review of the
           outpatient department (OPD) cards of all patients with a diagnosis of malaria or who
           receive an anti-malarial be carried out to also document presenting symptoms.

        3. For the main trial, all patients visiting the health facility and who meet the inclusion
           criteria will be eligible for enrolment into the study. Allocations to either microscopy
           or RDT at the health centre and to either clinical diagnosis or RDT at the community
           clinics will be computer generated. The allocations will be placed in sequentially
           numbered sealed opaque envelopes which will be prior-labelled with unique study ID
           numbers. Patients will be identified and consent sought on exit from the consulting
           room. If the clinician requests a laboratory test, the patient will be sent to the
           laboratory where a research assistant will open the sealed envelope in the presence of
           the patient to find out their allocation. The allocated test will be carried out and a
           research slide taken at the same time. The lab results will be written out as usual in
           the case of microscopy and the dipstick results will be recorded and sent to the
           clinician for reading as well.

        4. At the community clinics where there is no laboratory, the process of identification of
           eligible patients, seeking of consent and allocation of study arm will be similar to
           that of the health centre. However, in this setting, depending on the allocation in the
           sealed envelope, a rapid diagnostic test will either be carried out by a research
           assistant or a printed card with "clinical diagnosis" written on it will be given to the
           patient. In the case of the RDT, the results will be recorded before the dipstick is
           sent to the clinician for clinician-read diagnosis and subsequent treatment. Whether the
           patient is assigned to clinical diagnosis or RDT, a research assistant will prepare a
           research slide per patient and air dry them for later batch reading.

        5. The presenting symptoms, temperature at presentation, laboratory results, clinician's
           diagnoses and treatment of all patients recruited into the study will be documented.
           Prescriptions given to them will be documented on exit. In addition, their contact
           addresses will be collected on exit and consent sought to facilitate their easy location
           and recruitment for focus group discussions later.

        6. The gold standard for whether a child or adult has malaria will be slide-proven malaria
           parasitaemia measured by a double-read research slide. Research slides will be Giemsa
           stained and read by two independent microscopists who would be blind to the study
           allocations and test results. They will not be used by clinicians in their treatment
           decisions.

        7. At the end of the trial, individual in-depth interviews will be conducted with the main
           clinicians and focus group discussions held with all the other clinicians of the
           participating health facilities. The aim will be to explore their perceptions with
           regard to the use of clinical diagnosis, microscopy and RDT in the diagnosis of malaria
           and their practices with regards to this.

        8. A random selection of patients from the three health facilities will be contacted to
           participate in focus group discussions at the end of the trial. There will be at least
           two focus group discussions comprising 8-12 discussants each from each health facility.
           These discussions will be carried out by means of interview guides. The discussions will
           be conducted in the local language and recorded on a tape recorder.

      In both settings data will be collected for the cost-effectiveness studies.
    
  