
    
      Spine surgery has increased substantially in the U.S. during the past decade, with an
      estimated 100,000 patients undergoing cervical procedures annually. As the demographics of an
      aging population begin to increase their utilization of healthcare resources, surgeons will
      undoubtedly be faced with an increasing number of high-risk patients. A number of factors
      including smoking, obesity, and diabetes significantly contribute to surgical complications
      following spinal arthrodesis. Nicotine has a direct inhibitory effect on autologous
      cancellous bone graft revascularization, significantly increasing the rate of bony non-union.
      Similarly, obesity has been demonstrated to represent a significant risk factor for
      subsequent pseudoarthrosis and has been linked to nearly a 100% higher in-hospital
      complication rate. Spine instrumentation in the setting of diabetes has been linked to
      reduced incidence of bony fusion, increased surgical site infection9, and higher hospital
      costs.

      Achieving solid bony fusion following cervical arthrodesis has long been considered the most
      important primary outcome measure and is highly correlated with patient reported outcome
      measures. Non-union or pseudoarthrosis following cervical instrumentation can lead to
      persistent neck pain and/or recurrence of myeloradiculopathy. The incidence of bony fusion is
      affected by both patient systemic factors and local biologic environment. Significant
      resources have been invested into studying local environment following spinal arthrodesis,
      with a particular focus on high-risk patients. Animal studies have suggested diabetes is a
      significant risk factor for disc degeneration, yet corresponding human studies are lacking.
      Understanding the mechanism by which diabetes contributes to disc degeneration is the first
      requisite step in designing therapies to prevent diabetes associated disc degeneration.
    
  