
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of targeted marrow irradiation given in
      combination with fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate) and busulfan as conditioning regimen for
      allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the toxicity profile of the conditioning regimen of targeted marrow
      irradiation (TMI), fludarabine and busulfan for allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor
      transplantation.

      II. To describe the use of two techniques of delivering TMI, volumetric modulated arc therapy
      (VMAT) and TomoTherapy, on patient's computed tomography (CT) simulation images and describe
      differences in organ avoidance and target coverage, planning time, and treatment delivery
      time.

      III. To determine the disease response status 100 days after allogeneic hematopoietic
      progenitor cell transplantation with the conditioning regimen of TMI, fludarabine and
      busulfan.

      IV. To determine the rates of acute graft versus host disease after allogeneic hematopoietic
      progenitor cell transplantation with the conditioning regimen of TMI, fludarabine and
      busulfan.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of TMI.

      CONDITIONING: Patients undergo TMI twice daily (BID) on days -10 to -7. Patients also receive
      fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days -6 to -2 and busulfan IV or
      orally (PO) on days -5 and -4.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor cell transplant on day 0.

      GRAFT-VERSUS-HOST DISEASE (GVHD) PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV on
      days -3 and -2, tacrolimus IV or PO beginning on day -1 for at least 6 months with taper
      beginning at 4 months, and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 100 days, 6 months, and 12
      months.
    
  