
    
      Patients undergoing major abdominal surgery under general anesthesia in University Hospital
      Dubrava, were eligible if there were aged 18 years or older, and ASA (American Society of
      Anesthesiologists) physical status II or III. Study included 40 patients enroled in the six
      months period (between February 2011. and July 2011.). Exclusion criteria were memory
      impairment, psychosis, known or suspected electroencephalograph abnormality (eg, epilepsy,
      previous brain operation), chronic use of psychoactive medication, and operation time
      exceeding six hours.

      The protocol was approved by Institutional Ethics Committee of University Hospital Dubrava.
      All participating elective surgical patients were given brief description of the trial, and
      gave written informed consent before enrolment.

      According to a computer generated randomisation list, patients were randomly assigned to
      receive BIS-guided anesthesia (group 1) or routine anesthesia care as a non BIS-guided group
      (group 2). The non BIS-guided group was studied while the BIS monitor was attached to
      patient, but the screen was blinded to the anesthesiologist in charge. All values were
      recorded by the younger anesthesiologist, who was not involved in the anesthesia maintenance.
      All other aspects of perioperative treatment were similar, including choice of anesthetic
      agents and monitoring.

      The operation was performed under general anesthesia using midazolam (0.15 mg/kg), fentanyl
      (2 µg/kg) and pancuronium (0.1 mg/kg) to facilitate endotracheal intubation, and 1.5-2.5 MAC
      of sevoflurane, nitrous oxide 50% in oxygen, boluses of fentanyl and pancuronium for
      maintenance. Intraoperatively, after induction doses of fentanyl, anesthesia was mainly
      balanced with sevoflurane. Electrocardiography (EKG), invasive blood pressure (IBP),
      peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), and end-tidal CO2 (etCO2) were monitored.

      A BIS sensor was applied to patient's forehead before induction of anesthesia and connected
      to A-2000 BIS monitor (Aspect Medical Systems, Newton, MA, USA). It records the
      electroencephalogram from 4 electrodes and after processing it with mathematic algorithms it
      generates a number from 0 to 100. When the BIS value is lower than 40, the patient is in deep
      anesthesia state, when the value is over 80, the patient is under light sedation [3].

      After the surgery and recovery from anesthesia, patients were transferred to intensive care
      unit for continuous monitoring of vital functions and homeostasis.

      At the induction of anesthesia, and every 15 minutes during operation, BIS levels were
      recorded. Also, at the end of the operation, extubation time and analgesics consumption were
      recorded.
    
  