
    
      The prevalence of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) has been on the rise in the United
      States, and in fact the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) identified CDI as
      one of the highest threats in its recent report on antibiotic resistance in the United
      States. This designation as an "urgent threat" highlights the need for immediate and
      aggressive action to prevent this infection.

      In fact, CDI has been reported as the most commonly reported pathogen causing
      healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). A point prevalence survey of 183 hospitals in 10
      states found that C. difficile comprised 12.1% of HAIs, surpassing Staphylococcus aureus
      infections.

      Although most cases of CDI can be treated successfully with relatively safe and effective
      oral antibiotics (i.e., metronidazole or vancomycin), primary prevention of CDI is critical
      because up to one in five treated patients endures a relapse or reinfection, which can be
      difficult to treat; infected patients serve as a reservoir for ongoing transmission within
      facilities; implementation of contact isolation precautions for patients who have CDI can
      have deleterious consequences for the patient; and, CDI can result in death or severe disease
      including those treated by colectomy. Because CDI is spread between patients, prevention of a
      single case should reduce the risk of exposure for other hospital patients.

      One of the main studies in this indication, being a quality improvement study conducted at
      Pierre Le Gardeur Hospital (PLGH) in province of Québec, Canada. Starting in 2004, 10 years
      of surveillance data were reported from this hospital that administers Bio-K Plus to all
      antibiotic users. During the 10 years of observation, 44, 835 inpatients received Bio-K+, and
      the CDI rate at PLGH declined from 18.0 cases per 10,000 patient-days and remained at low
      mean levels of 2.3 cases per 10 000 patient-days.

      Additionally, 10-year data collected by the Ministry of Health in Quebec comparing the CDI
      rate between Quebec hospitals showed that CDI rates at PLGH were consistently and
      continuously lower compared with those at similar hospitals.

      In conclusion, adding Bio-K Plus as a standard treatment led to a dramatic and sustained
      decrease in the incidence of C. difficile infections at this hospital.
    
  