
    
      The incidence of hepatic decompensations and mortality is reduced considerable in patients
      who achieve sustained virologic response (SVR) to therapy against hepatitis C virus (HCV)
      infection. With the arrival of direct-acting antivirals (AAD) against HCV, rates of SVR are
      significantly higher than what was achieved with pegylated interferon (peg-IFN) in
      combination with ribavirin (RBV). Therefore, AADs could have a high impact in this context.
      Therefore, triple therapy against HCV genotype 1 based on the first-generation protease
      inhibitors (PI) telaprevir (TVR) or boceprevir (BOC) plus peg-IFN/RBV became standard therapy
      in 2011 and SVR rates as high as 68%-75% were reached in treatment-naïve patients. In
      treatment-experienced subjects, retreatment with triple therapy resulted in higher SVR rates
      than what was observed with dual therapy alone, however, treatment success strongly depends
      on the previous response pattern. Unfortunately, combinations based on TVR or BOC are not
      well tolerated, treatments are complex, costs are high and pharmacological interactions are
      frequently observed.

      The next generation of DAAs offers increased response rates and, furthermore, a better safety
      pattern than TVR or BOC. Additionally, the dosing of the newer DAAs is easier and more
      convenient, and pharmacological interactions of the newer DAAs are easier to manage or even
      not relevant. The FDA has approved the second-generation PI simeprevir, the HCV
      non-structural (NS) protein NS 5B inhibitor sofosbuvir, as well as the inhibitors of NS 5A
      daclatasvir and ledipasvir. Apart from a better efficacy, safety and convenience, these new
      DAAs are active against HCV genotypes other than 1. Finally, some of the new DAAs can be
      administered in interferon-free regimens and therefore offer treatment options for
      interferon-intolerant individuals or for those with a contraindication for peg-IFN.
      Therefore, in the near future, the vast majority of HCV monoinfected patients will be treated
      with a combination including a DAA. Currently, the main problem is the high cost of the DAAs
      challenging the health systems.

      In spite of the positive prospect regarding response rates to DAAs, there are a number of
      questions to be answered as soon as possible. On the one hand, the information on efficacy
      and safety of the DAAs available to date is derived from clinical trials that do not reflect
      the circumstances of the clinical practice. In this context, clinical trials usually include
      a considerably low proportion of patients with certain characteristics, such as cirrhotics.
      Data from the French cohort CUPIC reveal that this subgroup shows a lower tolerability of TVR
      or BOC than that reported in pivotal clinical trials. In fact, data obtained from this cohort
      resulted in a change of treatment guidelines for HCV monoinfected patients published by the
      Spanish Agency of Medicines. On the contrary, there is evidence based on observations made
      within the expanded access program study HEP3002 that individuals with advanced fibrosis show
      a efficacy and safety profile when treated with triple therapy that is more similar to that
      observed in clinical trials than within the CUPIC cohort. Nevertheless, in this study,
      exclusion criteria and follow-up were comparable to what is applied in clinical trials.
      Therefore, the study population may not reflect exactly the patient profile seen in
      real-life.

      Currently, information on the distinct aspects of treatment against HCV including DAAs under
      real-life conditions in Spain is scarce. Clinicians at the Infectious Diseases Units treat a
      high number of HCV monoinfected patients. These physicians are confronted with a patient
      population in which a history of drug abuse is predominant, the majority of the individuals
      having consumed injecting drugs, who frequently suffer psychiatric pathology and who receive
      concomitant therapy that cause problems regarding drug-drug interactions and adherence. Also,
      the HCV genotype distribution is different to what is observed in Hepatology Units, being the
      genotype 1a predominant as compared to 1b, 3 and 4. Taken into account what was mentioned
      above, these factors could cause different rates of SVR to DAAs, interruptions and voluntary
      drop-outs as compared to what has been reported, especially in the difficult-to-treat
      population.
    
  