
    
      Problem to be addressed: In December 2019, the Wuhan Municipal Health Committee (Wuhan,
      China) identified an outbreak of viral pneumonia cases of unknown cause. Coronavirus RNA was
      quickly identified in some of these patients.This novel coronavirus has been designated
      SARS-CoV-2, and the disease caused by this virus has been designated COVID-19.Outbreak
      forecasting and mathematical modelling suggest that these numbers will continue to rise [1]
      in many countries over the coming weeks to months.Global efforts to evaluate novel antivirals
      and therapeutic strategies to treat COVID-19 have intensified. There is an urgent public
      health need for rapid development of novel interventions. At present, there is no specific
      antiviral therapy for coronavirus infections.

      Passive immunization: Passive antibody therapy involves the administration of antibodies to a
      given agent to a susceptible individual for the purpose of preventing or treating an
      infectious disease due to that agent. In contrast, active vaccination requires the induction
      of an immune response that takes time to develop and varies depending on the vaccine
      recipient. Some immunocompromised patients fail to achieve an adequate immune response. Thus,
      passive antibody administration is the only means of providing immediate immunity to
      susceptible persons and immunity of any measurable kind for highly immunocompromised
      patients. The only antibody type that is currently available for immediate use is that found
      in human convalescent plasma.The American Food and Drug Agency (FDA) has recently announced
      clinical trials and a facilitated access to COVID-19 convalescent plasma for use is patients
      with severe or life-threatening infections [2].

      Known potential risks and benefits: There is a theoretical risk of antibody-dependent
      enhancement of infection (ADE) through which virus targeted by non-neutralizing antibodies
      gain entry into macrophages. Another theoretical risk is that antibody administration to
      those exposed to SARS-CoV-2 may avoid disease but modify the immune response such that those
      individuals mount attenuated immune responses, which would leave them vulnerable to
      subsequent re-infection. Finally, there are risks associated with any transfusion of plasma
      including transmission of blood transmitted viruses (e.g. HIV, HBV, HCV, etc.), allergic
      transfusion reactions, including anaphylaxis, febrile non hemolytic transfusion reaction,
      transfusion related acute lung injury (TRALI), transfusion associated cardiac overload
      (TACO), and hemolysis should ABO incompatible plasma be administered. Potential benefits of
      COVID-19 convalescent plasma include improved survival, improvement in symptoms, decreased
      risk in intubation for mechanical ventilation, decrease risk of intensive care unit (ICU)
      admission, shortened hospitalization time and suppression of viral load.

      Mechanism of action: Transfusion of apheresis frozen plasma (AFP) from COVID-19 convalescent
      patients allows the transfer of donor neutralizing antibodies directed against SARS-CoV2
      antigens to the recipient, thus allowing the generation of passive immunization. Naturally
      produced human antibody are polyclonal, meaning they are directed against a variety of
      different viral antigens and epitopes allowing for a general neutralizing effect against the
      virus rather than focussing on a specific target. Administration of convalescent plasma has
      been associated with rapid decrease in viral load. It is also possible that passive
      immunization contributes to improved cell-mediated immunity by favoring the phagocytosis and
      presentation of viral antigens to host T cells.

      Participant recruitment:Only hospitalized COVID-19 patients are eligible so recruitment
      efforts will be focused on identified consecutive patients admitted to hospital with acute
      COVID-19 infection. No other external recruitment efforts are planned. At each participating
      hospital, a process for identifying patients with COVID-19 will be established.

      Donor recruitment: Recovered COVID-19 patients will be identified as potential donors in
      collaboration with public health services, local health authorities, and individual
      co-investigators involved in the study. Potential donors may also be recruiting following
      self-identification on the routine donor questionnaire or through social media. They will be
      contacted by phone and invited to participate in the program as potential donors. After
      obtaining verbal consent and reviewing donor selection criteria, eligible participants will
      be directed to a New York Blood Center site in their area to donate.

      Criteria for donors: All donors between the ages of 18 and 70 will need to meet donor
      selection criteria set forth by the FDA and NYBC. In addition, donors will require:

      Prior diagnosis of COVID-19 documented by a PCR test at time of infection or by positive
      anti-SARS-CoV-2 serology following infection At least 14 days since resolution of COVID-19
      symptoms Male donors, or female donors with no pregnancy history or with negative anti-HLA
      antibodies At least 6 days since last plasma donation Provided informed consent

      Randomization procedures: Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio (convalescent plasma vs
      standard of care). Patients will be randomized using a secure, concealed, computer-generated,
      web-accessed randomization sequence. Randomization will be stratified by centre and age (<60
      and ≥ 60 years). Within each stratum, variable permuted block sized will be used. This
      approach will ensure that concealment of the treatment sequence is maintained.

      Duration of follow-up: Subjects will be followed daily until hospital discharge or death.
      Patients discharged from hospital before Day 30 will be contacted by telephone on Day 30 ± 3
      days to ascertain any AEs, vital status (dead/alive), hospital readmission and need for
      mechanical ventilation after discharge. Patients discharged from hospital will be contacted
      at Day 90+/- 7 days to determine vital status. Patients with a prolonged hospital admission
      will be censored at Day 90. The local study coordinator will collect all study data and
      record the data in the electronic CRF or paper CRF as per study procedures for each site.

      Duration of study: For an individual subject, the study ends 90 days after randomization. The
      overall study will end when the last randomized subject has completed 90 day follow-up. We
      estimate that all patient will be enrolled in a period of 6 months, data on the primary
      endpoint will be available 30 days after last patient enrollment and data on all secondary
      endpoints will be available after 90-day from last patient enrollment.

      Sample size considerations: Assuming a baseline risk of intubation or death of 30% in
      hospitalized patients with standard of care, a sample size of 1200 (800 in the convalescent
      plasma arm, and 400 in the standard of care arm) would provide 80% power to detect a relative
      risk reduction of 25% with convalescent plasma therapy using a 2-tailed test at level α =
      0.05 and a 2:1 randomization.

      Interim analysis: A single interim analysis is planned when the primary outcome (intubation
      or mortality at 30 days) is available for 50% of the target sample. An O'Brien-Fleming
      stopping rule will be used at that time, but treated as a guideline, so there is minimal
      impact on the threshold for statistical significance for the final significance test of the
      primary outcome. A DSMB will monitor ongoing results to ensure patient well-being and safety
      as well as study integrity. The DSMB will be asked to recommend early termination or
      modification only when there is clear and substantial evidence of a treatment difference.

      Final analysis plan: The primary analysis will be based on the intention-to-treat population
      which will include data from all individuals who have been randomized. Outcomes will be
      attributed to the arm to which individuals were randomized irrespective of whether they
      received the planned intervention (e.g. plasma from a convalescent COVID-19 donor).
    
  