
    
      Obstetric risk factors for HIV maternal-child transmission (MCT) include preterm birth,
      prolonged rupture of the membranes, and chorioamnionitis. Many preterm births are associated
      with and likely caused by chorioamnionitis. The relationship between bacterial vaginosis,
      preterm birth, histologic chorioamnionitis, and perinatal transmission of HIV has been
      consistently demonstrated. Perinatal HIV transmission is more common in preterm infants, and
      there is now evidence that subclinical chorioamnionitis is a substantial risk factor for MCT.
      For this study, the primary hypothesis is that early and appropriate treatment of subclinical
      chorioamnionitis prior to the onset of spontaneous preterm labor, and/or antibiotic treatment
      during labor, to prevent premature rupture of membrane-associated-chorioamnionitis, will
      reduce the risk of perinatal HIV transmission.

      [Note: As of 02/21/03, enrollment into this study was halted because preliminary data showed
      that the study antibiotics were not effective in preventing mother-to-child HIV
      transmission.]

      At 20 to 24 weeks, women who are randomized to receive antibiotics receive metronidazole and
      erythromycin for 7 days. Women randomized to the control group receive identically appearing
      placebos. With the onset of contractions and/or premature rupture of membranes, study
      participants will initiate a second oral course of antibiotics consisting of metronidazole
      and ampicillin or placebo every 4 hours, continuing after delivery until the course is
      completed. All HIV-infected women and their neonates will be offered the HIVNET 012
      nevirapine (NVP) regimen. If the mother accepts the NVP for herself and her baby, she will be
      given 1 dose of NVP to be taken at onset of labor, and her baby will receive 1 dose of NVP at
      72 hours post-birth or discharge, whichever occurs earlier. If the mother refuses NVP or is
      uninfected, she will receive a matched placebo at the 26- to 30-week visit to preserve
      participant confidentiality. This study takes place in Blantyre and Lilongwe, Malawi, in
      Lusaka, Zambia, and in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
    
  