
    
      Until recently our attempts over the years at treatment of patients with such types of
      tinnitus has met with little or no success. These treatments have included cervical physical
      therapy and dental treatments for bruxism. A few with such tinnitus responded have had some
      benefit from acupuncture applied to their periauricular region. A small formal trial with a
      few patients did not provide any relief.

      However a literature review (Levine et al., 2007) found a consistent line of evidence for a
      tinnitus subgroup responsive to somatosensory based treatment modalities, including
      electrical stimulation in the periauricular region, and acupuncture. Furthermore an
      electrical stimulation device of the auricle P-Stim was found to be more effective than
      standard acupuncture for a variety of conditions, including chronic cervical and low back
      pain. For this convergence of reasons we have initiated an open trial with P-Stim over the
      past 11 months. In a sense we have used it in an "off-label" capacity; just as many
      medications have been found to be useful for conditions for which the medications were not
      developed (see Levine 2006).

      The P-Stim is a battery-powered, transcutaneous electrical stimulator that delivers 1 per
      second bipolar 1 millisecond pulses to three points on the auricle. The device connects via
      three fine insulated stainless steel wires to three needles (each 0.4 mm diameter, 2 mm long)
      that have been applied to three different points on the auricle. The device is powered by
      three zinc air batteries, each with a voltage of 1.4 V. The device is on for 180 minutes,
      then off for 180 minutes, for a maximum period of up to 96 hours. The battery and electronics
      are contained in a 6 mm by 2.5 mm pack that has one adhesive surface which is applied to the
      skin behind the ear. The adhesive is conductive and acts as the return for the device. The
      battery pack is secured with tape.

      We have met with some success using P-Stim for what appear to be two tinnitus subgroups:
      somatic pulsatile tinnitus syndrome (Levine et al., 2008) and patients with non-pulsatile
      unilateral fluctuating tinnitus associated with deep ear pain.
    
  