
    
      To achieve the study goal, we have selected a 3-group randomized clinical trial (RCT) design
      that includes 1) Usual Care, 2) Intensive smoking cessation, and 3) Integrated Intensive
      Smoking and Alcohol Intervention. Due to low enrollment because of the addition of an alcohol
      use screening criteria, the study was changed to a two arm study and the study time frame
      changed. The two study conditions are 1) Integrated Intensive Smoking plus Alcohol
      intervention using cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), CBT-(IS+A) and 2) Usual Care (brief
      smoking cessation and brief alcohol counseling both based on the United States Public Health
      Service's Guidelines)-(UC). The study length is reduced to 26 weeks from 52 weeks. Having
      alcohol treatment added to the smoking intervention will enable us assess whether addressing
      alcohol abuse will result in improved smoking abstinence, an important scientific question
      that has never been studied in homeless populations.

      Study conditions: Both study conditions have identical number of contacts; we considered a
      design in which the duration of counseling in the UC will be identical to those in the IS+A
      condition but decided against this because it will create a usual care condition that exceeds
      standard practice for brief interventions. We understand that testing hypothesis 3 confounds
      contact time with treatment content, and hence we will not be able to determine that observed
      differences in outcome are due to specific treatment components. However, given the current
      state of knowledge about treating homeless alcohol abusing smokers, we believe it is
      sufficient to show that our intervention led to improved outcome in this group without
      knowing if the finding is due to specific intervention content. Subsequent research will be
      needed to disentangle various intervention components.

      All participants will receive 12-week treatment with nicotine patch plus nicotine
      gum/lozenge. Counseling will include weekly individual sessions for 3 months followed by
      study data collection visits for 3 months. Each participant will be randomly assigned to a
      condition, which will dictate their treatment. Each participant will be asked to engage in
      the therapy assigned to their condition, and work to quit smoking and consuming alcohol over
      a period of one year.
    
  