
    
      The implantation of a deep brain stimulator (DBS) is an established option to improve the
      symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) in patients that do not respond adequately to medical
      therapy. Most centers perform this surgery using a technique that involves microelectrode
      recording (MER) of neuronal activity for localization of the target nucleus, microstimulation
      of identified targets, and neurological intraoperative testing in a cooperative patient. This
      surgery is usually performed in two stages. In the first stage, and under conscious sedation
      (CS), the target nucleus is localized and the DBS is implanted. About 5 days later, and under
      general anaesthesia, a programmable pulse generator is implanted and connected to the DBS.

      The anesthetic approach varies depending on the institution, ranging from local anesthesia
      only with monitored care, conscious sedation, and the "asleep-awake" or "asleep-awake-asleep"
      technique. But sedative drugs can affect the quality of MER by suppressing the firing rate of
      basal ganglia structures, and alter PD symptoms. Propofol is the drug most commonly used. Its
      real influence on the quality of MER and PD symptoms is still today controversial. In recent
      years, some studies have suggested using dexmedetomidine as the main sedative agent for this
      intervention. Dexmedetomidine, a α2-adrenergic receptors agonist, is a potent anxiolytic that
      acts at subcortical areas of the brain without involving GABA receptors. It provides
      excellent sedation without respiratory depression; also, it has an analgesic component and a
      predictable hemodynamic response. Low maintenance doses do not appear to interfere with MER.
      The possible effect of dexmedetomidine in the PD symptoms is still unclear. All these
      characteristics make it a good choice for sedation of PD patients undergoing DBS surgery.

      Studying the influence of anesthetic drugs on basal ganglia activity and PD motor symptoms in
      humans and in a clinical setting is complicated. First, it is difficult to establish a
      control group to compare effects in different nuclei. There is some data concerning clinical
      outcomes (clinical symptoms or long term stimulation parameters) but without
      electrophysiological data. MERs data has been compared between different patients or in the
      same patient but between contralateral targets. Few studies analyze electrophysiological data
      with or without one sedative drug in the same target.
    
  