
    
      In this extension study we will be extending our clinical observation of the STN patients
      from two to five years. It is expected that a Calcinerium Inhibitor (CNI) sparing regimen
      will be associated with better preservation of kidney function and fewer cardiovascular
      events.

      STN is a prospective multi-center study that has completed enrollment of 305 first time
      recipients of kidney allografts from 27 centers. The enrollees were randomly assigned either
      to continue the center-specific CNI regimen (assigned at the time of transplantation) or were
      switched to replace the CNI with sirolimus therapy. Either CNI or sirolimus are being used in
      combination with CellCept therapy with or without the use of maintenance steroids, based on
      individual center preferences. Induction therapy was also center-specific.

      In the present long-term follow-up study we will approach patients previously enrolled in the
      STN study and offer them the opportunity to enroll to be followed for another 3 years. There
      will be no changes in immunosuppression unless clinically indicated. The majority of the
      effort is standard care with every 6 month follow-up appointments.They will be required to be
      consented to participate in the three year extension study.

      Research procedures:

      The only inclusion criteria is willingness to sign the consent form for the extension study,
      after successful completion of the two year STN study.

      Study entry is defined as the point at which they sign the consent form, and agree to
      participate in the study extension.All patients will be followed for 3 years from their
      initial screening visit. There will be 7 visits during the study period. All procedures will
      be standard care for long-term transplant follow-up, with no changes in immunosuppression
      unless clinically indicated. The only exception to standard of care is obtaining a 24 hour
      urine for protein and creatinine clearance every 6 months during the follow-up.

      Visit 1 (Study entry) 1. Review of inclusion/exclusion criteria 2. Medical history,
      recipient's age, gender and race 3. Complete transplant information i. date of transplant ii.
      tissue and ABO typing iii. B-Cell cross match, PRA iv. Patient/donor EBV and CMV serology

      The patients will stay on the same immunosuppression as they were receiving in the STN study,
      unless medications were changed due to medical reasons. They will be routinely monitored as
      per center practice.

      The drugs are given as standard of care and the extension of this study does not alter the
      participants' medication regimen.

      The following laboratory evaluations are typically performed at each visit.

        1. Tacrolimus / sirolimus trough concentration. Immunosuppressive regimen will be reviewed
           and changed or adjusted as necessary.

        2. CBC with differential

        3. Chemistry panel: glucose, Na, K, Cl, CO2, Ca, P, Mg, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), albumin
           and total protein, AST, ALT, bilirubin (total), alkaline phosphatase and serum
           creatinine 4 Estimated GFR from blood and urine data.

      5. Fasting lipid profile: total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, HDL/LDL ratio, triglycerides

      The following clinical assessments will also be performed and recorded in each visit: 1.
      Vital signs 2. Weight measurements 3. Concomitant medications 4. Adverse events 5.
      Opportunistic infections 6. Malignancies 7. Clinical evaluation of signs or symptoms of
      rejection

      Number of patients with adverse events will be summarized by body system and each adverse
      event. Incidence of adverse events will also be summarized by severity and relationship to
      study medication. Any serious adverse events or deaths will be summarized separately. patient
      death, graft loss, the need to be withdrawn from the original assigned calcineurin inhibitor
      therapy patients who return to dialysis for 6 or more consecutive weeks, patients who
      experience adverse events that lead to premature withdrawal or loss to follow-up. Patients
      will be followed until the end of the study in all cases. All failed patients will be
      followed until the end of the last follow up visit (36 months) unless consent is withdrawn.
      The proportion of patients experiencing any opportunistic infections will be summarized up to
      6, 12, 24 ,and 36 months after randomization.
    
  