
    
      Heart diseases are the number one cause of death in developed countries and in particular
      chronic or congestive heart failure is the leading cause of hospitalization in patients older
      than 65 years. It is still increasing in prevalence and, in spite of significant advances in
      therapy, mortality rates remain high: 30% to 40% of patients with advanced disease, and 5% to
      10% of patients with mild symptoms will die within 5 to 10 years.

      A relevant proportion of the heart failure patients (30 - 50%) suffering from edema and
      dyspnea have normal or minimally impaired left ventricular ejection fraction (preserved left
      ventricular ejection fraction) with diastolic abnormalities in echocardiography. Features of
      diastolic dysfunction are the stiffness, the decreased compliance and the impaired relaxation
      of the left ventricle. As a result, the left ventricle has a limited filling capacity during
      a normal left atrial pressure.

      Hypertension and/or diabetes are the most predisposing conditions whereas left ventricular
      hypertrophy is regarded as the linking intermediate pathological condition. Moreover, recent
      studies showed that patients with symptomatic heart failure and an ejection fraction greater
      than 40% have a poor prognosis with relatively high mortality and hospitalization rates.
      Thus, in hypertensive patients, diastolic dysfunction has shown to be a predictor of
      morbidity.

      Diastolic dysfunction is also a frequent finding in type 2 diabetes without symptoms and
      signs of heart disease. As long as it is independent of ischemic heart disease, it is
      presumably due to diabetic cardiomyopathy. Once aggravated to heart failure, diastolic
      dysfunction often coexists with systolic dysfunction as a consequence of coronary artery
      disease with a limited coronary reserve.

      This study will determine whether pharmacological intervention into the Renin Angiotensin
      Aldosterone System exerted by the Angiotensin-Receptor Blocker Candesartan on top of an
      Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitor-based therapy may lead to a significant drop of
      N-terminal pro-B-type Natriuretic Peptide. This neurohormonal laboratory marker is sufficient
      enough to simultaneously indicate the improvement of the causing diastolic dysfunction and
      associated heart failure symptoms as assessed by objective echocardiographic and clinical
      parameters.

      Total time for participants in this study is approximately 26 weeks.
    
  