
    
      Endothelin receptor antagonist is an established class of targeted therapy for pulmonary
      arterial hypertension (PAH). Nonselective ERA, Bosentan was the first approved ERA for PAH.
      Selective ERA, Ambrisentan was also approved for PAH treatment consequently. Although
      non-selective and selective ERA are both effective in clinical trials, there is no direct
      comparison for non-selective and selective ERA. Furthermore, approval study for both
      non-selective and selective ERA did not include the PAH associated with congenital heart
      disease (PAH-CHD) with significant shunt including Eisenmenger syndrome. Approval study for
      Ambrisentan;ARIES-1 and ARIES-2 trials also did not include the PAH-CHD In Korea, Bosentan
      was approved in 2003 and Ambrisentan was approved in 2009 for idiopathic PAH. Bosentan was
      also approved for PAH-CHD, however, Amrisentan was not because of limited data for PAH-CHD.
      Therefore, Bosentan was the only ERA covered by public health insurance since 2018 for
      PAH-CHD. Recently, Amrisentan was also approved for PAH associated with congenital heart
      disease including Eisenmger syndrome. And, there is a need for changing medication from
      double pill medication to once-daily dose medication because of patient's compliance.

      PAH associated with CHD includes the group with significant shunt vs without shunt (s/p
      corrected state). When there is a shunt flow, change in pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR)
      and cardiac output can be a modulator of shunt flow, thus impact of pulmonary vasodilator on
      hemodynamics can be different from PAH without shunt. However, there is a limited data for
      changing ERA from non-selective to selective ERA. Our patients population can be interesting
      study group to understand the clinical response to changing between ERA because they are
      uniformly treated with non-selective ERA to selective ERA, Bosentan to Ambrisentan.

      In this study, the investigators will evaluate the treatment effects and safety, patient
      compliance of Ambrisentan in Eisenmenger syndrome in PAH patients who have been previously
      treated with Bosentan.
    
  