
    
      PURPOSE

      To demonstrate that packed red blood cells (pRBC) less than 5 days old are superior to older
      (>20days) blood in improving markers of cerebral oxygenation in acutely head injured
      patients.

      HYPOTHESIS

      Transfusion of pRBC will result in increased cerebral extraction of oxygen. This effect will
      be greatest in pRBC stored for a greater length of time.

      JUSTIFICATION

      One of the main aims of the intensive management of head injured patients is the prevention
      of secondary hypoxic or hypotensive insults in the already injured brain. Packed red blood
      cell transfusions are commonly given to trauma patients suffering anemia (Hgb <100 g/l)
      secondary to blood loss in order to improve oxygen delivery to vital organs including the
      brain.

      Previous studies have shown that the capacity of packed red blood cells (pRBC) to improve
      oxygen delivery to tissues diminishes with increased time in storage. This storage lesion may
      improve with time post transfusion; however, this may take many hours.

      Other studies have shown an association between age of pRBCs transfused and length of stay in
      trauma patients and mortality in septic ICU patients. Unused old blood is likely to be sent
      to high volume centers to avoid wasting a precious resource.

      The effects of 'old' transfused blood have not been subject to rigorous prospective studies
      and age of blood has not been shown to be causally related to the adverse outcomes mentioned
      above, hence the need for further studies.

      The injured brain is uniquely sensitive to further damage. Even a brief secondary insult of
      either hypotension or hypoxia has been shown to have a significant adverse effect on outcomes
      including permanent disability and death. Furthermore the measurement of markers of cerebral
      oxygenation forms part of the standard care of severely head injured patients in this
      institution giving a unique opportunity to study the effects of blood transfusion in this
      group of patients.

      The presence of a storage lesion in pRBCs lasting even a few hours could have a significant
      impact on the head injured patient. If indeed 'fresh' blood does significantly improve
      markers of cerebral oxygenation when compared to older blood it could alter clinical practice
      significantly by placing a priority on transfusing only 'fresh' blood in such patients. The
      effect of age of pRBCs has never been studied in the head injured population.

      Donated blood is stored for a maximum of 42 days. The average age of pRBC administered at VGH
      is 21 days.

      OBJECTIVES

      To evaluate the effect of transfusing "fresh" (blood stored less than 5 days) versus "stored"
      (blood stored for greater than 20 days) pRBC on cerebral oxygen extraction. We will also
      evaluate the effect of transfusion of pRBC on cerebral oxygen extraction in patients with
      traumatic brain injury.

      RESEARCH METHOD

      This is a single centre randomized trial in severely head injured patients requiring a blood
      transfusion. Randomization will be by computer generated random numbers paced in sealed
      envelopes. Patients would be randomized to receive either blood less than 5 days old or
      greater than 20 days old. The decision to transfuse and all other intensive care management
      will be unaltered by enrolment in the study.
    
  