
    
      Background: Local anesthetic (LA) may be delivered by a single injection or by continuous
      infusion through an indwelling catheter. A downside of the single-shot technique is that the
      LA has a limited duration of action, meaning that, after discharge, patients sometimes have
      to contend with post-surgical pain that limits their activities and reduces their quality of
      life. Occasionally, a supplementary dose of analgesic, such as morphine or a LA, will be
      administered, either intravenously or via single injection. We speculate that, rather than
      using a single injection, post-operative pain management may be better controlled by
      installing a perineural catheter pre- or intra-operatively, which would allow a flexible
      schedule of LA delivery post-operatively and enable clinicians to tailor an analgesia regimen
      to the patient's needs. Our aim is to compare the effectiveness of a double-shot anesthetic
      infusion - one to block the nerve and another to provide postoperative analgesia - to the
      conventional single-shot method in controlling pain following a regional nerve block.

      Study objective: To assess the value of a catheter-delivered supplementary infusion of LA to
      control postoperative pain after a regional block.

      Hypothesis: Patients who have received a regional nerve block will experience less
      post-surgical pain when a second shot of LA is delivered through a perineural indwelling
      catheter just prior to discharge.

      Study procedures: We will recruit patients who are scheduled to undergo surgery that requires
      a regional block of the upper extremity. We anticipate recruiting thirty individuals; the
      control group will receive one dose of LA using the conventional single-shot method, and the
      study group will be fitted with a perineural catheter through which one dose of LA will be
      delivered prior to surgery and another just before discharge from the hospital.

      On the day of surgery, participating patients will be taken to the regional block area.
      Control group patients will be given a single injection of LA, under ultrasound guidance, to
      block the appropriate target nerve(s). These patients will undergo surgery and
      post-anesthesia recovery as per standard procedures. For patients in the experimental group,
      the attending anesthesiologist will, under ultrasound guidance, insert a perineural catheter
      at an appropriate location to block the target nerve. Once the catheter is in place, a single
      dose of LA will be delivered to block the target nerve, and the catheter will remain in the
      patient throughout the procedure. In the post-anesthesia recovery area, patients with a
      catheter will receive a second bolus infusion of the same LA. When the patient is approved
      for discharge, the catheter will be removed, the insertion site cleaned, and the patient will
      be allowed to go home.

      A research assistant ask patients to rate their pain using a 0-10 numerical rating scale: 1)
      prior to delivery of the first dose of LA, 2) immediately following surgery (just before the
      second anesthetic infusion for experimental group patients), and 3) immediately before
      discharge from the hospital (after the second anesthetic infusion for experimental group
      patients). On the day after surgery, the research assistant will contact patients in both
      groups and will ask them to rate their pain over the 24-hour post-operative period. Pain
      reporting at these four time points will provide us with a comprehensive assessment of
      patient comfort after their regional nerve block and whether the second infusion of LA was
      effective at alleviating post-operative pain.

      Primary outcomes:

        1. Postoperative pain levels

        2. Patient comfort at home

      Inclusion criteria: Adult; scheduled for surgery that requires peripheral nerve blockade.

      Exclusion criteria: Failure to provide informed consent; allergy to LA; neurological
      pathology and/or deficit in the block region.
    
  