
    
      Background In 2008, approximately 8% of all newborn children were conceived by assisted
      reproduction. Intracytoplasmatic sperm injection (ICSI) accounts for ~50% of all treatments
      and is mainly used in cases of severely reduced semen quality. This is in many cases most
      likely caused by prenatal factors adversely affecting the developing testicles, and it is
      therefore unlikely that any treatment of adult men will be able to completely normalize their
      semen quality. However, less would also be clinically relevant. If reduced semen quality
      could be improved prior to any assisted reproduction a less invasive treatment would be
      needed. Eg. classical in vitro fertilization (IVF) rather than ICSI, simple intrauterine
      insemination (IUI) rather than IVF or natural conception rather than IUI.

      Several endocrine factors have been implicated in sperm production and maturation, but little
      is known about the potential role of VD. VD is a key regulator of calcium homeostasis and
      bone mineralization, although expression of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) in various tissues
      has been related to several diverse actions. VD affects reproduction in several animal
      species, convincingly shown in rodents, where VD deficiency in male rats resulted in reduced
      sperm counts, and female rats inseminated with semen from VD deficient male rats had lower
      fertility rates. The impaired reproductive performance is reversible and can be corrected
      either by supplying VD or by normalizing calcium levels. Supported by VDR knockout mice,
      which showed decreased sperm counts, reduced sperm motility and histological abnormalities of
      the testis, which unlike the VD deficient male rats only partly can be restored by calcium
      supplements.

      The investigators have recently shown expression of VDR and the VD metabolizing enzymes in
      the human testis, ejaculatory tract and in mature spermatozoa. The investigators subsequently
      showed that VD in physiological concentrations increased intracellular calcium in
      spermatozoa. VD acts through a rapid non-genomic response and the VD induced increase in
      calcium may be crucial for the spermatozoa, because VD induced sperm motility and the
      acrosome reaction. Expression analysis of spermatozoa from fertile and infertile men showed
      that men with impaired semen quality have fewer that can metabolize VD than normal men(p <
      0.0005) making presence of one of the proteins a potential marker of semen quality.
      Furthermore, the investigators have just completed a cross sectional study of 300 young men
      from the general population and found that low serum VD was associated with reduced sperm
      motility and morphology.

      SETTING, SCIENTIFIC PLAN AND RECRUITMENT Participants will be included among men referred to
      the Department of Growth and Reproduction (dept. of GR), Rigshospitalet (RH) for evaluation
      of male infertility

      DESIGN This is a prospective, double blinded, two-arm randomized controlled trial

      Group of intervention: Each man will receive 300,000 IU (7500 ug) cholecalciferol (D3) orally
      once after blood- and semen sampling and performed DXA scan. Thereafter they will receive VD
      tablets of 1,400 IU (35 ug) + 500 mg calcium daily for 3 months. Telephone control after 4
      weeks and at 3 months a clinical control and blood sampling will be performed, followed by
      continued daily intake of 1400 IU VD + 500 mg calcium for 2 additional months. At end of
      treatment at five months after inclusion the men deliver two semen samples, have a blood
      sample drawn and a DXA scan performed.

      Group receiving placebo: Will follow the same chain of events, although VD will be replaced
      with placebo.

      PARTICIPANTS Screening of ~700-800 infertile men will be performed. The investigators assume
      that ~340 men will be excluded and ~100 men do not wish to participate. Thus, 300 men will be
      included in the study and half will be randomized to active VD treatment. The investigators
      expect a small drop out (< 20) because of high motivation and no adverse effects.

      ANALYSIS AND INTERVENTION Reproductive hormones and growth factors will be analyzed at dept.
      of GR, Rigshospitalet. An aliquot of the first blood sample will be analyzed before inclusion
      to the study and another kept to be analyzed at the same time as the second blood sample at
      the end of the trial to overcome the interassay variation. Other serum analyses will be
      analyzed at department of clinical biochemistry, Rigshospitalet. Semen analyses and DXA scans
      will be performed at dept. of GR.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION AND STATISTICS In our association study with 300 participants the
      investigators are able to detect significant dose response relationship between VD status and
      sperm motility and morphology, and found significant differences between men with low and
      high VD levels. Based on these results, the investigators assume to be able to increase serum
      levels of VD with 50 nM with our setup. Including 150 men in each group will enable us to
      detect changes in sperm motility and morphology of 15% and a 25% change in Inhibin B levels.
      Intention to treat principles will be used and co-variate analyzes will be used to analyze
      the potential effect of VD.

      BIOSTATISTICAL ANALYSIS All the analyses will be performed according to Good Clinical
      Practice guidelines and the primary analyses in the intention-to-treat population, which
      included all patients who underwent randomization and received the first dose of medicine on
      day 1. We will analyze the data in 3 ways. The primary analysis will proceed according to the
      randomized vitamin D and calcium dose group assignment. The secondary analysis will be based
      on stratifying the men according to subgroup analyses in relation to the predefined primary
      and secondary endpoints, while the last analysis will try to elucidate any dose-response
      relationship. An author (JHP) who was the statistician for the study and unaware of the
      study-group assignments will perform the primary analysis.

      Data analysis and quality The primary end points for this protocol will be changes in semen
      quality especially sperm motility followed by sperm concentration, morphology and semen
      volume. Multiple secondary endpoints exist but for the initial investigation focus will be on
      changes of the following secondary endpoints: Sperm DFI, pregnancy rate, Inhibin B, vitamin D
      and calcium homeostasis. Subjects who terminate participation after visit at 90 days but
      before visit day 150 will be included for data analysis up to day 90. Men that only deliver
      one semen sample or have missing data at any visit will still be included in the analysis.
      Men with fever up to 3 months prior to semen analysis will be considered as a potential
      confounder. Men that do not meet the criteria in the protocol will be excluded from the
      analysis. Those values will then be carried forward for analyses. A significance level of 5%
      is used. For the primary analyses Bonferronu-Holm p-value correction is calculated
      additionally. For the secondary analysis no multiple test correction are used. Instead
      results are discussed in view of the multiple testing situations.

        1. Analyses between placebo versus active substance Between group analyses placebo versus
           vitamin D + calcium: The first step will be to compare the changes in primary outcomes
           across the two groups placebo versus vitamin D + calcium. This analysis will show if
           there is a significant difference between groups. For outcomes measured repeatedly, this
           will entail comparing the estimated slopes, or rates of change, of each outcome between
           the groups. Mixed models allow for the correlation between the repeated observations
           baseline-day 1-day 90- day 150 from each man to be suitably incorporated into parameter
           estimation. For all endpoints measured at baseline and day 150, paired t-tests will be
           used to assess there is a significant difference between the groups and determine
           whether the mean change within each group differs significantly from zero. In both
           cases, data will be transformed as necessary to meet model assumptions. Afterwards, the
           same analysis will be conducted by using multiple regression with relevant confounders
           such as season, BMI, smoking, duration of abstinence, time from ejaculation to motility
           assessment, fever etc. to see if this changes the results For outcomes measured that
           cannot be compared with t-test or other parametric tests at day 1, day 90 and day 150,
           groups will be compared using non-parametric tests such as Wilcoxon Mann-Whitney test.
           For Binary outcome the data will be compared between the two groups by means of
           conditional logistic-regression analysis with adjustment for relevant confounders
           (defined as being significantly p<0.05 associated).

           .

        2. Analyses after stratification into subgroups Subjects will be grouped according to their
           BMI, calcium, season, semen quality, bonefactors, BMD or vitamin D levels and the effect
           of placebo versus active substance will be evaluated at day 90 and day 150. The subgroup
           analyses will in accordance with normal clinical practice and stratification in
           appropriate groups according to the clinical (25OHD < 25 nmol/l, BMI <25, 25-30, >30
           etc.), tertiles/quartiles/quintiles or highest/lowest versus remaining at baseline.

        3. Data analysis for comparison of changes in vitamin D and calcium We will also compare
           the dose-response relationships between changes in vitamin D and calcium and primary and
           secondary endpoints between placebo and active substance group and in all men. We will
           determine delta values for circulating vitamin D progenitors, calcium ion, total calcium
           and albumin corrected calcium from start to 90 days and 150 days and compare the
           difference with the observed changes in primary and secondary endpoints. We anticipate
           that there is no difference in shapes of the dose-response curve between the different
           endpoints i.e. they will be parallel and linear at least after transformation of the
           data. Afterwards, the same analysis will be conducted by using relevant confounders such
           as season, BMI, smoking, duration of abstinence, time from ejaculation to motility
           assessment etc. to see if this changes the results.

      SCREENING AND TIME COURSE Men, who are investigated at dept. of GR due to infertility will be
      screened for eligibility to the study, and those who meet the criteria for participation will
      be informed, and if they consent allocated to active treatment with VD or placebo. Allocation
      will be done by minimization using minim to avoid unbalanced grouping due to randomization
      failure. Following variables will be balanced: Sperm concentration, BMI, serum inhibin-B, and
      VD level.

      ETHICS AND SIDE EFFECTS All the patients will have fulfilled their investigation, before they
      are invited to the study. They will be informed of potential adverse effects, signs of
      intoxication and they can leave the trial at any point without any consequences. The trial
      will run in accordance with "good clinical practice". VD treatment gives virtually no side
      effects and the risk of intoxication is almost nonexisting in the suggested setting, with
      relatively low doses of VD and close monitoring of VD and calcium status. The participants
      will be exposed to oral VC/placebo, to 2 DXA scans, have 3 extra blood samples drawn and
      deliver 2 extra semen samples. All participants will be informed and counseling according to
      their VD status.

      PUBLICATION OF RESULTS All results, positive or negative will be submitted to peer reviewed
      scientific journals. Data will successively be obtained and transferred to a statistical
      database.

      PRACTICAL ISSUES Dept. of GR investigates annually more than 500 infertile men. Participants
      will be included from that group. The department have the clinical expertise, experience and
      capacity to perform all the investigations, except for the measurements of some of the blood
      samples, which will be analyzed by department of clinical biochemistry. VD and placebo oral
      suspensions are purchased from Glostrup apotek, while VD and placebo tablets are purchased
      from Ferrosan, MD Martin. The investigators are collaborating with associate professor in
      biostatistics J.H. Petersen, University of Copenhagen.
    
  