
    
      The objective of this proof-of-concept study is to investigate whether doxycycline can slow
      the deterioration or improve retinal function among patients with mild to moderate NPDR (with
      abnormal retinal function defined as a foveal sensitivity < 30.91 dB on Matrix frequency
      doubling perimetry [FDP]). Based on results of the END DR Study, the primary visual function
      endpoint in the POC 2 Study will be performance on the Matrix Frequency Doubling Technology
      Perimeter. This test was the most sensitive to NPDR of the visual function endpoints the
      investigators evaluated in the END DR Study. This selection is aggressive because the
      investigators lack natural history data to estimate the 2-year rate of change in the
      endpoint; in fact, a major output of this POC 2 Study will be 2-year natural history data
      using several visual function endpoints. The investigators are enrolling patients who have
      moderate dysfunction; that is, patients who fall outside the 95% confidence interval of
      normal performance on FDP. These patients will have the opportunity to improve their FDP
      performance to "normal" levels as well as progress to more severe FDP impairment associated
      with more advanced disease. Secondary endpoints include visual acuity, contrast sensitivity,
      visual field, and dark adaptation. The tests will be performed in the Ophthalmology
      Department of the Penn State College of Medicine. The 24-month proof-of-concept clinical
      study will involve a prospective, randomized, double-masked clinical trial including 60 adult
      patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who have mild to moderate NPDR (ETDRS levels 20 to
      43), and in whom retinal photocoagulation is not anticipated (by the investigator) within the
      subsequent 2 years. Participants will be randomized to receive either doxycycline monohydrate
      50mg or an identical placebo once daily for 24 months.
    
  