
    
      Methods:

      Patients will be recruited just after surgery scheduling. They will undergo preoperative
      evaluation one week before the surgery on average. At this moment, preoperative analysis will
      be conducted with personal data and medical history. Patients will undergo new assessments
      07, 15, 30, 60, 90 and 180 days after surgery, periods that will be described as PO 07, PO
      15, PO 30, PO 60, PO 90 and PO 180.

      All patients will receive standard physiotherapy treatment for women undergoing breast
      reconstruction from Physical Therapy Sector of Mastology Discipline of the Department of
      Gynecology of Federal University of São Paulo. The protocol consists of early exercise,
      limited to 90° of shoulder range of motion (ROM), starting the day after the surgery and
      repeated 7 days after surgery.

      After 15 days of surgery, the patients will be randomized into two treatment protocols.

      However, because of the existence of different types of reconstructive surgery, randomization
      will performed from two groups:

        -  Alloplastic group: patients who will undergo reconstruction with tissue expander or
           breast implant

        -  Oncoplastic Group: patients who will undergo mammaplasty and / or contralateral
           symmetrization

      Computer random sequence will be used for randomization, in which each group will be
      randomized to Group A or Group B.

        -  Subgroup A: Patients will start to perform exercises with free shoulder ROM. Patients
           will be told only to limit the movement if they feel pain.

        -  Subgroup B: Patient will keep shoulder exercises limited to 90° up to 30 days after
           surgery. At that moment (one month after surgery), then patients will also be allowed to
           move the shoulder with no restriction

      At the end of randomization there will be four subgroups: alloplastic A, alloplastic B,
      oncoplastic A and oncoplastic B

      Outcomes:

        1. Shoulder range of motion:

           The shoulder ROM will be assessed with a goniometer for flexion, extension, adduction,
           abduction, internal rotation and external rotation. The movements will be performed
           actively. The patient will be positioned in the sitting position. To assess shoulder
           flexion, the upper limb will be in neutral position with elbow extension. Patient will
           be asked to raise the arm forward, close to the body. To assess extension, the arm will
           be positioned with 90° of elbow flexion and the patient will be asked to take the arm
           back. For adduction, the patient will be with 90° of shoulder flexion with the palm down
           and patient will be told to move the arm medially. For the study of the upper limb
           abduction, the limb will be in supination and elbow extension and the patient will be
           asked to raise the arm to the side, along the trunk line toward the ear. For the
           evaluation of internal rotation and external rotation the upper limb will be placed in
           90° of shoulder abduction and 90° of elbow flexion. The patient will be asked to rotate
           the shoulder internally and externally, respectively.

        2. Pain:

           The pain will be evaluated with the Verbal Scale of Pain from zero to ten, where zero is
           no pain and ten is unbearable pain. The patient will be asked if there is pain at the
           moment of evaluation , and to describe the place and the degree of the pain.

        3. Upper limbs function:

           To investigate the motor shoulder function DASH (Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and
           Hand Questionnaire) questionnaire will be used. It assesses the functional capacity in
           upper limb diseases and measures the skills to do certain activities, as well as the
           symptoms. It consists of 30 self-administered questions and two optional modules, for
           sports or musical activities and work activities. The 30 items evaluate the degree of
           difficulty in the performance of activities; the intensity of the symptoms of pain,
           weakness, stiffness and numbness; the commitment of social activities; the difficulty to
           sleep and psychological commitment by reference to the week preceding the instrument
           application. The final score ranges from zero to one hundred, and the higher the score,
           the higher the upper limb dysfunction (arm, shoulder or hand).

        4. Dehiscence:

           Dehiscence wil be assessed by inspection and palpation. It will be described "presence"
           or "absence" of dehiscence and its location. The wound conditions will be described,
           with observation of necrosis and infection. Signs of infection such as redness,
           hyperthermia and secretion will be reported. The size of dehiscence will be described:
           in relation to the amount of opening points, in case of several opened points; or in
           centimeters (assessed per tape). Photographic record of dehiscence will be done, for
           better analysis and comparison of evolution. A Nikon Coolpix S3000 camera will be used.

        5. Seroma:

      The seroma evaluation will be performed by inspection and palpation. There will be
      description of "presence" or "absence" of seroma, location and the number of punctures made
      by the medical team and drained quantity, when necessary.
    
  