
    
      Both ACDF and PF are effective in surgical treatment of CR. However, the techniques has
      different complication profiles and carry different costs. No comparative study with high
      level of evidence has been published, why the basis for clinical guidelines are lacking.

      The study consists of 110 patients with CR not responding to non-surgical treatment for 6
      weeks and with a Neck Disability Index (NDI) over 30 points/60 %, that are randomized to
      either technique in a 1:1 ratio and followed for two years.

      Primary variable is NDI, secondary variables are Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NRS) separately
      for arm and neck pain and health related quality of life (EQ-5D). Tertiary variables are
      complications and reoperations. The patients are also followed radiolgraphically with plain
      x-rays in extension and flexion, CT, and MRI.

      The study has a non-inferiority design with ACDF as active control. A NDI difference of less
      than 8,5 points/17 % (=minimally clinical important difference, MCID, for NDI) is considered
      a non-inferior result. A secondary superiority evaluation will also be performed.

      Analysis Primarily, patient-related outcome measures will be analyzed in terms of intention
      to treat (ITT) and include all randomized patients. Missing values will be imputed. The
      investigators will calculate, by using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), the mean outcome
      values for each treatment group, adjusted for baseline values of the outcome. The mean
      difference between the groups will also be presented.

      Secondary outcome analyses using the Student t test, Chi-Square, Mann-Whitney, Fisher exact
      test.

      The tertiary outcome analyses will be based on available cases. The time to revision surgery
      according to treatment assignment will be analyzed and plotted according to the Kaplan-Meier
      method, while hazard ratios, with regard to having secondary surgery after ACDF compared to
      PF, will be estimated by the Cox model with calendar time as the time scale. Men and women
      will be analyzed separately.

      An "Ad Interim" analysis will be performed by a non-partial observer and/or statistician when
      40 patients are included, regarding NDI difference, complications and reoperations.
    
  