
    
      The study will recruit and consent up to 65 subjects from up to 4 different sites (minimum 15
      subjects recruited at each site) in the European Union, and the expected duration of each
      subject's participation is one clinic visit to receive their already requested UDS test. A
      follow-up call will be conducted three to five days later to collect adverse event
      information post-test. An interim analysis is to be performed when data from 30 patients has
      been completed to support the primary objective, and using the results for regulatory
      purposes (e.g. CE marking). However, the study enrollment continues, during the interim
      analysis, until 60 patients (maximum 65) have been recruited and all data collected. At the
      end of the study, the data will be analysed against secondary and exploratory objectives
      including an exploratory analysis of the primary objective on all patients.

      To collect data for the study, Case Report Forms (CRF) have been developed. They will be
      paper based and do not include any patient identifiers except a Site Subject ID. Any document
      linking the Site Subject ID to subject information will be stored at the site and not shared
      with the sponsor. Additionally, CRF completion guidelines will be developed prior to study
      initiation to aid correct and consistent data collection. These guidelines will be provided
      to the site and site personnel will be trained prior to subject enrollment. CRFs will be
      treated as source data in the event that the original information is entered on the CRFs
      first, and no source document worksheet is utilized for that data point. Laborie will enter
      CRF data in to an excel database that has been developed to represent each field on the CRF.
      Data Management activities are conducted in accordance with Laborie's Data Management Plan,
      including but not limited to: source data verification (monitoring), query handling and
      resolution, data entry quality control and controlled database locking. Guidelines have also
      been created that contain detailed descriptions of each data entry point and how to enter in
      the database.

      The data from the CRFs will be used to make the following assessments:

        -  The investigator will be asked to make an assessment to determine the safety and
           performance of the device regarding the intended use.

        -  A Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) will be used to assess the parameters of patient
           discomfort/pain, if appropriate.

        -  All adverse events will be recorded to assess the safety of the device.

        -  Subjective questionnaire completed by the user to assess ease of use, ease of insertion
           and removal, ease of securing the catheter, tracing stability (overall, during filling,
           voiding and UPP where applicable), tracing quality (overall, Pves, Pabd, Pura where
           applicable), channel subtraction quality, visibility on Video Urodynamics (VUDS, where
           applicable), catheter stiffness, sensor location, patient tolerance, and overall
           usability performance.

        -  Pre-test at various positions and resting pressures through the study

        -  The de-identified urodynamic data files will be collected and stored

      Risks to the patient will be no greater than those of a standard Urodynamics test. Patients
      may experience temporary discomfort upon insertion of the catheters. Test duration may be
      slightly longer than a standard test while assessment of the study materials is being made,
      and so discomfort and inconvenience associated with an extended test duration may occur.
      Furthermore, bladder catheterization can increase the risk of urinary tract infection, but
      with no higher incidence than during standard urodynamics. No patient follow-up visit is
      scheduled for this study, unless deemed necessary by the physician in the event of adverse
      event(s).

      Monitors are appointed by Laborie and are appropriately trained with scientific and/or
      clinical knowledge needed to monitor the trial adequately. The monitors are also thoroughly
      familiar with the investigational medical device under investigation, the protocol, written
      informed consent form (ICF), and any other written information to be provided to subjects,
      Laborie standard operating procedures, ISO 14155, and GCP.

      The monitor conducts activities per Laborie's Monitoring Plan, including but not limited to:

        -  Acting as the main line of communication between the sponsor and the investigator.

        -  Verifying that the investigator has adequate qualifications, number of subjects, and
           resources and remain adequate throughout the trial period, and that facilities are
           adequate to safely and properly conduct the trial and remain adequate through the trial
           period.

        -  Initiating each participating sites

        -  Ensuring the investigational device is being used according to the protocol and
           instructions for use

        -  Verifying that the investigator and investigation site team understands and follows the
           approved protocol and all approved amendments (if any).

        -  Verifying that the investigator is familiar with the responsibilities of the principal
           investigator.

        -  Ensuring the investigator and site team are informed and knowledgeable of all relevant
           document updates concerning the clinical trial.

        -  Ensuring that the investigator receives the most up-to-date copy of the Investigator's
           Brochure, all documents, and all trial supplies needed to conduct the trial properly and
           to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements.

        -  Verifying that only authorized and trained site personnel are participating in the
           clinical trial.

        -  Verifying that source data and other records are accurate, complete, up to date, stored,
           and maintained appropriately.

        -  Signed and dated informed consent forms have been obtained from each subject at the
           point of enrolment or before any clinical-investigation-related procedures are
           performed.

        -  Verifying that CRFs and queries are complete, recorded in a timely manner, and
           consistent with SD.

        -  Verifying that appropriate corrections, additions, or deletions are made to the CRFs,
           dated, explained if necessary and initiated by the authorized designee. The monitor
           shall NOT make corrections, additions, or deletions to the CRFs.

        -  Ensuring all adverse events (AEs) and device deficiencies (DDs) are reported to the
           sponsor and all serious AEs as well as DDs that could have led to serious adverse device
           events are reported to the sponsor without unjustified delay.

        -  Verifying that subject withdrawal has been documented and that subject or site
           non-compliance with the requirements has been documented.
    
  