
    
      Immunotherapies are regarded as a new, promising treatment option for patients with advanced
      melanoma. However, immunotherapies can cause massive up to life-threatening side effects. The
      risks and benefits vary considerably between the possible therapy options. Besides, in about
      half of the patients with advanced melanoma a BRAF V600 Mutation is found. In these patients,
      in addition to immunotherapy, treatment with BRAF/MEK inhibitors must be considered. This
      treatment option usually produces a rapid response. In most cases, however, melanomas develop
      resistance after about 12 months.

      Therefore, patients with advanced melanoma and their treating physicians are confronted with
      a very complex and preference-sensitive decision situation. Support in the form of a Patient
      Decision Aid (PtDA) can be helpful to support this complex decision-making process.

      In the first project phase, an interactive web-based PtDA on treatment options for advanced
      melanomas will be developed. In the second phase of the project, the PtDA will be evaluated
      in a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial. In total 90 patients with a diagnosis
      of advanced melanoma will be recruited at the National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT)
      Heidelberg and at the University Cancer Center (UCC) Dresden.

      Patients of the intervention group (n = 45) will receive access to the interactive PtDA prior
      to a medical consultation. Patients of the control group (n = 45) will receive the medical
      consultation only (treatment-as-usual). Group differences between the intervention group and
      the control group are analysed at T1 (immediately after the medical consultation) and T2
      (three months after the medical consultation). The following variables are measured:
      informedness of the decision (primary outcome), decision satisfaction, and involvement of the
      patients in the decision process.
    
  