
    
      Oxycodone (14-hydroxy-7,8 dihydrocodeinone) is a strong, semisynthetic thebaine derivative
      µ-opioid receptor agonist. This drug is an effective alternative to morphine for
      moderate-to-severe pain. Oxycodone has been used parenterally or orally for perioperative
      analgesia or for cancer pain relief. The drug has a longer analgesic action than morphine. In
      terms of analgesic potency, intravenous oxycodone is about 1.6 times

      The adverse effects of oxycodone are mostly similar to those of other opioids. Oxycodone,
      however, does not cause histamine release. The drug induces less nausea and vomiting, less
      sedating, and less central nervous system excitatory effects than morphine.

      A large between-subject variability in pharmacokinetic properties of oxycodone has been
      observed. The variability could be attributed to the different body size and age-related
      difference in drug elimination organ system function. A 2-compartment first-order open model
      describes oxycodone pharmacokinetics in Finnish children (age 5.4±2.1 years) after an
      intravenous bolus dose of 0.1 mg kg-1 for post ophthalmic surgery pain relief. The authors
      reported a mean clearance (CL) and the steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) of oxycodone
      15.2 mL min-1 kg-1 (0.912 L h-1 kg-1) and 2.1 L kg-1 respectively. A greater ventilator
      depression than comparable analgesic doses of other opioids was also observed. A
      pharmacokinetic study carried out in 9 young Finnish adult surgical patients reveals a
      clearance of 0.78 L min-1 (46.8 L h-1) and a volume of distribution (V) of 2.60 L kg-1. The
      mean AUC( t=0,12) ratio of noroxycodone (main metabolite) to oxycodone is 0.33. In a study on
      69 Japanese adults (mean age 66 years, mean weight 52.8 kg) receiving intravenous oxycodone
      for cancer pain relief, a one-compartment first-order open model describes the
      pharmacokinetics of oxycodone. The mean CL and volume of distribution (V) are 24.6 L h-1 and
      214 L or 4.053 L kg-1.
    
  