
    
      To address these broad aims, participants will be recruited from the Neuropsychology Clinic,
      community, Alzheimer's association local chapter events and support groups, senior citizen
      centers. Following fulfillment of several inclusionary and exclusionary criteria online/on
      the phone, participants will first complete a baseline visit with several tests designed to
      measure aspects of motor, affective, and cognitive function. The baseline visit will be
      briefer for those who do not fulfill in-person components of the inclusionary/exclusionary
      criteria (BMI<30; MoCA>=18; and CDR <=.5).

      Based on the information obtained during the baseline visit, participants' cognitive status
      will be categorized as either MCI+ or MCI-. The criteria adopted in this study for a
      determination of MCI is less stringent than typical clinical criteria. This information will
      be used to conduct stratified randomization of participants to placebo or active (5mg
      melatonin) arms. The schedule of randomization will be determined by University of Iowa
      Hospital & Clinic's pharmacy so that study personnel and participants will not know which
      participant has been assigned to which study arm.

      At the end of the baseline visit, participants will be given actigraphy watches to wear for a
      period of 8 weeks, a wash-out phase; phase#1. The watches monitor sleep and circadian rhythm
      in each participant's daily life. At the end of 8 weeks, they will be return to the lab to
      complete a brief battery of cognitive tests and complete the first lumbar puncture (LPs). At
      the end of the visit, they will be given freshly charged actigraphy watches to take home with
      them until week-16 as well as the first supply of study issued medications (beginning phase#2
      of the study). They will receive a phone call at the beginning of week-9 to complete brief
      questionnaires regarding sleep quality, mood, and any physical symptoms that may be
      associated with study issued medications. The week-16 visit will be very similar to week-8
      visit, the participants will return their actigraphy watches, complete brief cognitive
      testing, questionnaires on sleep quality, mood, physical symptoms that may be associated with
      study issued medications, and complete the second LP. They will also be given their supply of
      study issued medications for the next 7-month period. They will receive a phone call around
      week-30 (midway between week-16 and final study visit of week-44) to inquire about sleep
      quality, any physical symptoms that may be associated with study-issued medications, and
      mood. The final study visit will take place on week-44. The visit will be very similar to the
      baseline visit and will include comprehensive cognitive testing, questionnaires, and an LP.
      Participants will also receive a phone call the day after each LP to query them about any
      discomfort they may be experiencing and the adequacy of over the counter pain medications in
      addressing it.

      In addition to these procedures, participants will be asked to consent to banking of CSF for
      assaying of future biomarkers during the three study LPs.
    
  