
    
      Food is vital for life but can only serve such an important purpose if it is safe and secure
      to ingest . According to Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), Food safety is defined as"
      an assurance that food will not cause harm to consumers when it is prepared and/or eaten
      according to its intended use" .

      Food safety is one of food handler responsibilities . Food handler is defined as "any person
      who directly handles packaged or unpackaged food ,food equipment and utensils, or food
      contact surfaces and therefore expected to comply with food hygiene requirements".

      Food handling includes all steps of storing, processing, preparing, serving, and preserving
      food until reaching final consumption . The World Health Organization (WHO) also determined
      five factors connected to the occurrence of food related llnesses including: unhygienic
      practices and insufficient sanitation by food handlers, inadequate cooking procedures,
      improper storage without considering temperature requirements, cross contamination, and
      sourcing food from unsafe places. Most of these factors are under the responsibility of food
      handlers who are involved in food production and preparation . According to WHO (2015), food
      borne diarrheal disease kills about two million people yearly, particularly in developing
      countries . Statistics of Food Safety Conference in 2013 revealed that 30 million Egyptians
      are infected with dangerous diseases due to contamination of water, food and environment.
      This made Egypt one of the greatest affected countries by food-borne diseases. The heavy
      burden of food borne diseases imposes substantial economic losses to individual, households,
      health systems and entire nations .

      As poor food hygienic practices could contribute food -borne diseases in hospital, so food
      handlers' knowledge, attitude and practicing is an important factor that is essential in
      order to lower food borne disease. All three traits; knowledge, attitude and education are
      compulsory to enable safe food handling practices.

      This was supported by previous studies that have demonstrated the essential role of
      inadequate food handling knowledge, attitude and practice in occurrence of food poisoning .

      A lot of previous studies worldwide, documented high levels of knowledge, attitude and
      practice of food safety among food handlers, as in Saudi Arabia, a study was done in 10
      hospitals in Madina, illustrated that food service had good food safety knowledge, 77.9%
      recorded right answers for knowledge of cross contamination and 52.8% recorded right answers
      for knowledge of food poisoning, and 49.7% gave right answers knowledge of food storage this
      was accompanied by highly good food safety practices ; 92.6% had good practice . As well as,
      another study in Jordan, showed that the means of the percentage scores for the knowledge,
      attitude, practice, were 84.82, 88.88, 89.43, respectively . Another Indonesian study done in
      teaching hospital and another non-teaching hospital showed that more than 80% of food
      handlers have good knowledge in safe food handling procedures, good attitude (66%) and good
      practices (90%). On the other side, an Indian study was done in tertiary hospital, showed
      that food handlers had poor knowledge of food borne diseases in terms of etiology (46.67%),
      mode of transmission (33.33%) and mode of prevention (36.67%) with poor attitude(56.67%) that
      was reflected on practices that affect negatively on food safety . In Egypt, two previous
      studies illustrated lower knowledge, attitude and practicing among food handlers, for
      instance; first study done in Sohage Governorate showed that only 39 % of participants had
      good knowledge, 61.2 % had positive attitudes and 56.3% reported good food safety practice.
      The second one was done in Ismailia city hospital, only 33.3% of them were aware of the
      importance of washing hands after handling raw meat. Moreover, 59.1% of them were ignore why
      raw foods must be kept separate from cooked foods and 64.4% also were unaware of the proper
      temperature of cooking chicken and only 40.9 % of them were always washing their hands before
      handling food, in addition , only 27.3% of them were properly clean, sanitize and store
      equipment.. About 97% of all studied participants need for more information about food safety
      in the future . However, another study in the kitchens of Ain Shams University Hospitals
      showed better knowledge and practice; mean knowledge score was 76.6 ± 19.6 and the mean
      practice score was 68.1 ± 22.4 . Food handlers play a major role in transmitting pathogens
      passively from contaminated sources such as transmitting pathogens from raw meat to a ready
      to eat food. They may also carry some human specific food- borne pathogens such as Hepatitis
      A, Salmonella, Staphylococcus aureus and Shigella sp in their hands, cuts or sores, mouth,
      skin and hair. In addition, they may also shed food borne pathogens, such as E. coli and
      Salmonella during the infectious period or less important during recovery period of a
      gastrointestinal sickness ..

      Outbreaks of foodborne infections in hospitals are facilitated by several factors; these
      include staff carriers, poor hygiene conditions in the kitchens, carelessness and lack of
      training of food handlers, but all causes are mostly preventable.

      So food-services staff in hospitals represents a potential source of nosocomial foodborne
      outbreaks, since they may possibly introduce pathogens into foods during every phase from
      purchase to distribution .Food handlers who were S. aureus carrier and have direct contact
      with prepared food can contaminate pathologic organism to hospital inpatients . It was
      mentioned that S. aureus colonization rates in the general population were estimated to be
      approximately 20% - 32%. Regarding studies specific for food handlers, prevalence rates vary
      among countries. It ranged from 2% of food handlers in a study done in Italy , 12% in
      Finland, .5% in Ethiopia , 19% in Chile ,57.5% in Botswana and 62% in India . However,
      another study in the kitchen of Ain shams university hospitals showed 41 % of participants
      had positive nail swabs likely, another study in Egypt had a similar infection rate with
      staph aureus (38%) .
    
  