
    
      Backround:

      Genetic and epigenetic abrasions like loss of hetherozygosity and hypermethylation of gene
      promoters are common aberration in gliomas. Detection of these aberrations serves as
      diagnostic and prognostic tool. Examples: 1. oligodendrogliomas patients with combined 1p/19q
      LOH within the tumor respond better to chemotherapy and have better prognosis, whereas LOH on
      chromosome 10q is a marker for worse prognosis. 2. GBM patients with hypermethylation of the
      promoter of methyl-guanine-methyl-transferase (MGMT) in the tumor respond better to
      alkylating agent and have better prognosis.

      As sample materials for diagnosis should be easily accessible by a minimally invasive
      procedure, there has been much interest in the potential use of nucleic acid markers in the
      blood of patients with cancer.

      It was demonstrated that LOH as well as hypermethylation could be detected in the
      plasma/serum of patients with a variety of malignancies, suggesting that circulating
      tumor-associated DNA in the blood of patients can be a key determinant in predicting genetic
      and epigenetic abrasions in the tumor.

      Objectives of the study:

      Main objective: to find whether genetic abrasions in serum DNA represent the tumor DNA in
      patients with brain tumor.

      Is tumor DNA can be detected in the serum of only high grade tumors or also in low grade
      tumor?

      Methods:

      Blood serum and tumor of patients are obtained anonymously, after the patient has signed a
      consent form, prior to surgery as part of the procedure for tissue collection for the brain
      tumor bank at Hadassah.

      Part of the tumor is stained with hematoxylin-and-eosin and Histopathologic diagnosis is
      performed by a pathologist.

      DNA is extracted from whole blood, serum and tumor of all patients with low grade or high
      grade gliomas.

      In order to determine whether serum DNA represents the tumor DNA, LOH of 1p,19q,10q,17p,13q,
      9p as well as methylation status of MGMT promoter will be tested in DNA samples from blood,
      serum and tumor.
    
  