
    
      The use of cardiac computed tomography angiography (CCTA) is usually suggested in low to
      intermediate risk for its diagnostic and prognostic role to rule out CAD with low radiation
      exposure. In the setting of intermediate to high risk patients, the addition of functional
      information is prognostically useful and, in patients with previous history of percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI), functional strategy has been shown to be more cost-effective as
      compared to anatomical assessment CT myocardial perfusion imaging (CTP) represents one of the
      newly developed CT-based techniques, combining both anatomical and functional evaluation of
      CAD in a single imaging modality. More recently, stress CTP was shown to provide additional
      diagnostic value as compared to CCTA alone in intermediate to high risk patients. The purpose
      of this study will be to evaluate the usefulness and impact of combined evaluation of
      coronary artery anatomy and myocardial perfusion with CCTA+CTP in intermediate to high risk
      patients for suspected CAD or with known disease in terms of clinical decision-making,
      resource utilization, and outcomes in a broad variety of geographic areas and patient
      subgroups.

      CTP-PRO study is a cooperative, international, multicentre, prospective, open-label,
      randomized controlled study evaluating the cost-effectiveness of a CCTA+CTP strategy versus
      usual care in intermediate to high risk patients with suspected or known CAD who undergo
      clinically indicated diagnostic evaluation.

      Patients will be screened for study eligibility. Patients meeting all selection criteria will
      be asked to sign an informed consent document prior to undergoing any study-specific
      evaluation; then a structured interview will be performed and a clinical history obtained,
      assessing the presence of common cardiac risk factors, drug therapy (focus on statin, aspirin
      and/or antiplatelet agent use) and symptoms (typical or atypical angina, to estimate the
      pre-test likelihood of CAD).

      Upon completion of the screening procedure and enrollment, the patients will be randomized
      1:1 to the CT-based strategy (Group A) or usual care (Group B). Patient follow-up will be
      performed at 1 year (± 1 month) and 2 years (± 1 month) by trained interviewers who check
      medical records or by phone interview collecting the following information: downstream
      testing; overall radiation exposure; outcomes; cost-effectiveness estimation.

      The primary endpoint of the study is the reclassification rate of CCTA in group B due to the
      addition of CTP. The secondary endpoint will be the comparison between group A and group B in
      terms of non-invasive and invasive downstream testing, prevalence of obstructive CAD at ICA,
      revascularization, cumulative ED and overall cost during the follow-up at 1- and 2-years. The
      tertiary endpoint will be the comparison between each group in terms of MACE and
      cost-effectiveness at 1- and 2-years.
    
  