
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of combined nivolumab and cabozantinib s-malate (XL184
      [cabozantinib]) in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patients with advanced solid tumors.

      II. To determine the feasibility to deliver the combined nivolumab and XL184 (cabozantinib)
      for a minimum of 4 cycles in at least 75% of the subjects or to achieve a confirmed objective
      response.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity in subjects with Kaposi Sarcoma (KS).

      II. To assess the effect of treatment on participants' immune status (CD4 and CD8 cell
      counts) and HIV viral loads.

      III. To preliminarily evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) to the combination treatment
      in subjects with KS.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall
      survival (OS) in subjects with KS.

      II. To assess the PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) status in tumors and tumor
      microenvironment and its association with clinical outcome.

      III. To assess the expression characteristics and cellular distribution of immune checkpoints
      (PD-L1, B7x, HHLA2, B7H3), infiltrating immune cells (CD4 T cells, CD8 T cells, regulatory
      T-cells [Tregs], myeloid-derived suppressor cell [MDSC]), and other tumor microenvironment
      biomarkers (VEGF, VEGFR, MET, and AXL) in the tissue by multiplex quantitative
      immunofluorescence (MQIF).

      IV. To correlate markers of immune activation and expansion of immune cell subsets and
      cytokines with clinical outcomes.

      V. To assess the treatment effects on latent HIV reservoir. VI. To investigate the dynamic
      changes of immune checkpoints, angiogenesis markers, and infiltrating immune cells among
      subjects with available pre- and post-treatment biopsy samples (including subjects with
      Kaposi sarcoma [KS]).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive cabozantinib s-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and nivolumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 1 year or
      1 year after a partial response is achieved, or 6 months after a complete response is
      achieved in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 16 weeks.
    
  