
    
      Ekso (Ekso Bionics; Richmond -CA- USA) is a wearable robot consisting of an exoskeleton
      framework for the lower limbs with (1) electric motors to power movement for the hip and knee
      joints, (2) passive spring-loaded ankle joints, (3) foot plates on which the user stands, and
      (4) a backpack that houses a computer, battery supply, and wired controller. A rigid backpack
      is an integral structural component of the exoskeleton, which provides support from the
      posterior pelvis to the upper back, besides carrying the computer and batteries. The
      exoskeleton attaches to the user's body with straps over the dorsum of the foot, anterior
      shin and thigh, abdomen, and anterior shoulders. The limb and pelvic segments are adjustable
      to the user's leg and thigh length, and the segment across the pelvis is adjustable for hip
      width and hip abduction angle. We preliminarily measured M1-leg excitability and SMI, which
      were probed using TMS pulses with a monophasic pulse configuration and peripheral nerve
      electric stimuli. Single magnetic pulses were given to the affected and unaffected leg-M1
      using a standard figure-of-eight coil (diameter of each wing, 90 mm) connected with a
      high-power Magstim200 stimulator (Magstim Co, Ltd; UK).

      Effective connectivity (that measures the causal influence that one brain area exerts over
      another under the assumption of a given mechanistic model) was assessed using a structural
      equation modelling (SEM). An 8-channel wireless surface EMG (sEMG) device (BTS; Milan, Italy)
      was used to record EMG activity from eight muscles (both tibialis anterior -TA-, soleus -S-,
      rectus femoris -RF-, and biceps femoris -BF). The device was also equipped with an
      accelerometer, put at lumbar level, to establish gait phases. Gait analysis was conducted on
      a 10-meter walkway.

      We measured the following gait measures for both the affected and unaffected lower limb [20]:
      (i) step cadence (number of steps per minute; normal values 1.9±0.1 Hz);. (ii) gait cycle
      duration (time from one right heel strike -initial contact- to the next one -end of terminal
      swing; normal values 1.1±0.1 sec); (iii) stance/swing ratio (ratio between stance from heel
      strike to toe-off, and swing phase duration from toe-off to heel strike; normal values
      1.5±0.1); .and (iv) an overall gait performance score (gait index, reflecting an approximate
      60:40% distribution of stance:swing phases; normal values >90).
    
  