
    
      The current study aims to test the effectiveness of computer-based interpretation bias
      modification training as a therapeutic intervention for social anxiety disorder (SAD).
      Individuals who experience social anxiety often have difficulty in engaging in social
      situations, such as speaking in front of a group and maintaining a conversation. For
      youngsters, this may take the form of avoidance, including avoiding situations such as
      raising one's hand in class, eating in front of other people and participating in small group
      activities. Additionally, those with social anxiety are more likely to interpret ambiguous
      social scenarios in a threatening way than are control subjects (Bogels, Snieder, & Kindt,
      2003; Miers, Blote, Bogels, & Westenberg, 2008; Vassilopoulos & Banerjee, 2008;
      Vassilopoulos, 2006; Muris, Meckelbach, & Damsma, 2000). Research has shown that
      interpretation biases are modifiable at a young age (Muris, Huijding, Mayer, & Hameetman,
      2008; Vassilopoulous, Bangerjee, Prantzalou, 2009; Muris, Huijding, Mayer, Remmerswaal, &
      Vreden, 2009; Lothmann, Holmes, Chan, & Lau, 2010).

      Participants between the ages of 8-12 years old, with social anxiety, will be randomly
      assigned to one of three treatment conditions: two conditions are designed to manipulate the
      interpretation bias or a wait-list control condition. All study procedures will be conducted
      online. Subjects do not need to come to the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee to participate.
      Thirty children with social anxiety will be randomly assigned to one of the three conditions,
      and will be assessed at baseline, post-treatment, and 1-month follow-up. The waitlisted
      participants will also be invited to undergo the training program after the 1-month follow-up
      assessment is completed. This study is expected to generate important data that will guide
      the development of an accessible, cost-efficient, and effective cognitive intervention for
      individuals suffering from social anxiety.
    
  