
    
      According to the newest JAMA review, the incidence of left ventricular thrombus (LVT) in the
      ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) infarction patients is 15%, with
      particularly 25% in the anterior STEMI patients. Therefore, it is very necessary to find to
      strategy to prevent to the left ventricular thrombus formation in STEMI patients.

      In the 2013 AHA STEMI guidelines and 2014 AHA stroke prevention guidelines, it was advised to
      add warfarin to traditional double anti-platelet therapy in anterior STEMI with INR between
      2.0 to 2.5. However, date from 2015 to 2017 have suggested potentially less demonstrable
      benefits with warfarin in the prevention of LV thrombus. In an observational study of 460
      patients with anterior STEMI and apical akinesis or dyskinesis who underwent PCI, Le May et
      al 30 compared outcomes in patients who did and did not receive warfarin. Compared with
      patients in the no warfarin group, patients treated with warfarin had higher rates of
      composite all-cause mortality, stroke, re-infarction, and major bleeding within 180 days (15%
      vs 5%), death (5% vs 2%), stroke (3% vs 0.3%), and major bleeding(9% vs 2%). There were no
      differences in LV thrombus formation between groups. Another observational study undertaken
      by Shavadia et al reached a similar conclusion that prophylactic warfarin use was not
      associated with lower composite end point of recurrent ischemia, stroke/transient ischemic
      attack/systemic embolism, or all-cause death but was associated with higher major bleeding
      rates at 1 year (2.5% vs 1.2%). The secondary analysis of the Harmonizing Outcomes With
      Revascularization and Stents in Acute Myocardial Infarction (HORIZONS-AMI) trial found the
      same results.

      On the other hand, addition of Rivaroxaban to double anti-platelet therapy is very likely to
      be proved beneficial in STEMI patients. In the Anti-Xa Therapy to Lower Cardiovascular Events
      in Addition to Standard Therapy in Subjects With Acute Coronary Syndrome 2-Thrombolysis in
      Myocardial Infarction 51 (ATLAS ACS 2-TIMI 51) trial, the researchers found that the addition
      of reduced doses of rivaroxaban to double anti-platelet therapy after STEMI reduced a
      composite of cardiovascular death, MI, or stroke from 10.6% to 8.4% (P = .02) but increased
      major bleeding (2.2% vs 0.6%; P < .001) and intracranial hemorrhage (0.6% vs 0.1%; P = .02).
      However, the 2.5-mg twice-daily dose of rivaroxaban when added largely to a background of
      aspirin and clopidogrel significantly reduced the rate of all-cause mortality vs placebo.
      What's more, in 2017 the Cardiovascular Outcomes for People Using Anticoagulation Strategies
      (COMPASS) trial demonstrated that rivaroxaban (2.5mg twice daily) reduced the risk of
      ischemic events compared with placebo on a back ground of low-dose aspirin in abroad
      population of patients with stable coronary or peripheral artery disease. Therefore, using
      low dose rivaroxaban (2.5mg twice daily) to prevent post-STEMI LVT is rather promising.

      This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban on the
      prevention of post-STEMI LVT.
    
  