
    
      Study Design

      This study adopts an open-label multicentre randomized controlled trial design comprising of
      two groups: (i) intervention group (Family Dignity Intervention offered in addition to
      standard psychological care), and (ii) control group (standard psychological care include
      emotional support and psychosocial home visits). Consenting participants including one
      patient and one family caregiver from one family unit (i.e. patient-family dyad) will be
      randomly allocated to one of these two groups after baseline assessment meetings have been
      conducted.

      Study Sites

      Study settings include two hospice service providers in Singapore. First, Dover Park Hospice
      (DPH) is a secular, nonprofit organization that offers both in-patient and homecare hospice
      services to terminally-ill patients and their families. It is one of the largest hospice
      service provider in the country with over 50 in-patient beds. Second, HCA Hospice Care (HCA)
      is a registered charity that offers daycare and homecare hospice services to terminally-ill
      patients and their families. With a head office and numerous satellite service stations
      across the country, it offers national wide services to all Singaporeans. Both DPH and HCA
      are funded publically and via donations, service admission are based on physician referrals
      and mean-testing mechanisms as ascribed by the Singapore Ministry of Health. Both service
      providers house a team of palliative care specialist including physicians, nurses, social
      workers and counselors to provide round-the-clock support to individuals and families facing
      the end of life.

      Participants

      The sample comprises 126 Asian families in Singapore. Each family includes a patient-family
      dyad: (i) one older terminally-ill patients, and (ii) one identified family member whom the
      patient considers to be his or her primary or trusted caregiver. Participants are recruited
      through the in-patient, daycare and homecare hospice service units of DPH and HCA.

      Recruitment, assessment, intervention and follow-up procedures

      Appointed research nurses of DPH and HCA are asked to distribute research information
      pamphlets to all patients and family caregivers eligible for the study, based on their
      clinical assessments of patients using the Karnofsky Performance Status Scale; patients who
      received a score of 20 or below are considered too ill and ineligible to participate. At
      least one week is given for full consideration to participate in the study, after which, the
      research nurses contact each eligible family to seek their verbal consent for study
      participation. Once verbal consent is obtained, a simple information sheet containing the
      names and contact details of the patient-family dyad are forwarded to a member of the
      research team. The responsible researcher then contacts the patient-family dyad via telephone
      to organize a convenient time for the first baseline assessment meeting.

      The first meeting is attended by the appointed FDI therapist, as well as responsible
      researcher who will (i) explains the study to the patient-family dyad; (ii) answer any
      questions they may have about their participation; (iii) checks that they have fully
      understood the implications of the study before obtaining written consent. As a final check,
      the researcher screens patients with the Mini-Mental State Exam to assess cognitive
      functioning, and those who scored below 18 are considered unfit to participate. In such cases
      patient-family dyads are excluded. This will be done sensitively, whereby the researcher and
      the FDI therapist spend some time chatting with the patient-family dyads about neutral topics
      before ending the meeting. This approach has worked successfully in previous studies of
      similar nature.

      For patient-family dyads who are deemed fit to participate after the final check, the
      researcher conducts a baseline assessment with patients and caregivers individually, then
      open the next envelop in sequence to ascertain group allocation. Dyads assigned to the
      control group are reminded that they will receive three to four psychosocial visits from the
      research team, through which they will have the opportunity to share their feelings along
      their illness trajectory as well as their views on taking part in the study. Dyads assigned
      to the intervention group are given two sets of FDI framework questions, one for patients and
      one for caregivers, so that they have an opportunity to think and discuss about their
      responses. After a brief framing session conducted by the FDI therapist, a time will be
      arrange for the intervention interview within the next two to three days.

      After the intervention interview is completed, the recorded transcript has been edited and
      finalized by the patient-family dyad, the FDI therapist sets up a time for a family sharing
      session in which the 'legacy' document is shared with selected members of the patients'
      family. A hard copy of the legacy document is also be given the patient-family dyad for
      safekeeping.
    
  