
    
      Research purposes

        1. To explore the safety and efficacy of different doses of teicoplanin for injection in
           the real world

        2. To explore the characteristics of different doses of teicoplanin for injection, the
           clinical characteristics of drug use and repeated use of bacterial resistance;

        3. Reveal rare or even very rare, new, unanticipated, and adverse drug reactions associated
           with long-term use;

        4. To explore the advantages of different doses of teicoplanin in combination with other
           antimicrobial agents;

        5. To explore the use of teicoplanin in the treatment of infectious diseases on the
           rational use of drugs time;

        6. To reveal the risk factors of adverse reactions and susceptibility to people, to
           identify the characteristics of the crowd;

        7. To investigate the clinical use of teicoplanin injection for the real situation, for
           further risk management, to expand the indications and expert consensus dose study to
           provide clinical clues and basis;

        8. To provide reference for revision of clinical guidelines and consensus, clinical pathway
           design;

        9. To further enhance the level of safe use of teicoplanin injection, basic medical support
           and market vitality.

      Research design

        1. National, large-scale, standardized, standardized, real-world research;

        2. Prospective, single - arm open, non - interventional, registration, multi - center
           clinical study;

        3. In the hospitals using teicoplanin for injection, 200 were selected on the basis of
           voluntary principles;

        4. Registration of teicoplanin in patients with injection;

        5. Target sample size of 100,000 cases;

        6. Exemption from informed consent for ethical review applications;

        7. Study of teicoplanin and large-scale data on the safety and effectiveness of
           antibiotics.
    
  