
    
      Study Drug:

      Temsirolimus is designed to block the growth of cancer cells, which may cause the cancer
      cells to die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive temsirolimus by
      vein over about 60 minutes on Day 1.

      You will be assigned to a dose level of temsirolimus based on when you join this study. Up to
      5 dose levels of temsirolimus will be tested. Up to 3 participants will be enrolled at each
      dose level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new
      group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, until the drug is found to affect
      the enzyme that was tested for at screening.

      Study Visits:

      At each study visit, you will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and about any side
      effects you may be having.

      On Day 1:

      -Blood (about 2 teaspoons each time) will be drawn before you receive the study drug and 5
      times over the 24 hours after you receive the study drug for pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. PK
      testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at different time points.

      Blood (about 4 teaspoons each time) will be drawn for pharmacodynamic (PD) testing. PD
      testing measures how the level of study drug in your body may affect the disease. This blood
      will be drawn at 1 or more of the following times, but if the doctor thinks it is needed,
      blood will be drawn at 2 or all 3 of the following times:

        -  At 4 hours (+/- 2 hours) after the dose

        -  At 24 hours (+/- 3 hours) after the dose

        -  At 72 hours (+/- 24 hours) after the dose

      After the blood for PD testing has been tested and the tests show that the study drug may be
      causing changes to the tumor cells in at least 2 out of 3 participants, future participants
      will have tumor tissue collected before and after dosing for testing. Leftover tissue from an
      earlier biopsy can be used instead of a fresh biopsy before dosing, if it is available.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for up to 4 days. You will be taken off study early if you have
      intolerable side effects.

      Because it takes 4 days for temsirolimus to be completely processed by the body, you will not
      be able to begin receiving drugs in any other study until 4 days after the dose.

      This is an investigational study. Temsirolimus is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of advanced renal cancer. Its use in other types of cancer is investigational.

      Up to 30 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  