
    
      This study will investigate the use of highly esthetic, second and third generation
      multi-layer zirconia crown materials to restore removable partial denture abutment teeth. All
      performed treatment will be the standard of care and to the usual and customary standards
      used in United states dental clinics for crown and RPD procedures. Treatment subjects will
      have RPD abutment teeth restored with either Noritake Katana STML (anterior teeth) or HTML
      (premolars and molars) zirconia crowns, and periodically evaluated for 60 months following
      RPD delivery. Outcomes will be compared to a similarly treated control group restored with
      metal, metal-ceramic, or a combination of metal and metal-ceramic crowns.

      Following informed consent, subjects will be randomly assigned using an internet program
      (https://www.randomizer.org/) to either a treatment (zirconia abutment tooth crown) or
      control (metal or metal-ceramic abutment tooth crown) group. Using information from the oral
      examination, articulated diagnostic casts will be evaluated , the RPD design confirmed, and
      the need for a crown on one or more abutment teeth verified. Enrolled subjects will be given
      oral hygiene instruction at the beginning of the study. They will also be instructed to brush
      their teeth twice daily using an OTC fluoride dentifrice of their choice. They will also be
      asked to use a 0.05% NaF oral rinse for 1 minute daily.

      Abutment teeth must be in function with the opposing arch and vital at the beginning of the
      study. Vitality will be be determined using a synthesis of history, percussion, palpation and
      pulp testing. Pulp tests will be conducted using cold and an EPT, and the facial, lingual and
      occlusal (incisal) surfaces of all abutment teeth will be tested for responsiveness. If
      abutment tooth vitality is confirmed, teeth requiring surveyed crowns will be prepared and
      restored using standardized clinical and laboratory guidelines.

      Abutment teeth restored with metal and zirconia crowns will be prepared and restored using
      the following clinical and laboratory guidelines. The margin will be a circumferential
      chamfer prepared to a depth of 0.5 mm with a rounded internal line angle and a 90째
      cavosurface exit angle. Margin height will be at or slightly coronal to the free gingival
      margin where possible. Axial surfaces will be prepared with a total occlusal convergence of
      >6째 but not to exceed 20째. Incisal and facial surfaces will be reduced 0.7-1.0 mm. Functional
      surfaces will be reduced to 1.0 mm of opposing tooth clearance with the exception of under
      rest seats, where opposing tooth clearance will be 2.0 mm. At completion, the prepared tooth
      should have a height to base ratio of 0.4. If inadequate retention and resistance form is
      identified following preparation of axial walls, supplementary grooves will be added, the
      number and location of which are at the discretion of the investigator. Final impressions
      will be made using PVS in a custom tray (Extrude) and poured in type V dental stone
      (Jadestone). Following fabrication, the working cast will be articulated, tripoded, and the
      die(s) sectioned, trimmed and scanned (3Shape D2000 laboratory scanner or equivalent). The
      crown(s) will be waxed to full contour. Rest seats, undercuts and guide planes will then be
      developed in wax. Once the waxup has been surveyed and finalized, it will be secured to the
      scanning platform and a new scan performed with the waxup in place. The data file with the
      die scan will be merged with the file that contains the waxup. The merged file will then be
      transmitted to a designated production facility where the zirconia crown(s) will be milled.
      Canines will be milled using Noritake Katana STML zirconia and premolars and molars will be
      milled using Noritake Katana HTML zirconia. Once the crown(s) are returned and the margins,
      contacts, occlusion and contours clinically verified, they will be luted using a
      self-adhesive resin-based cement (RelyX Unicem 2).

      Porcelain-fused-to-metal (PFM) crowns will be prepared and restored using a standard protocol
      utilizing the following guidelines. Posterior crowns will have metal occlusal surfaces with
      the porcelain-metal junction on the occlusal surface at half the distance between the central
      groove and the buccal cusp tip. Mesial, distal and lingual surfaces will be in metal, and the
      crown will have a disappearing metal margin on the facial surface. The facial preparation
      from mesiofacial to distofacial line angles will be a heavy chamfer or modified shoulder
      1.0-1.2 mm in depth with a rounded internal line angle and a 90째 cavosurface exit angle.
      Mesial, distal and lingual chamfer margins will be prepared to a horizontal depth of 0.5 mm.
      Facial margin height will be at or slightly apical to the free gingival margin. Mesial,
      distal and lingual margin height will be at or slightly coronal to the free gingival margin
      if possible. Functional surfaces will be prepared with opposing tooth clearance of 1.5 mm
      with the exception of under rest seats where opposing tooth clearance will be 2.0 mm.
      Nonfunctional cusp reduction will be 1.0 mm. Final impressions will be made using PVS
      (Extrude) in a custom tray and poured in type V dental stone (Jadestone). Following working
      cast fabrication it will be articulated, tripoded, and the die(s) prepared for conventional
      laboratory crown fabrication. Conventional (all-metal and PFM) surveyed crowns will be
      fabricated using noble and high-noble casting alloys and PFM crowns will use feldspathic
      porcelain as a veneering ceramic. Once the crown(s) are returned and the margins, contacts,
      occlusion and contours clinically verified, they will be luted using a self-adhesive
      resin-based cement (RelyX Unicem 2).

      Qualifying RPD designs may be Kennedy class I-IV with up to two modification spaces, and will
      be designed using a standardized protocol. Maxillary major connectors may consist of a
      complete palatal plate, modified palatal plate, anterior-posterior palatal strap or palatal
      strap. Mandibular major connectors will consist of either a lingual plate or a lingual bar.
      Frameworks will be fabricated from nickel-chrome alloy (Ticonium), the denture bases acrylic
      resin (Lucitone 199), and artificial teeth will be DENTSPLY Trubyte IPN Portrait. To meet the
      definition of an RPD abutment tooth it must host a direct retainer consisting of an occlusal
      or cingulum rest, a proximal plate and a retentive clasp. Reciprocation must be provided in
      the form of a plate, reciprocating clasp or minor connector and rest. The plan for occlusion
      will be based upon the number and distribution of remaining natural teeth. If an arch
      opposing the RPD is edentulous and restored by a removable complete denture, then natural and
      artificial teeth will be arranged in bilateral balance. If anterior guidance is present on
      natural teeth in both arches it will be preserved so that artificial RPD teeth contact
      opposing teeth in maximum intercuspation only.

      Clinical assessments, procedures and annual examinations will be performed in the University
      of Kentucky College of Dentistry second, third, and fourth floor student clinics. Clinical
      procedures will be performed by third and fourth year dental students, and clinical
      supervision for these procedures will be provided by licensed, calibrated investigators.
    
  