
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) reduces connections between the cortical motor neurons
      that initiate movement and the spinal motor neurons that direct muscles to execute movement.
      This situation shares many key features with incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI).
      Accumulating evidence in SCI suggests that externally activating spared nerve circuits with
      electromagnetic stimulation augments neural transmission.

      With this goal, the investigators developed a novel method of noninvasive cervical electrical
      stimulation (CES). CES activates multiple muscles on both upper limbs by triggering afferent
      sensory or efferent motor nerve roots depending on stimulus intensity. This study will
      investigate CES for its potential to strengthen residual circuits to the hands in ALS.

      To the investigators' knowledge, electrical spinal stimulation for ALS has never been tested
      or applied previously. Therefore, a pilot study is essential. This study will be performed in
      two stages:

        1. Map CES circuit and synaptic targets: The experiments share a common structure
           comprising conditioning and test stimuli delivered at a range of intensities, sites, and
           interstimulus intervals.

        2. Determine parameters for combining CES with volitional movement: volitional limb
           movements depend on the same corticospinal and motor neuron circuits as those activated
           by TMS and F-waves. Since preliminary data shows that subthreshold CES facilitates TMS
           responses, CES may also be able to facilitate volitional limb movements.

      Successful completion of these experiments will: mechanistically elucidate CES circuit
      interactions; investigate the potential for CES to enhance concurrent volitional muscle
      activation; and establish CES as safe and feasible in the ALS population. Given the limited
      treatment options for ALS, any amount of progress would represent a meaningful step forward.
      Moreover, results of this pilot study could lead to direct translation for lasting clinical
      benefit by combining repetitive subthreshold CES with repetitive task-oriented physical
      exercise training in subsequent studies. CES would be compatible with other interventions,
      including medications and cell-based treatments.
    
  