
    
      Acute myocardial injury, defined by increased levels of high-sensitivity cardiac troponin I
      (cTnI), has been a finding of variable frequency among patients diagnosed with COVID-19. This
      myocardial impairment can occur in the form of acute myocarditis or an injury secondary to
      the imbalance between oxygen supply and demand (type 2 myocardial infarction). It is now
      recognized that cTnI levels are strongly associated with increased mortality. The mechanisms
      underlying the myocardial injury remain unknown, and it is not clear whether they reflect
      local/systemic inflammatory process and/or cellular ischemia.

      Both myocardial ischemia and ventricular dysfunction result in dramatic changes in
      mitochondrial oxidative metabolism. These changes involve an increase in cytoplasmic
      anaerobic glycolysis rate to compensate for the decrease in mitochondrial ATP production.
      Unfortunately, the increase in glycolysis exceeds the subsequent mitochondrial oxidation
      capacity of pyruvate (glucose oxidation) derived from glycolysis, resulting in the
      intracellular accumulation of lactate and protons. The protons produced from this decoupling
      between glycolysis and glucose oxidation contribute to a rupture in ionic homeostasis and
      myocardial cells, resulting in lower cardiac efficiency. In both the ischemic heart and the
      insufficient heart, the rest of the mitochondrial oxidative metabolism originates mainly from
      the β-oxidation of free fatty acids, which occurs at the expense of glucose oxidation.

      Trimetazidine is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme 3-ketoacyl CoA long-chain thiolase
      (3-KAT), the last enzyme involved in the oxidation of fatty acids. Stimulation of glucose
      oxidation by trimetazidine results in a better coupling between glycolysis and glucose
      oxidation, with a consequent decrease in lactate production and intracellular acidosis
      present in situations of myocardial ischemia or heart failure.

      Thus, the PREMIER-COVID-19 study (open and randomized) was designed to test the hypothesis
      that the use of trimetazidine associated with usual therapy in patients admitted with a
      diagnosis of moderate to severe acute respiratory syndrome by SARS-CoV2 infection reduces the
      extent of acute myocardial injury assessed by the peak release of ultra-sensitive troponin
      compared to usual therapy. Investigators will also assess, as secondary outcomes, the impact
      on clinical evolution to more severe forms (admission to the intensive care unit or the need
      for mechanical ventilatory support, length of stay in hospital and in-hospital mortality).
    
  