
    
      Rationale: Percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) have become mainstay treatment for acute
      coronary artery disease and the number of patients receiving PCI is vastly growing. Clinical
      trials have reported on the efficacy and effects on quality of life and mortality. Guidelines
      have been constructed for PCI treatment as well as cardiovascular prevention. However,
      relatively little long-term follow-up studies of large real-world clinical samples exist that
      have looked at the real-world effects of PCI treatment and adherence to current guidelines.

      Moreover, psychological risk factors are important in determining prognosis after PCI, and
      undergoing PCI may increase the risk of low mood. To date, studies have examined single
      psychological risk factors, without taking into account their relatedness. Moreover,
      guidelines are advocating psychosocial screening in early cardiovascular disease, but the
      screening test as proposed in the ESC Prevention guideline has not yet been validated or
      tested.

      Although the detrimental effects of psychological risk factors on cardiovascular prognosis
      are known, the mechanisms through which they exert these effects are yet unclear. It is to be
      expected that not one but multiple biological (inflammation, endothelial dysfunction) and
      behavioural (coping styles, poor self-care, consultation behaviour) pathological processes
      play a role, and that these processes interact with each other. In PCI patients, the
      mechanisms linking psychological risk to poor prognosis are still to be investigated.
      Objective: (1) To examine the adherence to the prevention and PCI guidelines and the effects
      thereof on long term prognosis in PCI patients. (2) To examine effects of clustering
      psychological risk factors on several networks of potentially mediating mechanisms and long
      term outcomes in a large sample of PCI patients. (3) To evaluate the effectiveness of the
      psychosocial screening instrument of the European Society of Cardiology Prevention guideline
      2012. Study design: Prospective observational cohort study. Study population: All patients
      aged >18 admitted to the TweeSteden hospital for percutaneous coronary intervention are
      eligible. Main study parameters/endpoints: Predictors: Psychological (risk) factors
      (depression, anxiety, Type D personality, mindfulness, positive mood), Adherence; Outcome
      variables: PCI complications, hospitalizations, events. Potential mediators: inflammatory
      biomarkers, markers of endothelial dysfunction, physical stress recovery) Nature and extent
      of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: The
      risk associated with the current study is very low. For this mechanistic observational study,
      investigators will ask patients to fill out two extensive (20 pages) and then several smaller
      (12-15 pages) psychological surveys including among others questions on personality, positive
      and negative mood, mindfulness, work stress, and satisfaction with life. Preferably,
      questionnaires will be administered digitally by email link. In addition, in a subsample
      three additional fasting blood samples will be drawn to assess study-specific markers, of
      which two will coincide with regular blood draws at the clinic. There are no direct benefits
      of participation, other than providing data to create knowledge to improve future treatment.
    
  