
    
      Hip replacement is an effective option for treating chronic hip conditions that cause pain
      and functional impairment(1). Significant improvements in quality of life, as measured by
      both disease specific and generic quality of life measures, have been well documented (2-4).

      Hip replacement implants are a 'ball in cup' design, and consist of two articulating
      components: a femoral head replacement which can consist of a ball attached to a stem that is
      inserted into the proximal femur, and an acetabular component, which can be made of different
      materials that are inserted into a liner of metal that is inserted into the pelvis. These
      components can be attached to the patient's bone using either polymethylmethacrylate - a
      polymer more commonly referred to as bone cement - or by roughening the surface of the
      implant to allow bone ingrowth. Hip replacements can therefore be broadly classified by the
      fixation technique used: cemented, uncemented, or hybrid, consisting of a cemented femoral
      component and an uncemented acetabular component. The uncemented design is very commonly used
      in younger patients because the quality of bone is better in the patient, the implants have
      demonstrated long term survival, and the cementing step is no longer necessary for achieving
      long term fixation.

      The 10 year survival of current uncemented total hip designs approaches 95% (5). The majority
      of the 5% that are revised are done so for aseptic ("non-infected") loosening of the
      components. The functional results of revision total hip surgery are poorer than primary hip
      replacement surgery (3, 5, 6). There are approximately 20 000 hip replacement performed each
      year in Canada (CIHI website); this will result in roughly 1000 revisions over the next 10
      years - a great expense, both in terms of health care resources and in patients' loss of
      function. Obviously, efforts directed at decreasing revision rates are clinically and
      financially worthwhile.

      Implant failure due to aseptic loosening is thought to arise from both patient related
      factors such as age, sex and diagnosis, and from implant related factors such as design and
      materials used (5). Efforts at reducing aseptic loosening by changing implant design and
      cement formulation have occasionally resulted in products that perform well in the laboratory
      but fail miserably in real life, often after being implanted into large numbers of
      patients(7-10). This has led to a call for careful and controlled introduction of new implant
      designs using randomized trials and precise radiographic assessment techniques such as
      radiostereometric analysis (RSA) to look for early signs of loosening and impending failure
      (7, 9, 11).

      Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) is a new technology in the optimization of healthcare
      services. It has been developed to minimize damage to surrounding tissue during arthroplasty.
      by reducing the size of the incision. The possible benefit is dramatic reductions in length
      of stay (LOS) for total hip replacement (THR) patients (12). However, MIS development has led
      to modifications to existing instrumentation, prostheses and technique which may impact
      long-term survival of the implant (13). There has been little research investigating the
      effects of these changes on long-term patient outcomes following MIS surgery. The use of RSA
      will allow for better understanding of the early fixation of the implant and the potential
      for early failure due to aseptic loosening.
    
  