
    
      A cochlear implant is a device that stimulates the auditory nerve electrically to produce
      hearing percepts. It has an external component that receives incoming sound, processes it
      according to a predefined strategy, and transfers the signal across the skin. A small,
      implanted electronic device receives and decodes the transmitted signal and stimulates
      electrodes in the cochlea. The electrodes stimulate the auditory nerve directly, bypassing
      the hair cells that implement the first stage of auditory neural processing in normal ears.
      The extended use of multichannel cochlear implants in adults brought about the first major
      success, both scientific and commercial, of a neural sensory prosthesis that replaced a human
      sense with an electronic device Cochlear implants are now widely used in young deaf children
      and have shown tremendous promise in facilitating a variety of developmental outcomes.
      Specifically, improvements have been shown in oral language, speech perception and
      recognition, attention, and behavioral development.

      Medical advances, as well as technological inventions such as digital hearing aids and
      cochlear implants, have made significant changes in the likelihood that a child with hearing
      loss will achieve adequate speech perception, intelligible speech and language competency,
      though none of these is yet guaranteed for all children . Despite these advances, it is
      probable that a child with hearing loss faces a significant delay in exposure to auditory
      stimulation, leading to delays in the normal course of oral language development through
      audition. Research findings suggest that children who received an implant even before 12
      months had a one year expressive language delay . Others found variable degrees of delay with
      children who received implants before age 2 of years.Others found that lowering the age of
      implantation does seem to improve the prospects of normal language acquisition but the
      evidence does not suggest that children with cochlear implants perform like hearing peers on
      average .

      Most children who are born profoundly deaf or who become deaf before the age of 3 years fall
      significantly behind their normal-hearing peers in their mastery of the surrounding oral
      language in its written, read, spoken, and signed forms.

      One of the most important factors shown to influence the development of communication
      abilities in pediatric cochlear implant recipients is age at time of implantation .

      Children implanted by 12 months of age demonstrate better language development compared with
      children who receive their cochlear implant between 13 and 24 months. This supports the
      provision of a cochlear implant within the first year of life to enhance the likelihood that
      a child with severe-to-profound hearing impairment will commence elementary school with
      age-appropriate language skills. The implanted prior to 3 years had significantly faster
      rates of language development than later-implanted children.

      Two additional demographic factors that influence communication development in children with
      cochlear implants are communication mode and residual hearing. Children with prelingual
      deafness who use oral communication generally achieve significantly higher levels of speech
      perception, speech production, and/or language skills than their deaf peers who use total
      communication, that is, the combined use of signed and spoken language Speech perception
      performance with cochlear implants appears related to several factors. Higher speech
      perception appears linked to shorter periods of auditory deprivation, greater amounts of
      residual hearing, and younger ages of implantation Spoken language performance was related to
      the age the hearing loss was identified and the amount of typical hearing experience a child
      might have before losing their residual hearing
    
  