
    
      Prospective, multi-center, randomized, single blind, controlled, noninferiority clinical
      trial.

      Subjects with previous bare-metal or drug-eluting coronary stent and qualifying evidence for
      ISR will be screened per the protocol inclusion and exclusion criteria to achieve a maximum
      of 418 randomized subjects (includes 5% allowance for loss to follow-up). Eligible subjects
      will be randomized 1:1 to treatment with either the SELUTION SLR™ DEB or SOC to include
      contemporary DES (zotarolimus-eluting stents and everolimus-eluting stents only) or non-DEB
      BA. A maximum of 20% of patients randomized to SOC will be treated with BA.

      Randomization will be stratified by DES or bare-metal stent (BMS) ISR and whether there has
      been previous repeat stenting of target lesion. Subjects with > 2 previous repeat stent
      procedures involving the target lesion will be excluded.

      The study will test for noninferiority of DEB versus SOC and additionally noninferiority of
      DEB vs DES.

      Primary endpoint will be target lesion failure (TLF) determined at 12-month clinical
      follow-up.

      After initial randomized treatment subjects in the SOC group may receive DEB (including
      SELUTION SLR™) treatment for recurrent clinical restenosis requiring a repeat target lesion
      revascularization (TLR) (i.e. after the study primary endpoint has been failed).

      A subset of subjects (120 subjects including the first 60 randomized in the United States
      (US) and first 60 randomized in Europe who receive successful study treatment) will undergo
      planned angiographic follow-up at 12-13 months after completion of primary endpoint clinical
      follow-up/assessment.

      At 12-13 months, and after clinical primary endpoint has been assessed, a subset of the
      angiographic follow-up cohort (~60) will also undergo planned optical coherence tomography
      (OCT) follow-up, 30 United States (US) and 30 Europe.
    
  