
    
      Movement disorders are conventionally divided into major categories: 1) Hyperkinetic movement
      disorders (also called dyskinesias) refer to excessive, often repetitive, involuntary
      movements that intrude into the normal flow of motor activity. This category includes chorea,
      dystonia, myoclonus, stereotypies, tics, and tremor. 2) Hypokinetic movement 3) Ataxia.

      Hyperkinetic movements any unwanted excess movement. Together with hypertonia (abnormally
      increased resistance to externally imposed movement) and negative signs (insufficient muscle
      activity or insufficient control of muscle activity).

      Tremor: Tremor is a rhythmic back-and-forth or oscillating purposeless involuntary movement
      about a joint axis. Tremor occurs at rest (the pill-rolling tremor of Parkinsonism). Postural
      tremor (the fine tremor of hyperthyroidism), Action tremor (intention tremor) occurs near the
      end of a goal-directed movement.

      Chorea : is a series of brief, jerky, explosive ongoing random-appearing sequence of one or
      more discrete involuntary movements, or "fidgeting; there are different causes of chorea,
      Sydenham's chorea. Lesions in the sub thalamic nucleus. Encephalitis with diffuse
      gray-matter. Motor impersistence is a common association.

      Athetosis is a slow, continuous, writhing, sinuous movement, especially marked in the digits
      and extremities, prevents maintenance of a stable posture.

      Myoclonus consists of sequence of repeated, often non-rhythmic sudden brief twitches or jerks
      or involuntary contraction or relaxation of one or more muscles as seen in metabolic
      encephalopathies such as uremic encephalopathy. It can be categorized as "action myoclonus",
      "postural myoclonus", or "rest myoclonus" based on the condition when it is observed
      Asterixis :is an intermittency of sustained posture, illustrated by "flapping" of the hands
      when the arms are outstretched and wrists dorsiflexed, as in hepatic encephalopathy.

      Stereotypies are repetitive, simple movements that can be voluntarily suppressed.
      Stereotypies do not necessarily hold the person's attention.

      Tics are repeated, individually recognizable, intermittent movements that are almost always
      briefly suppressible and are usually associated with awareness of an urge to perform the
      movement.

      Dystonia: a movement disorder in which involuntary sustained or intermittent muscle
      contractions cause twisting and repetitive movements, abnormal postures, or both. Dystonic
      postures are often triggered by attempts at voluntary movement or voluntary posture, as may
      occur in task-specific dystonia.

      Hypokinetic movements: include bradykinesia (slowness of movement) and hypokinesia (poverty
      of movement, and movements that are smaller than intended), but also crucially and
      fundamentally the progressive fatiguing and decrement of repetitive alternating movements
      seen during finger or foot tapping. The best known cause and example is Parkinson's disease.

      Ataxia: Ataxia is a degenerative disorder affecting the brain, brainstem or spinal cord. This
      can result in clumsiness, inaccuracy, instability, imbalance, tremor or a lack of
      coordination while performing voluntary movements. Ataxia also can affect speech and movement
      of the eyes.

      Previous epidemiological studies in Egypt showed that the Overall the recorded Crude
      Prevalence Rate (CPR) of Parkinson's disease in Egypt was varied in different governorates
      and ranged from 53 to 557/105 inhabitants Another study was planned to estimate the
      prevalence and to study the aetiological factors of chorea, dystonia, athetosis and
      hemiballismus in Assiut. The prevalence rate for rheumatic chorea was 62/100,000 population,
      whereas Huntington's chorea had a prevalence rate of 21/100,000. The other two common types
      of chorea were reported with prevalence rates of 12/100,000 for the encephalitic type and
      17/100,000 for the atherosclerotic type. No single case of generalized dystonia was recorded
      and all cases were of the focal type of dystonia with a prevalence rate of 26/100,000
      population, but there's no available data about other movement disorders in Egypt
    
  