
    
      Participants must have biopsy proven locally recurrent prostate cancer. Biopsy will be
      performed by a Urologist. Participants will have PSMA-PET (prostate-specific membrane antigen
      and positron emission tomography) scan and MRI in Radiology and Nuclear Medicine by
      experienced Radiologists in the Royal North Shore Hospital. before starting stereotactic
      radiotherapy. Participants will require fiducial markers inserted in the prostate and may
      require hydrogel insertion depending on the location of the recurrence. If these are
      required, it will be done by experienced radiation oncologists. Fiducial markers insertion
      involves inserting three gold markers into the prostate. It will be used to locate the
      prostate accurately during radiation treatment. Hydrogel is a temporary gel being injected
      into the space between the prostate and rectum to reduce the dose of radiation received by
      the rectum to minimise side effects from the treatment, Focal Stereotactic Body treatment
      (SBRT) will be used in the study. There are three groups of participants. Each group will
      receive different level of radiation dose to test the safety of increasing radiation dose.
      Group 1 will receive 36 grays (radiation dose unit, Gy)) in 6 treatments. Group 2 will
      receive 38 grays in 6 treatments and Group 3 will receive 40 grays in 6 treatments. The
      incremental dose escalation will cease if any excess acute toxicity or late grade 3 toxicity.
      SBRT will be delivered two to three times per week, every second day. The number of
      treatments per week will depend on the day of the week participants start their treatment.
      Participants will be reviewed weekly or second weekly. Toxicity will be recorded. A Safety
      Committee will be formed containing multi-disciplinary team members. All serious adverse
      events will be reported to the Principal Investigator and Human Research Ethics Committee
      within 24 hours.
    
  