
    
      Recently, a great leap has been accomplished in discovering somatic mutations in human cancer
      genomes. With the advent of molecularly targeted therapy, somatic mutations have attracted
      more attention from cancer researchers. Driver mutations confer growth advantage on the cell
      in which they occur, are causally implicated in cancer development and have therefore been
      positively selected. In contrast, passenger mutations are biologically neutral and do not
      confer growth advantage. Hence, driver somatic mutations are conventionally the optimal
      target for cancer cells. Given the growing evidence of ethnic difference in distribution of
      somatic mutations, we aim to survey actionable somatic mutations in Asian prevalent cancer.

      Ability to assess multiple biomarkers using FNA samples could provide a breakthrough in
      gastrointestinal cancer clinical studies. FNAs are minimally invasive and, therefore, more
      acceptable for serial tumor sampling. Furthermore, the cells removed with this method
      frequently represent relatively pure tumor cell population, and can be processed within
      minutes after removal from the tumor; therefore, proteomic profiles of FNA specimens likely
      resemble the in vivo profiles very closely. In addition, tumor cells from metastatic sites
      obtained using FNA may provide site specific metastatic tumor profile. Acquired resistances
      to therapies is well known in various cancer types.1, 2 Serial sampling of tumor tissue by
      FNA will provide important resources to monitor tumor changes as a function of time and
      therapy.

      There have been numerous studies reporting the detection of carcinoma cells in the blood of
      patients with solid tumors. Detection of CTCs (Circulating Tumor Cells) before initiation of
      first-line therapy in patients with metastatic breast cancer is highly predictive of
      progression free survival and overall survival.3-5 These studies led to the FDA clearance of
      the vertex CellSearch technology. The prognostic implication of detecting CTCs prior to
      initiating therapy raises important questions about the biological attributes of these cells.
      CTCs are found in most metastatic diseases and it may be reflective of the status of the
      recurrent tumor looking for alternate site to colonize. However, not all CTCs would
      successfully establish metastatic colonies. Having the ability to profile tumors at different
      metastatic sites together with CTCs could provide information on the subset of most robust
      CTCs with highest metastatic potentials. In addition CTCs could provide alternative source of
      tumor cells that may be used to detect tumor changes as the cancer progresses and therapy
      continued or modified.

      The expression/activation profiling of kinases and other signal transduction pathway
      molecules along with markers critical for triggering angiogenesis on a serial sampling of
      tumor and tumor associated tissues will provide valuable information on changes occurring in
      tumor cells as a function of time and therapies. This temporal and spatial profiling of tumor
      progression will enable clinicians to monitor rapidly 'evolving' cancer signatures in each
      patient. The temporal and site-specific profiling of CTCs and FNAs must then utilize highly
      sensitive and specific method to interrogate limited amount of cancer cells in such samples.
      Based on these results, we plan to design genome-directed clinical trials in these tumor
      types.
    
  