
    
      Treatment:

      The patient's treatment will consist of combined Hypofractionated external beam (3750 cGray
      in 15 fractions) and MRI-TRUS fusion HDR brachytherapy boost (1 fraction of 1500 cGray.

      Brachytherapy performed under general anesthesia as an outpatient procedure

      TRUS-MRI fusion:

      T2 axial volumetric sequence (VISTA) is imported directly from the picture archiving and
      communication systems (PACS). Then MR images are reconstructed and segmented. Target volumes
      (prostate gland, dominant intraprostatic lesions (DILs)and Organs at risk (OARs) urethra and
      rectum are delineated.

      A transrectal sagittal volumetric ultrasound image is immediately adquired every 2 degrees, a
      rapid reconstruction algorithm converts the series of 2D images into a 3D volume, which is
      then displayed in axial, sagittal and coronal views and transferred to the module of fusion
      with the MRI.

      The MRI images and the real-time sonography examination are displayed on a split-screen with
      the possibility of overlaying the images live in one image. A graphical user interface is
      used for rigid manual registration of the ultrasound and MRI volumes. This interface allows
      for displacements in the three dimensions and rotations, until both images are correctly
      superimposed.

      Then the contoured structures are transferred to the US dataset, and these contours are
      slightly modified until a perfect matching with the US images is achieved.

      Dose prescription:

      The homogeneity parameters used for optimization aim for prostate V100 > 98%, V150 of 25-33%,
      V200 < 8%, where Vn is the fractional volume of the organ that receives n% of the prescribed
      dose, urethral dmax < 115% and rectal 1cc < 70% of prescribed dose.

      The treatment plan will be manipulated such that the normally occurring high dose regions
      (125%, 150%) are positioned at the site of the identified disease

      Endpoints Feasibility of higher doses administration, toxicity and efficacy will be measured
    
  