
    
      Background

      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) is a specialised nuclear medicine procedure that uses
      positron emitting radiolabeled tracer molecules to measure biological activity. The most
      common of these radiolabeled tracers is 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG), which is used to
      determine abnormal glucose metabolism in tumours and other sites. It has general applications
      in all areas where abnormal glucose metabolism may be present including in circumstances such
      as differentiating the tumour from scar tissue; evaluating the presence of the tumour in
      light of rising tumour markers and normal morphological imaging techniques; and assessing
      response to therapy where other techniques are deemed to be unhelpful.

      The Cross Cancer Institute has recently been funded to establish a PET centre that will
      establish a research programme to prove the effectiveness of PET scanning in the Canadian
      health care environment and validate the data that have been developed in other jurisdictions
      in specific oncologic indications.

      Objectives

      Primary Objective - The objective of the clinical trial is to establish the general utility
      and value of 18F-FDG PET imaging in patients with known or suspected myeloma, sarcoma,
      testicular cancer (seminomatous and non-seminomatous germ cell tumors), endometrial cancer,
      ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, renal cell
      carcinoma, pancreatic, adenocarcinoma, mesothelioma and gastric cancer.

      Secondary Objectives - The secondary objective of the clinical trial is to demonstrate the
      safety by documentation of adverse events.

      Study Design

      The proposed clinical trial will be a Phase II, diagnostic imaging, open label, single site,
      clinical trial in patients with defined oncologic disease. The patient population will
      consist of patients with suspected or known infrequently occurring cancers, which are not
      covered by Protocol DX-FDG-001. This population includes patients with known or suspected
      myeloma, sarcoma, testicular cancer (seminomatous and non-seminomatous germ cell tumors),
      endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, transitional cell carcinoma of the
      bladder, renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, mesothelioma and gastric cancer.

      Each patient will receive a single IV injection of 18F-FDG. Imaging will be conducted 60
      minutes after an average injection of 200 - 300 MBq of 18F-FDG in hydrated, fasted patients.
      Images will be collected for 40 to 60 minutes in 5 - 7 body positions (total counts 5 to 15
      million) using either the C-PET, Allegro or Gemini PET scanners located in Nuclear Medicine.
      Standard transaxial images will be reconstructed from the collected data and can be
      re-oriented into coronal or sagittal slices as required. The images will then be examined by
      an experienced nuclear medicine physician with regard to normal physiological uptake of
      18F-FDG. The location and intensity of abnormal 18F-FDG uptake will be noted and correlated
      with clinical findings, and conventional imaging techniques, as available.

      Statistical Analyses

      Sample Size

      The study will enrol approximately 220 subjects, with an approximate maximum of 20 subjects
      per specific tumour type (myeloma, sarcoma, testicular cancer [seminomatous and
      non-seminomatous germ cell tumors], endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer, cervical cancer,
      transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma,
      mesothelioma and gastric cancer).

      Statistical Analyses

      For each group, the investigators will calculate the positive predictive value (true positive
      outcomes/true positive outcomes + false positive outcomes) of the 18F-FDG scan. They also
      intend to evaluate the percentage of patients in which the 18F-FDG outcome affected patient
      management.

      Criteria for Evaluability of Study Subject Data

      All subjects receiving 18F -FDG will be evaluated for safety and efficacy.

      Study Population

      Number of Subjects to be Studied

      Approximately 220 patients overall; approximately 20 in each cancer type.

      Inclusion Criteria for Selection of Study Subjects

      Patients will be included in the study if they meet all of the following criteria.

        1. Male or female. If female of child-bearing potential and outside of the window of 10
           days since the last menstrual period, a negative serum pregnancy test.

        2. Known or suspected primary or metastatic tumours of myeloma, sarcoma, testicular cancer
           (seminomatous and non-seminomatous germ cell tumors), endometrial cancer, ovarian
           cancer, cervical cancer, transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, renal cell
           carcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, mesothelioma and gastric cancer.

        3. Age greater than or equal to 15 years.

        4. Able and willing to follow instructions and comply with the protocol.

        5. Provide written informed consent prior to participation in this study.

      7. Karnofsky Performance Scale score 60 - 100.

      Exclusion Criteria

      Patients will be excluded from the study if they meet any of the following criteria:

        1. Having had surgery or radiotherapy within 10 days of the planned imaging study.

        2. Nursing or pregnant females.

        3. Age less than 15 years.
    
  