
    
      This study will employ a multi-site, single-arm design. A total of approximately 50-100
      participants - patients stable for at least 2 weeks on their current opioid replacement
      medication - will be recruited for the study. All participants will receive their doctor's
      treatment-as-usual. Patients not currently prescribed Zubsolv速 will be switched to Zubsolv速.

      Study visits include a screening visit, one baseline visit (which ideally will occur between
      7 and 14 days after the screening visit), and bi-weekly visits for the 12 weeks (six visits)
      following the baseline visit. During the baseline visit, participants will be trained on how
      to use the AiCure app. Training consists of a number of interactive training steps to teach
      the participant how to use the app correctly. Participants will be provided with three
      placebo tablets for the training.

      Study participants will be reimbursed to cover their time and transportation costs in
      accordance with Institutional Review Board (IRB) guidelines. Participants will receive
      contingency management (CM) to reinforce regular use of the app. Orexo AB will provide the
      study drug, Zubsolv速, to all participants throughout the 12-week treatment duration.

      For the length of the study, participants will be requested to take each dose of their
      prescribed Zubsolv速 regimen using the AiCure app. Each medication administration event will
      be saved onto the participant's smartphone and encrypted data (including de-identified video
      and time and date of administration) will be automatically transmitted to the centralized
      dashboard. Research staff will have access to the dashboard to view real-time and detailed
      dosing histories for each participant. Access to the dashboard is roles-based and
      password-protected. If a participant does not dose using the AiCure app (misses/skips a
      dose), self-reports on the device or over the phone, or is tagged for suspicious behavior,
      the participant will receive a combination of automated SMS text messages and tailored SMS
      text messages / phone calls from research staff based on the pre-defined escalation protocol.
    
  