
    
      Past findings suggest oral microbiome might be used to predict recurrence and response to
      therapies, as past studies have shown surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy alter the
      microbiome, which in turn modulates treatment effectiveness/toxicity.

      Microbial Ecosystem Therapeutics (MET) is a new treatment approach developed as an
      alternative to fecal transplantation. MET consists of a mixture of pure live cultures of
      intestinal bacteria isolated from stool of a healthy donor. MET-1 administered by colonoscopy
      was successfully used to treat 2 patients with recurrent Clostridium difficile infection
      (rCDI). Thus far, MET-2 has been studied in 14 human patients with rCDI. While the
      composition of MET-2 and MET-4 treatments are different, MET-4 contains several of the same
      bacteria present in MET-2.

      ROMA LA-OPSCC-001 is a minimal risk feasibility study to evaluate the oral and intestinal
      microbiome using saliva, oropharyngeal swabs over tumor sites, stool and rectal swabs in
      patients with locoregionally-advanced oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LA-OPSCC)
      treated with chemoradiotherapy (CRT). This study involved analysis of samples from a
      prospective cohort of up to 30 patients diagnosed with LA-OPSCC treated with CRT. The study
      did not involve any therapeutic intervention. ROMA LA-OPSCC-001 is closed to accrual. A total
      of 181 samples have been collected. There was similarity in profiles between stool and rectal
      swab samples, and also between oropharyngeal swabs over the tumor site and saliva, but
      distinct by anatomical site, indicating that these sample types are able to resolve
      similarities by subject but distinguish anatomical compartments.

      This data supports the study feasibility, compliance of sample acquisition and technical
      proficiency of characterizing the taxa composition at baseline and after CRT by using 4
      methods of sample collection and suggest a potential treatment effect on both oral and
      intestinal microbiome.
    
  