
    
      Rhegmatogenous retinal detachment is a sight-threatening condition that occurs when the
      neurosensory retina separates from the underlying retinal pigment epithelium and fluid
      accumulates within this potential space.Surgical reattachment of a detached retina is the
      mainstay of treatment.

      Experimental retinal detachment and reattachment models have demonstrated the recovery
      process of successfully reattached retina, including regrowth and reconfiguration of the
      photoreceptor inner and/or outer segments,reorganization of photoreceptor-RPE
      interface,increased synaptic terminals in the outer plexiform layer, inhibition of glial cell
      proliferation,and recovery of normal distribution of proteins. These microscopic changes are
      thought to be the reason for visual function recovery following retinal reattachment.

      Recent development in spectral domain optical coherence tomography, which provides faster
      imaging speed and higher resolution, allows more detailed retinal layer evaluation. Previous
      studies using spectral domain optical coherence tomography have revealed abnormalities of
      retinal microstructure in reattached retina. However, these studies mainly focused on the
      photoreceptor layer and/or external limiting membrane, although abnormalities of various
      retinal layers have been revealed in previous microscopic studies. In addition, qualitative
      rather than quantitative analysis was performed in most of the studies, and most importantly,
      all previous studies were observational and comparisons between the affected and normal
      control regions were not performed.

      The current study involves a series of recent-onset primary rhegmatogenous retinal detachment
      that were managed with surgical retinal reattachment. The investigators quantified the
      thickness of each retinal layer based on spectral domain optical coherence tomography images
      and compared the thicknesses of reattached regions and undetached normal regions. The primary
      purpose of this study was to evaluate the changes in thickness profiles of each retinal layer
      in reattached retina after acute RRD.
    
  