
    
      As lipodystrophies are rare diseases subdivided into yet rarer sub-groups, research in this
      field requires international co-operation.

      The European Consortium of Lipodystrophy (ECLip) consists of an association of European
      experts in the field of lipodystrophy. It has set up a Registry Board to implement a registry
      for patients with lipodystrophy using the Open Source Software OSSE (Open Source Registry
      System for Rare Diseases in the EU), which is a web based platform focused on a federated
      approach that allows to perform distributed searches which are designed to comply data
      protection requirements and preserve data sovereignty. To ensure data protection, medical and
      identifying data will be stored on two different servers both run by the Institute for
      Epidemiology and Medical Biometry of the University of Ulm.

      Medical centers from all over the world where patients are treated with lipodystrophy are
      invited to join the ECLip Registry and to become ECLip Registry members. Upon registration,
      they can enter patient data after they have obtained local ethic committee permission and the
      patient in question has given written consent to this. Data entry is done at the individual
      locations via a web-based user interface. Identifying data are recorded directly into the
      identity management system. Communication between the identity management and the OSSE
      registry happens via a web browser.

      The aim of the patient registry is to compile data on the natural history of each different
      sub-group of lipodystrophies, their comorbidities, treatment options used and medical and
      quality of life out-come for the patients. For this, the following data retrieved from
      regular patient visits are collected:

        -  Precise diagnosis including moleculargenetic results

        -  Clinical presentation and comorbidities

        -  Laboratory changes and results of diagnostic procedures

        -  Natural course of the disease including age at onset of disease and comorbidities

        -  Family history

      Research within this registry can be performed by participating clinicians/researchers and
      third parties after a research proposal has be accepted by the responsible committee of the
      ECLip. The registry aims to answer the following questions

        -  new insights into the pathophysiology of lipodystrophy

        -  improve therapeutic options for the patients

        -  compile information material for patients, families and relevant professionals
    
  