
    
      Emergency departments offer a unique setting through which we can reach adolescents who have
      perpetrated Adolescent Dating Aggression (ADA). The Project READY (Reducing Aggression in
      Dating Relationships for Youth) brief intervention manual and training was developed by Dr.
      Emily Rothman, who is a former shelter worker, batterer intervention counselor, and dating
      violence expert, with input from research experts in brief intervention, an expert in
      adolescent batterer intervention, psychologists, low-income youth of color from the Start
      Strong Initiative, and others, with funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The
      READY intervention intercepts youth who utilize an urban emergency department for non-acute
      health care needs (e.g., cuts, sprains), provides them with tailored feedback about their
      relationship behavior, and uses motivational interviewing techniques and prepared worksheets
      to move them forward on a readiness-to-change continuum towards non-violent and respectful
      relationship behavior. For example, after being provided with information about acts
      considered unhealthy in a relationship, a participant is asked to generate a list of "pros
      and cons" about what he or she does to solve conflicts with partners, brainstorm alternatives
      that he or she would use, list reasons why the alternatives might not work in the moment, and
      troubleshoot those potential problems. Participants are then offered a menu of referrals and
      invited to select those that they would use (e.g., free mental health and substance abuse
      counseling, sexual health testing, gang prevention resources).

      The randomized controlled trial (RCT) research study will build upon our completed
      small-scale feasibility pilot project, which was conducted in 2012- 13. For the proposed
      study, we will recruit a sample large enough to evaluate whether the intervention improves
      ADA-related knowledge, positively changes ADA-related attitudes and behavioral intentions,
      and reduces self-reported perpetration behavior after 3- and 6-month follow-up periods. The
      study will enroll youth ages 15-19 years old. Notably, the setting for this intervention test
      will be an urban pediatric emergency department that primarily serves low income youth.
    
  