
    
      Investigation of blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery and oxygen saturation of
      the brain bilaterally during carotid endarterectomy carried out in local anesthesia in
      patients with and without neurological symptoms using transcranial Doppler (TCD) and INVOS
      monitor.

      Zoltán Gyöngyösi Study protocol

      The primary endpoint of our study is to determine whether neurological symptoms (aphasia,
      paresis, loss of consciousness, numbness) occur after clamping the internal carotid artery,
      and if so, changes showed by transcranial Doppler or INVOS monitor is more sensitive
      regarding the symptoms? Secondary endpoint: the degree of change in the measured parameters
      after the internal carotid artery is clamped, and if there is any difference between the
      operated and non-operated sides?

      Patients and Methods

      Outpatient examination, preparation and anesthesia of the patients:

        -  ECG test

        -  Echocardiography, if it is necessary due to the cardial status of the patient.

        -  Indication of surgical intervention provided by the cerebrovascular outpatient clinic,
           with attached carotid ultrasound and angiography results.

      Surgical anesthesia:

        -  Superficial and deep cervical block with 3.75% ropivacaine (50ml ropivacaine 3.75%)
           (incase of allergy bupivacaine should be used)

        -  Securing venous catheter, infusion of Lactated-Ringer or Voluven solution.

        -  In case of pain topical administration of Lidocaine by the surgeon, intravenous
           administration of 25-50ug Fentanyl or 1 vial of Algopyrin.

      Intraoperative measurements:

        -  Bilateral transcranial Doppler measurements of the blood flow velocity within the middle
           cerebral arteries: 1. before local anesthesia, 2. after the onset of local anesthetic,
           but before skin incision, 3. intraoperatively before clamping the internal carotid
           artery, 4. one minute after clamping the internal carotid artery, 5. five minutes after
           clamping the internal carotid artery, 6. fifteen minutes after clamping the internal
           carotid artery, 7. directly after the restoration of blood flow in the internal carotid
           artery, 8. postoperatively, 4-6 hours after the intervention.

        -  Recording mean arterial pressure with each TCD measurement.

        -  Recording cerebral saturation (INVOS) with each TCD measurement.

        -  Recording any anti-hypertensive therapy in the postoperative phase.

        -  Recording heart rate.

        -  Recording arterial oxygen saturation.

        -  Recording the patients' neurological status with each TCD measurement and continuous
           neurological monitoring while the internal carotid artery is clamped.
    
  