
    
      This randomized pilot trial will test a group-based PP-MI intervention adapted for patients
      with MetS. MGH outpatient community clinics will serve as the sources of recruitment and the
      sites of the groups. The investigators will recruit up to 64 patients with MetS to complete
      the study and provide follow-up data.

      Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from the patients, care
      providers, and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of the
      population. This information will include medical data related to MetS (e.g., blood sugar,
      blood pressure, body mass index, triglycerides, cholesterol), current medications, and
      sociodemographic data (age, gender, race/ethnicity, education, marital status).

      Participants will attend 90-minute groups sessions that will be held at the clinics (MGH
      Healthcare Centers). The overall structure of each session will be: 30 minutes for positive
      psychology exercise review/discussion, 30 minutes for physical activity goal setting,
      education, and discussion, and 30 minutes for a group walk or indoor exercises in inclement
      weather. During times when in-person visits cannot happen (e.g., COVID-19), we will do
      virtual group sessions instead of meeting at the clinics, conducted via videoconference
      platform (i.e., Zoom). This study has been IRB-approved for waiver of informed consent
      documentation, so we will receive informed consent from our potential participants via verbal
      consent. We will mail/e-mail an IRB-approved study information fact sheet, providing them
      written details about our study before obtaining verbal informed consent. Each participant's
      verbal consent will be documented in REDCap. In addition, the group walks will not happen in
      these particular circumstances, and all exercise will be done individually to comply with
      social distancing measures.

      Participants will be either randomized to an immediate intervention group or a wait-list
      control (WLC) group. The wait-list control group will start the intervention at Week 10,
      after the immediate intervention group completes its final session. Both groups will be asked
      to wear an Actigraph GT3x+ accelerometer for 1 week at baseline, then week 9, and week 24 for
      the intervention group, and at baseline, weeks 9, 17, and 33 for the WLC group.
      Accelerometers such as this one are considered to be the standard for measuring habitual
      physical activity. They are pedometer-size devices that attach to a belt and are worn at the
      waist. Participants will also be given a wrist-worn Fitbit to keep, which they will be asked
      to wear daily for the duration of the study in order to track their activity (steps).

      Upon beginning the groups, participants will be provided with a treatment manual with weekly
      PP exercises, information about the importance of physical activity and related health
      behaviors, and how to set goals to improve these behaviors. The PI or a trained substitute
      will lead all groups.

      For the first session, in the PP portion, participants will discuss and be assigned the first
      exercise- Gratitude for Positive Events- and will be instructed to complete the PP exercise
      during the next week. Prior to completing the exercise, participants will be asked to rate
      their current levels of happiness and optimism. Immediately after completing the exercise,
      participants will rate the ease of exercise completion, overall utility of the exercise, and
      their current levels of happiness and optimism, all using 10-point Likert scales. In the
      first goal-setting session, the investigators will discuss the importance of physical
      activity in MetS. Investigators will review instructions for Fitbit use and set a goal for
      monitoring their baseline physical activity over the next week. Fitbits will not be used as
      an outcome measure, but as a tool that participants can use to monitor their activity and set
      goals. Finally, the last 30 minutes will be spent doing a group walk around the local clinic
      neighborhood (or indoor exercise in the case of inclement weather). All group walks and
      exercises will be done at a pace comfortable for participants.

      Participants will be asked to complete the 8 total weekly PP exercises, set physical activity
      goals, and attend as many group sessions as they can.

      All sessions will include (a) a review and discussion of the past week's PP exercise, (b) a
      discussion of the rationale of the next week's PP exercise using the PP manual, and (c)
      assignment of the next week's PP exercise. For the goal-setting/MI portion, participants will
      (a) review their goals and steps from the prior week, (b) discuss techniques for improving
      physical activity (e.g., monitoring physical activity, taking standing breaks), and (c) set
      goals for the next week. The exercises and content for both PP and MI will be assigned in the
      same order for all participants receiving them.

      At Weeks 9 and 24 (Weeks 17 and 33 for the wait-list control group), participants will
      complete the same self-report questionnaires that were administered at baseline. The
      investigators will collect the Actigraphs at baseline, weeks 9 and 24 (baseline, Weeks 9, 17
      and 33 for the WLC group) and upload the data to assess for valid wear time. If participants
      have not worn them for enough time (>4 days), the investigators will send it home with them
      and ask them to re-wear it and mail it back.
    
  