
    
      Title:

      A comparative study of resting Pd/Pa, instantaneous wave-free ratio and fractional flow
      reserve in an unselected population referred for invasive angiography.

      Instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR™) is a novel non-hyperaemic index for assessing the
      functional significance of a coronary stenosis without coronary vasodilatation. In previous
      studies it has been compared to the hyperaemic index FFR with variable results. As a guide to
      determining the need for revascularisation it has been employed using a dichotomous cut-off
      without FFR or within a hybrid strategy in which lesions with intermediate iFR™ values are
      further interrogated using FFR.

      The comparative diagnostic utility of iFR™ vs resting pressure (Pd/Pa) in reference to FFR is
      uncertain. We plan to undertake a prospective clinical study in consecutive patients
      undergoing clinically-indicated FFR assessment in the cardiac catheterisation laboratory with
      30-80% diameter stenosis on quantitative coronary angiography (QCA). We will will use a
      proprietary (Volcano) pressure wire system and iFR ™ algorithm in order to calculate iFR™ and
      Pd/Pa in both resting and hyperemic conditions as well as FFR.

      The sample size is 260 vessels and the enrolment period is 18 months. Hyperaemia will be
      induced by intravenous adenosine (140 ug/kg/min) administered wherever possible via an
      antecubital vein. Intra-coronary nitrates will also be given in line with the standard care
      procedure for FFR measurement.

      Design:

      In this prospective single centre cohort study all consecutive patients undergoing FFR are
      eligible for inclusion.

      Active Hypothesis: (1) In comparison to an FFR for all strategy, revascularisation decisions
      made using binary cut-off values of iFR™ or resting Pd/Pa will result in similar levels of
      disagreement.

      Active Hypothesis: (2) In comparison to an FFR for all strategy, revascularisation decisions
      using hybrid strategies incorporating iFR™ or resting Pd/Pa and FFR will result in similar
      levels of disagreement.

      Active Hypothesis (3): Compared to iFR™ measured under resting conditions, hyperaemic iFR™
      has a stronger correlation with FFR. Should this be the case, then the diagnostic efficiency
      of iFR™ can be interpreted as being improved with pharmacological vasodilatation. The null
      hypothesis is that there is no difference in diagnostic efficiency between iFR™ and
      hyperaemic iFR compared to FFR.

      The clinical decisions in the catheter laboratory will align with routine care and be
      informed by all available clinical data and the FFR results.

      This study is being conducted independently in the National Health Service without industry
      support or involvement.

      Sample size: 260 vessels.

      Statistical Analysis: Independent analysis of the completed dataset will be performed by Dr
      John McClure a biostatistician and lecturer in the Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical
      Sciences in Glasgow.

      Methods: We will measure resting indices Pd/Pa and iFR™. Following this we will then measure
      hyperaemic readings including FFR and hyperaemic iFR™ (HiFR) sequentially using peripherally
      administered adenosine. Upon completion of enrollment we will produce summary statistics
      describing demographics and procedural data for the study cases. We will then calculate the
      discriminatory power of iFR™ using both the pre-specified binary cut-off values of 0.90 for
      iFR™ and 0.92 for resting Pd/Pa and the adenosine zones for iFR of 0.86-0.93 and resting
      Pd/Pa of 0.87-0.94. We will also analyse the correlation of HiFR with FFR
    
  