
    
      Background:

      This present study will utilise Stokol's Social Ecological Theory of Health Behaviour as the
      main theoretical framework. This multi-level Ecological theory suggests that an individual's
      behaviour results from a complex interaction between the individual, the environment, and
      community in which they live. Multi-level theories are thought to be more robust and
      explanatory, in comparison to single-level approaches as they are representative of the
      public health approach to population change. Ecological approaches such as Stokol's Social
      Ecological Theory form a robust base to evaluate complex multifactorial behaviours such as
      physical activity. This theory has been used, and is promoted for use, in designing
      community-level health programmes, such as physical activity interventions for different
      ethnic communities. David Howe, a sports anthropologist, will advise the research team with
      the interpretation of the data using this framework.

      Purpose:

      The purpose of this present study is to utilise a mixed-methods design to explore the
      understanding of physical activity and exercise, and factors that contribute to a decision to
      be physically active or sedentary, in patients with CKD from different ethnic backgrounds.
      The investigators intend to measure self-reported physical activity levels with the General
      Practice Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPPAQ) and self-efficacy for exercise (readiness to
      start doing exercise) with Bandura's self-efficacy for exercise scale. The investigators then
      aim to explore perceptions, attitudes and values about physical activity and exercise therapy
      in different ethnic groups. The investigators will ensure that views are captured from
      patients stratified by activity, readiness to be active, age and gender. To accomplish these
      goals, the present study will explore: (i) the understanding of the terms 'physical activity'
      and 'exercise'; (ii) the interpretation of the socio-cultural contexts in which they choose
      (or not) to be physically active, and; (iii) the participants understanding of physical
      activity and exercise opportunities and barriers in their local environment. All
      questionnaires will be translated for non-English speaking participants, and individual and
      focus group discussions will be facilitated with translators.
    
  