
    
      Diabetes, a disease in which the body does not properly produce or use insulin, is the fifth
      leading cause of death among Hispanics in the United States. The risk of comorbid depression
      among diabetics is twice as high as that of the general population, with depression rates
      among diabetic Hispanics as high as 33%. Symptoms of depression include feelings of sadness,
      anxiety, and guilt; lack of energy; changes in appetite; and lack of pleasure in previously
      enjoyed activities. These symptoms can make maintaining good diabetic management and
      self-care regimens difficult. Fortunately, depression is treatable with forms of
      psychotherapy and antidepressant medications. However, depression treatment adherence and
      response rates among the Hispanic population, especially among Hispanics of low
      socio-economic status, are lower than those of the general population. Depression treatment
      that is specifically adapted for the Hispanic culture may be best at helping diabetic
      Hispanics stick to their treatment and self-care plans. This study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of culturally adapted depression treatment for reducing depressive symptoms and
      improving adherence to diabetes self-care regimens in low-income Hispanics with depression
      and diabetes.

      Participation in this study will last 18 months. All participants will first undergo baseline
      assessments that will include a 40-minute interview about personal health and feelings.
      Eligible participants will then be assigned randomly to receive either collaborative
      depression care management or enhanced usual care.

      Participants assigned to receive collaborative depression care management will first be
      provided with information about depression treatment. Participants will then have the option
      of choosing between two depression treatments: counseling or antidepressant medications.
      Participants who choose to receive treatment with counseling will receive eight weekly
      45-minute counseling sessions, conducted either on the phone or at the clinic. During these
      sessions, participants will undergo structured problem solving therapy (PST) and will learn
      strategies to manage their depressive symptoms. Participants who choose to receive treatment
      with antidepressant medication will be prescribed medication by a study doctor and will be
      monitored for any side effects throughout treatment. Medication treatment may last up to 12
      months but will depend upon participants' severity of depression. After completing medication
      treatment, participants will be offered PST counseling. All participants receiving
      collaborative depression care management will also receive supportive patient navigation
      services and maintenance/relapse telephone monitoring.

      Participants assigned to enhanced usual care will receive an educational pamphlet on
      depression and a list of mental health resources in the community. Participants' primary care
      doctors will be free to prescribe antidepressant medication or provide other usual care. All
      participants will undergo follow-up phone interviews about their status at Months 6, 12, and
      18.
    
  