
    
      Human phagocytic cells such as polymorphonuclear leukocytes (neutrophils or PMNs) are readily
      mobilized to sites of infection and ingest microorganisms by a process known as phagocytosis.
      The combined effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antimicrobial peptides released
      into forming bacterial phagosomes kill most ingested bacteria. However, many bacterial
      pathogens have devised means to evade normal phagocyte responses and cause severe disease in
      humans.

      The overall objective of this study is to elucidate specific features of pathogen-phagocyte
      interactions that underlie evasion of the innate immune response or contribute to the
      pathophysiology of disease or inflammatory disorders. Therefore, projects will address 3
      specific aims:

        1. Identify and characterize specific mechanisms used by pathogenic microorganisms to evade
           or subvert normal phagocyte responses and therefore cause disease.

        2. Investigate phagocyte response mechanisms to specific pathogenic microorganisms.

        3. Identify specific bacterial structures and/or (gene) products that dictate differences
           in phagocyte responses among a range of pathogens so that generalized statements can be
           made about the pathophysiology of disease states.

      The studies will be performed using multiple techniques including state-of-the-art equipment
      for genomics and proteomics strategies to identify target bacterial genes/proteins of
      interest or those up-regulated in phagocytes. Phagocyte-pathogen interactions will be
      examined using fluorescence-based real-time assays and video microscopy, confocal and
      electron microscopy in combination with enzymatic assays for ROS production, routine
      biochemistry, immunology and cell biology.

      Implementing these studies will require isolation of phagocytic leukocytes from venous blood
      of healthy human volunteers. The study population will be all-inclusive except in certain
      instances where individuals possess genetic defects that impair phagocyte function (e.g.,
      myeloperoxidase-deficiency) or have altered phagocyte function due to outside influences such
      as recent bacterial or viral infection.

      The proposed studies will likely provide new information pertinent to understanding host
      cell-pathogen interactions and the pathophysiology of inflammatory conditions.
    
  