
    
      The number of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) cases will increase by 250% by 2050,
      directly affecting over 7 million lives. These numbers are specifically for POAG and do not
      include the many who are monitored and treated for elevated intraocular pressure or for
      glaucoma suspect status, which along with POAG can all be considered glaucoma associated
      diseases (GAD). Development of high-quality, accessible, and cost-effective strategies for
      eye care for these individuals is of critical importance. POAG is at least 4-5 times higher
      in African Americans, progresses more rapidly and appears about 10 years earlier as compared
      to those of European descent. This research plan seeks to implement and evaluate a
      telemedicine-based detection and management strategy for GAD and other eye diseases in
      patients seen at Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC's) located in the rural Alabama
      Black Belt Region. This region is characterized by one of the highest concentrations of
      African Americans in the US; high poverty, unemployment, and uninsured rates; inadequate
      educational systems, transportation and community resources; few optometrists who largely
      practice in retail settings; and no ophthalmologists specializing in glaucoma. The
      investigators have developed and tested a novel multimodal telemedicine approach in a prior
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funded Eye Care Quality and Accessibility
      Improvement in the Community (EQUALITY) study that used comprehensive remote optic nerve
      assessment (RONA). This proposal will employ a modification of the EQUALITY approach using
      portable measurement of visual function and optic nerve and retinal structure that are more
      applicable to rural locations with limited resources. The investigators will also identify
      and evaluate remediation strategies for the barriers to patient adherence with referral and
      follow-up appointments by comparing the effectiveness of financial incentives along with a
      validated patient education program versus a validated patient education program alone. Using
      this program within FQHC's will enable expansion nationwide into rural and urban underserved
      locations as these centers provide primary health care services in underserved areas and
      treat more than 27 million people yearly at over 12,000 sites.
    
  