
    
      Diseases affecting the vitreous, retina and choroid are among the commonest causes of
      sight-loss and vision impairment in England and Wales.

      These diseases may display a wide range of pathological features including vitreous, retinal
      and subretinal haemorrhage; macular fluid; choroidal inflammation and choroidal masses.

      The retina is a 'window to the brain' and there is increasing evidence that neurodegenerative
      disorders such as Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinsons Disease and Alzheimers Disease have retinal
      manifestations which may have prognostic implications, afford earlier diagnosis, and
      potentially act as surrogate endpoints for treatment trials.

      In 2012, a further advance in OCT technology was brought to market with the arrival of the
      first commercial available swept-source OCT (SS-OCT) device (the Topcon DRI OCT). SS-OCT
      technology uses a tuneable laser light source with a longer wavelength of light (typically
      1040-1050 nm central wavelength) than the light sources seen in more conventional SD-OCT
      devices. This leads to greater tissue penetration with less backscatter from the RPE,
      producing images of the choroid with greater resolution with fast image acquisition speeds
      (100,000 A scans/s) and longer line scan lengths. The ability to take rapid scans with the
      only commercially available SS-OCT device (the DRI, Tocon Inc. Paramus, NY, USA) also
      enhances image quality by line scan averaging capability.

      The high axial resolution of OCT allows discrimination of the distinct retinal layers that
      are affected differentially in different diseases. More direct visualisation of the
      photoreceptor layer is afforded by use of an Adaptive Optics Scanning Light Ophthalmoscope
      (AOSLO), which provides excellent lateral resolution and allows direct visualisation of the
      cone and rod photoreceptor mosaics in vivo by correcting for ocular aberrations and resulting
      in a lateral comparable with histopathological sections.

      In this study AO images will be correlated with SD- and SS-OCT and used to comprehensively
      assess the integrity of the photoreceptor mosaic. Furthermore AO and OCT will be used to
      measure nerve fibre layer loss and optic disc changes if relevant to the disease.

      The imaging modalities used in this study will be spectral domain optical coherence
      topography (SD-OCT), swept source optical coherence tomography (SS-OCT), and adaptive optics
      scanning light ophthalmoscope (AOSLO)

      The study will examine 300 patients (up to 600 eyes) in a single visit with a further
      Adaptive Optics (AO) imaging taken in a subset of patients (up to 200).

      Patients in whom AO imaging was possible from a technical perspective will be invited back
      for further imaging after 6-12 months (at a standard NHS follow up visit) to probe
      longitudinal changes.

      An examiner will scan the participants study eye(s) on the same day on each of the 3 imaging
      modalities SD-OCT, SS-OCT and AOSLO.

      Finally a questionnaire will be used to explore whether participants preferred one OCT
      imaging modality over the other (SS-OCT vs SD-OCT).
    
  