
    
      Rationale for Research:- Heart failure (HF) is common and lethal. It is the most common
      diagnosis for medical admissions over 60 years of age, carries a >50% 5 year mortality and
      accounts for 1-2% of the total national health care budget. HF with preserved ejection
      fraction (HFPEF) includes over a third of HF cases presenting to New Zealand and Singapore
      Hospitals and has no treatment proven to reduce mortality or recurrent admissions. Renal
      denervation (RDN) has proven efficacy in refractory hypertension and its array of effects
      upon haemodynamic status, neurohumoral activity and renal function make it a rational
      candidate therapy in HFPEF.

      Aims:- The investigators aim to conduct a phase 2 randomized controlled trial of RDN in HFPEF
      to determine effects upon cardiac structure and function, exercise capacity, and quality of
      life.

      Primary Hypothesis: RDN will reduce left atrial volume index (LAVi) and/or left ventricular
      mass index (LVMi) on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI).

      Secondary Hypotheses: RDN will:

        1. improve exercise capacity and functional status.

        2. reduce E/e' and echocardiographic grade of diastolic dysfunction.

        3. reduce circulating biomarkers of cardiac load, interstitial fibrosis and inflammation.

        4. improve ventricular-vascular function.

        5. improve Minnesota Living with Heart Failure (MLWHF) scores.

        6. reduce the composite end-point of death or re-admission with HF.

      Design and Methods:- Renal denervation will be tested as a therapy for HFPEF in a
      multi-centre open, randomized controlled trial of bilateral renal artery denervation compared
      with ongoing medical management. Sample size (n=144) will be sufficient to provide 90% power
      to detect clinically relevant effects on the primary endpoints of change in left atrial
      volume and left ventricular mass over 6 months post-RDN. Secondary end-points will include
      assessment of exercise capacity, ventricular-vascular coupling, biomarkers (of cardiac
      haemodynamic load, fibrosis, inflammation and cardiomyocyte loss), quality of life and
      cardiovascular events.

      Research Impact:- Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFPEF) is common, triggers
      recurrent hospital admissions has a high mortality and carries a high burden of health care
      costs. There is currently no treatment which reduces admissions or improves survival in this
      condition. If efficacy is proven, renal nerve denervation represents a simple,
      cost-effective, one time only, approach that will find rapid uptake potentially for thousands
      of cases.If the current proposal generates positive results (followed by positive phase 3
      trials) the investigators conservatively estimate RDN may reduce both mortality and HF
      admissions in HFPEF by at least 30%.
    
  