
    
      STUDY GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

        1. To find out if sevoflurane induces genomic instability in children undergoing cleft lip
           and palate repair.

        2. To assess the magnitude of genomic damage caused by the sevoflurane anaesthesia.

        3. To evaluate the reversibility of the induced genomic instability when exposure is
           discontinued.

      STUDY DESIGN Type of study : Prospective Comparative Study Research population : All children
      scheduled for surgical repair of cleft lip or palate admitted in the Department of Plastic
      Surgery of our hospital, who satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Sample Size : A total of 30 children will be enrolled for the study. METHODOLOGY Children
      scheduled to undergo surgical repair of cleft lip or palate were enrolled for the study,
      after addressing the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      A peripheral blood sample of 1.5 ml (S-1) will be taken before the induction of anaesthesia
      .All children will be randomly allocated into two groups - group S and P.All children will be
      premedicated with Inj.Glycopyrolate 0.01 mg/kg . Children in group S will be induced with
      sevoflurane, whereas children in group P will be induced with propofol.All children will be
      intubated using I / V Vecuronium 0.1 mg / kg .Analgesia will be provided using I / V Fentanyl
      1.5 mcg / kg. Depth of anaesthesia will be maintained with sevoflurane in group S and with
      propofol infusion in group P. The vitals will be monitored as usual intraop and the children
      will be extubated at the end of the surgery.

      Peripheral blood samples of 1.5 ml each will be taken immediately after extubation (S-2) ,
      after 48 hours (S-3)and after 120 hours (S-4).A fifth blood sample (S-5) will be taken on the
      14th postoperative day All the blood samples will be evaluated for genomic instability using
      Alkaline Comet Assay by the Genetics Lab of our hospital.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      The findings of this study will be analysed using Chi-square test, Student's t-test,
      Mann-Whitney U test, mean and standard deviation to yield the final results. The study will
      be considered statistically significant with a p value of less than 0.05
    
  