
    
      This is a Phase-1 randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled, parallel group 6
      week study to evaluate the effect on the HPA axis of treatment with SKP FlutiForm 250/10 mg
      HFA pMDI twice daily administered over 6 weeks, FlutiForm 100/10 mg HFA pMDI twice daily
      administered over 6 weeks and 10 mg prednisone administered over 7 days compared to placebo.
      All subjects will undergo a Screening Visit to determine eligibility for the study and
      training on pMDI use. Eligible subjects will meet all of the following criteria: at least 6
      month history of asthma, demonstrate an FEV1 of at least ≥ 60 % of predicted normal values at
      both Screening and Baseline visits, and stable asthma without the use of inhaled steroids for
      the past month or oral or parenteral corticosteroids for the past three months. All subjects
      will be admitted to the study site on the morning of Study Day -1 to begin a 24-hour urine
      collection and undergo Baseline trough PK sampling. On the morning of Study Day 1, subjects
      will be randomized to one of four treatment groups: SKP FlutiForm 250/10 mg twice daily +
      placebo capsule for six weeks, SKP FlutiForm 100/10 mg twice daily + placebo capsule for six
      weeks, Placebo inhaler + placebo capsule for six weeks or Placebo inhaler for six weeks +
      placebo capsule for 5 weeks followed by one week of 10 mg prednisone QD. After the first
      dose, subjects will be discharged from the study site to continue dosing at home for 6 weeks.
      Subjects will be required to record their compliance with their twice daily inhaler dosing
      and once daily oral medication dosing in a diary. Subjects will also record their predose
      morning and evening Peak Expiratory Flow Rate (PEFR) in a diary. Clinic visits will occur at
      Study Days 7, 14 and 35 during which safety assessments (AEs and vital signs) will be made,
      trough PK samples will be obtained and pMDI training will be continued. Also, subjects will
      return to the study site in the morning on Study Days 40 to 41 for observed dosing of
      prednisone or placebo. Subjects will be readmitted to the study site in the morning on Study
      Day 42 for trough PK sampling, observed dosing of prednisone or placebo and to begin a
      24-hour urine collection. A safety follow-up phone call will occur 7 days later.
    
  