
    
      Epidemiological evidence suggest that a set of lifetime exposures including educational and
      occupational attainment and leisure activities later in life are associated with more
      preserved cognitive and day-to-day functioning and reduced risk of dementia. However, the
      specific set of activities that can maintain or improve function in late life are relatively
      unexplored. In the current study, we will test the combined efﬁcacy of two such activities:
      cognitive training and aerobic exercise. These activities have been shown to increase
      cognitive function and brain plasticity, respectively. The cognitive intervention that we
      will use is training with the Space Fortress task. This task is aimed at improving cognitive
      control processes that underlie multiple activities and are particularly affected by aging.
      We hypothesize that combining these two interventions will produce synergistic effects that
      will signiﬁcantly improve cognitive and day-to-day function in healthy older adults.

      A total of 90 cognitively-healthy older adults will be recruited and randomly assigned to one
      of three conditions: control video game, control exercise and combined exercise and space
      fortress training. A range of cognitive and day-to-day functioning will be assessed at
      baseline and after three months of training. We will also assess compliance with a home-based
      version of the training program from the end of the 3-month laboratory-based training and the
      effect of this compliance on measures of cognition and day-to-day functioning. We hypothesize
      that the interventions can be sustained over a 1-year period and that larger beneﬁts will be
      observed in participants that adhere to the protocol.

      We also propose two complementary approaches to investigating the neural correlates of the
      beneficial effects of aerobic exercise on cognition: 1) imaging -- we will use a combination
      of structural, metabolic, and cognitive activation fMRI studies to evaluate the neural
      substrates of the effect of aerobic exercise on cognition. 2) important correlates -- we will
      explore the effects of apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype, inflammatory markers and cognitive
      reserve on the cognitive effects of aerobic exercise.
    
  