
    
      Diabetes and its attendant complications are increasing year on year. A number of macro- and
      micro-circulatory changes occur as a result of long standing or poorly controlled diabetes.
      These, often in association with either loss of lower limb sensation, or mechanical changes
      in the foot architecture, can lead to the formation of foot ulcers. These can be hard to heal
      because of the changes in the diabetic foot described above, as well as an increased
      incidence of infection in this population. Invasive or ascending infection through these
      breaks in the skin can lead to tissue loss, which may range from a single toe to major
      amputation below or above the knee. Major limb amputation has a profound effect on patient's
      quality of life, as well as a significant economic impact on the health and social care
      budget. Caring for diabetic foot ulcers, and the complications of this, have a cost of around
      S$1.2 billion per annum, which has become a focus of public health concern in Singapore
      recently.

      The concept of increasing the oxygen concentration in healing wounds developed originally
      with hyperbaric oxygen therapy, and from the fact that oxygen is one of the most essential
      elements used during cellular metabolism. Poor tissue oxygenation, as is often seen in
      diabetic foot ulcers, is a significant impediment to cellular activity, and is therefore very
      likely to impair wound healing.

      The NATROX™ topical oxygen therapy system developed by Inotec AMD Limited employs a small
      battery-powered electrochemical "oxygen generator" to concentrate atmospheric oxygen and feed
      the pure, moist, oxygen at a rate of around 13ml/hour through a fine, soft, tube to a
      dressing-like "oxygen distribution system" that is placed over the wound and is held in place
      by a conventional dressing. The oxygen generator is worn in a holster on the waist or above
      the calf, or is placed in a trouser pocket, thus enabling the patient to enjoy normal
      mobility (hence "ambulatory") while receiving continuous treatment.

      The very significant costs of treatment of diabetic foot ulcers and the impact of amputations
      on quality of life and life expectancy, suggest that Natrox™ treatment is likely to be cost
      effective, a conclusion that was evident from the brief independent health economics study
      linked to the project. To date, no Asian study looking at whether the device is efficacious
      in a multi-racial population like Singapore. The vessels in Asians are generally smaller and
      the micro circulation is generally more diseased than our Caucasian counterparts because of
      the higher incidence of diabetes. This technology could be ideal for such patients and
      improve our limb salvage rates. After revascularization and control of infection, there is
      little alternative if the wound does not heal apart from further wound debridement or major
      amputation. This study may show us which Diabetic Foot Ulcers or wounds are likely to respond
      to topical oxygen and what effect it has on the patient per se in terms of pain relief and
      improvement of quality of life.
    
  