
    
      Parkinson's Disease & Allied Health. Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common
      neurodegenerative disorder affecting more than a million people in the U.S., has no known
      cause or cure. Persons with PD use prescription medications and behavioral interventions to
      alleviate key problems such as walking, handling objects, and speaking. Individuals with PD,
      accessing multidisciplinary allied health care intervention, have shown functional gains.
      Without these ongoing, coordinated services, persons with PD become even more debilitated,
      and this can hasten a decline in their quality of life.

      Parkinson's Disease & Rurality. For those in rural areas, there is a critical health
      disparity. People who live rurally contend with isolation. Wyoming and Nevada's population
      density are ranked 49th and 42nd. In conjunction with this low population density and
      mountainous terrain, individuals experience tremendous burdens including traveling long
      distances to see health care providers with expertise in treating PD. These factors
      contribute to the struggle of rural Americans with PD to manage this complicated, chronic
      disease.

      Parkinson's Disease & Telehealth. Telehealth technology has successfully allowed the delivery
      of neurology care via "virtual house calls" with rural residents with PD. The virtual house
      call model was determined to be feasible and promising for specialist care in underserved
      rural areas. However, telehealth delivery of allied health care should also be examined.

      Thus, the investigators propose an exploratory Phase 2 Behavioral Clinical Trial to determine
      feasibility, safety, and signal of efficacy for telehealth coordinated allied health care for
      persons with Parkinson's disease in rural Wyoming and Nevada. All 20 participants will be in
      one arm receiving telehealth exercise, speech therapy, and medication management for eight
      weeks.

      Specific Aims:

      For persons with Parkinson's disease in rural Wyoming and Nevada, the investigators will:

      Aim 1 Test the feasibility of speech therapy, exercise therapy and medication management
      coordinated through telehealth.

      Aim 2 Determine the safety of the coordinated telehealth speech therapy, exercise therapy,
      and medication management.

      Aim 3 Measure signal of efficacy for telehealth outcomes
    
  