
    
      According to the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, approximately 60 million
      people in the United States are hypertensive. Although no single risk factor is responsible
      for the development of hypertension, some of the many risk factors can be controlled, and
      some cannot. Controllable risk factors include weight gain, smoking, a sedentary lifestyle,
      poor eating habits, emotional stress, physical tension, sodium sensitivity, alcohol abuse,
      and use of oral contraceptives. Uncontrollable risk factors include family history, gender,
      age and race.

      Hypertension is termed the "silent killer" because many patients are asymptomatic. Chronic
      hypertension causes extensive arterial wall damage, which allows cholesterol to adhere to the
      damaged endothelial lining and produces increased cardiac stress. Hypertension dramatically
      increases the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, renal damage, impaired vision, heart
      failure and overall mortality. Angiotensin II receptor blockers are a class of drugs used for
      the treatment of hypertension that not only decrease blood pressure, but also likely
      contribute to protecting hypertensive individuals from cardiac events, strokes and loss of
      renal function.

      Angiotensin II has significant physiological effects on tissues and organs throughout the
      body including vascular smooth muscle, adrenal cortex, kidney, and brain. Angiotensin II
      receptors are located on the plasma membrane of target cells to facilitate the rapid onset of
      angiotensin II. Three distinct subtypes of angiotensin II receptors have been identified:
      angiotensin II type-1 receptor, angiotensin type 2, and angiotensin type 4; and the relative
      proportion of each vary from tissue to tissue. The angiotensin II type-1 receptor subtype is
      expressed predominantly in vascular smooth muscle cells where activation by angiotensin II
      results in vasoconstriction, cell proliferation, fibrosis, and cellular hypertrophy. In
      contrast, angiotensin II type-2 receptor stimulation produces pharmacologic activities that
      are opposite to those that occur after angiotensin II type-1 receptor stimulation. The
      angiotensin II type-4 receptor has been reported to be expressed in the adrenals, brain, and
      myocardium, but its exact function remains unknown. It is not considered to play an important
      role in human pathogenesis.

      TAK-536 (azilsartan) is a synthetic angiotensin II type-1 receptor antagonist being developed
      as a treatment for mild to moderate uncomplicated essential hypertension
    
  