
    
      Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is the most common hereditary bleeding disorder, occurring in
      1-2% of the population. Menorrhagia, or heavy menstrual bleeding, occurs in the majority of
      women with von Willebrand disease (VWD) and adversely affects quality of life. The American
      College of Obstetrics and Gynecology has recommended that women with heavy menstrual bleeding
      have diagnostic testing for VWD. Unfortunately, the diagnosis of VWD in women with
      menorrhagia can be difficult due to fluctuations in hemostatic protein levels during the
      menstrual cycle. The lack of useful coagulation assays has also limited the scope of
      pharmacokinetic studies and comparative clinical trials needed to determine best clinical
      practices in women with VWD.

      Two new assay systems offer a possibility of increased sensitivity to physiologic variations
      in coagulation and fibrinolysis. The calibrated automated thrombin generation assay (TG), an
      estimation of endogenous thrombin potential (ETP), measures generation of thrombin throughout
      the entire process of coagulation and has appears to be very sensitive to small changes in
      levels of coagulation proteins. Thromboelastography (TEG) records clot formation and
      dissolution in whole blood samples providing a good marker for fibrinolysis. We propose that
      TG and TEG will be more sensitive than traditional coagulation assays to detect physiologic
      variations in hemostasis during the menstrual cycle and can accurately diagnose VWD. This is
      a single-institution pilot study to identify trends which are worthy of further exploration
      in a larger multi-institutional study. Our primary objective is to describe characteristics
      of TG and TEG at 4 time points during the menstrual cycle (days 0-3, 7-10, 14-17, and 21-24).
      Our secondary goal is to quantify the effects of VWD on TG and TEG at the same time points
      during the menstrual cycle and compare these to traditional coagulation assays.

      This will be a single-institution pilot study of a total of 40 subjects: 20 healthy women and
      20 women with VWD. Subjects must be female between the ages of 18 and 50 years, have regular
      menstrual periods, and not be pregnant. Women who are taking hormonal therapy,
      anti-fibrinolytic therapy, hemostatic agents or anti-platelet agents, will not be eligible
      for participation. Subjects will be given tampons and/or pads to use during one menstrual
      cycle. Study participation will involve a brief interview, completion of a questionnaire and
      a pictorial chart of one menstrual cycle, and having blood drawn at 4 time points during one
      menstrual cycle. Blood samples will be collected for TG and TEG and standard assays of
      coagulation and fibrinolysis. TG and TEG measurements will be compared to standard measures
      of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and platelet activation markers. Serum from the visit on day
      21-24 will be tested for progesterone and Bhcg to confirm ovulation and exclude pregnancy.
      All assays will be performed at the Gulf States Hemophilia & Thrombophilia coagulation
      laboratory.

      This study will result in an improved capability to diagnose women with VWD during the
      menstrual cycle. These new assays may be useful in the rational design of therapeutic agents
      and clinical trials. In addition, the physiologic basis of variations in coagulation during
      the menstrual cycle can be explored in future studies using this assay system.
    
  