
    
      Subjects in this study included premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea.

      Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is the sum of a group of symptoms (including physical and
      psychological symptoms) that occurs during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. Women who
      have such symptoms have been estimated as high as 75%; of which 3% to 8% are severe symptoms,
      called premenstrual dysphoric disorder (premenstrual dysphoric syndrome, PMDD). The two
      groups are very similar. Premenstrual syndrome is mostly for physical discomfort, while
      premenstrual dysphoric syndrome is for emotional problems, affecting women's sleep seriously.

      Dysmenorrhea is a sort of period pelvic pain, caused by blood flow decrease abruptly and
      ischemia due to frequent contraction of the uterus. Many females afflicted with dysmenorrhea
      to different extents; some suffered from depression, reduced the quality of life; others even
      need to withdraw from work or school for incapable of daily activity. Thus, dysmenorrhea
      causes a lot of health burden and worth our attention. The prevalence of dysmenorrhea is up
      to 50 %. Generally speaking, primary dysmenorrhea is a menstrual pain in the absence of
      pelvic pathology while secondary dysmenorrhea is caused by organic dysfunction such as
      endometriosis, uterus malformation, cervix structure, pelvic inflammation, etc.

      In clinical practice, gynecologists apply analgesic such as Non-steroidal Anti- inflammatory
      Drugs (NSAIDs), and oral contraceptive pills (OCT) or progestin as conventional therapy for
      premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea. As NSAIDs may cause gastrointestinal discomfort,
      dyspepsia while hormone therapy leads to other concerns; some women now adopt acupuncture as
      an alternative therapy for its safety. However, many parameters affect the efficacy of
      acupuncture, such as the sorts of acupoints (of which meridians) or the numbers of acupoints;
      and proper evidence-based medicine on this issue is few. According to the theory of
      Traditional Chinese Medicine, acupuncture regulates meridians' energy and coordinates
      yin/yang while the western medicine reveals that the mechanism of pain-control of acupuncture
      is relevant to the theory of neurophysiology and some neuropeptide releasing, such as
      endorphin. Additionally, in our previous study, we noted that the theory of yin/yang
      (meridian) is compatible with autonomic nerve theory. Since many symptoms women with
      Premenstrual Syndrome and dysmenorrhea suffered, such as poor sleep, anxiety, convulsion of
      the uterine muscle, are related to autonomic nerve dysfunction, we are intrigued to know
      whether or not the effect of acupuncture relates to adjusting autonomic nerve system.
      Therefore, in this study, we aim to evaluate 1. The different impact of acupuncture and
      conventional therapy in premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea women ; 2. Will the character
      (of which meridians) or numbers of acupoints be affecting factors of efficacy in treating
      premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea? 3. Shall there be any relationship between the
      acupuncture and autonomic nerve activity adjustment in premenstrual syndrome and
      dysmenorrhea? 4. Shall there be any relationship between the acupuncture and TCM syndrome
      adjustment in premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea? We expect through this
      multidisciplinary study; we can coordinate not only the different viewpoints of both Chinese
      and western medicine but also verify the compatibility of the theory of yin/yang and
      autonomic nerve (parasympathetic/sympathetic). We look forward the study can not only be a
      reference for further evidence-based research but also by reconciling different perspectives
      of Chinese and western medicine, we can, in turn, promote the cross-talk of Chinese and
      Western medicine in practical and academic aspects.
    
  