
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of adjuvant doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and docetaxel given
           concurrently vs adjuvant doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel, in
           terms of overall survival and disease-free survival, of women with breast cancer and
           positive axillary lymph nodes.

        -  Compare the efficacy of adjuvant doxorubicin and docetaxel vs regimens containing
           cyclophosphamide in these patients.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens. (Quality of life
           substudy closed to accrual as of 7/20/01.)

        -  Compare the differences in amenorrhea in premenopausal women in each treatment arm and
           its relationship to symptoms, quality of life (quality of life substudy closed to
           accrual as of 7/20/01), disease-free survival, and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, number of positive nodes (1-3 vs 4-9 vs at least 10), sequential
      tamoxifen or anastrozole administration (yes vs no), and type of prior surgery and
      radiotherapy plan (mastectomy with no local or regional radiotherapy vs mastectomy with local
      and/or regional radiotherapy vs lumpectomy with local radiotherapy vs lumpectomy with local
      and regional radiotherapy). Patients are randomized to one of three treatment arms.

        -  Arm 1: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30
           minutes every 21 days for 4 courses. Three weeks after the last dose of this
           combination, patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour every 21 days for 4 courses.

        -  Arm 2: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes and docetaxel IV over 1 hour
           every 21 days for 4 courses.

        -  Arm 3: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV over 30
           minutes, and docetaxel IV over 1 hour every 21 days for 4 courses.

      Patients in all arms who are estrogen receptor-positive and/or progesterone receptor-positive
      receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years beginning within 3-12 weeks of completion of
      chemotherapy. Patients who are postmenopausal may receive alternative hormonal therapy at the
      discretion of the treating physician.

      Some patients may receive postmastectomy radiotherapy on SWOG-S9927 or NCIC-MA.20 after
      recovery from chemotherapy.

      Quality of life and menstrual history are assessed before randomization, on day 1 of course
      4, and at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. (Quality of life substudy closed to accrual as of
      7/20/01.)

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 5,300 patients will be accrued for this study within 4-5 years.
    
  