
    
      The wide uptake of "liquid biopsy" diagnostics in the care of advanced cancer patients
      highlights the desire for improved access to tumor allowing accurate tumor genotyping (1).
      Genotyping of plasma cfDNA is now routine for detection of EGFR driver mutations at diagnosis
      of NSCLC, or for detection of the EGFR T790M mutation after TKI resistance, and is an
      emerging approach for the detection of other drivers (HER2 or BRAF mutations, ALK or ROS1
      fusions…) (2) or the estimation of tumor mutation burden (TMB) (3). However, the most
      sensitive plasma genotyping platforms still have a sensitivity of only 70%-80%, such that a
      negative result requires tissue biopsy confirmation. This poses a clinical challenge because
      negative plasma genotyping is correlated with more limited metastatic spread and lower tumor
      burden, such that biopsy of these patients may be even more challenging. Because invasive
      biopsy remains an integral part of the diagnostic strategy, methods are needed for maximizing
      the yield from these biopsy procedures.

      There is a current paradox between the need for large amounts of tissue for multiplex
      analysis of an increasing number of targetable drivers and markers of response to immune
      therapy (PD-L1, TMB) and the development of minimally invasive biopsy procedures that results
      in limited specimens. Up to 25% of patients are thus treated without knowledge of the
      molecular profile of their tumor (4). In particular, 20% of endobronchial ultrasonography
      transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) are rejected from genotyping due to lack of
      tissue (5) after time and tissue consuming diagnostics steps that are sometimes not required
      (resistance setting). Circulating tumor DNA is an emerging approach for cancer genotyping but
      sensitivity is limited to 70-80% (6) by inconsistent tumor shed and low DNA concentrations,
      so that tissue biopsy is still routine. Also, feasibility of TMB assessment on tissue is only
      60% (likely much less on EBUS-TBNA specimens) (7) and approximately 80% in plasma (blood TMB,
      bTMB) (3).

      The presence of cfDNA in several biological fluids and the feasibility of detecting mutations
      of interest (usually targeting only EGFR) in these fluids (urine, pleural fluid, CSF) have
      been clearly demonstrated (8-12), while blood is the most widely studied liquid biopsy
      substrate in advanced NSCLC.

      Furthermore, we showed in a proof of concept study, investigating various FNA specimens in a
      limited numbers of patients that cytology samples' supernatant (usually discarded) is a rich
      source of DNA. Our results suggest that supernatant free DNA (sfDNA) can be used for baseline
      and resistance genotyping (13).
    
  