
    
      The recovery of hand and arm function is of critical importance for decreasing long-term care
      costs and increasing quality of life for individuals with tetraplegia due to spinal cord
      injury (SCI). A subset of these individuals, with injuries in the mid to low cervical spinal
      cord, are candidates for nerve transfer surgery. Nerve transfer surgery restores function
      after SCI through coaptation of redundant, intact donor nerves to recipient nerves arising at
      or below the level of SCI. The use of nerve transfer after SCI is relatively novel and many
      patients exhibit a remarkable recovery of hand and arm motor function in the months that
      follow, however others show a much more limited recovery. The extent of recovery is likely
      limited, in part, by variability in rehabilitation and the ability of the motor cortex to
      incorporate the new peripheral circuitry resulting from this surgical procedure. There is a
      critical need to determine the response of cortical motor networks to nerve transfer and the
      role that rehabilitation plays in supporting cortical plasticity and motor recovery. If this
      need is not met, incomplete recovery from this state-of-the-art surgical intervention will
      persist and the potential application to a wider patient population will not be realized.

      The investigators will test the central hypothesis that nerve transfer surgery after cervical
      SCI creates a novel cortical motor network, which can support the return of dexterous
      hand/forelimb function through rehabilitation-dependent remodeling. The hypothesis has been
      based upon 1) previous work in an animal model showing that rehabilitation reshapes cortical
      motor maps, 2) the pioneering work of a handful of clinicians, including the study
      collaborator, Justin Brown, that have applied nerve transfer to bypass spinal levels affected
      by injury, and 3) recent work using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in human SCI to
      map the cortical representation of arm muscles in the zone of partial preservation, and the
      ability to improve hand-arm function through intensive robotic training in chronically
      impaired subjects. The use of TMS to map cortical motor networks will allow the investigators
      to measure the cortical reorganization resulting from nerve transfer and determine the extent
      to which rehabilitation can engage this alternative cortical motor network. The rationale for
      the proposed studies is that a determination of the mechanisms that support
      rehabilitation-mediated recovery after nerve transfer will be required for optimizing and
      refining current clinical practice.
    
  