
    
      Smoking and other forms of tobacco consumption are considered the single most important cause
      of preventable morbidity and premature mortality worldwide, with tobacco the major single
      cause for premature deaths in the European Union (EU).Efforts to reduce the devastation of
      tobacco-related deaths and illness in the EU consist of its newly adopted binding
      legislation, the Tobacco Products Directive (TPD), and the ongoing implementation of the WHO
      Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC).

      Objective:

      The main objective of EUREST-PLUS is to monitor and evaluate the psychosocial and behavioral
      impact of the TPD within the context of FCTC ratification at a European level, through the
      creation of a cohort study of adult smokers in 6 EU MS (Germany, Greece, Hungary, Poland,
      Romania, Spain; total n=6000) in a pre- vs. post-TPD study design. The baseline recruitment
      will take place in WP2 and the follow up in WP3.

      Sampling frames:

        -  The sampling frame will be determined through a national probability sampling design
           within each country.

        -  Sample stratification will be geographic and comprise the major regions of each country
           (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics - NUTS) NUTS2 (Basic regions for the
           application of regional policies) will be used for all countries except Germany - where
           NUTS1 (Major socio-economic regions) will be used, as well as degrees of urbanization
           (city/town/rural.)

        -  Geographic areas excluded from the sampling design will be: In Greece, the islands in
           the Ionian Sea, the northern Aegean Sea and the southern Aegean Sea. In Spain the
           Canaries, Ceuta and Melilla

        -  Overall the design will be multistage within strata. The strata will be conceptually
           divided into clusters, each the size of an enumeration area, with the objective of
           sampling a total of 250 clusters - 4 adult smokers per cluster in every country.

        -  Clusters will be allocated based on population size and sampled via random sampling.

      Sampling households within clusters:

        -  Interviewers will employ a random walk procedure within a particular cluster

        -  Once interviewers have arrived at an address, the household will be approached four
           times at different times of the day and week before being designated as "unable to be
           contacted."

        -  If an address corresponds to multiple households, a single household will be chosen at
           random.

        -  Households are approached until a total of 4 adult smokers have been reached within the
           cluster. A maximum of one male smoker and one female smoker will be selected for
           interview in each household.

        -  One male and one female from within the household that meet the criteria will be
           selected using the last birthday method

      Respondents:

        -  The respondents for the Survey will be smokers aged 18 and older. The first part of the
           survey, which is the household screener, contains the questions that are used to
           determine whether the household has members that meet the criteria for inclusion.

             -  The household screener is asked of the most knowledgeable individual (MKI) within
                the household.

             -  One male and one female from within the household that meet the criteria will be
                selected using the last birthday method.

        -  The Individual screener follows the Household screener and confirms the information from
           the MKI is accurate. If the selected individual meets the eligibility criteria and
           consents to participate, they will be included in the sample

      Survey (questionnaire):

      The questionnaire will include questions not only about tobacco use, history of use, history
      of quitting, quit method(s) used, measures of dependence, and demographics (age, gender,
      education, income) but also extensive, theory-based measures of responsiveness to each policy
      domain of the FCTC. The survey questionnaire will consist of:

        1. multiple measures of policy-specific variables for each of the domains of the TPD and
           FCTC (e.g., health warnings, additives, e-cigarettes for TPD, illicit trade; additional
           domains of the FCTC, including smoke-free laws, tax/price policies, cessation services,
           additional product regulation domains);

        2. psychosocial mediators, identified by past research and theory to predict future health
           behaviours, including beliefs and attitudes, perceived risk, intentions to quit;

        3. moderators such as demographic variables (sex, gender), and other variables that will
           allow analyses of whether TPD and FCTC policies vary in their impact as a function of
           socioeconomical status.
    
  