
    
      The existing dogma is that patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to
      treat their HIV infection must take at least 95% of prescribed doses in order to maintain
      full suppression of viral replication. This belief is largely based on a single study that
      was performed between 1997 and 1999 (Ann Int Med 2000;133:21-30). The vast majority of
      patients in this study were receiving regimens based on either indinavir, nelfinavir,
      ritonavir, or saquinavir. All of these agents have relatively short half-lives, and therefore
      must be taken on time two or three times per day. Newer medications such as
      lopinavir/ritonavir (Kaletra) feature much more favorable pharmacokinetic profiles. On the
      basis of improved pharmacokinetics, there is reason to believe that regimens built around
      such agents may be more forgiving of missed medication doses.

      This study aims to enroll 90 patients from the MMC I.D. Clinic who are either receiving or
      are about to receive Kaletra. Patients who agree to participate will be furnished with a MEMS
      cap, a bottle cap that electronically records each time that the bottle is opened and stores
      the data for computer download, and will undergo electronic monitoring of their Kaletra
      adherence for a period of siz months. Adherence data will not be reviewed during the study,
      but at study end (and at interim time points), the investigators will analyze the MEMS cap
      data from patients who have completed the study in order to determine the threshold value of
      adherence necessary to achieve satisfactory rates (i.e. 70-80%) of complete virologic
      suppression.

      An additional aim of the study is to collect specimens from patients receiving Kaletra based
      regimens who experience virologic failure and to archive them for possible studies of
      genotypic and phenotypic resistance in the future.
    
  