
    
      Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) comprise a variety of disorders that result from the
      continuous activation of the immunoinflammatory cascade, whose etiology has not been defined
      in some cases. Classical IBD include Crohn's disease (CD), ulcerative colitis (UC), and
      indeterminate colitis. These diseases are chronic and are characterized by alternating
      periods of recurrence and remission.

      The European Society of Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (ESPEN) defined malnutrition as a
      state resulting from lack of uptake or intake of nutrition leading to altered body
      composition (decreased fat-free mass and body cell mass), resulting in diminished physical
      and mental function and impaired clinical outcome from disease.

      The prevalence of Malnutrition in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is very
      high. it presents in up to 70% of patients with active disease and up to 38% in patients with
      remission.

      Several factors contribute to the malnutrition in IBD including insufficient nutrient intake
      as a consequence of impaired appetite (anorexia, stomachache), short bowel syndrome, impaired
      nutrient absorption (diarrhea, villus atrophy, bowel resection, intestinal flora overgrowth),
      increased nutrient losses (bleeding, fistulae), and food-drug interaction.

      Malnutrition in IBD has been associated with several adverse clinical outcomes. IBD patients
      with nutritional deficiencies may present with higher mortality rate, length of stay in the
      hospital, infectious rate, and even thromboembolic events than those without nutritional
      deficiencies. Furthermore, undernutrition in patients with postoperative conditions has been
      associated with increased complications such as anastomotic leakage and breakdown, infection
      including sepsis and pneumonia, prolonged hospitalization, and increased mortality.

      IBD is clearly associated with intestinal dysbiosis. Changes in the microbiome have a pivotal
      role in determining the onset of the pathology, when the genetic background of the individual
      makes him/her predisposed and other concomitant environmental factors intervene. Results of
      studies aimed at characterizing the microbiota of patients suffering from IBD, even sometimes
      with checkered results, indicate a generalized decrease in biodiversity, measured by an
      appropriate parameter-alpha-as well as a reduction in specific taxa including Firmicutes and
      Bacteroidetes, Lactobacillus and Eubacterium. IBD patients also present a reduction in
      species producing butyrate, a short chain fatty acid positively modulating intestinal
      homeostasis and reducing inflammation.

      Regarding environmental factors, accumulating data have proven that various nutritional
      components in diet can play a significant role in the development and clinical course of IBD.
      Dietary nutrients alter the composition of the gut microbiota and intestinal permeability,
      influencing the interaction between the host and gut microbiota.

      The Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) is a nutritional model inspired by the traditional dietary
      pattern of some of the countries of the Mediterranean basin. Mediterranean dietary pattern
      (MDP) gather the following characteristics: abundant consumption of olive oil and high
      consumption of fruits, vegetables, cereals (preferably as whole grain), legumes, nuts and
      seeds. The MDP also includes moderate consumption of fish and shellfish, white meat, eggs,
      and fermented dairy products (cheese and yogurt), as well as relatively small amounts of red
      meat, processed meats, and foods rich in sugars. Frequent but moderate intake of wine,
      especially red wine with meals is also recommended.

      Results from clinical and translational research on the Mediterranean diet point to its
      possible meaningful use in managing IBD, and thus additional studies could have the potential
      to add further insights to the field. Concerning published data, it was observed that 153
      Italian healthy subjects were investigated for their dietary habits and their gut microbiota
      was assessed, and high-level adherence to a Mediterranean diet was found to beneficially
      impact the gut microbiota and associated metabolome. These studies provided the first
      concrete evidence for the interconnection between Mediterranean dietary patterns, gut
      microbiota and microbial metabolites as they observed that the consumption of fruit,
      vegetables and legumes by subjects with satisfactory adherence to the Mediterranean diet was
      associated with an increase in fecal SCFA levels, an effect that was likely boosted by
      bacteria belonging to both the Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes capable of degrading
      carbohydrates not digestible by the host. When eight adult patients suffering from CD
      followed the Mediterranean diet for 6 weeks, their transcriptome analysis showed a change in
      expression of more than 3000 genes; changes in the intestinal microbiota, although not
      significant, showed a trend towards normalization with an increase in the expression of
      Bacteroidetes (17.89% to 18.74%), Clostridium cluster IV (19.2% to 21.86%) and Clostridium
      cluster XIVa (26.78% to 28.79%) and a decrease in the abundance of Proteobacteria (5.93% to
      5.48%) and Bacillaceae (4.65% to 4.21%).
    
  