
    
      Serum cholesterol is transported by lipoproteins, such as VLDL, LDL and HDL, which vary in
      their relationship to cardiovascular disease risk. LDL, for example, is proatherogenic,
      whereas HDL is cardio-protective. Palmitoleic acid (cis-C16:1 n-7), an omega-7 fatty acid
      with 16 carbons in length with a single double bound in the n-7 position, have been shown in
      mice and human to decrease proatherogenic lipoproteins, such as LDL, and reduce
      cardiovascular risk factors. This study will test the hypothesis that palmitoleate
      supplementation in humans will favorably alter the lipoprotein lipid profile in regard to
      cardiovascular disease risk. We will also assess other parameters related to lipoprotein
      composition and function, as well as other biomarkers related to coagulation and
      inflammation, which have previously been shown to be possibly affected by supplementation
      with omega-7 fatty acid. In addition, previous animal studies have indicated the palmitoleate
      induced satiety and suppressed bodyweight gain, possibly through enhancement of the release
      of satiety hormones. In this clinical trial, we, therefore will also examine the effect of
      concentrated palmitoleate on satiety.

      This clinical research project is designed as a pilot, randomized, double-blinded, crossover
      study that will investigate the effect of concentrated oil enriched with palmitoleate on
      lipoprotein metabolism and satiety. Subjects will either receive control olive oil enriched
      in oleic acid, a longer-chain monounsaturated fatty acid (cis-C18:1 n-9), or a concentrate
      oil supplement produced from pollock fish (rich in palmitoleate) for approximately 8-10
      weeks, with a wash out period of 8-10 weeks between the two arms of the study. The study
      consists of 4 outpatient visits when laboratory or research samples and CAVI tests will be
      performed. A 7-day food diary, pill count, and red cell membrane fatty acid levels will be
      monitored to assess compliance. The effect of the supplement on satiety will be assessed at
      each visit.
    
  