
    
      Eligible patients undergoing a diagnostic laparoscopy for suspected appendicitis will be
      randomized to receive placebo or 8 mg dexamethasone intravenously minimum 30 minutes prior to
      the operation.

      Randomization will be done by envelope randomization. We would expect that 60% of the
      patients would experience postoperative nausea or vomiting (PONV) during the first 24-32
      hours postoperatively. To show a 50% reduction in the incidents of PONV during the first
      24-32 hours postoperatively (with a power of 80%, a significant level of 5% and a loss to
      follow up of 20%) we need 60 patients in each arm. So a total of 120 patients are to be
      randomized 1:1.

      Both sites use paper Case Report Forms (CRF). The trial will be monitored by the regional GCP
      (Good Clinical Practice) unit and adhere to GCP guidelines.

      Patients are assessed by self reporting questionnaires preoperatively and postoperatively
      after 2-10 hours, 8-16 hours, 24-32 hours, on postoperative day (POD) 2, POD 3, POD 7, POD 14
      and POD 30.

      Preoperative anxiety recorded by a VAS scale, Pain Catastrophizing Scale and Hospital anxiety
      and depression scale are recorded by the preoperative questionnaire.

      A short telephone interview will be done during the first postoperative day regarding
      duration of abdominal pain prior to admission, social status regarding children and whether
      they living with another adult, smoking status, use of sleep medication or use of
      psychopharmacy a minimum of 7 days prior to the operation, physical level of normal daily
      activities, physical level of work, educational and occupational background.

      Other demographics such as height, weight, ASA class, age, last CRP prior to the operation,
      duration of the operation, date and time of admission, date and time of discharge are
      registered through the electronic patient record files. Pathology of any removed tissue are
      registered trough the pathology report.

      Diagnosis at the operation, preformed procedure, whether the preforming surgeon was
      supervised, number of identical procedures preformed previous by the surgeon or the surgeons
      supervisor (if supervised) will be recorded in the patients CRF by the preforming surgeon.

      Pre-, intra- and post-operative pain medication, antiemetics and antibiotics are recorded
      through the electronic patient medication files.

      Postoperative complications and adverse events are recorded through the electronic patient
      record files and by telephone interview.

      To ensure a high completion rate, patients are contacted by telephone at each registration
      time postoperatively.

      Parametric or non-parametric statistical analysis will be used when appropriate.
    
  