
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The epidemiology and common risk factors for cerebrovascular disease have been well
      documented by cross-sectional and longitudinal population surveys. These studies have
      generally involved unrelated individuals with little information on family history. Despite a
      significant role in cardiovascular risk, few studies have investigated familial contributions
      to stroke risk, and its importance was unknown. Recognition of the importance of hereditary
      influences on vascular disease of the heart has contributed, in large part, to the current
      emphasis on the molecular biology of vascular disease and a more balanced view that
      recognized both genetic and environmental influences on coronary artery disease. Twin studies
      represented a simple and uniquely powerful tool for analyzing genetic and environmental
      contributions to complex human phenotypes. Studies of cardiovascular risk have shown the
      importance of heritable factors, and it was hypothesized that similar genetic factors played
      a role in development of stroke.

      With improved understanding of stroke risk factors (both genetic and environmental), early
      prevention measures can begin in high risk groups as early as childhood, an approach already
      applied to cardiovascular disease. Demonstration of a significant heritable risk for stroke
      should also prompt and help direct, further investigation into the molecular mechanisms of
      the genetic influences on stroke and may identify new approaches for stroke prevention and
      treatment, as it has for cardiovascular disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The twins have been surveyed periodically over the past two decades, most recently in 1985.
      Information obtained included questions on vascular risk factors, myocardial disease, and
      stroke. An analysis was made on an estimation of heritable risk. A comparison was made
      between monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ) twins. If genes influenced the prevalence of
      stroke, there should have been more MZ twin pairs with stroke. Measures of concordance and
      heritability were used to estimate the size of the genetic contribution. Secondary analyses
      focussed on compound risk factors (e.g. hypertension and diabetes), less well documented risk
      factors (e.g. diet and personality), and the heritability of individual stroke risk factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  