
    
      Computer-assisted cognitive-behavior therapy (CCBT) for depression in primary care will be
      evaluated in a trial with 320 patients randomly assigned to CCBT or treatment as usual (TAU).
      The study will disseminate a therapy method found to be effective in psychiatric settings
      into primary care - a setting where there have been significant problems in delivery of
      adequate, evidence-based treatment for depression. The study will include a high percentage
      of disadvantaged patients - a population that has been largely ignored in previous research
      in CCBT. There have been no previous studies of CCBT for depression in primary care that have
      enrolled large numbers of disadvantaged patients. The form of CCBT used in this study is
      designed to increase access to effective therapy, provide a cost-effective method, and be a
      sustainable model for wide-spread use in primary care.

      In order to deliver therapy in a practical manner that can be replicated in other primary
      care practices, patients with significant symptoms of depression will receive treatment with
      an empirically supported computer program that builds cognitive-behavior therapy skills.
      Support for CCBT will be provided by telephone and/or e-mail contact with a care coordinator
      instead of the face-to-face treatment with a cognitive-behavior therapist that has been a
      part of CCBT delivery in mental health settings. Novel features of this treatment program
      include: 1) fully detailed and replicable method for integrating clinician support with CCBT
      in primary care; 2) delivery of CCBT to a population with high percentage of disadvantaged
      patients; 3) integration of CCBT into the primary care delivery model; 4) highly interactive,
      multimedia computer program with adaptations for persons who may have lower levels of
      education or computer experience; 5) advanced cost-benefit analysis including data on actual
      health care utilization and costs; 6) exploration of moderators and predictors of treatment
      outcome.

      Outcome will be assessed by measuring CCBT completion rate, comprehension of CBT concepts,
      and satisfaction with treatment; in addition to ratings of depressive symptoms, negative
      thoughts, and quality of life. The cost-effectiveness analysis and exploration of possible
      predictors of outcome should help clinicians, health care organizations, and others plan
      further dissemination of CCBT in primary care.
    
  