
    
      Patients diagnosed with chronic advanced liver disease awaiting orthotopic liver
      transplantation will be eligible to take part in this study.

      Patients excluded from the study will be those younger than 18 years, those receiving a
      multiorgan transplant or retransplant, or patients with a previous allergy to
      bisphosphonates. Previous treatment with fluoride, estrogens, selective estrogen receptor
      modulators or bisphosphonates will be another reason for exclusion, as well as therapy with
      glucocorticoids during the last 6 months before transplantation. None of the patients will
      have a previous history of disorders, other than liver disease, known to affect bone
      metabolism.

      Study Design and Conduct

      The study will be a 1-year prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial
      conducted at 10 centers in Spain.

      Immunosuppression

      All patients will receive microemulsion cyclosporine A (CsA) as primary immunosuppressive
      agent, in combination with glucocorticoids. Additionally, mycophenolate mofetil will be
      associated according to the usual clinical practice of each center. In all cases,
      glucocorticoids will be progressively tapered during the first year.

      Intervention

      Patients will receive oral calcium (500 mg twice daily) and oral 25-hydroxy vitamin D (16000
      UI every 15 days), after informed consent for the study will be obtained and exploratory
      screening will be done. Within days 7-12 after engraftment, the recruited transplanted
      patients (will be randomized to either the experimental or placebo group. Patients of the
      treatment group will receive a single dose of 90 mg disodium pamidronate within days 7-12 and
      at 3 months after liver transplantation, diluted in 500 ml of 5% glucose serum and
      administered as a 4-hour continuous intravenous infusion. Patients of the placebo group will
      receive 500 ml of 5% glucoside serum infusions. Treatment with oral calcium and vitamin D
      will be maintained for 1 year after transplantation.

      Study Endpoints

      The primary endpoints of the study will be changes in bone mineral density (BMD), quantified
      by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and safety of pamidronate by recording adverse
      events. Secondary endpoints will include the incidence of skeletal fractures, by assessment
      of radiological vertebral fractures (symptomatic and asymptomatic), and the development of
      nonvertebral fractures.

      Evaluation

      Five study visits will be scheduled: before transplantation, within day 7-12 after liver
      transplantation and at 3, 6 and 12 months after liver transplantation.
    
  