
    
      Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) due to placenta previa is usually from the placental bed at the
      lower uterine segment and it occurs after the placenta separation.

      Despite placenta previa can be diagnosed by obstetrician before delivery nowadays, still a
      leading etiology of maternal mortality and morbidity.

      Placenta previa is an obstetric condition that is closely linked with massive obstetric
      hemorrhage. Is not only associated with increased chance of requiring massive transfusion (>
      3 units of packed red blood cells) but also a is now the leading etiology of the cesarean
      hysterectomies. The incidence has progressively risen worldwide, mainly due to the increasing
      rates of cesarean section.

      Uterine tamponade can be considered as a line of treatment before performing surgical
      procedures in PPH resulting from the placental site bleeding. It can save the life, avoid
      laparotomy and preserve fertility.

      Nowadays, the use of intrauterine balloons has been developed and become effective for the
      control of placental site bleeding not responding to medical treatment.

      The 2-way Foley's catheter has many advantages over the gauze packing; first, it allows
      drainage of blood, so no occult bleeding could be accumulated inside the uterus as in uterine
      gauze, second the removal of the Foley's catheter balloon is easy and not painful, third, the
      removal of 2-way Foley's catheter could be gradual as a test of its effectiveness before
      complete removal.

      Bakri intrauterine balloon tamponade is used for the treatment of obstetric hemorrhage during
      cesarean delivery and many recent reports had described the successful use of balloon
      tamponade to manage hemorrhage due to placenta previa- with an overall success rate of 80%.
      However; its price is high so in our country, its availability and use are difficult.

      So, the aims of this study to assess the effect of A glove-loaded Foley's catheter tamponade
      versus stepwise uterine devascularization on blood loss during cesarean section (CS) in
      patients with complete placenta previa.

      The study will be single blinded randomized controlled trial carried out in a tertiary
      University Hospital between June 2018to June 2021. The included patients will be scheduled
      for CS due to complete placenta previa. They will be randomly allocated to the group (I)
      managed by stepwise uterine devascularization, group (II) managed by A glove-loaded Foley's
      catheter tamponade. The primary outcome will be the amount of intraoperative estimated blood
      loss.
    
  