
    
      Conventional immediate-release forms of hydromorphone and oxycodone have a relatively short
      duration of action that require dosing every 4 to 6 hours. To counterbalance the drawback of
      repeated opioid intake, sustained-release formulations of oxycodone and hydromorphone were
      developed that allow twice-daily dosing. Subsequently, a novel, once-daily, extended-release
      hydromorphone formulation was developed to further enhance ease of treatment and improve
      effectiveness in the treatment of severe pain. This is a randomized, open-label, comparative,
      parallel-group, 24-week flexible-dose study in patients with chronic noncancer pain severe
      enough to require continuous opioid therapy. Patients will receive either 8 mg of
      sustained-release hydromorphone, taken once daily or 10 mg of controlled-release oxycodone,
      taken twice daily. Individual adjustments in dosing will be performed to achieve satisfactory
      pain control, up to a maximum daily dosage of 32 mg for hydromorphone and 80 mg for
      oxycodone. The primary efficacy outcome will be the determination of the dose of
      hydromorphone that produces a level of pain control that is equal to the pain control
      provided by oxycodone (equi-analgesic dose). Safety will be monitored throughout the study.
      The study hypothesis is that sustained-release hydromorphone taken once daily is well
      tolerated and is not inferior with regard to pain control to controlled-release oxycodone
      taken twice daily.

      Amendment:

      Amendment was made to the duration of the study from duration of '24 weeks' to '52 weeks' in
      order to collect long-term safety and efficacy data. OROS hydromorphone 8, 16, or 32 mg
      tablets QD or SR oxycodone 10, 20, or 40 mg tablets BID. Individual adjustments in dosing
      performed to achieve satisfactory pain control over 24 weeks. Amendment: treatment duration
      was extended to 52 weeks.
    
  