
    
      Main objective: To determine the safety of Radiosurgical Neuromodulation (RSN) for Refractory
      Depression using X-rays in a population of subjects with severe treatment resistant bipolar
      depression over a 12-month observational period post treatment. While almost any
      radiosurgical device could be used, the research team has extensive experience with the
      Accuray CyberKnife System, K011024, and it will be used for planning and delivery of the 6
      megavolt (MV) X-ray treatment for this study.

      Participation will be dependent upon subjects having a diagnosis of bipolar depression and
      meeting criteria for treatment resistance. Treatment resistance will be defined as a failure
      to show clinical improvement after at least four different medication trials and/or one
      course of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) during the current episode. A medication trial is
      defined as an adequate dose and duration of one of four classes of psychoactive medications:
      lithium, anticonvulsant mood stabilizers, atypical antipsychotic mood stabilizers, and/or
      antidepressant medications. One course of ECT is defined as receiving six acute treatments.
      The study will include subjects who have failed ECT, or have had intolerable side effects to
      ECT, or elected not to receive such treatment due to stigma, or concern over possible side
      effects of the ECT treatment itself. The subjects enrolled will have exhausted all reasonable
      treatment strategies, and currently have no other reasonable or viable treatment options for
      their illness.

      Secondary objective: To examine clinical outcome initially over 3 months, then with follow up
      at 6, 9 and 12 months. Depression will be assessed using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale
      (HDRS) 24 item, while manic symptoms will be measured by using the Young Mania Rating Scale
      (YMRS), and the Clinical Global Impression of Severity of illness (CGI-S), and Improvement
      (CGI-I). A battery of neuropsychological tests will be administered as well, assessing memory
      with the California Verbal Learning Task (CVLT), prefrontal function using a Delas-Kaplan
      Executive Function System (DKEFS) battery including the DKEFS Sorting task, DKEFS Trails
      task, DKEFS color-word interference task, and the DKEFS verbal fluency task. In addition, the
      investigators will request information regarding any possible adverse events that occur
      during this trial.

      The intended use for the CyberKnife System, the radiosurgical device being used in this
      research study, is to administer radiomodulation to the cingulate cortex target Cg25 in
      patients with refractory bipolar depression.
    
  