
    
      Due to several studies showing the advantages of late clamping of the umbilical cord for the
      newborn child. Delayed clamping from one, up to three minutes has been associated with better
      adaptation of the neonate to extrauterine life, with increased supply of oxygen, iron reserve
      in childhood, and benefits in the neuropsychic and motor development of children. It is
      considered a safe technique, recommended and has been recommended by obstetrics and
      neonatologists throughout the world, although the exact moment for its accomplishment is not
      aligned between countries.

      Early clamping was one of the strategies of active management in the third period of delivery
      in order to prevent postpartum hemorrahge (PPH), which is considered a major cause of
      maternal mortality worldwide. Studies have not confirmed this initial hypothesis and the
      balancing between the advantages for the newborn, and no evidence of advantage fot he mother
      has shifted the management to late cord clamping, which for most professionals consists of
      clamping the cord from one to three minutes after birth.

      On the other hand, there are still questions regarding the possibility of prolonging the cord
      clamping time, for an even longer time, or even stopping the cord's pulsations, as a way to
      favor placental drainage, reduce the time of placental detachment and consequently decrease
      bleeding events. It is believed that delayed clamping after pulsations cease may contribute
      to the increase in the blood volume transferred to the neonate, thus increasing its iron
      stores without any additional harm to the health of the woman and the newborn.

      The subject is new, in order to verify the impact on the occurrence of neonatal jaundice and
      the blood loss when the cord is clamped after the pulsations cease, since there is no
      detailed report in any other study on this practice. Thus, it can contribute to the available
      evidence on the subject, and can be included in a systematic review and enable the
      elucidation of questions that still need to be clarified.

      The study is relevant, since the conclusions may be of great use for clinical conduct, since
      it is a non-invasive and cost-free method that can contribute to reduce the occurrence of
      iron deficiency anemia in early childhood and postpartum haemorrhage.

      General objective To determine the effects of late clamping of the umbilical cord with one to
      three minutes vs. after pulsations on maternal and neonatal outcomes ceased.

      Specific objectives

      In neonates and women undergoing delayed clamping with one to three minutes and after ceasing
      the cord pulsations, compare:

      Primary Outcomes Rate of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, requiring phototherapy is equivalent in
      both groups.

      Neonatal hemoglobin between 24-48 hours postpartum is higher in the intervention group.

      Secondary Outcomes Neonatal Weight at birth; Apgar score in the first minute and fifth
      minute; Skin-to-skin contact in the first hour of life; Duration of skin-to-skin contact;
      Breastfeeding in the first hour; Breastfeeding until discharge; Concentration of Ht at birth
      and between 24-48 hours after birth; Need for admission to neonatal neonatal intensive care
      unit (ICU); Hyperbilirubinemia requiring exchange transfusion; Neonatal polycythemia.
      Maternal Postpartum blood loss; PPH (blood loss> 1,000ml); Hemoglobin (HG) and (Hematocrit)
      Ht levels in 24 hours postpartum; Hemoglobin levels lower than 8 g / dl in 24 hours
      postpartum; Time of detention less than 30 minutes; Uterine manual cleaning, uterine
      curettage, and manual removal of the placenta; Treatment for PPH in the first hour up to 24
      hours postpartum; Hemotransfusion after delivery; Maternal death; Level of maternal
      satisfaction. Study design=> open randomized clinical trial The study will be conducted in
      Instituto de Saude Integral Prof Fernando Figueira (IMIP) and Hospital da Mulher do Recife
      (HMR). Sample will be composed of normal risk women, live fetus at term, hospitalized in
      labor and by their newborns attended during the study period in the hospitals involved in the
      research.

      Sample size calculation The sample was calculated using the online public domain calculator,
      Sealed Envelope 2012, considering data from a study in which 4.36% of newborns submitted to
      umbilical cord clamping at three minutes presented hyperbilirubinemia requiring phototherapy,
      with the maximum tolerable frequency of 5.36%, to show that there is no superiority between
      the two ducts, with a power (1-error beta) of 90% and a level of bilateral significance of
      (1-alpha error) of 95% 526 patients were needed, a number that was increased to 580 patients,
      290 in each group, and possible losses were predicted.

      After consenting to participate a blood sample will be collected from the pregnant woman by
      the laboratory professional, at the obstetric screening or at the PP, immediately before
      delivery, and sent to the laboratory for analysis of hemoglobin and hematocrit levels. All
      participants will be assisted in labor and delivery performed according to the routine of the
      service. Only after birth, if the newborn meets the eligibility criteria, will the allocation
      be made to one of the two previously randomized groups, with opening of the sealed envelopes.

      Data collection will be performed by the assistant researchers and professionals on duty
      (nurse obstetrician, obstetrician and / or nursing residents) during the daytime and night
      shift on weekends and holidays, filling in the 24 hours of the shift. Within 24 hours of
      delivery, a new blood sample from the puerperium will be collected by the laboratory employee
      to evaluate hemoglobin and hematocrit levels; and the newborn for evaluation of hemoglobin,
      hematocrit and total bilirubin levels.

      Data processing and analysis The analysis of the data will be performed by a blind statistic
      collaborator of the test, using the statistical program Epi-Info 3.5.4. The analysis will be
      done by intention to treat the data and performed with the groups identified as A or B. Only
      at the end of the analysis, already prepared the tables, is that you will know about which
      group will correspond each letter.

      To evaluate the association between the independent variable or predictor (clamping of the
      umbilical cord with one to three minutes vs. clamping after the pulsations cease) and the
      dependent variables (outcomes) will be constructed double-entry tables. For the primary
      outcome, we will work with the equivalence hypothesis and for the secondary outcomes with the
      hypothesis of superiority.

      For the continuous numerical variables of normal distribution, Student's t-test will be used,
      if the normality of the distribution is not verified (Kolmogorov-Smirnov test), the
      Mann-Whitney test will be used. For categorical variables, the Chi-square test of association
      (Pearson) and Fisher's exact test, when applicable, will be used. All adopted p values will
      be counted. The Risk Ratio (RR) will be calculated as a measure of the relative risk, as well
      as the 95% Confidence Interval (95% CI). The default value of 1.0 will be assigned to the
      reference category.
    
  