
    
      The efficacy of targeting lesions for ultrasound-guided biopsy, surgery,or ablation may be
      limited by the visibility of a target during the procedure. The successful outcome of the
      intervention depends upon accurate device placement.

      Historically, prostate cancer was diagnosed by finger guided trans-rectal prostate biopsies.
      However, with the advent of PSA screening and improvements in ultrasonography, ultrasound
      guided prostate biopsy has become the standard of care to screen and diagnose men with
      prostate cancer. A standard 12-14 core prostate biopsy is now common practice, detecting
      cancer in 27% to 44% of patients in patients with an elevated serum PSA.

      Initially, prostate MR imaging was not considered for routine clinical practice. However, the
      addition of an endorectal-coil probe and a 3 Tesla magnet has improved its diagnostic
      utility. Currently, most mpMRI are done without the use of an endo-rectal coil at 3Tesla. The
      MRI is able to evaluate the entire prostate (transrectal ultrasound images are overlaid on a
      previously obtained prostate MRI, combined with an electromagnetic tracking system) prior to
      biopsy and allows the physician to target specific areas of the prostate that are suspicious
      for cancer. This contrasts with the typical US guided approach which samples regions of the
      prostate in a standard fashion.

      This study will consist of comparison of the standard of care prostate biopsy with the
      protocol biopsy which consists of a US guided prostate biopsy and a MR/US fusion tracked
      prostate biopsy in patients undergoing the transrectal (TR) or transperineal (TP) biopsy
      approaches. The researchers are interested in learning which procedure is more useful in
      obtaining a clearer picture of the prostate which will in turn provide a better way of
      finding abnormalities. Each patient will act as their own control.
    
  