
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To show that treatment with high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) in combination with
      intrathecal (IT) sustained-release cytarabine (liposomal cytarabine) will result in median
      progression-free survival (PFS) greater than 7 weeks for patients with breast cancer and
      leptomeningeal metastases with or without parenchymal brain involvement.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the overall survival of patients with central nervous system (CNS) metastatic
      breast cancer treated with the combination of intravenous (IV) HD-MTX and IT Depocyt
      (liposomal cytarabine).

      II. To describe the safety of the combination therapy, in terms of toxicity, adverse events,
      and the need for dose reductions or schedule modification.

      III. To estimate the best overall response rate achieved during treatment with IV HD-MTX and
      IT Depocyt. Radiographic response will be measured by the Macdonald Criteria using imaging
      (magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]), and cytologic response will be measured by cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF) cytology.

      IV. To determine the number of treatment cycles needed to achieve radiographic and cytologic
      response.

      V. To describe response duration in patients who achieve at least partial radiographic
      response and cytologic clearance.

      VI. To define time to clinical progression as measured by Karnofsky performance status (KPS)
      and neurological exam.

      VII. To describe functional status and quality of life of patients, through clinical
      evaluations of neurological status and patient-reported quality of life (QOL) measured by the
      Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) brain and/or CNS questionnaires.

      VIII. To correlate response rates with the extent of patient's systemic disease and tumor
      receptor status (estrogen receptor [ER], progesterone receptor [PR], human epidermal growth
      factor receptor 2 [Her2]/neu and/or breast cancer, early onset [BRCA] if applicable).

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY (WEEKS 1-6): Patients liposomal cytarabine IT or via lumbar puncture (LP)
      every 14 days beginning in week 1. Patients also receive high-dose methotrexate IV every 14
      days beginning in week 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY (WEEKS 7-11): Patients achieving complete response (CR), partial
      response (PR), or stable disease (SD) and CSF negative for malignant cells receive liposomal
      cytarabine IT or via LP beginning in week 7 and high-dose methotrexate IV beginning in week
      8. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY (WEEKS 13-37): Patients achieving CR, PR, or SD and CSF negative for
      malignant cells receive liposomal cytarabine IT or via LP every 4 weeks beginning in week 13
      and high-dose methotrexate IV monthly beginning in week 15. Treatment with liposomal
      cytarabine repeats every 4 weeks for up to 5 courses and treatment with high-dose
      methotrexate repeats monthly for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.
    
  