
    
      ERCP with cholangioscopy is becoming a widespread technique to treat complicated
      choledocholithiasis, document CBD clearance after stone extraction and to assess biliary duct
      strictures. During the procedure, a large amount of water is used to irrigate the common bile
      duct in order to improve visualization. This can result in CBD distension and may increase
      the possibility of bacterial translocation and subsequent bacteremia or septicemia. According
      to the ASGE guidelines, antibiotic prophylaxis prior to ERCP is indicated when biliary duct
      obstruction is suspected prior to ERCP procedures . There are no current guidelines
      addressing antibiotics prophylaxis prior to ERCP with cholangioscopy. The investigators
      recent ACG funded prospective trial examining the risk of bacteremia in ERCP with
      cholangioscopy have shown the presence of bacteremia in 8.8% of patients undergoing ERCP with
      cholangioscopy, thus prompting the use of prophylactic antibiotics in patients undergoing
      these procedures. However the study was not powered to examine factors associated with
      increased bacteremia and infectious complications. In spite of the use of pre-procedural
      antibiotics in some of the published series, infectious complications such as cholangitis and
      sepsis were still reported after the procedure. In the landmark study by Chen et al, in which
      297 patients prospectively underwent single-operator cholangioscopy in 15 referral centers
      across the US and Europe, nine patients developed cholangitis. Antibiotics administration
      prior to the procedures was left to the standard of practice at each participating
      institution and was not reported in this study. In a retrospective study by Kalaitzakis et
      al, nine out of 179 patients who underwent cholangioscopy for CBD stricture or treatment of
      CBD stones developed cholangitis. Cholangitis was fatal in one case and required prolonged
      hospitalization in the other case. All patients in this study had antibiotics prophylaxis
      prior to the procedure. Manta et al had one case of cholangitis in their series of 52
      patients who underwent cholangioscopy for CBD stricture. Two patients out of 87 patients had
      cholangitis in the study by Osania et al., which prospectively included patients who
      underwent cholangioscopy for CBD stricture. The cholangitis rate in the previously mentioned
      studies ranged from 2% to 5%. This high rate of post procedure cholangitis in spite of the
      use of pre-procedural antibiotics suggest that post procedure antibiotics are of value in
      subsets of patients who will undergo ERCP with cholangioscopy. In the investigators
      preliminary data, bacteremia rate was significantly higher in patients with CBD strictures
      who had cholangioscopy with biopsies. It is possible that strictures could lead to
      colonization of biliary epithelium with bacteria. Obtaining biopsies may cause disruption of
      the endothelial barrier allowing bacterial translocation. In addition, cholangitis was seen
      in one patient in the investigators cohort who underwent laser lithotripsy for large stone.
      Choledocholithiasis is another source of bacterial colonization which could increase the risk
      of cholangitis after ERCP and cholangioscopy. The investigators protocol objective is to
      examine the factors that are potentially associated with increased frequency of bacteremia
      and subsequent infectious complication after ERCP with cholangioscopy in a setting of uniform
      pre-procedure antibiotics. The investigators hypothesize that biopsy of CBD strictures and
      Laser Lithotripsy are risk factors for increased rate of bacteremia and infectious
      complications after ERCP with cholangioscopy.
    
  