
    
      Intervention description Complementary Approaches to Lower Mean arterial pressure (CALM)
      utilizes a naturopathic dietary approach, education on cooking and food consumption choices,
      walking physical exercise, Qi Gong - a form of Chinese slow movement exercise combined with
      relaxation breathing and imagery and group therapy coaching in stress management techniques
      and mind-body balancing techniques.

      Trial Objectives

      Primary objective To compare the effect of CALM in reducing blood pressure to the standard
      dietary DASH approach in hypertensive patients.

      Secondary objectives To provide information on the efficacy of CALM in reducing weight and
      improving quality of life. and to examine it's potential to indicate a dose reduction in
      hypertensive medications. To evaluate CALM effects on cardiovascular disease risk factors.

      Trial Design

      A single center parallel randomized control trial including two groups and enrolling 120
      participants.

      Primary End Point A comparable change in blood pressure measurements between CALM and DASH
      groups after the 16 week period of the trial as measured by a 24 hour holter test which will
      be performed in the beginning and the end of the study.

      Secondary End Points

      A comparable change in hypertensive medications A comparable change in weight reduction

      Comparable changes in cardiovascular risk factors as indicated by following laboratory tests
      and evaluations :

      Arterial wall thickening , hemoglobin, hemoglobin A1c, creatinine, liver function parameters,
      highly sensitive c-reactive protein (hsCRP), low density lipoprotein (LDL), high density
      lipoprotein (HDL), triglycerides (TG), oxidized LDL (oxLDL), nitric oxide metabolites and
      microalbumine/creatinine ratio.

      Methodology 120 Participants will be randomly assigned in to two groups:

        -  CALM program for reducing blood pressure as the treatment group.(As described below in
           section 6)

        -  Standard DASH diet and lifestyle modification counseling as the control group. (As
           described below in section 6)

      Duration of the study Group intervention in the treatment arm consists of 16 weeks of the
      CALM program. Due to the limited number of participants we can allocate to each group, three
      16 weeks cycles will be repeated in order to recruit the needed number of participants for
      the trial. Thus the treatment phase is expected to last for 48 weeks. Recruitment is expected
      to last about three months. An additional 6 months will be required for completion of data
      entry and analysis.

      Location of the study The study will take place in Asaf Harofeh Medical Center, Israel and
      will be conducted in Shiram - The Department of Integrated Medicine and in the Research and
      Development Unit of Assaf Harofeh Medical Center.

      Recruitment of the Subjects Patients will be recruited from the community and from Asaf
      Harofeh medical center. Patients from a number of departments within the hospital will be
      invited to participate in the study. An advertisement in the local newspaper and in the
      medical center's web site will be published (appears in IRB forms) Recruitment will continue
      until the overall quota of subjects (50 per group) will be met.

      Randomization Subjects will be randomly assigned to each treatment group utilizing a
      computerized randomization system. A random list will be generated by the study statistician.
      The random list will be kept in a sealed envelope in the study site. The list will be readily
      available in case of any emergency.

      Follow up Subjects will be assessed in the beginning and at the end of the trial and again 6
      months later. Compliance questioners will be filled during several stages of the trial as
      described in section 8 below.

      Study Population Inclusion Criteria

        -  Adult men and women over 18 years.

        -  Patients using anti hypertensive medications with mean systolic blood pressure
           measurements of 120-180 mm Hg and/or mean diastolic measurements of 70-100 mm Hg as
           determined by a 24 hour Holter test.

        -  Patients not using anti hypertensive medications with mean systolic blood pressure
           measurements of 130-180 mm Hg and or mean diastolic measurements of 80-100 mmHg.

        -  Signed informed consent Exclusion Criteria

        -  Cardiovascular event within the past 6 months

        -  Inability to walk independently for 15 or less minutes.

        -  Poorly controlled insulin dependant diabetes mellitus with Hg A1c measurements over 7.5.

        -  Inflammatory bowl disorders

        -  Acute malignancy with life expectancy of less than 5 years.

        -  Pregnancy or lactation

        -  A body mass index of more than 35.

        -  More than 20 alcoholic beverages per weak.

        -  Change in anti hypertensive medications within the last 3 months.

        -  Planning to change smoking habits

      Treatment of the subjects

      The CALM group will receive a weekly 4 hour group coaching session for 16 weeks. Each session
      will include the following parts:

        1. A group aerobic walking session. Participants will reach a target heart rate which will
           be determined in advance as 60-75% of maximal heart rate expected for their age and with
           accordance to their physical ability. The group walk will last for a maximum of one
           hour. All participants will be encouraged to walk at least 3 times per week
           independently.

           .

        2. A 1 hour weekly Qi Gong session. The class will include 45 minutes of slow movement
           exercises emphasizing relaxation, abdominal breathing and visualization stretching and
           meditation. A 15 minutes prerecorded guided imagery meditation aimed to reduce blood
           pressure will be performed in a seated or supine position. Participants will be given a
           CD with the 15 minutes mediation and will be encouraged to use it at home once a day.

        3. Dietary counseling and cooking instructions for forming a healthy home cooking routine
           which will be based on naturopathic rice diet approach. A group meal will be prepared by
           participants in each session and participants will dine together. All participants will
           be encouraged to follow the same diet at home.

        4. Group therapy meeting focusing on stress management techniques and mind - body
           balancing. Emphasis will be put on developing communication skills based on
           nonjudgmental and empathic approaches, methods for dealing with stress and anxiety,
           discarding low self esteem and negative thought patterns and developing positive
           thinking patterns.

      The DASH control group will receive group coaching sessions for 16 weeks. Each session will
      include the following parts:

        1. A group aerobic walking session. Participants will reach a target heart rate which will
           be calculated in advance as 60-75% of maximal heart rate expected for their age. The
           group walk will last for a maximum of one hour. All participants will be encouraged to
           walk at least 3 times per week independently.

        2. Dietary counseling and cooking instructions according to a standard DASH diet. This will
           include a diet rich in fruits, vegetables and low fat dairy products. A group meal will
           be prepared by participants in each session and participants will dine together. All the
           participant will be encouraged to follow the same diet at home.

      Assessment of Efficacy

      Primary end point efficacy will be assessed by comparing the mean BP measurements in the CALM
      group to the mean BP measurements in the DASH control group. Blood pressure measurements will
      be performed by 24 hours Holter BP monitoring in the beginning and at the end of the trial.

      Secondary end points efficacy will be assed by comparing CALM to DASH programs with respect
      to effects use of BP medications and weight loss. Lab test and pulse wave analysis will also
      be assessed at the beginning and at the end of the study.

      Pulse wave analysis Assessment of arterial stiffness will be performed, at baseline, at the
      end of 16 weeks of the trial and following 6 months, by a noninvasive technique using the
      commercially available SphygmoCor System (AtCor Medical,LTD, Australia). All measurements
      will be performed by S.E while the patient is in the recombinant position at room temperature
      of 25oc. In brief, peripheral pressure waveforms will be recorded from the radial artery at
      the wrist, using applanation tonometry with a high-fidelity micromanometer (Millar
      Instruments). When 20 sequential waveforms will be recorded, a validated 16-18 generalized
      transfer function will be applied to generate the corresponding central aortic pressure
      waveform. Augmentation index (AIx) and augmented pressure (AP) were derived by calculation,
      using pulse wave analysis technique. The merging point of the incident and the reflected wave
      (the inflection point) will be identified on the generated aortic pressure waveform. AP will
      be calculated as maximum systolic pressure minus pressure at the inflection point. AIx will
      be calculated as AP divided by pulse pressure and expressed as percentage. Higher values of
      AIx indicated increased wave reflection from the periphery or earlier return of the reflected
      wave as a result of increased pulse wave velocity (attributable to increased arterial
      stiffness), and vice versa. Only high-quality recordings, defined as those with in-device
      quality index >80% (as derived from an algorithm including average pulse height, pulse height
      variations, diastolic variations, and the maximum rate of rise of the peripheral waveform)
      and the curves acceptable upon a visual inspection performed by one investigator, will be
      included in the analysis. All pulse wave measurements will be taken in the same sitting
      position, in a quiet, temperature controlled room (23 ± 1°C), after at least 15 minute
      resting period.

      Laboratory Tests At the beginning and at the end of the study, blood will be drawn for
      measurement of hemoglobin, hemoglobin A1c, creatinine, liver function tests, highly sensitive
      c-reactive protein (hsCRP) and lipid profile including total cholesterol high density
      lipoprotein (HDL) and triglycerides (TG). LDL will calculated. Five cc of plasma will be
      preserved in -70oc for future evaluation of oxidative stress (oxLDL, MDA) and NO.

      Life Quality & well being questioners Patients will fill the MOS 36 life quality
      questionnaire in the beginning, at week 4, week 10 and at the end of the trial. In addition a
      specific questionnaire for assessing dietary and cooking lifestyle will be filled in the
      begging and at the end of the trial. These questionnaires will again be after six months for
      the follow up period.

      Compliance Compliance questionnaires will address three topics: adherence to the diet
      recommendations and cooking instructions at home, number of exercise sessions per week and
      frequency of using the Qi Gong meditation disk at home. Questionnaires will be filled at the
      end of weeks 4,10 & 16 (end of trial) and at the follow up meeting post 6 months.

      Assessment of Safety No adverse events or risks are expected for participants enrolled in
      this trial. However, initially, the strict dietary program may influence the participants
      overall energy level. Transient symptoms such as dizziness and headaches may also present in
      early stages of the study participants will be couched in advance on how to maintain any
      undesired influences. Nevertheless, any adverse event will be reported on the Adverse Event
      Form along with the probability of the adverse event being study-related.

      Decreasing doses or cessation of BP Medications use BP medication doses will be changed by
      the primary investigator or by the patient healthcare physician. The physician in charge will
      reduce BP lowering medications in case systolic blood pressure will decrease below 110 mmHg
      or if participants will present symptoms of low blood pressure such as weakness, ortostatizm,
      dizziness, presyncope or syncope. Before any change in BP lowering medications patients will
      be encouraged to get another 24 hours holter of BP measurement test. All changes in BP
      medications will be recorded.
    
  