
    
      Rationale: Once Suboxone becomes available for widespread clinical use, it is anticipated
      that opioid-dependent patients seeking treatment with buprenorphine will be placed directly
      onto Suboxone. Two strategies that have had good success for inducting patients onto Suboxone
      have been developed: 1) a "bridging" procedure in which patients initiate therapy with
      Subutex and then transfer to Suboxone, and 2) a direct Suboxone induction procedure. However,
      there have been no controlled studies of direct Suboxone induction, and it is not clear
      whether using a Subutex-to-Suboxone induction procedure would produce any added clinical
      benefit for the patient relative to direct Suboxone induction.

      This study addresses a post-marketing commitment to the European Medicines Agency to conduct
      a prospective, controlled study of induction with Suboxone. Using a prospective, randomized,
      active-drug-controlled, double-blind and double-dummy design, this study will assess the
      acceptability and safety of Suboxone in heroin users by comparing the clinical response of
      participants who are inducted directly onto Suboxone with that of participants who are
      inducted first to Subutex and then transferred to Suboxone. The dose regimen used during the
      induction phase of this study is identical to that used in the pivotal efficacy study
      comparing Suboxone and Subutex (Fudala et al, 2003), which is included in the Suboxone
      Summary of Product Characteristics. The data collected in this study will include information
      on the extent of opioid use before treatment initiation.

      Two strategies for inducting opioid-dependent patients using short-acting opioids (eg,
      heroin) onto Suboxone have emerged from published US studies. One involves using Subutex to
      "bridge" the transition to Suboxone by using Subutex over the first 2 days before
      transferring directly to Suboxone on the third day. The other involves direct Suboxone
      induction, in which patients receive Suboxone as the initial dose followed by continued rapid
      Suboxone dose titration.

      In the pivotal efficacy study, opiate-dependent heroin users assigned to either Subutex or
      Suboxone groups received an induction dose of 8 mg of Subutex (administered as a single 8-mg
      tablet) on Day 1 and 16 mg of Subutex (administered as two 8-mg tablets) on Day 2. The 109
      participants assigned to Suboxone received 16 mg of Suboxone (administered as two 8-mg
      tablets) on Day 3, and the 105 participants assigned to Subutex received 16 mg of Subutex
      (administered as two 8-mg tablets) on Day 3. The induction schedule used in the pivotal
      trial, in which a Subutex-to-Suboxone bridging procedure was used, was successful for
      inducting heroin-dependent patients onto Suboxone, achieving good compliance and resulting in
      relatively few AEs accounting for treatment discontinuation.

      Overall, several large-scale studies using Suboxone as an initial medication have been
      conducted with good results, and it appears clear that, as was the case in the pivotal study,
      most patients safely tolerate a total dose of at least 8 mg on the first day of treatment.
      However, as these studies were not controlled, it remains unclear whether using a
      Subutex-to-Suboxone induction procedure would produce any added clinical benefit to the
      patient relative to a direct Suboxone induction procedure. Furthermore, there have been no
      studies of direct Suboxone induction outside of the United States.
    
  