
    
      The number of people surviving a cardiac arrest is increasing every year due to advances in
      pre-hospital and acute medical care. In Denmark, one year survival after out-of-hospital
      cardiac arrest improved from 4-13% between 2001 and 2014; this amounts to at least 500 new
      survivors every year. But after the acute phase ends, many survivors of cardiac arrest (SCA)
      suffer an uncertain future. Most SCA will have a new or ongoing cardiac condition. They may
      suffer from mental trauma due to surviving a near death experience. Further, reduced oxygen
      levels to the brain during a cardiac arrest, can cause brain injury in up to 50% of SCA. This
      combination of cardiac, traumatic and neurological factors causes survivors to suffer from a
      wide range of physical, psychological and cognitive problems impacting negatively on their
      quality of life. Relatives of SCA have also been found to suffer from emotional problems due
      to becoming a carer for their loved one.

      Normally in Denmark, a patient population with such a heavy burden, like SCA and their
      relatives would receive help to restore them to daily life but at present there are no
      specialist rehabilitation interventions provided for SCA in Denmark.

      Research involving rehabilitation interventions for people after brain injury or cardiac
      events has shown significant physical, psychological and quality of life benefits, indicating
      the same may be true for SCA. The European Resuscitation Council and other international
      experts recommend all SCA receive rehabilitation tailored to their needs but very few
      research studies exist on which to base the design of these rehabilitation interventions.

      The Medical Research Council (MRC) in the United Kingdom state that in clinical research
      there is too strong a focus on the main evaluation of an intervention. This means inadequate
      development and piloting work, leading to weaker interventions that are less likely to be
      implemented. Before performing large-scale testing of an intervention, the MRC advocates a
      systematic development phase that tests the feasibility of the new intervention.

      Though examination of current literature and workshops with researchers, clinicians,
      survivors of cardiac arrest and their relatives a new comprehensive rehabilitation
      intervention has been developed.

      The objectives of this study are to, firstly, test the feasibility and acceptability of the
      intervention. Secondly, to determine the effect of the intervention on patient reported
      outcomes covering fatigue, physical activity, psychological well-being and quality of life.
      In addition, the effect of the intervention on the mental well-being of any relatives who
      take part in the intervention.

      Recruitment will take place via publicity through REHPA, the five cardiac centers in Denmark
      and via the Danish Heart Foundation. Potential participants will apply via an application
      form and be screened by the research team for eligibility.
    
  