
    
      Aim and Objective - AIM- To compare the efficacy and safety of tranexamic acid in reducing
      5-day treatment failure (i.e., failure to control bleed) in patients with cirrhosis
      presenting with Upper GI bleed

      Primary Objective:

      Proportion of patients developing five-day treatment failure (i.e., failure to control bleed)

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Failure to prevent rebleed within 6 weeks

        2. Clinically significant rebleed within 6 weeks (monitored by hemoglobin drop by 3g/dl,
           need of blood transfusion)

        3. Need for salvage therapy (tamponade, additional endoscopic therapy, TIPS, surgery etc.)

        4. Blood product and component requirements

        5. Days of ICU/hospital stay

        6. Thromboembolic events (deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, stroke, myocardial
           infarction etc)

        7. Other complications post bleed (including other significant cardiac event, sepsis,
           pneumonia, respiratory failure, Acute Kidney Injury, seizures etc)

        8. Mortality attributed to failure to control bleed.

      Methodology:

        -  Study population: Patients of Cirrhosis presenting with Acute Upper Gastrointestinal
           bleed

        -  Study design:Single Centre, Double Blinded (Patient and Treating physician), Placebo
           Controlled (Saline), Randomised Controlled Trial

        -  Study period: 1.5 years from the date of ethics approval

      Sample size with justification:

      - Assuming 5-day treatment failure in Placebo arm around 25% and 15 % in the treatment arm.
      Alpha- 5%, Power- 80%. The investigators need to enroll 542 cases with 271 in each group.
      Further assuming 10% dropout, it is decided to enroll 600 cases , randomly allocated into two
      arms by Block Randomization with Block size of 10. An interim analysis will be done at
      reaching total of 300 sample size.

      Intervention:

      - Patients will be randomized into two Arms A & B. Both the patient and treating physician
      are blinded Arm A- Tranexamic Acid arm- Will receive Tranexamic Acid 1g iv bolus as loading
      dose followed by 3g Tranexamic Acid infused over next 24 hours along with standard medical
      and interventional (Endoscopy) therapy.

      Arm B- Will receive similar volume of isotonic solution (saline) along with standard medical
      and interventional (Endoscopy) therapy.

      Monitoring and Assessment:

        1. Five-day treatment failure (i.e., failure to control bleed)- defined as death or need to
           change therapy defined by one of the following criteria:

             -  fresh hematemesis or

             -  nasogastric aspiration of ≥100 mL of fresh blood ≥2 hours after the start of a
                specific drug treatment or

             -  therapeutic endoscopy;

             -  development of hypovolaemic shock;

             -  3 g drop in hemoglobin (Hb) (9% drop of hematocrit) within any 24-hour period if no
                transfusion is administered.

        2. Failure to prevent rebleeding defined as a single episode of clinically significant
           rebleeding after day 5 until 6 weeks, and

        3. Clinically significant rebleeding defined as recurrent melena or hematemesis resulting
           in any of the following after day 5 until 6 weeks:

             -  hospital admission,

             -  blood transfusion,

             -  3 g drop in haemoglobin, or

             -  Death

      Other treatments given

        1. Conditioning (intravenous access, tracheal intubation or other airways management
           technique if needed)

        2. Medical interventions (immediate splanchnic vasopressors: terlipressin or somatostatin
           and derivatives before endoscopy (up to 5 days)

        3. PPIs in case of suspicion of associated peptic ulcer

        4. Antibiotics during 5 days and later as needed

        5. Hemodynamic stabilisation (fluid infusion, systemic vasopressors as noradrenalin or
           adrenalin);

        6. Technical interventions (endoscopy as soon as possible, within 12 hours, and haemostatic
           interventions like EVL, Glue, Dannis-Ella stent, if feasible early TIPS within 72 hours
           (Child C or B with active bleeding at endoscopy)

        7. Secondary prophylaxis (from day 6 after onset): beta blockers if stable will be
           mandatory for the secondary prophylaxis.

        8. ROTEM based correction will be given for patients having nonvariceal upper GI bleeding
           (diagnosed after doing upper GI endoscopy and showing ongoing bleed form a nonvariceal
           source at that time); and significant coagulopathy assessed by INR > 1.8 and/or PLTs <
           50 × 109/L.

      Assessment of Fibrinolysis:

        1. FDP (Fibrin Degradation Products)

        2. d-Dimer assay

        3. Fibrinogen

        4. FIBTEM-EXTEM

      Data to be Collected

        1. Hemogram, PT/INR, LFT, KFT (baseline, D1, 3, 5, 7, 14, 28, 42 and as needed)

        2. d-Dimer, FDP, Fibrinogen, ROTEM (FIBTEM/EXTEM): (baseline, day 1, 3, 5)

        3. USG with doppler SPA, AFP, sugar (F),Chest Xray other etiological investigations as
           needed: baseline

        4. UGIE findings

        5. Other clinical parameters such as CTP score, MELD score, Heart rate, Blood Pressure
    
  