
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study contributed to an underdeveloped area of research. Physical activity is recommended
      as a nonpharmacological means to modify hypertension and obesity, two cardiovascular risk
      factors. African-American women have low levels of physical activity and high rates of
      obesity, hypertension, and mortality from coronary heart disease, diabetes, and hypertensive
      diseases. In 1992, there was an absence of longitudinal data about the physical activity
      habits of African-American girls even though a decline in physical activity during
      adolescence had been reported in other subpopulations.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Within the framework of puberty and maturation, the study: 1) described longitudinal patterns
      of physical activity; 2) assessed longitudinal changes in physical activity and concomitant
      changes in blood pressure and body fatness; and 3) determined psychosocial predictors of
      changes in physical activity. The investigators hypothesized that there would be a monotonic
      decrease in physical activity and that psychosocial variables would predict changes in
      physical activity. The study population consisted of 189 sixth grade, mostly
      African-American, girls in Fort Bend Independent School District, Missouri City, Texas. The
      girls were measured for four and a half years, ages 11 or 12 at entry of the study.
      Anthropometry, sexual maturation, blood pressure, physical activity habits and psychosocial
      predictors were measured twice a year for a total of nine examinations. Data on dietary,
      smoking and drinking habits were collected annually. Activity patterns, psychosocial
      predictors and other habits were assessed by interviews and questionnaires. Sexual maturation
      was assessed by menarche and the Tanner stages. Skinfold and circumference measures
      determined body fatness and body fat distribution.
    
  