
    
      Childhood Absence Epilepsy (CAE) affects 2-11% of all children with epilepsy. CAE occurs most
      frequently in children between the ages of 4 and 10 years. Children with CAE have brief
      seizures (usually several seconds in duration) that typically involve staring and loss of
      awareness; twitching movement of the face or other areas of the body may also occur. Absence
      seizures are provoked by deep breathing for several minutes ("hyperventilation"). Topiramate
      is known to be effective in several types of seizures in children. Preliminary data from
      studies on other types of epilepsy, as well as case reports, suggest that it may also be
      effective in the type of seizures that occur in CAE. The objective of the study is to gather
      additional preliminary data on the effectiveness and the potential target dose of topiramate
      in CAE. Because CAE is not expected to resolve spontaneously in the age group being studied,
      no control group will be included. Patients in the study will receive increasing doses of
      topiramate, with the starting dose and dose increases at weekly intervals. The starting dose
      and dosage increases will be based on the child's weight. At each visit, hyperventilation
      will be used to determine if seizures can be provoked. If seizures occur, the dose will be
      further increased to the maximum dose for the study. If seizures do not occur with
      hyperventilation, an electroencephalogram (EEG) will be performed to confirm that the
      seizures are not occurring. If the EEG confirms that no seizures are occurring, topiramate
      dose will be maintained for 12 weeks. Topiramate will be given in the form of "sprinkles"
      contained within capsules that may be opened and the drug sprinkled onto food. Starting dose
      will depend on the child's weight, then increased to a maximum dose: 9
      milligrams/kilogram/day or 400 milligrams/day, whichever is less for up to 162 days
    
  