
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between the use of intravenous
      infusion of sub-anesthetic dosages of ketamine given for pain to combat casualties and
      emerging symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, sleep
      disruption, and risk of alcohol abuse as identified with behavioral health screening tools.

      This is retrospective case-control study. The data will be analyzed to examine the
      relationship between exposure to ketamine used as an analgesic agent in combat related trauma
      care and the expression of psychiatric symptoms measured in the follow-up on the Post
      Deployment Health Assessment Tool (PDHAT), in use 2003-2007 and the Post Deployment
      Behavioral Health Assessment (PDBHA), in use 2007 to current date. Coded behavioral health
      assessment data will be extracted from the research data bank (Protocol IRBnet # 360023,
      titled "Use of Post Deployment Behavioral Health Assessment Data from Aerovaced Military
      Admitted to Walter Reed from the Theater of Operations in Iraq and Afghanistan to Establish a
      Research Data Bank"). This protocol, approved in 2012, has retrospective and prospective
      components and was designed for studies of this nature. The second objective of this study is
      to explore demographic and clinical risk factors associated with psychological factors.

      Service members who completed the PDHAT or the PDBHA after being AEROVAC-ED from theater for
      medical care will be grouped according to whether or not they received ketamine for pain
      before their follow-up assessments. The comparison group for this study will be selected from
      among those not exposed to ketamine by matching two service members to each in the ketamine
      group using Injury Severity Scores (ISSs) and Abbreviated Injury Scores (AISs). These scores,
      originally collected by the US Army Institute of Surgical Research (USAISR) and stored in the
      Department of Defense Trauma Registry (DoDTR), are an IRB approved addition to the DoP
      research data bank. WRNMMC and the USAISR have a Memorandum of Understanding allowing use of
      the scores for research purposes.
    
  