
    
      Alcohol misuse is a major unaddressed barrier to ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Hazardous
      drinking increases HIV transmission, delays antiretroviral therapy (ART) uptake, reduces
      adherence and retention, and increases mortality. Comorbid mental health or substance misuse,
      similar to alcohol use alone, can also significantly undermine HIV treatment. The vast
      majority of people living with HIV globally live in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC).
      Similar to most HIV care settings in LMIC, in Zambia, the location of the current study,
      there are no readily available evidence-based treatments for alcohol misuse or mental health
      problems.

      This study will enroll persons living with HIV (PLWH) who have alcohol misuse in Zambia.
      Participants will be recruited and screened during regular HIV care visits. Participants will
      be recruited by their regular care providers (i.e., peer educators, counselors, nurses,
      physicians) and referred to study staff if they are interested. The investigators anticipate
      enrolling up to 320 participants, all of whom have hazardous alcohol use. N=160 participants
      will be high-risk drinkers due to having either a moderate-to-severe alcohol use disorder or
      mental health comorbidities, or both. These participants will be randomized into the RCT.
      Participants who have hazardous alcohol use (but not a moderate-to-severe AUD) without mental
      health comorbidities (a lower risk group of participants) will not be enrolled into the RCT
      but will be tracked as part of a parallel cohort study. The minimum age of research subjects
      will be 18. Eligibility will be assessed via audio computer assisted self-interviewing
      (ACASI).

      Participants in the 'cohort study' (i.e., lower risk participants) will receive a brief
      alcohol intervention. Participants in the RCT (i.e., higher risk participants) will be
      randomly assigned on a 1:1 basis (stratified by gender) to receive the brief intervention
      alone or the brief intervention plus CETA.

      All participants will be evaluated for outcomes at baseline and at a six month follow-up
      visit. For RCT participants, the investigators will compare the effectiveness of the brief
      intervention alone to the brief intervention plus CETA in reducing alcohol misuse and mental
      health problems. For cohort participants, the investigators will collect preliminary data on
      whether alcohol misuse reduced at the six month follow-up but there will be no
      comparison/control group.

      The findings from this pilot study will be used to inform future programming and research in
      Zambia and other LMIC to implement screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment
      (SBIRT) programs for alcohol use in HIV care.
    
  