
    
      Subjects and methods:

      Longitudinal study:

      Patients with T2DM previously scheduled at the Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
      Nutrition (UDEN) of the Hospital "Dr. Josep Trueta" of Girona (Spain) will be recruited and
      studied.

      GROUP A

      This study consists of an initial phase, where the patient will be submitted as the only
      treatment to a balanced diet with an energy intake, calculated individually according to
      whether he/she is normal weight (25 Kcal x Kg) or overweight (20 Kcal x Kg of weight).

      After this initial phase, in addition to continuing with the balanced diet treatment,
      patients will start treatment with metformin administered orally at an initial dose of 425
      mg/d every 12 hours during the first 15 days and then continue with doses of 850 mg/d until
      the end of the study.

      A glycemia sensor will be inserted for ten days, as well as a physical activity monitor
      (Fitbit) to record physical activity during this period of time. Interstitial subcutaneous
      glucose concentrations will be monitored on an outpatient basis for a period of time of 10
      consecutive days using a glucose sensor validated by the FDA (Dexcom G6 ®). The sensor will
      be inserted on day 0 and it will retire on day 10 midmorning.

      This process will be repeated 10 days prior to the start of the of treatment with Metformin
      and 10 days before the end of the 6 month study phase with metformin. During the study, 6
      visits will be made and each patient will be inserted with a total of 3 glycemia sensors and
      3 physical activity monitors. In summary, the glycemia sensor and physical activity
      monitoring will be started at visits 1, 3, 5 and will be removed at visits 2,4,6.

      Visit 1(day 1): Physical examination, Nutritional survey, Bioimpedance, Densitometry, CGM and
      Physical activity monitor. Consent form

      Visit 2 (day 10): Sample: blood, urine and feces. Diet, Neuropsychological test, CGM
      withdrawal, Physical activity monitor withdrawal, MRI.

      Visit 3 (day 170): Physical examination, Nutritional survey, Bioimpedance, CGM and Physical
      activity monitor.

      Visit 4 (day 180): Sample: blood, urine and feces. Dietary follow-up, Neuropsychological
      test, CGM withdrawal and Physical activity monitor withdrawal. Start of metformin treatment.

      Visit 5 (day 350): Physical examination, Nutritional survey, Bioimpedance, CGM and Physical
      activity monitor.

      Visit 6 (day 360): Sample: blood, urine and feces. Dietary follow-up, Neuropsychological
      test, CGM withdrawal and Physical activity monitor withdrawal. Metformin withdrawal.

      GROUP B:

      During the study, 5 visits will be made for this group:

      Visit 1(day 1): Physical examination, Nutritional survey, Bioimpedance, Densitometry and
      Physical activity monitor. Consent form.

      Visit 2 (day 10): Sample: blood, urine and feces. Diet, Neuropsychological test and Physical
      activity monitor withdrawal.

      Visit 3 (day 180): Diet follow-up.

      Visit 4 (day 350): Physical examination, Nutritional survey, Bioimpedance and Physical
      activity monitor.

      Visit 5 (day 360): Sample: blood, urine and feces. Diet follow-up, Neuropsychological test
      and Physical activity monitor withdrawal.

      DATA COLLECTION OF SUBJECTS LONGITUDINAL STUDIES:

        1. Subsidiary data: Age, sex and birth date.

        2. Clinical variables:

             -  Weight

             -  height,

             -  body mass index

             -  waist and hip perimeters

             -  waist-to-hip ratio

             -  blood pressure (systolic and diastolic)

             -  fat mass and fat free-mass (bioelectric impedance and DEXA)

             -  smoking status

             -  alcohol intake

             -  registry of usual medicines

             -  personal history of blood transfusion and/or donation

             -  record of family history of obesity, cardiovascular events and diabetes

             -  psychiatric and eating disorder history.

        3. Laboratory variables: 15cc of blood will be extracted from fasted subjects to determine
           the following variables using the usual routine techniques of the clinical laboratory:

             -  hemogram

             -  glucose

             -  bilirubin

             -  aspartate aminotransferase (AST/GOT)

             -  alanine aminotransferase (ALT/GPT)

             -  gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT)

             -  urea

             -  creatinine

             -  uric acid

             -  total proteins,

             -  albumin

             -  total cholesterol | HDL cholesterol | LDL cholesterol

             -  triglycerides,

             -  glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c)

             -  ferritin | soluble transferrin receptor

             -  ultrasensitive C reactive protein

             -  erythrocyte sedimentation rate

             -  lipopolysaccharide binding protein

             -  free thyroxine (free T4) | thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) | baseline cortisol
                -plasma insulin

             -  inflammation markers | interleukin 6 (IL-6). An additional 15cc of blood
                (plasma-EDTA) will be extracted for further analyses.

        4. Stool samples collection: A stool sample will be provided from each patient. The sample
           should be collected at home or in the hospital, sent to the laboratory within 4 hours
           from the collection, fragmented and stored at -80ºC.

           -Analysis of intestinal microbiota in stool:

             -  Determination of bacterial DNA and mRNA and study of the LBP binding protein in
                blood for the detection of bacterial translocation. LBP binding protein in blood
                for the detection of bacterial translocation. Hiseq and Nextseq technology (qPCR
                and protein analysis (WB, ELISA), OMICS (RNAseq, 16S, Metabolomics, Metagenomics).

             -  Inflammatory and immunological markers will be determined using ELISA
                (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) equipment and
                quantitative real-time PCR validation. For qPCR, total RNA will be isolated from
                different tissues and will transcribe into cDNA.

             -  Determination of metabolic profile and metabolite analysis.

        5. Intestinal barrier function:Exposure to a lactulose:mannitol test before/after surgery.
           Plasma samples will be used to measure intestinal permeability markers: bacterial
           endotoxin, sCD14, LBP, ZO-1, and I-FABP.

        6. Urine sample collection: Necessary to determine alterations in the metabolic pathways
           involved in tryptophan metabolism, and to determine the role of the intestinal
           microbiota in these metabolic changes.

        7. MRI: The necessary sequences will be acquired for the calculation of the BrainAGE
           biomarker and the characterization of the networks involved in cognitive functions. For
           the acquisition a 1.5 T scanner (Ingenia; Philips Medical Systems) will be used 1,5 T
           scanner (Ingenia; Philips Medical Systems) will be used for the acquisition. First,
           recovery-inversion sequence (T2-FLAIR) will be used to exclude subjects with
           pre-existing brain lesions. Subsequently, structural sequences will be acquired
           sequences will then be acquired to measure the integrity of cerebral gray matter
           (T1-weighted), tracts of weighted), of the white matter tracts (DTI), iron accumulation
           (R2*), and (R2*), and functional sequences in resting-state (T2*-weighted echo-planar
           imaging, EPI).

        8. Neuropsychological examination: Different domains of cognition will be explored: memory
           (Test aprendizaje verbal-TAVEC, Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure) attention and executive
           function(WAIS-IV, Trail making test (Part A y B), Stroop test). In addition, cognitive
           impairment will be evaluated with Lobo's Mini-Cognitive Exam. These tests will be useful
           to define the changes in the cognitive profile associated with the pharmacological
           intervention with metformin.

      The information will remain registered in a notebook and will be computerized in the database
      of the study.

      STATICAL METHODS:

      Sample size: Since this is intended as a pilot study, no formal sample size calculation is
      required. A general rule is to recruit 30 or more patients to estimate a parameter and 15-20
      participants per group to obtain reasonable estimates for medium to large effect sizes.

      Statistical analyses: It will be based on a descriptive analysis (mean, standard deviation,
      sample size, median, minimum and maximum) of the quantitative parameters and the indication
      of the frequency of the remaining categorical parameters. Comparisons between groups will be
      based on a paired samples t-test or a chi-square test. The results of these analyses may be
      useful to assess whether further analyses are needed to adjust for possible imbalance in the
      baseline characteristics of the patients.

      The changes in the composition of the gut microbiota after the intervention with metformin
      will be analyzed using Heatmaps, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and PLSDA. For the
      multivariate statistical analysis (PLSDA and hierarchical clustering). The variables that
      comprise the characteristics of the intestinal microbiota and cognitive tests will be
      logarithmically transformed, filtered with interquartile range estimation and staggered by
      autoscale calculation (mean and divided by the standard deviation of each variable) by using
      the Metaboanalyst platform.

      The changes determined in the gut microbiota and cognition variables will be explored in
      relation to the changes in the secondary variables (metabolic, metabolome, inflammation
      parameters) by linear regression analysis in SPSS. Brain image variables will be analyzed
      with specialized programs (MATLAB, SPM12).
    
  