
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, a leading cause of cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC) and liver transplantation, affects approximately 170 million individuals worldwide. The
      prevention of HCV transmission and early intervention of HCV infection are urgently needed to
      reduce or halt the liver-related morbidity and mortality. Currently, combination therapy with
      peginterferon (Peg-IFN) and ribavirin (RBV) has become the standard of care for chronic
      hepatitis C (CHC) patients, with an overall sustained virologic response (SVR) rate of
      54-63%. Treatment with weekly Peg-IFN and weight-based RBV for 48 weeks resulted in a
      significantly higher SVR rate than that for 24 weeks in patients with HCV genotype 1
      infection. While HCV genotype 1 patients who had both rapid virologic response (RVR) and low
      pretreatment viral load could receive short duration of therapy without compromising the
      treatment responses, those who had either high baseline viral load or failed to achieve RVR
      should receive at least 48 weeks of treatment. RVR is considered the most important factor
      for SVR. Furthermore, several studies have repeated shown that high baseline viral load (>
      400,000~800,000 IU/mL) was closely associated with failure to achieve RVR in these patients.
      Therefore, efforts to improve the RVR rate is important to facilitate the overall treatment
      responses.

      Double filtration plasmapheresis (DFPP), a well established method of therapeutic apheresis,
      has been with widespread use in clinical practice for several indications with plasma filters
      optimized for the respective elimination targets. By way of the plasma separator, the blood
      is separated into plasma and cell components. Separated plasma is then led into the plasma
      component separator where the pores of the plasma component separator further fractionate the
      plasma into large and small molecular components. The large molecular components, including
      pathogenic substances, is removed and discarded and the small molecular components, including
      proteins such as albumin and gamma-globulin, are returned to the patient and mixed with the
      cell components.

      DFPP has been used in the treatment of many diseases such as neurological diseases, collagen
      diseases, hematological diseases, skin diseases, and renal diseases, and its efficacy and
      safety have been well established. It is noteworthy to mention that DFPP has been indicated
      to treat CHC in Japan since April 2008. In Germany, the safety of DFPP in LDL-apheresis was
      analyzed within a retrospective multicenter investigation including data from 1702 ambulatory
      DFPP-LDL-apheresis treatments of 52 patients (REMUKAST Study). Ninety-eight percent of the
      treatments bear no serious adverse events while only 2% of slight hypotensive episodes were
      observed. In a recent investigation, efficacy and safety of DFPP was compared with the HELP
      (Heparin-induced Extracorporeal LDL-Cholesterol Precipitation) system in a cross-over design.
      No serious adverse events occurred in this study including 44 treatments.

      During chronic infection, the level of serum HCV RNA is in a steady state with only minor
      fluctuations in untreated patients. A dynamic equilibrium, involving hepatocytes and plasma
      components, exists between new viral production and viral destruction during chronic HCV
      infection. After the initiation of Peg-IFN plus RBV therapy, the viral decline can be divided
      into two major phases. Over the first 24 - 48 h the initial dose of PEG-IFN/RBV leads to a
      first decline of HCV RNA which ranges from 0.5-2.0 log levels. This rapid first phase relates
      to a significant reduction in virus production and the degradation of free virus particles,
      which is followed by a second much slower one reflecting the elimination and clearance of
      infected cells.

      As described above, a high baseline viral load (HCV-RNA > 800,000 IU/mL) at the initiation of
      therapy is considered to be a negative predictor for SVR for HCV genotype 1 patients.
      Reduction of baseline viral load by means of therapeutic DFPP may represent a plausible
      adjunct for improved antiviral therapy to reduce the virus load with the initiation of
      treatment in synergy with Peg-IFN and RBV combination therapy. Therefore the rationale for
      the effect of DFPP is that the reduced amount of virus during the initiation phase supports
      the therapeutic efficacy of Peg-IFN and RBV combination therapy by preventing liver
      reinfection by circulating HCV.

      Recently, several small-scaled clinical studies in evaluating the therapeutic efficacy and
      safety of DFPP in conjunction with IFN-based therapy were conducted for treatment-naïve
      genotyp1 high viral load CHC patients, and CHC patients who underwent liver transplantation.
      These studies showed that patients with DFPP treatment had more favorable HCV early viral
      kinetics to those without DFPP treatment. The large-scaled non-randomized clinical study
      totally evaluating 104 CHC patients showed that the addition of DFPP had a higher SVR rate to
      those without DFPP treatment in HCV genotype 1 patients with baseline viral load > 100,000
      IU/mL (70.8% versus 50.0%), probably due to eliminating a substantial part of viral particles
      from the dynamic equilibrium of the liver and plasma compartments. Furthermore, all these
      studies showed excellent safety after DFPP treatment. However, these studies were limited by
      the small case numbers and non-randomized assignment, making the role of DFPP in improving
      the efficacy of difficult-to-treat HCV patients still debated. Therefore, the investigators
      aimed to conduct a large-scaled randomized controlled trial to evaluate the overall response
      of DFPP for HCV genotype 1 patients with high viral load.
    
  