
    
      After many centuries through which vaginal delivery (VD) had been the only safe route of
      birth, Cesarean section (CS) emerged as an alternative in emergency situations. CS has
      gradually become an appealing option for both the mother and the obstetrician and its
      indications increase while CS was proving safety; the rate of CS in U.S.A increased by about
      50% within 10 years around the beginning of the current century. However, the increasing
      prevalence of CS raises questions about the impact of this trend on maternal morbidity,
      mortality as well as its economic burden. Accordingly, recent guidelines have been directed
      to revise practice-base CS indications to only situations when CS is truly beneficial to the
      mother and/or the fetus.

      Of these indications, the most reported one was labour dystocia. The WHO partograph is a
      famous chart that is commonly used to observe uncomplicated labour and is almost an objective
      approach to guide interference. Unfortunately, the rule of the partograph in reducing the
      incidence of CS is questionable. Furthermore, the design of the partograph is not exactly
      perfect to present the process of labour. For these reasons, the labour scale was designed as
      a novel follow-up chart during labour. The chart considered more objective and timed
      management of labour with more flexible range of time based on recent evidence. A previous
      pilot study on 77 women suggested that the labour scale may be a good alternative to the
      current partograph. This study is the first randomized trial the compares the 2 charts as
      regards the rate of CS, maternal and neonatal health outcomes and both patient and
      obstetrician satisfaction.

      In this clinical trial, the investigators aim to compare the labour scale to the traditional
      WHO partograph in terms of incidence of labor dystocia and CS as well as maternal and
      neonatal outcomes
    
  