
    
      Intervention and Surveillance:

      The groin incisions in the intervention group will have NPWT dressing, applied under sterile
      conditions in the operating room. The NPWT will remain on the patient until postoperative day
      7 or earlier if the vacuum seal is broken for any reason. If the NPWT is removed earlier than
      7 days, a sterile gauze dressing will be applied to the incision.

      The control group will receive a sterile gauze dressing, applied under sterile conditions in
      the operating room. The dressing van if needed be changed under sterile conditions at the
      ward on the second postoperative day. The dressing will remain on the patients until
      postoperative day 7. The dressing may be changed (by a research nurse or the attending
      surgeon), under sterile conditions if needed during the 8-day period.

      After the initial 8-day period, patients in both groups will be supplied with sterile gauze
      dressings for an additional 6 days during which dressing changes may be carried out under
      sterile conditions.

      All groin incisions will be examined, evaluated and categorized by a qualified research nurse
      or the attending surgeon, who will be blinded to the initial treatment modality, on the
      seventh postoperative day, 30 days postoperative and again after three months. Wound cultures
      will be taken (when possible) if the ASEPSIS score at any one of the three examinations is
      equal to, or exceeds 21 points.

      Preoperative preparations will be the same for both groups. All patients will receive three
      doses (one pre- and two postoperative) of antibiotic prophylaxis on the day of the operation.
      Groin incisions will be closed with subcutaneous and intracutaneous monofilament absorbable
      sutures.

      All patients will be asked to respond to the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and the
      European Quality of life - Five dimensions (EQ-5D) questionnaires at the time of inclusion
      and at the one month follow up visit. The Wound QoL (Swedish) questionnaire will be presented
      to the patients at the one-week follow up.

      Primary Endpoint:

      • Postoperative SSI within 30 day, classified according to the scoring method ASEPSIS
      (Additional treatment,Serous discharge, Erythema, Purulent exudates, Separation of the deep
      tissues, Isolation of bacteria and in-patient Stay) and graded using the Samson
      classification (Grade I-V), confirmed by positive identification of the infectious agent.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Postoperative SSI within 90 days, classified according to the scoring method ASEPSIS
      (Additional treatment,Serous discharge, Erythema, Purulent exudates, Separation of the deep
      tissues, Isolation of bacteria and in-patient Stay) and graded using the Samson
      classification (Grade I-V), confirmed by positive identification of the infectious agent.

        -  Antibiotic prescriptions for skin and soft tissue infections within 90 days
           postoperatively.

        -  Postoperative SSI within 90 days requiring surgical revision.

        -  Adverse events directly related the NPWT dressing leading discontinuation of treatment.

        -  Major lower limb amputation and/or mortality within 90 days postoperatively.

        -  Changes in reported functionality and quality of life during the 30 day postoperative
           period.

        -  Assessment of healthcare related costs within 30 days postoperatively.

      Based on previous studies the incidence of postoperative groin SSI is 30-35%. Recent studies
      using NPWT have shown a reduction in incidence of 50% or more.

      Using a sample size calculator (Sealed Envelope Ltd., Clerkenwell Workshops, London EC1R 0AT,
      UK) for binary outcome superiority trials with an alpha level of 0.05 for 80% power and an
      estimated incidence reduction from 30% to 10% using NPWT a sample size of 59 patients in each
      arm and a total sample size of 118 is required.

      Randomization will occur once the skin incision has been closed. In cases of bilateral groin
      incision the right groin will be randomized and the left allocated the other arm of the
      trial. The surgeons, the operating room personnel and the investigators evaluating the
      outcome will not be blinded to the intervention.

      Missing data will be treated based on the type data missing. In cases where missing data will
      affect the primary outcome the cases wil be deleted but accounted for in the final report.

      Statistical Analysis Plan:

      The data from each patient will be analysed using appropriate statistical methods for
      categorical and continuous and comparative analysis in respect to risk factors and outcome,
      both primary and secondary as previously defined. Absolute risk increase or reduction, as
      well as numbers needed to treat for NPWT use will be reported.

      Analysis of primary outcomes will be done based on the intention to treat principle.
      Student's t-test and Pearson's chi-square or Fisher's exact test for continuous and
      categorical data, respectively. In cases where bilateral incisions are planned, the right
      groin will be randomized and the left will receive the alternate treatment. For subjects lost
      to follow up, the last recorded follow up/outcome will be recorded as their final outcome.

      Analysis of secondary outcome data will be done according to normal distribution of data
      whrereby non-normally distributed data will be analysed using the Mann-Whitney U-test.

      All tests will be 2-sided and P ≤ 0.05 will be considered statistically signinficant for all
      tests.

      The statistical analyses will be done using SPSS version 23 (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA).

      All patients will be asked to respond to the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and
      European Quality of life - Five dimensions (EQ-5D) and Wound QoL questionnaires at the time
      of inclusion and at the one month follow up visit.

      The data from these questionnaires will be stratified and analysed using appropriate
      statistical methods.

      Ethical considerations:

      General regulations The study will be performed in accordance with the declaration of
      Helsinki as revised at the 64th WMA General Assembly in Fortaleza, Brazil, October 2013.
      Approval of the study protocol has been obtained from the Regional Ethics Committee.

      Informed consent Prior to enrolment all patients will receive written and oral information
      about the study. The patients will only be included after obtaining written and informed
      consent.
    
  