
    
      Background

      Perioperative fluid management in abdominal surgery is a subject of controversy and current
      standard fluid therapy is not evidence based. Standard fluid therapy includes replacement of
      basic fluid requirements, loss by perspiration, by exsudation through the surgical wound, and
      loss into the third space.

      Fluid preload before spinal or just after epidural anaesthesia is a common and recognized
      practice in clinical anaesthesia. Vasodilatation is a well-known side effect of halogenics,
      of most hypnotics and opiates. Compensating decreasing blood pressure by volume substitution
      is common praxis. Alternatively the fall in blood pressure due to vasodilatation can be
      corrected by applying vasoactive agents. A review of the data on the effect of "high volume"
      perioperative fluid therapy suggests that overhydration may have deleterious effects on
      cardiopulmonary function (excessive shift to the right on the Starling myocardial performance
      curve, pneumonia and respiratory failure) as well as on recovery of gastrointestinal motility
      (prolonged postoperative ileus (PI)), tissue oxygenation and wound healing (anastomosis
      leakage). A postoperative weight gain of 3-7 kg in patients after major elective surgery
      therefore seems to represent a genuine fluid overload. Delay in bowel motility may be due to
      the presence of excess fluid in the intestinal wall resulting from excess perioperative fluid
      therapy. Increased gut permeability after surgical trauma may also contribute to the
      development of PI because of enhanced uptake of luminal bacterial products. Postoperative
      complications were significantly reduced by restricted fluid therapy. A dose response
      relation between administrated fluid volume and postoperative complications (cardiopulmonary
      and tissue healing) was found in a randomised assessor blinded multicenter trial for
      colorectal surgery 11,12. The restricted fluid regimen did not lead to haemodynamic
      instability and the amount of vasoactive substances administered was similar. No significant
      difference in urinary output was demonstrated on days 1 and 6. Restrictive fluid
      administration in fast-track surgery led to no differences in all-over recovery after colonic
      surgery. Goal-directed intraoperative fluid administration using the oesophageal Doppler
      monitor to maintain maximal stroke volume has been shown to reduce the length of hospital
      stay, lower the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting and to encourage an early
      return of bowel function. Oesophageal Doppler monitor permits rapid, minimally invasive and
      continuous estimation of cardiac output. It can be easily inserted and is not associated with
      major complications. The investigators will use oesophageal Doppler monitoring for
      intraoperative monitoring of stroke volume and cardiac output.

      In animal experiments on pigs, high (18ml/kg/h) or low (3ml/kg/h) volume crystalloid fluid
      treatment had no effect on colon tissue oxygenation tension. Three different fluid volume
      regimens (3ml/kg/h, 7 ml/kg/h and 20ml/kg/h) tested did not affect tissue oxygen pressure in
      the jejunum and colon, suggesting efficient autoregulation of intestinal blood flow in
      healthy pigs undergoing uncomplicated abdominal surgery 25. Noradrenaline increased systemic
      blood flow (mean arterial pressure and cardiac index) and failed to increase microcirculatory
      blood flow in most abdominal organs in septic pigs. Thoracic epidural anesthesia per se does
      not affect intravascular volume. Therefore, vasopressors are preferable for treatment of
      hypotension after epidural anesthesia.

      The incidence of postoperative cognitive dysfunction varies greatly with reported rates of
      10% to 55%. Patient characteristics such as age, education, type and length of surgical
      procedure and preoperative cognitive status have been found to affect the incidence and
      severity of postoperative cognitive dysfunction. The influence of intraoperative volume
      management on cognitive function has not been assessed.

      It seems of interest and safe to use a noradrenaline perfusor combined with a low volume
      regimen during open radical cystectomy. The low volume regimen, as described in this study
      protocol, is well established in our institution, which has a large experience in cystectomy.

      Objective

      The aim of this study is to compare intraoperative blood loss, quality of the surgical field
      (defined later), metabolic response, pain relief, fatigue score, gastrointestinal function,
      cardiovascular, pulmonary, infectious and surgical complications and cognitive function in
      two groups of patients undergoing radical cystectomy. The first group will be treated
      according to an internationally accepted standard fluid regimen (6 ml/kg/h of crystalloids
      and correction of the hypotony with fluid boluses); the second one will be treated with a
      restrictive fluid regimen of 2ml/kg/h of crystalloids in combination with sympathicomimetics.

      Methods

      Prospective, randomised, controlled, single-centre study. Randomly assigned in equal
      proportion by computer to receive the dry regimen 2ml/kg/h combined with sympathicomimetics
      or the standard fluid management.

      An advanced balanced electrolyte solution will be used containing acetate/malate instead of
      lactate. Substantial advantages are a base excess of +/- O mmol/l, that it is isotonic, and
      contains anions acetate and malate.

      208 patients with open radical cystectomy Duration: 36 months Setting: University Department
      of Urology , Inselspital Bern, Switzerland Study sample and power calculation

      A power analysis for postoperative complication rate as primary outcome has been done with
      the NCSS PASS programme:

      Power: 80% Significance: 0.05% or lower Complication rate for the restrictive volume regimen
      group: 20% Complication rate for the control group: 38% 83 patients will be required in each
      group. Assuming a 20% drop-out rate 104 patients per group will be enrolled.
    
  