
    
      Due to the CMO and CMCO in the country, public and private universities have activated the
      e-learning mode for classes and as the government ordered, universities are closed and no
      face-to-face activities allowed. This has forced students of all disciplines including
      dentistry to stay at home which is wide-spread across Malaysia and shift to e-learning mode.
      To guarantee the final success for the fight against COVID-19, regardless of their education
      status, students' adherence to these control measures is essential, which is largely affected
      by their knowledge, attitudes, and practices (KAP) towards COVID-19 in accordance with KAP
      theory.

      Background:

      In the KAP study conducted among residents in China, it was noticed that KAP scores were
      associated with a lower likelihood of negative attitudes and preventive practices towards
      COVID-2019. Most Chinese residents of a relatively high socioeconomic status, in particular
      women, are knowledgeable about COVID-19, hold optimistic attitudes, and have appropriate
      practices towards COVID-19. Health education programs aimed at improving COVID-19 knowledge
      are helpful for Chinese residents to hold optimistic attitudes and maintain appropriate
      practices. In a cross-sectional study among pregestational and pregnant women was conducted
      in Shaanxi, China, women at the periconceptional period in Shaanxi lacked the total KAP level
      of periconceptional healthcare, especially those who live in rural areas and have less
      education. The authors concluded that government agencies should reinforce more effective
      primary preventive measures and policies for the prevention of adverse pregnancy outcomes.

      In a study aimed to assess the level of awareness, perception, and attitude regarding
      COVID-19 and infection control among Jordanian dentists, the authors concluded that Jordanian
      dentists were aware of COVID-19 symptoms, mode of transmission, and infection controls and
      measures in dental clinics. But dentists had limited comprehension of the extra precautionary
      measures that protect the dental staff and other patients from COVID-19. They also
      recommended that it would be best practice to send National and international guidelines
      established by the regional and national dental associations to all registered dentists
      during a crisis, including the COVID-19 pandemic, to ensure that dentists are well informed
      and aware of best practices and recommended disease management approaches.

      The outbreak of COVID-19 was unprecedented and forced many universities to launch online
      courses to ensure the continuity of teaching-learning activities, with students staying at
      homes or dorms. It is a massive, challenging shift to move all the existing courses online in
      a matter of days. In general, a complete online course requires an elaborate lesson plan
      design, teaching materials such as audio and video contents, as well as technology support
      teams.

      Many academic institutions in Malaysia commit themselves to eLearning because they believe in
      its effectiveness as an alternative approach to the traditional classroom method of
      disseminating information. A study conducted on e-learning shows that higher education
      institutions in Malaysia offer more than 50% of their courses online. The data also shows
      that 13.8% of lecturers provide more than 80% online learning materials and that 44.6% of
      students prefer to read materials uploaded by their lecturers. The findings also show that
      students' preference for online courses is very encouraging. In fact, lecturers also agree
      that the integration of e-learning into their courses has benefited students. In general, it
      clearly shows that the application of e-learning is accepted by lecturers and students of
      HEIs as an effective means of communication.

      A national study was conducted to evaluate the self-perceived preparedness of final-year
      dental undergraduate students in dental public universities in Malaysia. The authors
      concluded that confidence and experience in some clinical skills, cognitive and behavioral
      attributes could be improved to facilitate their transition into independent dental practice
      after graduation. This is best possible in face-to-face teaching. So given this unprecedented
      situation, it will be best to assess the perception of dental students towards online
      teaching.
    
  