
    
      Background:

      Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is highly responsive to but not curable by cladribine (CdA). HCL
      responds to rituximab, which is not yet standard therapy for HCL.

      Patients with the CD25-negative variant (HCLv) respond poorly to initial cladribine but do
      respond to rituximab in anecdotal reports.

      Purine analogs cladribine and pentostatin have similar efficacy for HCL, both inhibiting DNA
      synthesis selectively in HCL cells. Cladribine is effective after just 1 cycle. Rituximab is
      an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody which induces apoptosis and either complement or antibody
      dependent cytotoxicity (ADCC or CDC).

      Patients in complete remission (CR) to cladribine have minimal residual disease (MRD) by
      immunohistochemistry of the bone marrow biopsy (BMBx IHC), a risk for early relapse. Tests
      for HCL MRD in blood or marrow include flow cytometry (FACS) or PCR using consensus primers.
      The most sensitive HCL MRD test is real-time quantitative PCR using sequence-specific primers
      (RQ-PCR).

      In studies with limited follow-up, MRD detected by tests other than RQ-PCR can be eliminated
      by rituximab after cladribine in > 90% of patients, but MRD rates after purine analog alone
      are unknown. Simultaneous cladribine and rituximab might be superior or inferior to delaying
      rituximab until detection of MRD.

      Only 4 HCL-specific trials are listed on Cancer.gov: a phase II trial of cladribine followed
      4 weeks later by 8 weekly doses of rituximab, and phase I-II trials of recombinant
      immunotoxins targeting CD22 (BL22, HA22) and CD25 (LMB-2).

      Objective:

      To determine if HCL MRD differs at 6 months after cladribine with or without rituximab
      administered concurrently with cladribine.

      Eligibility:

      HCL with 0-1 prior courses of cladribine or pentostatin and treatment indicated.

      Design:

      Cladribine 0.15 mg/Kg/day times 5 doses each by 2hr i.v. infusion (days 1-5)

      Rituximab 375 mg/m2/week times 8 weeks, randomized half to begin day 1, then repeat for all
      patients with blood-MRD relapse at least 6 months after cladribine. Also may repeat for those
      with blood-MRD relapse at least 6 months after delayed rituximab.

      MRD tests used for the primary objective will be limited to BMBx IHC, blood FACS, and

      bone marrow aspirate FACS, all CLIA certified. Blood MRD relapse is defined as FACS
      positivity or low blood counts (ANC less than 1500/microl, Plt less than 100,000/microl, or
      Hgb less than 11) attributed to HCL. Patients FACS-negative in both blood and bone marrow
      aspirate are considered MRD-negative complete response (CR) regardless of blood counts.

      Randomization: 68 HCL patients with 0 and 62 with 1 prior course of purine analog

      Statistics: 80% power to discriminate rates of MRD of 5 vs. 25%, or 10 vs. 35%

      Non-randomized HCLv arm: 20 patients with HCLv will begin rituximab with cladribine.

      Non-randomized HCL arm: 25 newly diagnosed patients will be enrolled to receive rituximab

      beginning day 1, but beginning before the 1st dose of cladribine, rather than after.

      Accrual ceiling: 177 patients (155 HCL, 2 extra HCL if needed, and 20 HCLv)
    
  