
    
      Pain affects more Americans than diabetes, heart disease and cancer combined and although it
      is one of the earliest known ailments, pain is still without a universal cure. It is
      estimated that only about 25% of patients with chronic pain receive adequate analgesia.

      Long-term treatment of chronic pain with opioids is recognized as an important treatment
      option for patients with moderate-severe pain related to cancer and other chronic serious
      illnesses. AVINZA (morphine sulfate extended-release capsules) was approved for marketing by
      the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2002 as a once daily treatment for the relief of
      moderate to severe pain requiring continuous opioid therapy for an extended period of time.
      While opioids, such as AVINZA, are beneficial in the management of chronic pain, they are
      sometimes associated with illicit activities. Misuse, abuse and diversion of controlled
      prescription drugs, particularly opioids, are problems that have increased dramatically in
      the United States (U.S.) since the 1990s.

      This study will follow the Federation of State Medical Boards Model Policy for the Use of
      Controlled Substances for the Treatment of Pain. Patients will be counseled on the proper
      storage and destruction of unused AVINZA in accordance with federal and applicable state
      laws. A universal precautions approach to chronic pain management (KAIR) will be utilized in
      this study. Although not validated as a risk assessment and management instrument, KAIR is
      designed to assist clinicians with responsibly managing chronic moderate-severe pain patients
      prescribed AVINZA. The KAIR tools will be used by the Investigator to determine the level of
      monitoring required based on the patient's potential risk for opioid misuse or abuse (KAIR
      level). Investigators and staff participating in this study will be required to participate
      in a training program on the counseling to be given, procedures to be followed and tools to
      be used in this study.
    
  