
    
      In 32 untreated stage 1 hypertensive subjects, the investigators will measure blood pressure;
      noninvasive cardiac output by thoracic electrical bioimpedance (Bioz, Cardio Dynamics);
      forearm mediated vasodilation (FMD), which is a non-invasive assessment of endothelial
      function; collect venous endothelial cells; and measure microvascular perfusion using an
      Octafluoropropane microbubble contrast agent (Definity).

      To obtain FMD, the brachial artery will be imaged using ultrasound. After a clear picture has
      been obtained, the cuff on the same arm will be inflated until it is tight for five minutes.
      During and following this, the subject's arm will continue to be imaged to monitor maximal
      increase in the brachial artery diameter.

      To collect endothelial cells, a thin wire will be inserted in the vein to collect cells from
      the inner lining of the vein. The cells collected will be processed and stained for several
      proteins involved in endothelial cell function, using immunofluorescent technique.

      To assess the microvascular perfusion in the skeletal muscle, a contrast agent (Definity)
      will be administered at baseline and after 5 minutes of rhythmic hand grip exercise at 30% of
      maximal voluntary contraction.

      The investigators will then randomize our subjects to receive 12 weeks of Metoprolol or
      Nebivolol, using a cross over design. There will be a 4 week washout period between the two
      treatments. During the washout period, subjects will be followed after 2 weeks of drug
      withdrawal. Subjects found to have BP > 140/90 mmHg then, will be started on
      hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) at 25 mg once daily. Then subjects will be asked to return in 2
      weeks. At that time HCTZ will be stopped if started in the earlier visit, and subject will be
      switched to the remaining treatment (Nebivolol or Metoprolol). Then, the investigators will
      assess microvascular perfusion in the skeletal muscle at rest and during handgrip exercise,
      endothelial function (FMD), and changes in endothelial cell protein expression after 12 weeks
      of Nebivolol and after 12 weeks of Metoprolol treatment in the same subjects.
    
  