
    
      After consent is signed, a baseline questionnaire will be given to the participant, including
      demographics and baseline data followed by randomization into one of the following
      groups:Relaxation breathing training alone or Technology-enhanced relaxation breathing.The
      intervention will occur through the use of the StressEraser, Breathe2Relax and text
      messaging.

        1. The StressEraser is a handheld biofeedback device that measures heart rate variability
           (HRV). Heart rate increases during inspiration and decreases during expiration. This
           HRV, depicted on a miniature screen, essentially represents respirations. We have been
           using this device in the pediatric outpatient department over the past two years (in a
           non research entity) and it has been well accepted by children 6 years of age and above.
           In our prior study, which took place in school, the device was also easily mastered and
           acceptable to children above 6 years of age.

        2. Breathe2Relax is a free mobile app, developed by the Dept. of Defense's National Center
           for Telehealth and Technology to help veterans with PTSD and others use breathing
           practice for stress management. This application guides users in relaxation breathing
           and is available for both android and iOS phones. It is adapted for children 6 years and
           up. The user downloads the app. and is walked through steps that easily explain the
           purpose of the app (to guide relaxation breathing). The active part of the app shows a
           tube that fills in during inspiration and empties during expiration. For children the
           cycle lengths can be shortened which is explained to participating parents by the
           research team. There is a selection of quiet music and the user can choose backgrounds
           for personalization. The Breath2Relax app will be downloaded for the RT-enhanced group
           at the time of the intervention for the RT-enhanced group, and the parent will be shown
           how to modify the length of the breath cycle depending on their child's age.

        3. Text messages: Weekly texts will be sent out to parents in the RT-enhanced group
           regarding relaxation breathing and to remind parents to practice the daily relaxation
           breathing with their child.

      For the breathing training, the study research assistant (RA) will follow the standardized
      protocol used in BMC pediatric clinic over the past two years. The child is taught firstand
      learns how to use relaxation breathing and then the child teaches their parent how it works
      with the support of the RA. This step assures that the child has learned the relaxation
      breathing skills and also creates a moment when relaxation breathing is practiced together by
      the dyad. The parent-child dyad are encouraged to practice relaxation breathing once
      daily.Caregivers usually choose bedtime to practice breathing because the practice can be
      done while the child is in bed.

      The training is followed for the Technology-enhanced relaxation breathing group by
      downloading the Breath2Relax app on the parent's smartphone. Parents will be prompted by the
      RA to choose a specific time each day to practice the relaxation breathing with their child,
      and for the Technology-enhanced relaxation breathing group using the Breath2Relax app.
    
  