
    
      Stroke is a neurological injury caused by the occlusion or rupture of cerebral blood vessels.
      Stroke can be ischemic, hemorrhagic, or both. Ischemic stroke is more frequently caused by
      arterial occlusion, but it may also be caused by venous occlusion of cerebral veins or
      sinuses. Hemorrhagic stroke is the result of bleeding from a ruptured cerebral artery or from
      bleeding into the site of an acute ischemic stroke. Stroke is relatively rare in children but
      can lead to significant morbidity and mortality. Understanding that children with strokes
      present differently than adults and often present with unique risk factors will optimize
      outcomes in children. Early recognition and treatment of pediatric stroke are critical in
      optimizing long-term functional outcomes, reducing morbidity and mortality, and preventing
      recurrent stroke. Neuroimaging plays a vital role in achieving this goal. Neuroimaging is
      usually the first step in diagnosis, helping discriminate between ischemic/hemorrhagic
      strokes and also in the identification of underlying potential causes MRI is a more sensitive
      test for early detection of an infarction. Magnetic resonance arteriography (MRA) and
      magnetic resonance venography (MRV) should also be carried out to confirm vessel patency and
      define the vascular anatomy. MRA will yield further information about blood flow, and MRV
      will more reliably identify cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. MRI has a high sensitivity and
      specificity in the first hours after symptom onset with the potential to both characterize
      the ischemic pathology and to differentiate ischemic from hemorrhagic lesions at least as
      accurately as computed tomography (CT). Most common imaging protocol used for acute ischemic
      stroke is an emergent/urgent stroke protocol MRI with MRA. This usually takes approximately
      13 min for the MRI sequences and 19 min with MRA.
    
  