
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess if proximal knowledge regarding radiation therapy (RT) treatment is improved as
      result of radiation therapist-led education sessions utilizing VERT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess if proximal anxiety related to first RT is reduced as result of radiation
      therapist-led education sessions utilizing VERT.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether self-reported knowledge changes throughout course of RT treatment.

      II. To evaluate if self-reported knowledge related to RT treatment differs by patient and
      tumor characteristics (gender, age, diagnosis, type of cancer, etc.).

      III. To determine whether the level of patient knowledge and/or anxiety changes throughout
      radiation RT treatment.

      IV. To evaluate if the level of anxiety related to RT treatment differs by patient and tumor
      characteristics (gender, age, diagnosis, type of cancer, etc.).

      V. To characterize the levels informational support provided by interprofessional RT
      treatment team needs and knowledge gaps of cancer patients undergoing RT treatment.

      VI. To determine the sources of information related to RT treatment being accessed by study
      participants.

      VII. To assess self-reported satisfaction in knowledge gained regarding RT treatment.

      VIII. To compare the baseline proximal knowledge and anxiety of Oregon Health and Science
      University (OHSU) patients with Compass Oncology patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are either randomized to Arm I or 1 of 2 groups of Arm II, or assigned to
      the observational cohort.

      ARM I: Patients complete a radiation therapist-led education module using virtual reality
      over 30 minutes at the first treatment appointment, prior to radiation therapy treatment.

      ARM II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      ARM II CONTROL GROUP I: Patients receive the usual verbal and written education materials at
      the first treatment appointment, prior to radiation therapy treatment.

      ARM II CONTROL GROUP II: Patients complete a radiation therapist-led face-to-face education
      module at the first treatment appointment, prior to radiation therapy treatment.

      OBSERVATIONAL COHORT: Observational patients receive the usual verbal and written education
      materials at the first treatment appointment, prior to radiation therapy treatment.

      After completion of study, patients are optionally followed up periodically.
    
  