
    
      The incidence of stroke-induced hemiparesis among veterans is likely to rise as this
      population ages. Post-stroke hemiparesis is often marked by persistent hand impairment, which
      adversely affects both a person's ability to work and his/her quality of life. We believe
      that impairment is primarily due to neural, rather than biomechanical, factors. At the muscle
      level, these factors relate either to the inability to activate muscles (i.e., low muscle
      activation) or to activate them appropriately (i.e., abnormal muscle co-activation).
      Currently it is unclear as to which one is largely responsible for weakness in the hand as
      the net mechanical effect, e.g., reduced fingertip force production, could be the same.
      Determination of voluntary muscle force generation could help to explain deficits in
      fingertip force production in specific directions, as well as to customize treatment
      approaches in which force generation ability of some muscles is decreased and others
      increased. The goal of this work is to explain the source of neurally-mediated weakness at
      the fingertip following hemiparetic stroke, and to design and experimentally test
      rehabilitation interventions that attempt to offset this weakness.

      As we were refining the protocol to experimentally test a rehabilitation
      intervention-involving neural block and stimulation of select muscles to decrease and
      increase muscle force generation-it was more challenging than anticipated to locate, using
      ultrasound, small nerve branches to individual muscles for selective neural blocking. As a
      result we designed additional interventions, using a computer model, that reflected the
      physical limitation to implementation which could still hopefully lead to improved fingertip
      function. We are seeking novel approaches to locate and block small nerve branches to
      individual muscles for an individual muscle-based approach to rehabilitation which we expect
      to be an improvement over rehabilitation interventions that target groups of muscles at a
      time. The clinical data collected in the study and biomechanical model simulation work
      provide guidance for a clinical trial study in the future.
    
  