
    
      Upwards of 43% of persons with major depressive disorder (MDD) are daily smokers who are more
      likely to smoke heavily, show greater tobacco dependence, suffer more severe withdrawal, and
      experience lower quit rates than smokers without MDD. Little is known about treatment
      strategies that might optimize smoking cessation for smokers with MDD because almost all
      randomized clinical trials have excluded these smokers. This project answers many prominent
      but largely unanswered calls over the last decade to address tobacco dependence in persons
      with mental health disorders, especially major depressive disorder (MDD). Using a
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized design, the investigators will evaluate the
      efficacy of behavioral activation for smoking cessation (BASC) plus varenicline for treating
      tobacco dependence in smokers with current or lifetime MDD. Three hundred and thirty daily
      (≥1 cigarettes/day) smokers will be randomized to receive 12 weeks of one of four treatments:
      1) Standard behavioral cessation treatment (ST) + placebo; 2) Behavioral activation
      integrated with ST (BASC) + placebo; 3) ST + varenicline; or 4) BASC + varenicline. Both BASC
      and ST will be administered in eight 45 minute sessions, occurring weekly for the first four
      weeks and biweekly for the final eight weeks. Randomization will be stratified on clinical
      site (Northwestern, University of Pennsylvania), gender, and severity of depressive symptoms
      (minimal/mild vs. moderate/severe). The primary outcomes will be carbon monoxide (CO)
      verified 7-day point prevalence abstinence at 24-weeks post-quit. Additional aims include
      assessing adverse event rates between varenicline and placebo arms, and testing for mediation
      of treatment effects by anhedonia, cognitive function (attention and memory), cigarette
      reward value, and craving and withdrawal. This randomized controlled trial will be the first
      adequately powered trial of BASC in this population; the first trial to evaluate varenicline
      among a community sample of smokers with MDD; and the first trial to assess the main and
      combined effects of these two treatments.
    
  