
    
      Methodology:

      This will be a randomised trial with three arms: 1. Darco, 2. Podalux, 3. Standard dressing
      shoe.

      Design:

      A randomised controlled trial will ensure that shoes are distributed without surgeon bias,
      and will be performed prior to surgery by the principle investigator. Baseline differences
      will be assessed for by administration of a pre-operative MOXFQ score prior to randomisation.
      Primary outcome measure will be difference in score between groups post-operatively, however
      we will also analyse the absolute change in score between groups, although this we do not
      feel can be the primary outcome measure as the major reason for the change in MOXFQ from pre
      to post operation will be the surgery itself.

      Blinding and randomisation:

      Randomisation will be achieved by a computer generated randomisation table. As two main types
      of surgery will be used in the study as outlined below (namely 1st metatarsal osteotomy and
      1st MTP joint fusion), we will have two separate randomisation groups to ensure that numbers
      of each operation are evenly distributed between the three types of shoe. This will improve
      heterogeneity of the groups. We have decided to use two types of surgery as the research
      question is relevant to both and we can perform a secondary analysis to look between these
      groups more closely as detailed below. For practical purposes this will not be a blinded
      trial as the surgeon and patient will both be aware of the shoe provided.

      Analysis:

      We have sought an opinion from a statistician. The data for the MOXFQ (primary outcome
      measure) will be subdivided into the 3 domains, walking/standing, pain and social demain, and
      the raw scores will be treated as laid out in the original paper by Dawson et al. (2011) [2].

      The scores from each of the 3 domains is then converted to a metric 0-100 scale for analysis.

      The Surgical Show Questionnaire scores (secondary outcome measure) will be totalled to give a
      score out of 50.

      The data will be analysed for normality, and comparison will be made using the ANOVA or
      Kruskall-Wallis testing for unpaired continuous data as advised by the statistician, with a
      significance level set at P<0.05.

      We have been advised that we can perform a secondary analysis using linear regression to look
      at the effect of the differences within the groups on outcome, for example differences
      between operation type and each of the shoes.

      Statsdirect statistical software will be used. There is a question (Q1) in the Surgical Shoe
      Questionnaire that asks the patient how long they wore the shoe for. This question is not
      included in the scoring and is included to assess for patient use, and will be used as a
      secondary outcome measure. The study does not necessarily require strict patient compliance
      as discontinuation of the shoe is valuable information in its own right. This can be looked
      at within the secondary analysis using linear regression as well.

      The primary analysis will be intention to treat analysis.

      Outcome Measures:

      The MOXFQ is a widely validated foot score used in the assessment of the foot with 3
      specified domains; walking/standing, pain, and social interaction (Appendix 1). The MOXFQ
      (Manchester-Oxford foot Questionnaire) walking/standing domain will be used as the primary
      outcome measure as this includes the questions that are most relevant to ease of shoe use.
      However the other 2 domains will be analyses although there is more likely to be confounding
      factors that will affect these. Secondary outcome measures will include 11 questions related
      to the wearing of the shoe forming a separate questionnaire. (Appendix 2).

      Setting:

      The setting for the study will be clinical. Out-patients clinic for recruitment and follow-up
      and theatre for randomisation and post-surgical shoe provision.

      Participants:

      Patients will be recruited from outpatient clinics directly by the clinical care team, and
      will be recruited from those who have been listed for forefoot surgery.

      Patients undergoing forefoot surgery who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to
      participate in the trial and provided with written information within the clinic setting [see
      Patient Information Sheet ver 1.0]. Those wishing to participate will be asked to provide
      written consent on the day of surgery [see Patient Consent Form ver 1.0] which will be
      undertaken by the principle investigator.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria have been chosen that include the majority of patients
      undergoing straightforward forefoot surgery who would be normally managed in our current
      post-operative shoe (the Darco), and who have capacity to consent to surgery.

      Inclusions:

      Patients over 18 years age Patients normally independently mobile Patients with no
      significant co-morbidities that would be expected to affect normal ambulation Patients
      undergoing straightforward 1st ray surgery eg. 1st MTPJ arthrodesis, 1st metatarsal
      osteotomy, (in combination with 2nd ray procedures allowed) Patients able to understand and
      complete questionnaires

      Exclusions:

      Patients under 18 years age Patients not independently mobile Patients with significant
      co-morbidities that effect normal ambulation (eg hip arthritis) Patients undergoing
      complicated forefoot reconstructive surgery or surgery on rays other then 1st and 2nd.

      Patients unable to understand or complete self-administered questionnaires

      Sampling:

      Sample size will be determined based on a power calculation using MOXFQ (Manchester-Oxford
      foot Questionnaire) as the primary outcome measure. The MOXFQ is a widely validated foot
      score used in the assessment of the foot with 3 specified domains; walking/standing, pain,
      and social interaction (Appendix 1). It is the walking/standing domain that has provided us
      with the data for the power calculation (1,2).

      The walking/standing domain scores out of 35 which is then transformed to a score out of 100,
      an approximate multiple of 3.

      We have calculated the standardised difference as 15 out of 100, which equates to a raw score
      of 30 out of 35, or a one point drop for 5 out of 7 questions, which is the minimum
      difference we wish to detect.

      Using a significance level of 0.05 and power level of 0.8 we calculate each arm of the trial
      will consist of 29 patients (standardised difference between means =15, standard deviation
      =20). This has been agreed with the statistician.

      In total 90 patients will be required. We estimate approximately 6 to 8 of these procedures
      are carried out with the Foot and ankle unit per week, and therefore estimate the study will
      take around 12 to 16 weeks to complete.

      Subject with-drawl:

      Subjects are free to with-draw at any time during the study, and will be included in the
      intention to treat analysis by being assigned a questionnaire score identical to that of the
      lowest scoring participant in their randomisation group. For example if the Darco group score
      from 65 to 95 of the MOXFQ, a subject who withdraws will be assigned a value of 65. Due to
      the short nature of the study we anticipate this will be infrequent. Those patients who
      change their surgical footwear will be included in the intention to treat analysis for their
      original randomised group as agreed with the statistician.

      Intervention:

      Once patients have consented and completed the pre-operative MOXFQ score, following their
      surgery, patients will be randomly assigned to one of the three treatment arms to wear the
      shoe for 6 weeks following their surgery. The participant will be advised that withdrawal
      from the study at any stage is possible and only data collected up until that point will be
      used, although due to the timeframe and nature of the study we believe this is unlikely to
      occur.

      Patients will attend for their routine follow-up at 2 weeks post-surgery for wound review and
      removal of any sutures used in our nurse-led dressing clinic.

      Patients will attend for their routine 6 week post-surgery follow-up appointment with their
      consultant and will be asked to complete the questionnaire assessment. This will mark the end
      of the study.

      Safety assessments:

      Whilst we do not anticipate any adverse events, any problems with the shoes will be monitored
      during the clinic visits and documented for the study.

      Quality control:

      The study will be overseen by the principle investigator. All questionnaires will be looked
      at as soon as they are completed in clinic, to ensure completeness.

      Project management The study is straightforward, with minimum man-power requirements, and
      will therefore be conducted by the principle and co-investigators. Progress will be monitored
      at the regular meetings of the foot and ankle research group held every 2 months. Data will
      be held within the secured office of the foot and ankle fellow, and be stored anonymously
      using a participant number assigned on consent. The master patient log with the participants
      details will be held as a paper copy within the foot and ankle office.

      Expertise As this study only involves the administration of a simple questionnaire, no
      specialist involvement is required.

      Ethical Issues The patient information leaflet is provided to patients when they are listed
      for surgery in clinic to allow them time to consider participating in the trial. Patients
      happy to participate in the trial are consented on the day of surgery by the lead or
      co-investigators. Patients are allocated a particpant number held on a master log in a locked
      office, and throughout the trial questionnaires use this number to maintain confidentiality
      as per Caldicott guidelines.

      Costing Schedule No additional costs will be incurred. The Darco and standard dressing shoes
      are already in use in the hospital, and the Podalux shoes have been provided on a free trial
      basis by Donjoy Int. Basic costs such as photocopying questionnaires will be provided by the
      foot and ankle research unit.

      Funding arrangements The only additional funding we anticipate is with the provision of
      questionnaires and is estimated at around £36.00 (based on the price of photocopying 5p per
      sheet). This includes 90 consent forms (1 page), 90 (4 pages), 180 MOXFQ's (1 page), 90
      Surgical shoe questionnaires (1page).

      We anticipate the role of the research nurse to be negligible as all the questionnaires and
      paperwork will be administed in the out-patients clinics or prior to surgery by clinicians.
    
  