
    
      Some patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD) have an inefficient pumping
      function. These patients have been shown to benefit from a device therapy known as
      biventricular pacing. Biventricular pacing causes a more coordinated contraction of the heart
      chambers resulting in improvement in the pumping ability of the heart and blood pressure.
      Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT) has established itself as a proven therapy for
      congestive heart failure in adults, patients showing improvement in exercise tolerance,
      quality of life, and survival.

      In cardiac surgery, a significant number of these patients with left ventricular systolic
      dysfunction require postoperative pacing. Right ventricular pacing has been shown to be
      hemodynamically deleterious Whether biventricular pacing in patients with LVSD improves
      patient outcomes after heart surgery has not been investigated.

      The aim of this crossover trial is to compare conventional ventricular pacing and
      DDD-biventricular in post operative patients with a pre operative ejection fraction less than
      45%, in a prospective randomized setting.

      We would like to determine whether biventricular pacing optimized by trans thoracic
      echocardiography of left ventricular, immediately after heart surgery in patients with LVSD
      will improve the heart function.

      Immediately after surgery, the patients will receive atrio ventricular conventional right
      ventricular pacing, or biventricular pacing depending upon the treatment arm that they were
      randomized to.

      The primary end point is a 15 % improvement in index cardiac measured by thermal dilution
      and/or echocardiography in intensive care unit.

      Furthermore, Plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), cardiac troponin T
      (cTnT), will be measured in patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery 12 h, 24 h, 48 h and
      72 hours after.

      This study is important because of a high probability of clinical benefit.
    
  