
    
      Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) with low grade dysplasia (LGD) can progress to
      high grade dysplasia (HGD) or invasive cancer. Main duct IPMN, mixed type IPMN or branch duct
      IPMN with high risk stigmata are highly predictive for malignancy. Therefore, patients in
      good general state should be considered for surgical resection. Guidelines like the
      International Fukuoka Consensus Guidelines from 2017 or the European evidence-based
      Guidelines on Pancreatic cyst neoplasms from 2018 provide detailed recommendations on the
      management of IPMNs by focusing on clinical characteristics, image morphology, cytology and
      laboratory parameters. However, these applied guidelines still lead to surgical overtreatment
      of pancreas cysts based on the pathologic outcomes as neither HGD nor carcinoma is found in
      up to 82.1 % of the resected cysts. Cyst fluid sent for cytology usually provides adequate
      cellular material for analysis in only 31% of the cases and Endoscopic Ultrasound-guided
      forceps biopsy has not yet shown to be better than fine needle aspiration. Hence, further
      diagnostic tools are needed to identify mucinous cysts for further evaluation or follow-up
      respectively to identify cysts with HGD or invasive cancer at an early stage for surgical
      resection. Molecular genetic analysis of pancreatic cyst fluid is possibly able to identify
      KRAS/GNAS oncogenic driver mutations in mucinous cysts and to identify tumour suppressor gene
      mutations which are involved in advanced cysts with HGD or carcinoma. This workgroup
      described a high sensitive method of targeted Next Generation Sequencing in pancreas cyst
      fluid with a limit of detection of allele frequency down to 0.01 %. Further investigations of
      the ongoing ZYSTEUS-study are focused on the implementation of DNA mutation analysis by NGS
      in the diagnostic algorithm of pancreas cyst evaluation. The first aim is to reliably
      distinguish mucinous from non-mucinous cysts respectively main duct IPMN from chronic
      pancreatitis with main duct dilatation as the absence of KRAS/GNAS-mutations is highly
      predictive for non-mucinous diseases. The second aim is to define relevant tumour suppressor
      gene mutations which are relevant to differentiate LGD from HGD/carcinoma in mucinous cysts.
      DNA mutation analysis will be compared with already established peroperative diagnostic tests
      of pancreas cyst fluid: Measurement of CEA and lipase as well as cytology.
    
  