
    
      Visit Day 0 (Screening visit):

      Once the consent form is signed by the participant identified as eligible, a blood test for
      the detection of potential biological contraindications to statins will be done the same day
      called Day 0. It will include a complete blood count, liver function tests (AST, ALT, GGT,
      bilirubin, ALP), serum CPK and serum electrolytes for renal function (CREAT, urea). For woman
      who is capable of having children, a serum pregnancy test will be done. The final inclusion
      of the subject will be confirmed once the biological results obtained and validated.

      The patient will be evaluated by Dr. Desrosiers according to clinical and endoscopic
      criteria. The participant will have to complete two questionnaires: one questionnaire with
      questions that assess quality of life (SNOT-22), and another questionnaire on nasal and sinus
      symptoms.

      The subject must comply with an observation period of 30 days during which he/she will pursue
      only washes the salt water.

      Visit Day 30 :

      Thirty days after the screening visit, only the subjects with normal results of blood tests,
      are definitely included and will continue the clinical trial. A clinical and endoscopic sinus
      exam, a serum pregnancy test will be performed again before the administration of the study
      drug. Bacterial culture sinus using a swab, and brushing of the sinus mucosa under local
      anesthesia, will also be performed. Brushing sinus will collect the RNA present in epithelial
      cells and inflammatory nasal mucosa for the identification of markers of inflammation such as
      IL6, IL8, IL10, TNF. In addition, the participant must complete again the questionnaire on
      nasal and sinus symptoms and SNOT-22 questionnaire.

      The study medication will consist of taking one tablet of 40mg SIMVASTATIN once a day for 30
      days. This visit will be seen as the beginning of treatment (Day 30). The subject will also
      continue with irrigation of sinus with saline for 30 days until the next visit.

      Visit Day 60:

      This follow-up visit will take place 4 weeks after the beginning of treatment. A clinical and
      endoscopic sinus exam, blood collections to assess renal and hepatic function, a bacterial
      sinus culture, and brushing of sinus mucosa will again be performed. The subject must
      complete again the questionnaire on nasal and sinus symptoms and SNOT-22 questionnaire.

      The participant will continue with irrigation of sinus with saline for 30 days until the next
      visit.

      Visit Day 90:

      This follow-up visit will take place 8 weeks after the beginning of treatment. A clinical and
      endoscopic sinus exam will be done again, and the participant must again complete the
      questionnaire on nasal and sinus symptoms and SNOT-22 questionnaire.

      Statistical analysis:

      Each participant is his/her own control. At Day 0, Day 30, Day 60 and Day 90, clinical and
      endoscopic data will be analyzed using the test Brapkar for the qualitative matched
      observations which is a generalization of the McNemar test for a number of categories greater
      than 2.

      For each gene (IL6, IL8, IL10, TNF), deltaCt values from the analysis of quantitative PCR
      (Polymerase Chain Reaction) will be compared before and after treatment with SIMVASTATIN
      using tests for paired samples: a parametric test (t test) or non-parametric test (Wilcoxon
      Signed-Rank Test).
    
  