
    
      The benefit of antiretroviral therapy is well established but limited to wealthy nations. A
      predefined, simple sequence of treatment regimens focused on extending the durability of
      limited treatment options has the best potential to be implemented in resource poor
      countries. South Africa has 15% of the world's HIV/AIDS patients and a limited number of
      physicians to treat them (l per 1,600 and less than 5 infectious diseases specialists). HIV
      patient care in the primary care setting must therefore be delivered by personnel other than
      doctors. Further, treatment strategies should include entire households to ensure maximum
      adherence and minimize sharing of drugs.

      This study will have two parts. The first part will compare a first-line antiretroviral
      therapy regimen administered and monitored by primary health care sisters (nurses) with the
      same regimen administered by doctors. The second part of the study will determine if
      community-based directly observed therapy (DOT) is significantly superior to continued
      clinic-based treatment support for patients who have failed first-line therapy, as measured
      by cumulative virology failure rate. The project will also evaluate the cost and economic
      impact of a predetermined schedule of antiretroviral therapy; treatment outcomes in terms of
      morbidity, opportunistic and endemic infections, and mortality; and factors contributing to
      treatment failure, including toxicity, resistance, compliance, and treatment interruption.

      In Part 1, households will be randomly assigned to receive first-line antiretroviral therapy
      under the monitoring and care of either an HIV-trained medical doctor supported by adherence
      counselors or an HIV-trained primary health care sister (nurse with training in diagnosis and
      treatment prescription). Members of the household who are HIV infected will receive
      stavudine, lamivudine, and efavirenz (nevirapine or nelfinavir may be used for special
      populations).

      Participants who fail first-line antiretroviral therapy in Part 1 of the study will be
      entered into Part 2 of the study. Participants in Part 2 will receive zidovudine, didanosine,
      and lopinavir/ritonavir. Participants will be randomly assigned to have their treatment
      monitored through either a clinic-based treatment support group or through community-based
      directly observed treatment (DOT). For the DOT arm, a community member will observe therapy
      for at least one dose a day, five days a week, at the home or work of the participant.

      HIV infected children age 3 months to 16 years who live in a participating household will
      also be included in the study. These children will receive first-line treatment with clinic
      visits monitored by either the assigned sister (nurse) or doctor along with their households.
      In Part 2, children will be provided with a second-line treatment regimen with continued
      daily monitoring of doses in the household.

      The study will last 5 years.
    
  