
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by variable
      presentation of difficulties with socialization, reciprocal communication, and
      restrictive/repetitive behaviors. An increasingly higher prevalence of ASD is documented in
      each successive epidemiological survey and the disorder is now estimated to affect up to 2%
      of youth in the general population. This rise in prevalence is in part attributed to improved
      recognition of autism in intellectually capable populations.

      There exists no established pharmacological treatment for the core features of ASD.

      Current practice consists of well-established evidence-based pharmacotherapies that are
      available for the management of comorbid psychiatric disorders, in order to improve quality
      of life and reduce symptom severity in ASD. Clinical trials of available treatment options
      reveal that compared to general population, individuals with ASD may be more susceptible to
      adverse effects of medications which could be dose-related, and may have lower adherence to
      treatment. New treatments for core deficits in ASD are needed; an intervention requiring no
      medication may offer better compliance and tolerability.

      Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is the most common psychiatric disorder
      recognized in youth and adults with ASD, and greatly adds to their morbidity and dysfunction,
      particularly in those with intact intellectual capacity. The prevalence of ADHD in the
      general population of school-age children is approximately 3% to 5%, although some reports
      show even higher incidence. Nearly two-thirds of referred populations of youth (ranging from
      59-83%) and adults (ranging from 37-68%) with ASD suffer from ADHD.

      Both ADHD and ASD have strong shared heritable components according to the evidence from twin
      and family studies. Up to 15% of youth with ADHD suffer from ASD and experience greater
      morbidity and dysfunction. This confounding effect of ASD seems to be symptom dependent and
      not contingent upon reaching full diagnostic threshold. In fact, up to a third of ADHD youth
      without ASD diagnosis still struggle with persistent symptoms of ASD (henceforth termed
      autistic traits [ATs]) and associated compromised outcomes. Presence of ATs is associated
      with a more complicated course of ADHD, characterized as increased comorbid psychopathology,
      more impaired interpersonal, school, family, and cognitive functioning. Anti-ADHD medications
      effectively mitigate core symptoms of ADHD, but offer no improvement in the ATs. Youth with
      ADHD continue to suffer from the impairments associated with ATs that prognosticate a
      compromised course in multiple domains of functioning despite effective treatment of ADHD.
      Treating comorbid ATs in patients with ADHD could prevent functional deterioration, and
      improve long term outcomes. As yet, there exists no known treatment for the core features of
      ASD or ATs.

      A novel treatment approach for social and cognitive deficits is based on transcranial
      application of Light Emitting Diode (LED), an invisible, non-ionizing electromagnetic wave.
      Referred to as Transcranial Photobiomodulation, tPBM consists of exposing bilaterally the
      frontal brain to a non-ionizing electromagnetic wave. The transcranial photobiomodulation
      (tPBM) is invisible, penetrates the skin and skull into brain tissue, is non-invasive, and
      minimally dissipated as thermal energy. The benefits of tPBM are wavelength specific. A
      mitochondrial enzyme, the cytochrome c oxidase, is the primary chromophore for the tPBM at
      wavelengths of 830-850 nanometers. What follows is, increased adenosine triphosphate (ATP)
      production, through the respiratory chain. Ultimately, the increased ATP leads to increased
      energy metabolism for the cell, and it is hypothesized that a signaling cascade is also
      activated promoting cellular plasticity and cytoprotection.

      Unique properties of the tPBM have led to novel therapeutic applications in neurology, for
      treatment following acute ischemic stroke subjects, and in dermatology for treatment of
      alopecia. In psychiatric care, tPBM has been shown to be safe, effective and well tolerated
      compared the sham treatment in patients with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD).

      These properties of the tPBM have led to novel therapeutic applications in neurology. In
      acute ischemic stroke subjects, acute treatment with the tPBM led to significantly better
      outcome as compared to sham. These results were confirmed in a different cohort of stroke
      patients with mild to moderate severity of illness. Both studies on stroke subjects showed no
      significant difference in rate of adverse events, as well as serious adverse events, between
      the tPBM and sham treated subjects. The tPBM has also been used as a treatment of alopecia
      and in animal models for methanol-induced retinal toxicity. The tPBM is already widely used
      for non-invasive assessment of brain function (replacing functional magnetic resonance
      imaging in studies of infants and young adults, under the name of Near Infrared Spectroscopy)
      underscoring the relatively low risk of tPBM.

      Proposed treatment with tPBM has been previously studied in patients with Major Depressive
      Disorder (MDD). MDD has been associated with deficits in brain bioenergetic metabolism. In an
      experimental model of depression, the mitochondrial respiratory chain (the cellular site for
      energy production) was found to be inhibited by chronic stress. Depressed subjects have also
      significantly lower production of ATP (an energy vector) in their muscle tissue and greater
      incidence of deletions in their mitochondrial DNA. Data from magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      in subjects with MDD showed that response to the augmentation of a selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) with triiodothyronine (a thyroid hormone) is associated with
      restoration of the levels of ATP in the brain. A preliminary open study in 10 depressed
      subjects has shown that the tPBM was safe, effective and well tolerated.

      More recently, a proof of concept study was conducted with tPBM, in an open label,
      prospective design with 10 patients with a diagnosis of ASD between ages 18 and 55. Five
      patients met the rigorous responder criteria, and a statistically significant improvement was
      observed in all clinician and patient rated measures at midpoint and endpoint. Efficacy
      measures revealed that tPBM substantially improved ATs in 7 patients (70%), and was well
      tolerated with no treatment-limiting side-effects or serious adverse events. Adherence rate
      among participants was 98%.

      These findings suggest that tPBM may be a promising treatment for core social deficits
      associated with ASD and is a safe, feasible treatment approach. The major risk of tPBM when
      using a laser as the light source is associated with accidental retinal exposure, when beams
      are projected through the lens, with increased risk of macular degeneration. LED light does
      not share the same risk level as laser light sources. Based on these promising results, this
      novel treatment approach is safe, well-tolerated and associated with statistically and
      clinically significant improvements in symptoms of ASD.

      The researchers hypothesize that tPBM will be safe and effective in the treatment of ATs in
      youth with ADHD, and will improve social functioning, which stimulants do not address.

      Aforementioned proof-of-concept study was blessed with a fast pace of recruitment, with 10
      participants over a period of 18 months, despite its demanding nature for our patients. Even
      faster and more efficient recruitment along with a less demanding schedule for our patients
      is possible. Telemedicine substitutes for face-to-face office visits through a remote,
      two-way video-conference through secure Internet access. Telemedicine use in the clinical
      setting has successfully provided specialist advice with favorable patient outcomes,
      satisfaction, and costs. Clinical trials are the gold standard for evaluating new therapeutic
      opportunities in medicine, efforts aimed at improving their efficiency are needed to
      facilitate patient participation in a manner that reduces dropout, and Telemedicine may offer
      such opportunity.

      The researchers propose an open label trial to assess the safety and efficacy of tPBM in
      improving ATs in ADHD youth with comorbid ATs. Eligible participants will be youth with
      adequately treated ADHD who present with comorbid ATs of at least moderate severity.
      Participants will receive tPBM daily for 8 weeks. Participants who meet eligibility criteria
      will be mailed the tPBM device. They will be able to administer the treatment in the comfort
      of home, at scheduled intervals. Accurate application of tPBM, its safety, and efficacy will
      be assessed during regular scheduled meetings with study clinician. These meetings will all
      be conducted via telemedicine with HIPAA compliant communication technology. Safety of and
      treatment response to tPBM will be monitored by parent- and clinician-rated measures during
      regularly scheduled visits. The study will address the question whether tPBM is effective for
      the treatment of ATs in youth with ADHD, and whether it is acceptable among our patients.

      Certain aspects of tPBM render it a feasible intervention. It can be delivered at home. It
      does not require ingestion of any substances. It is possible that the exposure to tPBM might
      be more acceptable than use of medications among some minority groups. This intervention does
      not require providers with specific cultural expertise or second language proficiency.

      The tPBM treatment can be completed in the comfort of participants' homes, while monitoring
      their safety and response during scheduled medicine visits. The advantage of the tPBM
      treatment approach compared to pharmacotherapy is that adherence can be easily monitored.
      This study will answer whether tPBM has an effect on ASD symptoms in ADHD and whether it is
      acceptable among our patients, for whom frequent visits otherwise would be prohibitive or
      render it inaccessible. As such, the researchers propose the inclusion of a telemedicine
      visits in this study protocol.
    
  