
    
      The purpose of this study is to test if temperature homeostasis in football players can be
      improved by circulating cool, dry air underneath shoulder pads between periods of intense
      physical activity. To assess the efficacy of this intervention, several dependent variables
      will be tested: core body temperature, skin temperature, infrared skin temperature, heart
      rate, sweating rate, urine color, urine specific gravity, physiological strain index, visual
      analog thirst, rate of perceived exertion, thermal sensation scale, and fluid intake. The two
      independent variables (test variables) are treatment which has two levels (Control - no air
      blown under the shoulder pads, COOL - cool, dry air blown under the shoulder pads) and time
      (pre-exercise and post-exercise cycles, rest break and recovery).

      Specific Aim 1: To assess differences in physiological parameters when cooled dry air is
      blown under football shoulder pads as a means of cooling football players between periods of
      exercise and after exercise. Limited research is available to demonstrate the efficacy of
      cooling methods alternated with vigorous exercise. Football players are at particular risk
      for heat-related illness because they frequently practice and compete in hot, humid
      conditions in uniforms that limit the body's natural thermoregulation. To study this specific
      aim, three hypotheses will be addressed during the data collection process of this
      investigation: (1) a significantly lower increase in core body temperature, heart rate, skin
      temperature, and infrared skin temperature will be noted during the COOL testing sessions as
      compared to the Control sessions; (2) significantly lower measurements of urine color, urine
      specific gravity, and sweat rate will be noted in the COOL testing sessions as compared to
      the Control sessions; and (3) significant associations will be noted between core body
      temperature and infrared temperature during both testing sessions.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess differences in subjective ratings of exertion and heat stress
      during and after exercise sessions when cooled dry air is blown under football shoulder pads
      as compared to no air during rest breaks between the exercise bouts. The rationale behind
      Specific Aim 2 is that the cooling method (COOL) will aid in improving the body's blunted
      cooling mechanisms. The sensation of the cool, dry air will be more prominent than the
      sensation of warmth (during the COOL trials), the decrease in physiological strain, and the
      decrease in core body temperature will cause the subject to experience lower perceived
      exertion; thus, subjects' subjective response to exertion in subsequent exercise cycles will
      be decreased. One hypothesis will be addressed related to this specific aim: cool, dry air
      blown under football shoulder pads (COOL) as a cooling method between exercise bouts will
      significantly lower physiological strain index score, visual analog thirst score, rate of
      perceived exertion, and thermal sensation score as compared to no cool, dry air being blown
      under the shoulder pads (Control).
    
  