
    
      This study will gather information regarding performance of Avital transcutaneous electro
      stimulation device developed by Siano. Electrostimulation in the form of weak electrical
      pulses arranged in specific patterns (programs), is delivered through adhesive electrodes
      attached to patient's skin. A set of stimulation programs, out of which one is placebo, is
      stored in device memory.The device is controlled wirelessly using a dedicated smartphone
      application. Participants will be instructed to attach and activate the device at the onset
      of a migraine attack and manually adjust stimulation intensity to a level where it is
      perceivable but not painful. Upon each activation, a program will be automatically picked for
      execution in random order. Randomization is performed within and between subjects. Subjects
      will not be aware of the executed program. Subjects are requested to refrain from use of
      migraine relief drugs prior to treatment and during the first two hours of the treated
      attack. Throughout the course of electrostimulation, participants will be requested to rate
      their migraine pain level via te same smartphone application, using Visual Analog Scale
      (VAS).

      Overall experimental duration for each participant will be determined by the goal of using
      the Avital device for 10-20 migraine attacks.

      Data containing activation times, executed programs, stimulation intensity and user feedback
      will be transmitted via the smartphone to a central database for analysis. All data are
      completely de-identified and linked to a unique code assigned to each device. The link
      between participant's ID and this code will be securely maintained by the research
      coordinator. Database will be overseen by Siano staff responsible for monitoring the clinical
      study. The electronic database will be used to generate outcome measures.

      In the course of this study the investigators will obtain controlled data on the safety and
      efficacy of transcutaneous electro stimulation for migraine treatment using Siano developed
      transcutaneous electro stimulation device.
    
  