
    
      Although the indications for fixation of an ankle fracture are relatively clear, controversy
      exists with regards the post-operative management of these fractures.

      This is a prospective randomised controlled trial. All patients admitted to the Countess of
      Chester NHS Foundation Trust Orthopaedic Unit for ankle fracture fixation who met the set
      study inclusion criteria will be given a patient information pack regarding the trial and
      asked to complete a consent form to enter the trial AFTER their operation has been performed.
      All patients will initially have their ankle immobilised in a below knee backslab applied in
      theatre and reviewed at 2 weeks in the plaster room for removal of plaster and sutures. At
      this setting the patient will be randomised to 1 of 3 rehabilitation arms using a sealed
      envelope technique. All patients data will be anonymised following generation of a
      randomisation number.

      3 Orthopaedic Consultants (JH,KT,EW) will thereafter supervise follow-up of the study
      population until discharge at 1 year. Outcome measures recorded include patient -reported
      functional scores (MOxFQ); clinical assessment of range of motion, complication rates (loss
      of reduction); pain scores, satisfaction rates and return to work. Clinic review organised at
      2 weeks for randomisation, 6 weeks for first post-op xrays and removal of plaster/ brace, 8
      weeks for clinical review specifically range of movement achievable at ankle, 3 months with
      repeat Xray and clinical assessment, and final clinical review in clinic at 6 months in the
      fracture clinic. Telephone/ postal questionnaire to gather MoXFQ scores at 1 year.

      There are no ethical or legal issues related to the studies.

      One potential concern will be loss of reduction and fixation of ankle fractures following
      weight bearing without immobilisation. However, a study published by Gul et al in 2007
      relating to immediate weight-bearing of operatively treated ankle fractures without
      immobilisation in cast showed no evidence of loss of reduction or hardware failure compared
      to historical controls.

      Patients will be reviewed closely in the early period for loss of reduction as a safety
      outcome measure and the result will be monitored closely with earlier termination of trial
      should there be a concern. There will be monthly data review and monitoring during a research
      meeting.

      Reference

      Gul AG, Batra S, Meehmood S, Gillham N. Immediate unprotected weight-bearing of operatively
      treated ankle fractures. Acta Orthop Belgica 2007;73:360-365.
    
  