
    
      This is prospective, observational study on patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux symptoms
      referred for wireless 96-hour pH (potential of hydrogen) monitoring for clinical indications.
      The principal aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between the result of
      participants' Bravo test and their symptoms on their usual medication. Secondary objectives
      are a comparison of reflux disease questionnaire scores at 4 weeks and 8 weeks of treatment
      with PPIs and overall change in scores from baseline.

      It is a pilot study involving reflux symptoms questionnaires which will provide information
      on whether this approach is feasible in a larger scale study. All clinical interventions,
      including 96-hour Bravo™ pH monitoring, temporary cessation of medication and outpatient
      clinic follow-up are offered as routine medical care, regardless of their participation in
      the study. The investigators anticipate the recruitment of 100 subjects over 14 months in a
      single tertiary centre.

      All patients referred for wireless 96-hour pH monitoring as part of their usual clinical care
      will be considered. Participants will be identified in advance from the scheduled Bravo
      lists. Eligible patients will be contacted over the phone ten days before the procedure by a
      member of the research team involved in their clinical care and asked whether they would be
      interested in joining the study. If patients agree, candidates information about the study by
      post.

      Patients will attend a routine Bravo™ list in Endoscopy Unit. On arrival, participants will
      have the opportunity to ask questions about the study and discuss risks and benefits in
      detail. If all questions are answered satisfactorily, satisfy the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and patients are happy, candidates will be enrolled in the study. It will be stated
      that the participant is free to withdraw from the study at any time for any reason without
      prejudice to usual care, and with no obligation to give the reason for withdrawal.

      Once recruited the following assessments and interventions will take place:

        1. Patients will be instructed to complete a "baseline" 7-day recall Reflux Symptom
           Questionnaire (RESQ-7). This is a paper-based, 13-item symptom-based questionnaire for
           heartburn (5 items), regurgitation (4 items), cough, dysphagia, hoarseness, and burping
           (1 item). Each item is rated on a 6-point Likert scale. RESQ-7 was developed and
           validated for adult patients with a partial response to PPI treatment and takes approx.
           2-4 minutes to complete.

        2. Patients will have a telephone follow-up at 4 weeks to assess their symptoms based on
           the same RESQ-7 questionnaire.

        3. Participants will have a second telephone follow-up at 8 weeks to re-assess their
           symptoms based on the RESQ-7 questionnaire.

        4. Data recorded will be recorded on CRF and include patients' demographic data, past
           medical history, medications, endoscopy and histology reports (if any), the standard
           components of oesophageal pH monitoring - acid exposure, number and duration of reflux
           episodes over 96 hours, reflux symptoms scores and RESQ-7 symptoms questionnaires.

      A clinical fellow will coordinate the recruitment process and conduct the interviews. The
      study is based on questionnaires. All clinical interventions, including 96-hour Bravo™ pH
      monitoring, temporary cessation of medication and outpatient clinic follow-up are offered as
      routine medical care, regardless of their participation in the study. Therefore, no adverse
      events (AE) related to the study are expected.
    
  