
    
      The investigators intend to study the development of tendinopathy in humans that enter a
      phase of relative overloading of their tendons. This will be done in a large cohort of
      individuals from whom the investigators have obtained basic data and tests. A percentage of
      these participants will develop overuse symptoms and in those the investigators will perform
      investigations that will identify the initial pathological changes in tendinopathy

      Participants are included as soon as possible after diagnosis of either Achilles or patella
      tendinopathy because the investigators wish to investigate the early changes in tendinopathy.
      The hypothesis is, that at the early development of tendinopathy there will be a mismatch
      between matrix protein anabolic and catabolic pathways, and will be associated with a
      secondary upregulation of inflammatory and apoptotic markers in the tendon and result in
      hypervascularization and hyper-metabolism.

      Recruiting participants will be done in collaboration with local athletic clubs in the
      Copenhagen area. The athletic clubs include Sparta, Københavns Idræt Forening (KIF),
      Frederiksberg Idræt Forening (FIF). Furthermore, the investigators will establish contact
      through online social media such as Facebook, Twitter and Google. In addition, Information
      leaflets will be handed out, and medical staff at the emergency rooms repeatedly informed
      about the project. Healthy participants can be directly recruited by participants already in
      the project, social medias and through information leaflets handed out. It is planned to
      inform staff at the emergency rooms at Bispebjerg Hospital, Amager Hospital, Gentofte
      Hospital, Herlev Hospital and Hvidovre Hospital. Patients and healthy controls can contact
      the primary investigator directly through email or telephone.

      Recruitment to project TESINaC will focus onset of exercise pain and every participant will
      be evaluated by a doctor if the participant have tendinopathy or not. Once included the
      participant will undergo following procedures as soon as possible after diagnosis is given:

        -  Questionnaire regarding training history and ongoing symptoms

        -  Ultrasound scanning of tendons

        -  Ultrasound isometric

        -  Blood samples

        -  MRI of tendons on both legs MRI precedes biopsy as it can identify any diseased area
           within the tendon from which a biopsy can be taken. Only participants with tendinopathy
           will have to undergo biopsy from both patella tendons once during the project. Healthy
           participants will not undergo biopsy. No biopsy will be taken from the Achilles tendon
           as this procedure may worsen the participants symptoms.

      Participants with tendinopaty will get physical reevaluated after 3, 6 and 12 months as
      regards to symptoms, activity of daily life, blood samples, questionnaires VISA-A/P and
      ultrasound measurements. Rehabilitation training of patients is expected to start as soon as
      possible after the biopsy have been taken.

      Healthy participants will not be reevaluated nor will they undergo rehabilitation training.

      It is expected that the results from this study will provide insight into the events leading
      up to a developing tendinopati. This study will add important information to understand the
      pathophysiology and provide information on timing of the phases as well. Information and
      results from the study will give insight into better treatment options that is more specific
      and earlier intervention on the individual basis. Furthermore, this study will investigate
      and address the question why some people develop tendinopathies and others do not when the
      training volume is equally raised.
    
  