
    
      Autism Spectrum Disorders (Autistic Disorder, Pervasive Developmental Disorder, Asperger
      Disorder) are severe developmental disorders of early childhood onset affecting as many as 1
      in 150 children (Center for Disease Control & Prevention, 2007). They characterized by
      deficits in social interaction and communication, as well as repetitive behavior and
      restricted interests (American Psychiatric Association, 2000). Given the severity and the
      prevalence, autism is a significant public health issue. Recent years have seen both an
      increase in the prevalence of autism and an improved ability to diagnose the disorder much
      earlier (Fombonne, 2003). It is during the child's early years when it is generally agreed
      that intensive interventions are most likely to improve long term prognosis (National
      Research Council, 2001). While not a core feature of autism, it is widely accepted that a
      large percentage children with autism spectrum disorders (autism) present with significant
      sleep issues (Honomichl, Goodlin-Jones, Burnham, Gaylor & Anders, 2002; Johnson, 1996; Wiggs
      & Stores, 2004). Sleep problems in typically developing children are known to adversely
      impact daytime functioning, learning acquisition, as well as parenting and family functioning
      (Dahl, 1996; Ebert & Drake, 2004; Sadeh, Gruber, & Raviv; 2002; Sadeh, Raviv, & Gruber,
      2000). For young children with autism whose development is already compromised by a range of
      deficits, the detrimental impact of sleep disturbances may be even more significant. However,
      the impact of sleep disturbances on optimal performance in behavioral and education
      interventions have not been systematically explored.

      This study will conduct a randomized clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of a behavioral
      parent training program in the amelioration of sleep disturbances in young children with
      autism. This work will be used to examine the feasibility, acceptability and efficacy of a
      behavior training program for sleep disturbance in children with autism. It represents a low
      cost and rapid clinical approach to the problem in this younger age group.
    
  