
    
      Homozygous Sitosterolemia is an inherited, autosomal recessive disorder of sterol metabolism.
      Patients with homozygous sitosterolemia experience accelerated atherosclerosis with initial
      coronary heart disease (CHD) events occurring in childhood. Plasma concentrations of
      sitosterol and other dietary plant sterols are markedly elevated in homozygous sitosterolemic
      patients, and are characteristic of this disorder. Sitosterolemic individuals demonstrate a
      range of abnormalities in sterol absorption, metabolism, and excretion. Recent reports have
      shown that sitosterolemia can result from mutations in 1 of 2 ATP-binding cassette
      half-transporters (ABCG5 or ABCG8), which are responsible for regulation of non-cholesterol
      sterols in the body.

      Current treatment of homozygous sitosterolemia consists of ezetimibe 10 mg, dietary
      restriction of plant and shellfish sterols, as well as the use of bile salt binding resins.
      Ezetimibe is the first member of a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents that inhibits the
      intestinal absorption of cholesterol and structurally-related noncholesterol sterols (plant
      sterols) across the intestinal wall. Importantly, ezetimibe is not an inhibitor or inducer of
      CYP450, reducing the potential for drug-drug interactions which renders ezetimibe a
      particularly appealing candidate with other drugs. Ezetimibe has proved to be generally safe
      and well-tolerated as monotherapy or when coadministered with statins, with an overall
      clinical adverse experience profile similar to placebo. In clinical studies with
      hypercholesterolemic patients, ezetemibe doses ranging from 0.25 to 40 mg daily for periods
      of 8 to 12 weeks were more effective than placebo in lowering plasma TC and LDL-C
      concentrations. There were no dose-related increase in adverse experiences or laboratory
      abnormalities in these studies. We will investigate whether a higher dose of ezetimibe is
      safe and efficacious in lowering plant sterols in patients with sitosterolemia.
    
  