
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), a common chronic disorder in the veteran population,
      is associated with drug costs exceeding $ 10 billion/year. Only 30-40% of patients with
      reflux symptoms have erosive esophagitis. The vast majority suffers from NERD; a condition in
      which standard endoscopy fails to identify any mucosal breaks and is unable to confirm the
      diagnosis. Unfortunately, a gold standard for the diagnosis of NERD does not exist. 24-hour
      esophageal pH monitoring and histologic esophageal mucosal changes in NERD patients have
      limited accuracy to be routinely used in clinical practice.

      Narrow band imaging (NBI) utilizes spectral narrow band filters (incorporated into standard
      endoscopes) and enables imaging of features such as intrapapillary capillary loops (IPCLs);
      features not identified during standard endoscopy. Preliminary results have shown that NBI
      endoscopy may represent a significant improvement over standard endoscopy for the diagnosis
      of NERD. Our hypothesis is that NBI identifies changes in the distal esophagus that are
      specific for diagnosing patients with NERD. Specific Aim #1: To compare NBI features in the
      distal esophagus in patients with NERD (cases) and controls. Specific Aim #2: To determine
      whether the NBI features in NERD patients resolve after PPI therapy. Specific Aim #3: To
      correlate NBI findings with esophageal histology. Specific Aim #4: To assess the intra- and
      interobserver agreement for recognition of the proposed criteria for diagnosing NERD. Cases
      will be defined as patients with reflux symptoms (assessed by two validated questionnaires)
      with absent macroscopic erosions and abnormal esophageal pH results (NERD group). Control
      subjects will include patients with no reflux symptoms, absent macroscopic erosions and a
      normal esophageal pH result. To identify NBI findings as predictors of response, response to
      therapy in cases randomized to the PPI arm will be assessed using a validated GERD
      questionnaire and correlated with IPCL number and presence of microerosion. In addition, NBI
      findings in patients with reflux symptoms, no macroscopic erosions and normal esophageal pH
      result will also be compared with controls. Two biopsies will be obtained from the distal
      esophagus along with digital images and videorecordings.

      Statistical analysis will be done as follows: Aim 1 - chi-square and t-test; with logistic
      regression and calculation of odds ratios, Aim 2- McNemar's test and kappa statistic, Aim 3-
      Spearman's correlation coefficient and Aim 4- intraclass correlation coefficient. Potential
      impact on Health Care: GERD is common among patients and by obviating the need for additional
      investigations and reducing unnecessary drug costs, NBI endoscopy could have a considerable
      positive impact on patients with NERD.

      VA Project
    
  