
    
      According to European Society of Cardiology the prevalence of Heart Failure (HF) is between 2
      and 3% in general population and increases with age, so the prevalence in 70- to 80-years-old
      people is between 10 and 20%. HF is the cause of 5% of acute hospital admissions, is present
      in 10% of patients in hospital beds, and accounts for high national expenditure on health,
      mostly due to the cost of hospital admissions. Although some patients can live for many years
      and the great improvement of medical therapy during last decades, overall 50% of patients are
      dead at 4 years.

      Despite different hypothesis that explain the underlying physiopathology of heart failure
      have been proposed over time, no single paradigm for heart failure was established
      definitively. One logical explanation of the inability to define the syndrome of heart
      failure in precise mechanistic model is that the clinical syndrome of heart failure almost
      certainly represents the summation of multiple anatomic, functional, and biological
      alterations that interact together in a complex way. Thus, it is not surprising that
      investigators have used a variety of complex model in an attempt to describe the syndrome of
      heart failure. Nowadays, the most accepted hypothesis explaining HF physiopathology and its
      progression is the "neurohormonal model". According to this paradigm, heart failure
      progresses as a result of the overexpression of biologically active molecules that exert
      toxic effects on the heart and circulation. A variety of molecules including norepinephrine,
      angiotensin II, endothelin, aldosterone, and tumor necrosis factor have been implicated as
      some of the factors that contribute to disease progression in the failing heart.

      Despite the effectiveness of the neurohormonal model to explain disease progression and the
      many insights that it provided for the development of new therapies, there is increasing
      clinical evidence that suggests that our current models fail to completely explain disease
      progression. Thus, neurohormonal models may be necessary but not sufficient to explain all
      aspects of disease progression in the failing heart.

      Because the prognosis of HF patients is still unsatisfactory despite optimal therapies, other
      mechanisms that contribute to HF progression need to be elucidated. Mounting evidence suggest
      that in heart failure there is a metabolic imbalance characterized by a predominance of the
      catabolic status over anabolic drive. The most impressive example is seen in end-stage HF
      known as "cardiac cachexia" characterized by strong weight loss, particularly lean mass and
      rapid deterioration of clinical conditions, attributed to a prevalence of catabolic pathways.
      If the hormonal imbalance is an epiphenomenon or an important pathophysiological mechanism in
      the HF progression is still matter of debate.

      In particular deficit of each anabolic axis (adrenal, gonadal and somatotropic axes) is an
      independent marker of poor prognosis in HF patients and the coexistence of more than one
      deficiency identifies a subgroup of patients with a higher mortality.

      The most involved hormonal axes include growth hormone (GH), its tissue effector insulin-like
      growth factor-1 (IGF-1), thyroid hormone, and anabolic steroids. Taken together, these
      alterations could be recognized as a multiple hormonal and metabolic deficiency syndrome
      (MHD) in HF patients. MHD has a significant impact on cardiac performance and HF progression.

      The most involved hormonal axes include growth hormone (GH), its tissue effector insulin-like
      growth factor-1 (IGF-1), thyroid hormone, and anabolic steroids. Taken together, these
      alterations could be recognized as a multiple hormonal and metabolic deficiency syndrome
      (MHD) in HF patients. MHD has a significant impact on cardiac performance and HF progression.

      Moreover, a pattern of Insulin-resistance (IR) is quite common in diabetic as well as
      non-diabetic CHF patients. IR has been found in about 30% of non-diabetic CHF patients and
      was related to underlying disease severity. Few studies have considered reduction of IR as a
      new therapeutic target.

      In brief, it could be argued that CHF patients showed an anabolic/catabolic imbalance due to
      multiple neurohormonal axis disequilibrium. Anabolic hormonal deficiency is usually described
      in men with chronic heart failure (CHF) contributing to the anabolic/catabolic imbalance
      ultimately resulting in skeletal muscle waist and cardiac cachexia. Counteracting the
      anabolic deficit seems to play beneficial clinical effects in CHF patients. In fact, the
      increase of serum levels of testosterone and growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor 1
      (IGF-1) axis obtained by hexogen administration, improves key symptoms of CHF such as
      exercise intolerance and muscle fatigue and positively impact quality of life. Besides the
      hexogen administration, an increase of the levels of anabolic hormones can be obtained
      through physical exercise. In healthy subjects, testosterone may increase remarkably as an
      acute response to both endurance and heavy resistance exercise. Similarly, GH concentrations
      generally increase in response to both strength and endurance exercise thereby stimulating
      IGF-1 production. Although this hormonal modulation could be one of the mechanisms by which
      exercise training exerts its beneficial effects on CHF patients, there are few data on
      endogenous exercise-induced increase of anabolic hormones in such patients.

      Aside from the nature of the training activity, the effects of training may vary with
      different dose parameters, specifically program length, session duration and frequency and
      workload or intensity. In the most severely impaired patients, with initial exercise
      intolerance, sessions may initially be limited to 3-5 minutes duration with 3 or 4 sessions
      completed during the course of the day; however, recent work has suggested that if total
      exercise energy expenditure is standardized then intermittent exercise training programs may
      elicit superior benefits to heart failure patients compared to continuous exercise training
      sessions.

      High intensity, repeated intermittent work periods separated by recovery periods have been
      shown to be efficacious in heart failure patients, and interval stress has been shown to be
      as effective as continuous workloads in older, healthy and post coronary artery bypass
      surgery populations. In a systematic review of 81 heart failure ExT studies only two of these
      reported peak VO2 changes of 10% and 20% respectively compared with 16.5% overall change in
      continuous exercise training and similar improvements with strength training. The underlying
      theory is that higher intensity, intermittent stress is more likely to promote peripheral
      adaptations and produce concurrent improvements in functional capacity. Recent work has shown
      that reductions of brain natriuretic peptide, a marker of myocardial stretch, may be greater
      in high intensity (90% peak VO2), rather than moderate intensity (70% peak VO2) exercise
      training in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. A recent meta-analysis showed
      that intermittent exercise elicits superior improvements in peak VO2 and VE/VCO2 slope
      compared to continuous exercise training in heart failure patients.

      Few studies evaluated the hormonal response to interval training in CHF. However, the
      relatively small sample size, the lack of control group or the relatively short time exercise
      intervention limits the conclusions.

      The present study aims at investigating whether 24-week high intensity interval training
      might exert beneficial effects by modulating neurohormonal axis in CHF patients. Furthermore,
      the effect of detraining on neurohormonal axis in CHF patients will be evaluated.
    
  