
    
      Poor maternal nutrition is a major public health concern and has adverse consequences on
      fetal and early childhood growth, infant morbidity and mortality, and health and productivity
      in adulthood. Despite the availability of promising and affordable interventions for
      improving maternal nutrition in developing countries, many women do not receive proven
      maternal nutrition services during pregnancy. In Ethiopia, 62 percent of women receive ANC
      from a skilled provider and just two-thirds of women who attend ANC receive nutrition
      counseling; nearly 60 percent of women do not consume any IFA tablets during pregnancy.

      A&T Ethiopia will develop and test the integration of an intensive package of maternal
      nutrition interventions into existing ANC services delivered through government health
      facilities that will align with the latest global recommendations and the Government of
      Ethiopia's National Nutrition Program (NNP II). These include interpersonal counseling on
      healthy diet during pregnancy, counseling on IFA supplementation, adequate weight-gain
      monitoring, counseling on early breastfeeding practices, and systems strengthening through
      training and supportive supervision. The impacts of these intensive interventions in users of
      government ANC services will be compared with standard ANC services.

      The evaluation will use a two-arm cluster-randomized, non-masked trial design, consisting of
      two cross-sectional surveys of pregnant and recently delivered women (i.e. with a child under
      6 months of age) who have attended at least 1 ANC visit at a government health facility. The
      study will be implemented in seven districts across two regions of Ethiopia, Southern Nations
      Nationalities and People's Region (SNNPR) and Somali. The unit of randomization is the health
      center and associated health posts in the catchment area. 18 health centers and 2 hospitals
      in SNNPR and 10 health centers in Somali will be randomly assigned to intervention/control.

      The objectives of the proposed evaluation are to answer the following questions:

        1. Is it feasible to integrate locally relevant maternal nutrition interventions based on
           the WHO ANC Guidelines into existing ANC services delivered through government health
           facilities?

        2. Can the coverage and utilization of key nutrition interventions (nutrition counseling,
           weight gain monitoring, and IFA supplement consumption) be improved by integrating
           nutrition-focused behavior change interventions and health systems strengthening
           approaches into existing ANC services?

        3. Can the quality of diets (dietary diversity and adequate intake of micronutrients,
           protein, and energy) among pregnant women be improved by integrating nutrition-focused
           behavior change interventions and health systems strengthening approaches into existing
           ANC services?
    
  