
    
      Universal neonatal screening programs for metabolic disorders constitute a triumph of
      medicine and public policy in the US over the last 50 years. State programs to identify and
      treat disorders such as and galactosemia have saved thousands of lives and prevented serious
      morbidity such hypothyroidism, phenylketonuria (PKU), as mental retardation . Advances in
      science and technology, including the Human Genome Project, offer the opportunity to expand
      universal newborn screening programs to include many new conditions. Although the benefits of
      such screening programs appear to outweigh their costs, some critics have pointed to
      historical examples that should make us wary of expanding universal newborn screening. For
      example, ethicist Norm Fost has stated that early screening programs falsely identified
      hundreds of children as having PKU or galactosemia, and that inappropriate treatment of these
      children led to death or severe neurodevelopmental impairment . As our nation weighs the
      risks and benefits of expanding newborn screening to a variety of metabolic and genetic
      conditions, it is critical to revisit the early years of universal screening programs. Did
      the extension of screening from at-risk populations to all newborns lead to substantial
      morbidity and mortality? If so, what can we learn from our past experience to inform our
      current plans to expand universal newborn screening?

      We propose to examine the early history of universal screening for PKU and galactosemia in
      the US. Following standard historical research methodology, we will begin with a review of
      the historical scholarship on PKU and galactosemia, including more general works on mental
      retardation, genetics, public health screening, and metabolic disorders. We will also
      identify and obtain scientific publications and archival sources that document the early
      screening and treatment of these disorders. Lastly, we will conduct oral history interviews
      with key participants in the history of early screening and treatment of PKU and
      galactosemia. Oral history is a critical component of this project, providing information not
      available in any other format. Through oral history interviews, we hope to identify critical
      events, key people, and important collateral influencing issues.

      The second phase of historical methods requires the scholar to identify key themes based on
      the historical record, then present preliminary findings to groups of scholars from a variety
      of disciplines. This academic exchange leads the PI to new resources and to refined key
      themes. The final phase of historical scholarship is preparation of written conclusions. As a
      result of this project, a historical article will be written for a peer-reviewed journal
      accessible to clinicians, researchers, and policy experts who are considering how best to
      expand universal metabolic screening.
    
  