
    
      Dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents less than 1% of all cases of AD and
      is an important model for study because the responsible mutations have known biochemical
      consequences that are believed to underlie the pathological basis of the disorder. Three
      major hypotheses will be tested:

        -  First, that there is a period of preclinical (presymptomatic) AD in individuals who are
           destined to develop early-onset dementia (gene carriers) that can be detected by changes
           in biological fluids and in neuroimaging correlates in comparison with individuals who
           will not develop early-onset dementia (non-carriers).

        -  Second, because all identified causative mutations for AD affect the normal processing
           of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and increase brain levels of amyloid-beta 42 (Aβ42),
           the sequence of preclinical changes initially will involve Aβ42 (production and
           clearance; reduced levels in cerebrospinal fluid [CSF]), followed by evidence for
           cerebral deposition of Aβ42 (amyloid imaging), followed by cerebral metabolic activity
           (functional imaging), and finally by regional atrophy (structural imaging).

        -  Finally, that the phenotype of symptomatic early-onset familial AD, including its
           clinical course, is similar to that of late-onset "sporadic" AD.

      The following specific aims will be used to test these hypotheses:

        1. Maintain the established international DIAN registry of individuals (mutation carriers
           and non-carriers; pre-symptomatic and symptomatic) who are biological adult children of
           a parent with a known causative mutation for AD in the APP, PSEN1, or PSEN2 genes and
           assess participants every 2 years with the uniform DIAN protocol.

        2. Maintain the integrated DIAN database and biospecimen repository to disseminate data and
           tissue to qualified investigators (within and outside of DIAN) in a user-friendly manner
           and to permit analyses within, between, and among the various data domains that will
           include:

             1. In asymptomatic mutation carriers (using non-carriers as controls), determine the
                temporal ordering and rate of intraindividual change in clinical, cognitive,
                behavioral, imaging, and fluid biomarkers of AD prior to estimated age of symptom
                onset.

             2. In symptomatic mutation carriers, compare the clinical and neuropathological
                phenotypes of ADAD to those of LOAD, using datasets such as ADNI.

        3. Utilize the DIAN cohort and its database and biospecimen repository to support new
           scientific studies, including use of exome chip technology to examine potential
           modifiers of age at symptomatic onset, exploratory investigation of new biomarker
           analytes, imaging modalities and techniques, perform exploratory genetic analysis to
           test whether novel AD genes identified through GWAS and sequencing of late onset AD
           cases also influence variation in age at onset of changes in biomarker endophenotypes in
           FAD kindred, and generate genome-wide DNA methylation data for pilot study and perform
           exploratory analyses to look for changes in DNA methylation in longitudinal samples from
           DIAN participants.

        4. Provide genetic counseling to any and all DIAN participants who wish to learn their
           mutation status and, for those who decide to learn their status after counseling,
           provide genetic testing by Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) - approved
           laboratories (i.e., outside of DIAN).
    
  