
    
      Patients with systolic heart failure have higher prevalence of SDB than the general middle
      aged population [1-3]. There is strong evidence that treatment of OSA in the general
      population reduces fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events[4]. In patients with underlying
      heart failure and OSA, treatment with CPAP improves ejection fraction and functional
      outcome[5]. In patients with heart failure and CSA, there is evidence of increased
      sympathetic activity [6], predisposition to dsyrrythmia [7] and increased mortality. However,
      to date systematic diagnostic approach of SDB in this vulnerable population is not part of
      the guidelines for management of heart failure.

      In patients with heart failure, the prevalence of Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) was estimated
      at 24-37 % and Central Sleep Apnea (CSA) at 40%. The severity of CSA is shown to be directly
      related to the severity of the underlying heart failure[8]. Additionally, the management of
      heart failure has changed significantly since these original studies, to include b-blockade,
      aggressive hemodynamic targets, and device therapy[9]. Taken together, these observations
      call into question the applicability of this previous prevalence estimate of CSA in this
      patient population. Indeed, recent data suggest a decline in the incidence of CSA[10, 11].
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea, on the other hand, is strongly associated with obesity. The rising
      incidence of obesity, and its strong association with cardiovascular disease, may suggest a
      rise in the incidence of OSA in this patient population.

      Did the recent changes in the management of heart failure change the prevalence and
      distribution of SDB? What is the most effective approach to diagnosis of this highly
      prevalent disorder in this very vulnerable patient population? A modern cost benefit analysis
      and comparison against the current slow inefficient and very expensive approach is needed. An
      approach that combines evaluation of risk factors and an abbreviated portable study may be
      adequate and certainly less expensive. Our program aims at providing every heart failure
      patient with clinically indicating and not otherwise available screening for SDB. Validated
      questionnaires and screening ambulatory sleep studies are provided to every patient.
      Additionally, this clinical operation has no risk to patients, rather a significant benefit.
      The sensitivity and specificity of this surveillance approach will need to be evaluated and
      validated. The validation operation will bring additional benefit to our future patients. The
      accumulation and analysis of the data will also enable us to determine the magnitude of the
      sleep co-morbidity in our heart failure patients and help educate clinicians who treat
      similar patients nationwide
    
  