
    
      Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) agents have been shown to be effective in improving
      arthritis and psoriasis symptoms in patients with active psoriatic arthritis. Golimumab is a
      new anti-TNFa agent. This is a multicenter, randomized (patients are assigned different
      treatments based on chance), double-blind (neither the patient nor the physician knows
      whether drug or placebo is being taken, or at what dosage), placebo-controlled, parallel
      group study comparing safety and efficacy of golimumab 50mg, golimumab 100mg, and placebo
      subcutaneous injections administered every 4 weeks, in subjects with active PsA. The total
      duration of treatment is approximately 5 years. In the first portion of the study, some
      patients will be randomly assigned to receive placebo treatment through the Week 20
      injection; others will be assigned to golimumab 50mg or golimumab 100mg groups through the
      Week 20 injection. There is an "early escape" at Week 16 in the study whereby patients who
      meet criteria for minimal improvement in their joints will be switched to golimumab if they
      were on placebo, or have the golimumab dose increased if they were originally assigned to the
      golimumab 50mg group. At Week 24, the placebo group subjects will switch to golimumab 50mg
      injections, and all patients will continue receiving in a blinded manner either 50 or 100mg
      golimumab injections every 4 weeks until the first 52 weeks of data are fully collected on
      all the subjects (database lock). After this 52-week database lock, everyone will be
      unblinded to the golimumab dose, and continue to receive golimumab treatment through Week 252
      as part of a long-term extension phase of the study, with options for adjusting concomitant
      PsA medications and/or increasing the dose of golimumab. The study hypothesis is that
      golimumab will be more effective than placebo both in terms of reducing the signs and
      symptoms of PsA, as measured by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 response at
      Week 14, and inhibiting the amount of damage due to PsA seen on x-rays of the hand and feet
      at Week 24, while maintaining an acceptable safety profile. Golimumab 50mg, Golimumab 100mg,
      or placebo injected under the skin every 4 weeks at Weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20, followed
      by injections of either Golimumab 50mg or Golimumab 100mg every 4 weeks, for approximately 5
      years total duration from the time of the first study agent injection.
    
  