
    
      Saliva is important for maintaining oral and general health. This complex bioactive substance
      serves many functions including i) protecting the oral mucosa, ii) reducing demineralization
      and facilitating remineralization of teeth, and iii) sustaining a balanced oral biome and
      facilitating antimicrobial actions and clearance of pathogens. Moreover, saliva also plays a
      critical role in alimentary functions such as mastication and swallowing.

      The role of saliva in the process of mastication and swallowing is complex and is not
      currently well understood. The purpose of mastication is to process food in the oral cavity
      into a bolus that can be transported through the oropharynx, swallowed safely, and then
      easily digested. During mastication, ingested food particles are mechanically reduced in size
      through the process of lingual particle selection and fragmentation between the occlusal
      surfaces of the teeth. The secretion of saliva is critical for effective mastication, bolus
      formation and bolus transport. There is also evidence to suggest that the volume of saliva
      secreted into the oral cavity during alimentation may impact swallowing biomechanics.

      Oral tissue dryness is a complex issue. Hyposalivation and xerostomia span numerous clinical
      pathologies and are known side effects of many therapeutic agents. Hyposalivation occurs when
      there are objective signs of a reduction of the amount of saliva produced by the salivary
      glands and can be measured using sialometry. Xerostomia refers to the subjective symptoms of
      dry mouth and can only be assessed through a person's perception of the presence of symptoms.
      A person may experience xerostomia with or without hyposalivation or experience
      hyposalivation with or without xerostomia. Hyposalivation is a commonly complaint in older
      adults. Additionally, patients with hyposalivation and xerostomia frequently report symptoms
      of dysphagia, or difficulty swallowing.

      To alleviate symptoms associated with hyposalivation, such as the perception of dry mouth, or
      xerostomia, many people use over-the-counter artificial saliva products such as Biotene® Oral
      Balance Moisturizing Gel (Biotene). There is, however, a paucity of evidence examining the
      effect of these products on oral health-related quality of life, mastication, and swallowing.
      The goal of this study therefore, is to compare the effects of Biotene® Oral Balance
      Moisturizing Gel (Biotene) with the effects of a sham condition on oral health-related
      quality of life, masticatory efficiency, and perceived swallowing effort in four groups of
      participants: 1) Participants not experiencing xerostomia or hyposalivation, 2) Participants
      experiencing xerostomia and hyposalivation, 3) Participants experiencing xerostomia but not
      hyposalivation, 4) Participants experiencing hyposalivation but not xerostomia.

      It is hypothesized that, following the application of Biotene® Oralbalance Moisturizing Gel,
      all groups of participants will experience improved oral health-related quality of life,
      improved masticatory efficiency a reduction in perceived swallowing effort. The reduction
      will be significant when compared with that of the sham condition. Participants with
      xerostomia and/or hyposalivation will demonstrate greater improvement in oral health-related
      quality of life, improvement in masticatory efficiency, and reduction in perceived swallowing
      effort compared with those who do not experience xerostomia and/or hyposalivation.
    
  