
    
      The NEXI-002 is an adoptive cellular therapy product which contains populations of
      antigen-specific CD8+ T cells. The antigen-specific CD8+ T cells in the NEXI-002 T cell
      product are derived from Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMC) obtained from the original
      stem cell donor. During the manufacturing process, these cells are primed and expanded ex
      vivo using nano-size artificial Antigen Presenting Cells (aAPC) loaded with five leukemia
      associated antigen peptides in combination with a proprietary T cell enrichment and expansion
      process.

      The NEXI-002 T cell product is restricted to patients that are HLA-A2.01 allele positive for
      this study.

      There are two parts to this study, a Safety Evaluation Phase and a Dose Expansion Phase. The
      Safety Evaluation Phase will determine the safety and tolerability of a single dose of
      NEXI-002 T cell product, and will consist of Dose Escalation at two dose levels - each with
      cohorts of three patients.

      When all three patients at Dose Level 1 have dosed and cleared the DLT period, three
      additional patients will be enrolled at Dose Level 2. When three patients have cleared the
      DLT period at the highest dose level, that dose will be advanced to the Dose Expansion Phase.
      The Dose Expansion Phase will enroll up to 16 additional patients to further define the
      safety and evaluate the initial anti-tumor efficacy of the NEXI- 002 T cell product at the
      dose established from the Safety Evaluation Phase.

      All patients will enter a Post-Treatment Follow-Up period after infusion of the NEXI- 002 T
      cell product. During this phase, all patients will be monitored for AEs and followed for
      anti-leukemia response until the end of study visit is complete (up to one year).

      Additional assessments for safety, disease status, and other secondary and exploratory
      endpoints will also be monitored during the follow-up period.

      All patients will be followed for overall survival (OS) from time of disease progression
      until the last visit of the last patient. During this time, patients will be followed via
      telephone or other electronic contact at 12 week intervals for monitoring of OS.
    
  