
    
      After obtaining informed consent, all screening procedures and tests establishing eligibility
      will be performed on the initial screening visit. Subjects determined to be eligible at
      screening will receive an initial subcutaneous dose of abatacept (125mg), which will be
      continued weekly for a total of up to 24 doses (24 weeks). Steroid therapy must be tapered
      off and discontinued over a 4 week period (taper must be completed no later than week 4).
      Should patients be deemed to have worsening disease or failing therapy at 4 weeks then a
      trial of steroids can be considered.

      Subjects will return on weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 while on treatment for their
      injections, and for the scheduled safety and disease response assessments. Subjects will be
      allowed to self-administer their injections at home. The full treatment period is 24 doses
      given weekly for 24 weeks. Subjects who are not able to be tapered off corticosteroids or who
      require reinstitution of corticosteroid therapy at any time during the study will be counted
      as treatment failures, but may continue on study. Should the IgG4-RD responder index fail to
      improve by 8 weeks or should there be development of new organ failure at 4 weeks, patient's
      will be deemed treatment failure and can begin corticosteroid or alternative
      immunosuppressive therapy at the Investigator's discretion. Those who require rituximab or
      who require addition of other oral immunosuppressives will be counted as treatment failures
      and will terminate the study.

      All subjects completing the treatment period will have follow up visits off protocolized
      treatment at 28 and 36 weeks. All adverse events (including serious adverse events (AEs) and
      deaths) and use of concomitant medication information will be collected throughout the study
      from screening through study termination. Subjects developing treatment-emergent adverse
      events or clinically significant safety lab abnormalities will be followed until resolution
      or until stabilization of the adverse events/abnormalities.
    
  