
    
      Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506, commercial name Stivarga) is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor
      developed by Bayer which shows anti-angiogenic activity due to its dual targeted VEGFR2-TIE2
      tyrosine kinase inhibition.Regorafenib demonstrated to increase the overall survival of
      patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and has been approved by the CFDA in 2017.

      Apatinib, a small molecule receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitor, targets the
      intracellular domain of the VEGFR-2 ATP binding site, and is the first anti-angiogenic
      therapy approved by the China Food and Drug Administration in December 2014 for the treatment
      of metastatic gastric cancer in third-line or later treatment. It is an orally bioavailable,
      small molecule agent which is thought to inhibit angiogenesis in cancer cells; specifically
      apatinib inhibits VEGF-mediated endothelial cell migration and proliferation thus blocking
      new blood vessel formation in tumor tissue. It is an investigational cancer drug currently
      undergoing clinical trials as a potential targeted treatment for metastatic gastric
      carcinoma, metastatic breast cancer ,advanced hepatocellular carcinoma and advanced
      colorectal cancer.

      Apatinib are often used in advanced colorectal cancer for uses that are not within its
      approved indication for use.However, the knowledge gained from all uses of apatinib in this
      medical practice is often not realized because the data collected are not systematically
      characterized, aggregated, and analyzed in a way that can be relied upon to inform its
      further usage.

      In some cases, a "traditional" clinical trial may be impractical or excessively challenging
      to conduct. Ethical issues regarding treatment assignment, and other similar challenges, may
      present themsevels when developing and attempting to execute a high quality clinical trial.
      Analyses of real-world data(RWD), using appropriate methods, may in some cases provide
      similar information with comparable or even superior characteristics to information collected
      and analyzed through a traditional clinical trial. For example, RWD collected using a
      randomized exposure assignment within a registry can provide a sufficient number of patients
      for powered subgroup analyses.

      the investigators will evaluate the efficacy and safety for Apatinib combine with other
      chemotherapy regimens as the neoadjuvant therapy in advanced colorectal cancer in a real
      world study setting. This study leveraging RWD can potentially provide information on a wider
      patient population, thus providing information that cannot be obtained through a traditional
      clinical trial alone.
    
  