
    
      Background/rationale: The development of perianal abscesses is relatively common with an
      estimated incidence in the UK of 40 per 100000 habitants (Canadian incidence unknown). It is
      uncertain if there is any benefit to daily packing and/or antibiotics post-incision and
      drainage of a perianal abscess with respect to key outcomes including healing time, quality
      of life, health system costs and formation of fistulae. Further research from high-quality
      RCTs is needed to establish a benefit, if any, for this practice.

      Objectives: Before embarking on a definitive RCT, this pilot trial has five specific
      feasibility objectives:

        1. To assess our ability to accrue patients using the IMPACTS Program design platform at
           multiple institutions, over the course of one year.

        2. To assess our ability to adaptively randomize patients and deliver the randomized
           assignment using the IMPACTS Program design platform, over the course of one year.

        3. To assess our ability to collect complete data directly from participants (patients and
           clinicians) on: re-intervention, fistula formation, narcotics use, QoL, and healing time
           over the course of one year.

        4. To examine our ability to carry out data linkages using the IMPACTS Program design
           platform over the course of one year.

        5. To estimate the change in the incidence of re-intervention and fistula formation to
           inform the sample size calculation for the definitive trial.

      Study design: This is a multicentre, pragmatic, open label, factorial design Vanguard
      feasibility randomized controlled trial. Adult patients with perianal abscesses will be
      randomly assigned to packing the perianal abscess cavity after incision and drainage,
      compared to not packing the cavity, until the cavity has healed, and to use of post-operative
      antibiotics compared to no antibiotics. If feasibility is demonstrated during the pilot
      trial, we will plan to conduct a definitive trial. If there are only minimal changes to the
      protocol, we will include data from the pilot phase into the definitive trial analysis (i.e.
      a Vanguard design).
    
  