
    
      Lessons learned in organizational engagement reveal a critical need to increase healthcare
      engagement among LEP Latino parents. LEP Latina mothers who were founding members of Latino
      Family Advisory Board (LFAB) at the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center identified the
      health system knowledge that enabled participants to more effectively use the healthcare
      system as one of the key benefits of board membership. The gains in knowledge, skills, and
      confidence demonstrated in the LFAB evaluation mirror qualitative evaluation findings of
      other ambulatory care advisory boards, and reflect the concept of patient activation. Patient
      activation, a component of individual patient engagement, is defined as the patient's
      willingness to manage their health and healthcare based on understanding one's role in the
      care process and having the knowledge, skills, and confidence to do so. Interventions focused
      on increasing activation, using both in-person and mHealth support, have demonstrated
      efficacy and have led to improvement in health and healthcare quality. mHealth-based
      interventions have the ability to reach larger populations at lower cost, with the potential
      for increased tailoring and interactivity, especially as the use of cellular phones becomes
      nearly universal, even among low-income populations. For example, Text4baby, a perinatal
      health education program delivered through passive educational text messages, has
      demonstrated success at reaching low-income Spanish-speaking parents with positive user
      assessments.

      A recent study of parent healthcare activation among low-income parents (conducted by PI:
      DeCamp) demonstrated that parent activation among parents whose preferred healthcare language
      was Spanish was significantly lower than that of parents whose preferred healthcare language
      was English. These findings further support targeting increasing the healthcare engagement of
      LEP Latino parents.

      This novel intervention will integrate mobile health (mHealth) technology and culturally- and
      linguistically-tailored interpersonal support to increase healthcare engagement of LEP Latino
      parents and to enable participants to overcome barriers to effective healthcare access and
      use. Investigators hypothesize that this intervention will measurably increase parent
      healthcare engagement and that this will positively impact healthcare utilization, quality
      and the patient/family experience. Increasing healthcare engagement of LEP Latino families
      and demonstrating positive healthcare impact through a tailored, scalable intervention would
      create a foundation for larger-scale impact on healthcare disparities for Latino children and
      a model for increasing engagement of other vulnerable populations.
    
  