
    
      Psoriasis and eczema are chronic inflammatory skin conditions that affect up to 2% and 20% of
      children respectively (Mahe, 2016; Plötz, Wiesender, Todorva & Ring, 2014). These skin
      conditions are associated with poorer mental health in the children themselves and in their
      parents (Megna et al., 2015; Hammer-Helmich et al., 2016). Little research has investigated
      ways of reducing parental stress in parents of children with chronic health conditions, such
      as psoriasis and eczema.

      "Mindful Parenting" interventions offer one potential way of improving mental health and
      quality of life in parents and their children. Mindful parenting refers to a parenting style
      which involves paying close, non-judgemental attention to the child (Duncan et al., 2009).
      However, no research has investigated the impact of mindful parenting interventions on
      children with skin conditions and their parents.

      The main aim of the current study is to investigate whether a mindful parenting intervention
      can improve mental health and quality of life in children with psoriasis/eczema and their
      parents. A single-group case-series design will be adopted, whereby participants will act as
      their own control; data collected from participants during and after they have received the
      intervention will be compared to data collected before they have received the intervention.
      Interviews will also be conducted after the intervention, to explore participants experience
      of the group.

      The investigators predict that the intervention will improve mental health and quality of
      life in children with psoriasis/eczema and their parents. More specifically, we predict:

        -  There will be a reduction in negative parental idiosyncratic measures of stress
           throughout the intervention phase, in comparison to baseline phase, that will be
           maintained in the follow-up phase.

        -  There will be an improvement in positive parental idiosyncratic measures of stress
           during the intervention phase in comparison to baseline phase that will be maintained in
           the follow-up phase.

        -  There will be a significant increase in levels of mindful parenting following the
           intervention phase, in comparison to baseline phase, that will be maintained in the
           follow-up phase.

        -  There will be a significant decrease in levels of parental stress at end of intervention
           phase compared to baseline phase that will be maintained in the follow-up phase.

        -  There will be a significant increase in parental quality of life and paediatric quality
           of life at the end of intervention phase compared to baseline phase that will be
           maintained in the follow-up phase .

        -  There will be a significant improvement in psoriasis severity and itch at the follow-up
           phase compared to the baseline phase.
    
  