
    
      The prevalence of breast pain has been reported to be between 41-69% in clinical cohorts and
      in the general population (1-4). The incidence of cancer in women with breast pain alone (ie
      no lump or other, more concerning symptoms) is low, with published rates between 1 to 1.8%
      (7-9).

      Furthermore, the prevalence of breast pain increases linearly up to the age of 50 and then
      decreases (4), thus women under 40 with a normal clinical examination do not require further
      investigations and can be reassured in primary care.

      Despite this, mastalgia is one of the most common symptoms in women referred to a breast unit
      representing up to 69% of attendances (5-7). Consequently, women affected by breast pain are
      up to 4.7 times more likely to have had a mammogram than asymptomatic women (6). ln order to
      facilitate early breast cancer diagnosis there is a suspected cancer pathway referral (for an
      appointment within 2 weeks) from primary care to specialist units. Recent increases in breast
      urgent referrals have increased the pressure on already overstretched services.

      Many strategies have been tried to manage the tension between the desire for early detection
      of breast cancer, and avoiding unnecessary referral for normal breast sensations.

      Although breast screening by self-examination or clinical examination has not been shown to
      reduce breast cancer mortality in studies (10), breast awareness can be linked to early
      detection that facilitates treatment and has the potential to reduce mortality (11).
      Therefore, breast awareness and self-examination have become relevant parts of general breast
      education promoting women's confidence to discern between normality and unusual changes
      (12-17). Self-examination is not frequently taught in primary care and "there is a need to
      develop more innovative strategies to promote breast health awareness and early detection of
      breast cancer in women" (18). In this study, as part of a Masters in Health Policy, we are
      investigating the impact of an educational video, here to be shown after a clinic
      appointment, but with the potential to be distributed to general practitioners, and to
      patients directly if favourably received.

      Methodology

        1. Patient recruitment 1.1 Initial visit to "one-stop"clinic Eligible patients who are
           referred to the "one-stop" diagnostic clinic with breast pain alone and have completed a
           clinical assessment will be given a patient information sheet inviting them to
           participate in the study. They will be met by the interviewing clinician at the same
           visit.

           1.2 Consent Consent will be sought by the clinician who will undertake the interviews.

        2. Intervention: educational video An educational video of approximately 10 minutes about
           breast pain, self-examination and breast awareness will be shown to the participant.

        3. Semi-structured interview A semi-structured, face-to-face interview will be then
           undertaken. The principles of Grounded Theory will be used to guide the interview. All
           of the interviews will be recorded and transcribed securely, only referencing the
           patient according to their study number. Their name and hospital number will not be
           used.

      A number of pre-planned, open questions will be asked. The core questions are related to the
      topic of discussion - impressions related to the intervention and subsequent effect into
      their previous concerns. Further questions will evolve in response to answers given by
      earlier participants. The duration of the interview will depend on the extent of the answers
      and any follow-up questions that derive later from earlier answers.

      Data Acquisition and analysis The video show and interview will be undertaken in a private
      room after routine clinical assessment. The interviewer will be the MSc student, a
      medically-qualified breast clinician with an interest in breast pain, who has read the
      relevant literature. The recorded interview and notes taken by investigator during the
      interview are the only data.

      The analysis will run alongside data collection as an iterative process to inform further
      sampling. The purpose of the analysis is to describe the participants' opinion and to develop
      theoretical explanations for these. The interviews will be analysed by reading the
      transcripts in detail and assigning codes to give meaning to segments of the text. Emerging
      codes will be grouped into themes and discussed and then explored in subsequent interviews.
      The analysis will be undertaken using the constant comparison technique of grounded theory
      whereby data will be examined for differences and similarities within the themes, taking into
      account the patient context. The initial codes will be modified and new codes added as the
      project progresses. New data will be compared with previous interviews to identify the
      similarities and differences.

      Evaluation of Outcome This is a mixed methods study. As a result, we will have increased
      knowledge of the perceptions of women presenting with breast pain about an educational video.
      We will have some quantitative information about whether they find it informative and whether
      it might lead them to avoid attending secondary care. It will guide the future management of
      women with pain at the interface of primary and secondary care.
    
  