
    
      Procedural sedation (PS) is common in the Emergency Department (ED) for painful or
      anxiety-producing procedures. In our ED these procedures commonly include fracture and
      dislocation management and reduction, abscess incision and drainage, lumbar puncture,
      extensive wound debridement, dilatation and curettage, chest tube placement and
      cardioversion. Generally a sedative-hypnotic agent is combined with an analgesic in order to
      provide this sedation. The ideal agents to utilize remain unclear. The ED environment is
      substantially different than the operative suite or many outpatient areas and literature from
      these areas has limited applicability.

      In many ED's, including our own, propofol combined with either a short acting or long acting
      narcotic has become very commonly utilized. Propofol has many advantages including rapid
      onset, rapid recovery, strong sedative and amnestic properties, and euphoric effects. However
      like many sedative-hypnotics it possesses strong respiratory depressive properties and has
      cardio-depressant and vasodilatation effects that can lead to hypotension. These effects can
      be potentiated by concomitant narcotic administration as opioid agonists posses similar
      properties.2

      ED literature on complications associated with propofol sedation is variable, secondary to
      significant differences in rapidity of administration of the medication, the type of
      analgesic provided, the definitions of complications, the amount of pre-oxygenation provided,
      and the variability in experience of medical providers. Most literature suggests that the
      overall rate of sub-clinical respiratory depression, measured by indicators such as end-tidal
      CO2 changes, is approximately 30-40% of patients1-3. The clinical importance of these changes
      is unclear. Clinical respiratory depression, measure by hypoxemia, need for verbal or tactile
      stimulation, bag valve mask ventilation (BVM), and airway positioning, is reported in 1-25%
      of patients, with the need for BVM ranging from 0-4.6% of patients1-6. It is noteworthy that
      one study, utilizing a slow infusion rate and only long-acting narcotics administered greater
      than 20 minutes prior to the start of sedation, prospectively demonstrated only a 0.88% rate
      of hypoxemia and a 0% rate of BVM while maintaining a similar total average dose, patient
      satisfaction, and successful outcome6. However this has not been replicated, and the data
      from other ED studies seems to suggest rates of clinical respiratory depression of 10-12%
      with BVM use averaging 4%1-6. The only clear conclusion to be drawn from the medical
      literature in this regard is that some respiratory depression and need for airway management
      can occur, but the rate is likely heavily dependent on exact protocols and definitions, make
      comparison between centers and studies difficult.

      Because of interest in developing effective sedation regimens that might mitigate some of the
      complications of propofol plus narcotic regimens (hereafter termed propofol sedation), a
      technique of combining propofol and ketamine has been described for use in the ED. This
      combination is long-standing in some settings 7-10 and its use in the ED has been described
      9,12,13. Ketamine is a dissociative hypnotic that acts by binding N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
      receptors, blocking their excitatory function. It has analgesic, amnestic, and dissociative,
      effects 9-12. It has the beneficial properties of maintaining respiratory drive, maintaining
      muscular airway control while still providing pain relief and dissociation. Its use as a
      single agent for ED sedation in adults has been limited by concern about dysphoria at
      anesthetic doses as well as post-sedation nausea and vomiting. It can also cause tachycardia
      and hypertension. However the intuitive off-setting of the somewhat opposite side effects of
      propofol and ketamine have created significant interest in sedation regimens utilizing both
      agents. (ie propofol decrease heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), respiratory drive and
      airway maintenance, is euphoric and is an anti-emetic. Ketamine increases HR, BP and
      increases or maintains respiratory drive and airway maintenance, but is dysphoric and can be
      nauseating.) An ED study was published in 2007 describing the use of a fixed dose mixture of
      1:1 propofol and ketamine (also termed "Ketofol") in a single syringe, allowing for easy dose
      titration 12. This study showed high patient and physician satisfaction (mean of 10 on a 1-10
      scale), high rates of procedural success, and an extremely low rate of complications (2.5%
      rate of hypoxemia, 0.9% rate of BVM ventilation)12. Another study, in children with different
      dosing parameters, recently suggested a similarly low rate of BVM (0%) but a higher rate of
      respiratory depression (15%)13. Interestingly this study used a lower amount of ketamine and
      higher dose of propofol, which perhaps contributed to the increased rate of respiratory
      depression. Retrospective data from our use of fixed dose 1:1 ketamine and propofol
      demonstrates a similar safety profile with 7% of patients having some respiratory depression
      or requiring airway management and an absolute rate of 2% requiring BVM. We have commonly
      used this combination in our ED since 2007.

      Currently in our ED both propofol sedation and ketamine plus propofol sedation are variably
      employed, depending mainly on prescriber preference. Because the literature has significant
      variability in the reported complication rates of the two regimens, no firm conclusion is
      possible about the relative equivalence or superiority of one regimen compared to the other.
      Attending physician preference currently dictates the choice of an agent for our patients in
      lieu of any robust evidence to guide our selection. Further, there is no data to measure the
      relative patient satisfaction and provider ease of utilization of either of these regimens,
      important factors in the selection of sedation agents.

      We plan to conduct a prospective, randomized, equivalence trial of a fixed ratio of 1:1
      ketamine and propofol vs propofol alone sedation. We will measure sub-clinical and clinical
      respiratory depression, the need for active airway management, unpleasant complications such
      as post-sedation nausea and vomiting, dysphoria and emergence reactions, patient and provider
      satisfaction, and post-procedure and follow up pain.
    
  