
    
      Obesity is prevalent in military personnel and raises concerns related to health, readiness,
      and national defense. Adverse health consequences of obesity place military personnel at risk
      for serious medical problems while in the service and upon discharge/retirement.
      Additionally, failure to "make weight" may negatively impact one's military career and can
      lead to discharge from the service. Early identification of personnel at risk and
      implementation of prevention strategies are critical to addressing the problem of overweight
      in the military and are essential to maintaining a fit fighting force. The goal of this study
      is to test the effectiveness of a dissonance-based, weight-gain prevention program (Fit4Duty)
      to prevent excess weight gain among service members at risk for obesity due to a personal
      and/or family history of overweight. The Fit4Duty program is an adaptation for the military
      of an existing civilian obesity prevention program, Project Health. The program utilizes
      dissonance based, participant-driven group counseling to address the excess consumption of
      unhealthy foods and sedentary behavior. Active duty service members will be randomized to the
      Fit4Duty weight gain prevention program or a Nutrition Education comparison condition.
      Participants will complete height, weight, and body composition measurements, and self-report
      instruments at baseline, immediately following the prevention program (6-weeks), and one and
      two year follow-ups. It is hypothesized that Project Fit4Duty will result in significantly
      greater reduction in risk for increases in BMI percentile and percent fat mass, and risk for
      onset of overweight and obesity during the 2-year follow-up relative to a nutrition education
      control program. If successful, Project Fit4Duty would offer an economical approach for
      widespread obesity prevention in the U.S. Military.
    
  