
    
      PROPOSED RESEARCH: Patients will be identified from the Mayo Clinic MN, heart and lung
      transplant waiting lists and approached for recruitment in the Transplant Clinic at one of
      their routine clinical (every 1 to 3 month) follow-up appointments or by phone or mail.
      Inclusion criteria: Aged 18 or older, consenting to research, and listed (active and
      temporarily inactive) or deferred for lung or heart transplantation at Mayo Clinic in
      Rochester, MN. Exclusion criteria: Patients will be excluded if ineligible for transplant,
      non-English speaking, non-verbal or extremely hard of hearing.

      RESEARCH STRATEGY: This is a single-center, prospective, randomized, controlled, pilot study
      comparing the effect of a phone-based, health coaching intervention versus usual care on
      self-management. Methods: Initial encounter: Consented patients will be randomized using a
      random number generator. Intervention patients will be introduced to the intervention, and
      schedule the first phone meeting. Both intervention and control patients will undergo
      baseline assessments (see "data" below). Subsequent Coaching Intervention patients will be
      assigned a coach trained in motivational interviewing who will call the patient weekly for 12
      weeks for a 15-30 minute intervention (based on the primary mentor's previous research).
      Briefly a health coaching protocol will be utilized to guide training and the delivery of
      intervention using open-ended questions, affirmations, reflections, and summaries (O.A.R.S.)
      and Elicit-Provide-Elicit (E-P-E) techniques. Coaching sessions will be recorded and
      externally monitored by an independent expert to assure treatment fidelity. A coaching
      intervention protocol will include collaborative goal setting and confidence rating regarding
      the patient's desired behavior change (and assessed risks). The control group will receive
      usual care. Both intervention and control patients will complete follow-up questionnaires and
      physiologic assessments at 12-16 weeks. Data: Baseline demographic, comorbidities, and
      transplant details will be abstracted. Daily physical activity measure by a gold standard
      activity monitor (Sensewear Armband, Body media, Pittsburgh,PA) will quantify daily steps, as
      well as total and active energy expenditure. Grip Strength: will be measured using a Jamar
      Digital Hand Held Dynamometer. Three serial measurements will be taken (using the dominant
      hand), averaged, and adjusted by gender and BMI using normative table. Gait Speed:
      self-selected walking speed will be timed over a distance of 15 ft (average of 3 adjusted for
      gender and height). Body composition scan: will determine fat-free mass (body composition).
      Height and weight will be recorded. Questionnaires: RISC-10, PANAS, MUIS, KCCQ, CRQ, FDI,
      CES-D, PHQ-2, GAD-2, SMAS-30, and SMAQ will be collected to assess hypothesized predictors of
      self-management. The primary outcome of the study is the effect of health coaching on
      self-management abilities SMAS-30 (sentinel of post- transplant adherence).

      ANALYSIS PLAN: Sample size: This is a pilot and feasibility study. However, to inform our
      enrollment we have made the following calculations. Change in SMAS-30. A sample size of 25 in
      each group will have 80% power to detect an effect size of 0.81 using a two-group t-test with
      a 0.05 two-sided significance level, where effect size is the end of study difference in
      means between the two groups relative to the SD of the end of study measures, after adjusting
      for baseline and other factors. From the literature, we estimate an unadjusted end of study
      SD for SMAS-30 of 8.5.50 Whereas we do expect our intervention to impact SMAS-30, it is our
      clinical impression that without intervention, patients tend to exhibit similar patterns over
      time. Therefore, we expect the between-person variability in SMAS-30 to be at least as large
      as the variability in assessing SMAS-30 for the same person at different time points. If
      these two sources of variability were the same then they would both have a SD of 6.0, in
      particular the end of study SD for SMAS-30 would be 6.0 or less. With this SD, we would have
      power to detect a difference of 0.81x6.0=4.9. Thus, this pilot study is reasonably powered.
      Allowing for a 20% withdrawal rate (primarily due to transplantation during intervention), we
      will aim for a sample size of 30 per arm. Analysis plan: Demographic characteristics will be
      summarized by mean, median, SD and range (continuous variables) and counts and percents
      (categorical variables). Our primary variable will be end of study SMAS-30 (adjusting for
      baseline), which we will analyze using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), estimating between
      group differences. Subgroup analysis will be performed by sex, ethnicity, and race as
      feasible. A similar procedure to that described above will be employed to impute data if
      necessary. Missing data and end of study SDs for SMAS-30, adjusting for baseline, will guide
      analysis and power calculations for future R01 studies. Secondary Outcomes will examine
      between group differences of changes in gait speed, activity levels, body composition,
      weights, and RISC-10, PANAS, MUIS, FDI, SMAQ, and KCCQ or CRQ measures to inform future R01
      planning. A two-tailed p< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Post
      intervention focus groups/interviews of 5-7 participants will be conducted by the candidate
      to obtain patient feedback to refine the intervention for future R01.
    
  