
    
      Three geographically and socioeconomically diverse Kroger pharmacies will be selected in the
      greater Richmond area. Eligible patients include patients with diabetes between the ages of
      19 and 64 and patients who have filled a prescription for at least one diabetes medication in
      the past 90 days. An NDC (National Drug Code) activity report will be run through Kroger
      internal reporting to identify patients who have filled a prescription for a diabetes
      medication in the past 90 days. Excluded patients include those with a known history
      pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccination, and patients with an allergy to any component of the
      pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine. All patients who are deemed eligible will have their
      immunization history assessed by verifying immunization records in their Kroger medication
      profile, in the Virginia Immunization Information System (VIIS) or with their primary care
      physician. The percentage of patients vaccinated with the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine
      in the three Kroger pharmacies will be calculated prior to the start of the intervention
      period.

      Eligible patients will have a pop-up note added to their patient profile in the Kroger
      system. The pop-up note will indicate that the patient is eligible for education on the
      pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine. When an eligible patient presents to the pharmacy for
      prescription pick up or drop off, the pop-up note will notify the technician to get a
      pharmacist for education. The pharmacist will educate the patient on the vaccine and then
      recommend that the patient receives the vaccine. If the patient accepts the recommendation,
      the pharmacist will then follow Kroger policies and protocol and administer the pneumococcal
      polysaccharide vaccine to the patient. Standard procedure of administering a pneumococcal
      vaccine at Kroger includes having the patient complete and sign a vaccination consent form.
      The consent form consists of questions that assess the patients current health status,
      immunocompromising conditions, allergies and pregnancy status This indicates to the
      pharmacist whether the vaccine requested is appropriate for the patient. The pharmacist will
      review the Kroger consent form and administer the pneumococcal vaccine, using sterile
      injection technique, if there are no contraindications. After the patient receives the
      vaccine or declines the vaccine recommendation, the pharmacist will then ask the patient to
      complete a brief survey. After completion or refusal of the survey, the pharmacist will
      document the date the survey was completed or denied and if the pneumococcal vaccine was
      given. After the patient encounter has ended, the pharmacist will edit the pop-up note in the
      patient profile to document the date the patient was educated, and no further intervention is
      needed.
    
  