
    
      Metabolic syndrome is a term that is used to describe a group of risk factors for coronary
      artery disease (CAD). The risk factors include abdominal obesity, insulin resistance, high
      cholesterol, and high blood pressure. People who live a sedentary lifestyle and do not get
      enough exercise are at risk of developing metabolic syndrome and CAD. Black Americans also
      have an increased risk of metabolic syndrome and CAD, particularly if they have a sibling
      younger than 60 years old who has premature CAD. Studies have shown that people who engage in
      regular, moderate intensity exercise can eliminate metabolic syndrome risk factors that can
      lead to CAD; however, many high-risk Black Americans do not take part in regular exercise.
      The purpose of this study is to compare a community-based, coach-led exercise program to an
      individual, self-led home-based exercise program to examine which program is more effective
      at reducing the metabolic syndrome risk factors that can lead to CAD in Black Americans.

      This study will enroll Black Americans with metabolic syndrome who have a sibling with
      premature CAD. Participants will be randomly assigned (by individual) to either a
      community-based exercise program (C-FIT) or a self-help home-based exercise program (HOME).
      Participants in the C-FIT group will do 1 hour of exercise two to three times each week in a
      community setting and will be supervised by a personal coach or trainer for 1 year.
      Participants in the SELF group will undergo a fitness evaluation and will be instructed on
      how to exercise on their own. They also will be expected to do 1 hour of exercise two to
      three times each week for 1 year. Study visits will occur at baseline, Month 6, and Years 1
      and 2. At all study visits, participants will undergo the following: a medical history
      review; physical examination; blood pressure measurements; blood collection; body
      measurements, including height, weight, and waist circumference; a treadmill stress test; a
      strength test; a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan to measure body fat; an
      echocardiogram to examine the heart; a flow-mediated vasodilatation test for brachial
      reactivity to measure vascular function; and questionnaires on diet, exercise habits, and
      self-efficacy.
    
  