
    
      This study is a retrospective PCR(polymerase chain reaction) analysis of paraffin-fixed
      sample with a participants chart review. The PCR analysis will consist of two phases; a PCR
      test validation phase and an azole resistance test phase. The investigators will also perform
      a retrospective chart review to investigate the association of participants' fungal clinical
      outcomes and the presence of azole resistance.

      I. PCR analysis

        1. PCR test validation phase

             -  Validating PCR assay by mock tissues and Invasive fungal infection proven
                tissues(microbiologically and pathologically proven cases).

             -  The number of validation samples will be 1000 (200 samples * five target PCR).

             -  For the enough validation of PCR results, inter-laboratory comparisons, especially
                with the core laboratory, are performed to verify the PCR results of the same test
                sample among laboratories and to standardize a certain protocol for the molecular
                identification of fungal infection from the clinical specimens.

             -  Positive controls (human β-globin gene and mouse actin gene) and negative controls
                (non-infected samples) are used for validating of PCR assays. Precision of each PCR
                set is checked using the false discovery rate (FDR) which can be the acceptable
                level of false positives among a set of significant results. If FDR is >5%, it will
                be rejected.

             -  The intra-assay repeatability will be evaluated on 10 replicates of one of the DNA
                subsamples analyzed in a single assay. The inter-assay reproducibility will be
                assess on the same DNA subsample five separate times while the inter-sample
                reproducibility will be determine on separate extractions of the four subsamples
                amplified a single time. Statistical analysis will be carry out using SAS software.

        2. Azole resistance test phase

             -  The investigator will perform a PCR assay using participants biopsied paraffin
                embedded tissues. Technical method of the PCR assay is attached separately.

             -  Around a hundred biopsied samples under impression of fungal infection from June
                1st, 2009 to June 31st, 2014 will be included for the PCR testing.

      II. Retrospective chart review of all enrolled participants.

        1. Data collection

             -  All available participants' electronic medical record data will be reviewed for
                collecting demographic and clinical information.

        2. Outcome measures

             -  The investigators will evaluate Invasive fungal infecrion treatment results,
                survival rates, and prognosis according to the existence of azole resistance and
                antifungal treatment modalities including medications.
    
  