
    
      The incidence and prevalence of diabetes mellitus has now reached over 4 million in the UK.
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) accounts for approximately 90% of the UK population with
      diabetes and confers significant morbidity and mortality on patients and healthcare systems.
      Despite new therapies and management tools to improve quality of life and outcomes for
      patients with T2DM, diabetic complications with cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains the
      greatest cause of mortality. New paradigms for characterising and treating these patients
      could enhance current T2DM management.

      Recently, there has been considerable interest in the association between quantity and
      quality of sleep and circadian rhythms and the development of cardiometabolic disease
      especially metabolic syndrome, T2DM and CVD. A "U"-shaped relationship related to both short
      and long sleep duration exists between sleep duration and T2DM, obesity, CVD, hypertension
      and stroke. A meta-analysis of nearly 500,000 individuals (~4% T2DM) identified a relative
      risk (RR) of 1.14 (95% CI 1.03-1.26) for every additional hour of sleep and RR 1.09 (95% CI
      1.04-1.15) with each hour of shorter sleep compared to 7-hours sleep per day for the
      development of T2DM. Despite this many individuals do not consider sleep essential for good
      health but instead consider it to be rather more of an inconvenience. Subsequently, lifestyle
      choices, societal pressures and shift-work render the population chronically sleep deprived
      and thus at increased risk of metabolic dysfunction.

      Sleep is regulated, in part, by a homeostatic drive and is therefore unavoidable in humans
      (without sleep disorders). The circadian system, our internal clock, is also responsible for
      the regulation of sleep. Sleep is a multidimensional behaviour (and biological process) where
      the investigators need to not only consider duration and quality but timing also. A person's
      sleep pattern, in relation to the 24-hour clock, i.e. timing, is individual to them and
      referred to as their chronotype. The investigators can quantitatively characterize these
      individual differences in daily timing using a number of questionnaire based tools.

      Five different chronotypes have been identified using the 'Morningness-Eveningness'
      Questionnaire i.e. definite evening type, moderate evening type, intermediate, moderate
      morning type and definite morning type.The identification of these different chronotypes,
      which describes preferred circadian phases, into, at the two extremes, "morning type" and
      "evening type" has led to further research confirming that "evening types" are at greater
      risk of cardiometabolic disease. The underlying causes have not been clearly defined but
      appear to be related to circadian mal-alignment causing chronic sleep deprivation and leading
      to dysregulation of metabolic, immune and hormonal processes that govern energy regulation
      and glycaemic control.

      Several clock genes have been identified in the control of circadian rhythms including Clock
      (Circadian locomotor output cycles protein kaput), Npas2 (Neuronal PAS domain protein2),
      Bmal1 (Brain and muscle ARNT-like protein), Per1 (Period), Per2, Per3, Cry1 (Cryptochrome),
      Cry2, Rev-Erbs (Reverse erythroblastosis virus) and CkI (Casein kinase). However their role
      if any, in prevention and progression in T2DM remains to be elucidated.

      The concept of "social jetlag" has been developed to describe the deleterious effects of
      chronic sleep deprivation related to weekday occupational obligations on "evening types" and
      weekend social demands on "morning types". For example, a large epidemiological study in
      Germany has shown that social jetlag is associated with obesity. Several public health
      questions are raised by these associations, not least whether chronotyping of all individuals
      should be considered and whether the individual chronotype can be adjusted by sleep hygiene
      and training (which requires discipline for maintenance) and/or exogenous treatment with
      melatonin.

      In this cross-sectional observational study, the investigators therefore propose to
      extensively chronotype a sample of patients with T2DM, and to determine the impact of
      chronotype on glycaemic control, insulin resistance, biochemical profile, and inflammatory,
      adipocytokine and genetic markers using a validated questionnaire and blood tests.

      In an optional sub-study we will explore the association between chronotype and objectively
      measured physical activity, energy intake and clock genes.
    
  