
    
      Approximately half of patients who experience a dislocation of their shoulder will go on to
      experience further problems with their shoulder. Some people will suffer persisting
      instability, and notice an uncomfortable feeling of their shoulder wanting to give way. This
      can occur commonly during active movements such as playing sports or lifting heavy objects.
      Some patients experience recurrent dislocations, and find that their shoulder is so weak that
      it slips out of joint with little provocation.

      Previous research suggested that this high rate of subsequent shoulder problems can be
      greatly reduced (although not abolished completely) by surgery performed soon after the first
      dislocation. Ten years ago, there were two different methods which had been popularised:

        1. Arthroscopic Wash-Out: The first is to wash out the shoulder joint with a sterile
           solution through an arthroscope (keyhole surgery) under a general anaesthetic.

        2. Arthroscopic Repair: The second is to repair the torn tissues in the shoulder, again
           using key-hole surgery techniques under general anaesthetic.

      A previous clinical trial was undertaken in our unit (2001-2005) which randomised young
      patients aged under 35 years to one of the two possible treatments (described above). These
      procedures were not new or experimental. The same Arthroscopic Repair technique continues to
      be routinely used in NHS Lothian to treat patients who have late problems following a
      dislocated shoulder. We do not routinely perform wash-outs of the shoulder joint because this
      is only effective in treating problems that occur at an early stage.This new study intends to
      build on these findings by asking each of the patient groups to complete a short
      questionnaire which uses validated outcomes to measure their shoulder function. The aim of
      the study is to identify if there is a long-term clinical and functional benefit of early
      arthroscopic shoulder stabilisation in high-risk patients.
    
  