
    
      Standard DBT includes four modes of intervention: weekly individual psychotherapy; weekly
      skills group; 24 hour phone consultation to the patient; and consultation team meetings. The
      skills group is focused on teaching skills (mindfulness, emotional regulation, distress
      tolerance, and interpersonal effectiveness), and facilitating the replacement of maladaptive
      behaviors with adaptive behaviors (Neasciu, Rizvi, & Linehan, 2010). Individual therapy
      sessions focus on reducing target problem behaviors (e.g., life threatening behavior, therapy
      interfering behavior, quality of life interfering behaviors). Phone consultation is to aid
      the client in generalizing skill use to their every day life. The consultation team meetings
      are for the therapists, to provide support, and to aid therapists in staying adherent to a
      DBT frame of treatment.

      This project will be utilizing a convenience sample. Patients are referred to the program by
      their psychiatrist/family doctor. They are assessed by a Clinical Psychologist to determine
      if they meet criteria for a diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder via clinical
      interview and a semi-structured diagnostic interview. They must also meet the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria for participation in the program, which are as follows:

      Inclusion Criteria

        -  18 years or older

        -  Borderline personality disorder diagnosis

        -  Chronic suicidal ideation or parasuicidal acts, or other self-destructive, impulsive
           behaviors

        -  Must be willing to sign DBT contract and commit to 6-month duration of treatment of both
           individual therapy and skills training group.

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Active psychosis

        -  Severe developmental delays, cognitive impairment or learning disabilities

        -  No violent behaviors will be tolerated. Patients with a history of dangerous or
           aggressive behaviors towards others, history of medical harm to previous therapists may
           not be considered.

      Following this, they must agree to participate in the program and to the program requirements
      (weekly individual therapy, skills group, etc). Once this has occurred, they will be
      approached by a research assistant to discuss with them their voluntary participation in this
      research study. Once consent is provided, the patient will complete several baseline
      measures. These same measures will be completed at post treatment (6 months) and then again
      at 12 months and 18 months for follow-up. Each patient will also complete a weekly diary
      card, which asks them to record several aspects of daily functioning, as well as self-harm
      urges and behaviors, and use of skills taught in DBT.
    
  