
    
      Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pPCI) is the preferred treatment in ST elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI). The infarct-related artery (IRA) can be opened in more than
      90% of the patients. However, STEMI patients still end up with a persistent perfusion defect
      of highly variable magnitude indicating that adjunctive treatment may add further protection
      against tissue damage. Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) is an intervention by which myocardium
      threatened by ischemia is exposed to short and repeated sublethal ischemic episodes prior to
      sustained ischemia (local IPC). A systemic response with protection of more remote organs
      (remote IPC (rIPC)) also can be induced. We have recently found that the infarct reducing
      effect can be obtained by obstruction of an extremity even though the remote stimulus is
      initiated after sustained occlusion of a coronary artery, the so-called remote
      preconditioning (rPerC). The clinical perspective is now to examine if rPerC can reduce the
      infarct size in patients with unpredictable ischemia in ST elevation myocardial infarction
      (STEMI). We perform a randomized study where patients en route for pPCI are allocated to
      either rPerC or a standard treatment to evaluate whether the tissue damage can be reduced.
      Effect measure will be infarct size determined by scintigraphy (final infarct size and
      salvage).

      Purpose

      The purpose of the present study is to examine the utility of rPerC in STEMI patients treated
      with pPCI. The effect will be evaluated by 1) limitation of infarct size (salvage and final
      infarct size) determined by myocardial scintigraphy (SPECT), 2) electrocardiographic and
      angiographic signs of tissue perfusion, 3) release of ischemic markers 5) echocardiographic
      markers of left ventricular function and 5) clinical end-points (Major Adverse Cardiac Events
      (MACE: death, reinfarction, need for revascularisation, invalidating stroke)) at discharge
      and after 30 days.

      Description and evaluation of the ethical aspects of the study

      Study patients treated with pPCI are randomized to pretreatment with rPerC or no pretreatment
      (control group). The randomization will take place in the ambulance or at the local hospital.
      With the aim of not causing unnecessary delays, the pretreatment is discontinued if the
      patient arrives at the cath. lab. before the pretreatment is completed.The discomfort in
      connection with the pretreatment has been shown to be minimal.

      Information regarding study population

      The patients are recruited among patients admitted or transferred to Department of Cardiology
      B, Skejby Sygehus for pPCI treatment for STEMI.

      Review on the methods used

      rPerC The pretreatment in the rPerC group comprises 4 x (5 min. occlusion of right upper
      extremity followed by 5 min. reperfusion) which is performed during the transportation
      towards Skejby Sygehus. The occlusion is obtained by inflation of a blood pressure tourniquet
      placed on the patient's right thigh to 200 mm Hg or 25 mmHg above the patient's systolic
      blood pressure when higher than 200 mm Hg.

      Angiography The initial angiography is performed in at least two planes after administration
      of nitroglycerin 0.2 mg intracoronary and filmed at 25 frames/sec. The lesion should be
      placed centrally in the picture with the tip of the guiding catheter visual in the picture.

      The final angiography is performed in the same planes as the initial angiography and after
      administration of nitroglycerin 0.2 mg intracoronary. The angiography is filmed at 25
      frames/sec. and the filming is continued until a clear projection of sinus coronarius. The
      angiogram is filmed with and without magnification with the aim of projecting the periphery
      of the vessels.

      The final angiography is performed two minutes after the last dilatation - provided that the
      patient is hemodynamically stable.

      Percutaneous intervention and antithrombotic treatment The patients will have PCI performed
      in accordance with the existing procedures and guidelines at Skejby Hospital.

      Electrocardiogram (ECG) and monitoring Continuous 12-lead ST-monitoring is initiated on scene
      by use of a commercial monitor-defibrillator (LIFEPAK 12, Medtronic Emergency Response
      Systems, USA), and continued during transport to the local hospital (if not bypassed) and
      during transfer to the interventional hospital. On arrival at the interventional hospital
      traditional ECG electrodes are replaced by radiolucent carbon fiber lead wire electrodes
      (Ambu Blue Sensor QR electrodes, Ambu A/S, Denmark) enabling ST-monitoring to be continued
      during and 90 minutes following PCI. The analog ECG signals sampled by the system are
      digitized at a sample rate of 500 Hz for processing by the GE/Marquette Medical Systems 12SL
      ECG interpretive algorithm. At 30-second interval the ST-monitoring program generates a
      median QRST-complex for all 12 leads based on a 10-second epoch of ECG data. From each of
      these median QRST-complexes the program estimates the ST-deviation at the STM point, halfway
      between the J-point of the QRS complex and the start of the T-wave. If a 0.1 mV change in
      ST-deviation lasts for 2.5 minutes then the software automatically acquires and stores a
      10-second 12-lead ECG waveform. All 12-lead ECG waveforms and continuous ST-monitoring data
      are transferred to a personal computer and stored by a random key for subsequent blinded
      analysis at the Core Lab. at Skejby Sygehus.

      Biochemical ischemia markers Circulating concentrations of troponin T (TnT) is measured at
      arrival, 8-12 hours, 20-24 hours and finally 90-102 hours after symptom onset.

      Scintigraphic methods Two scintigraphic examinations are performed to determination of area
      at risk (AAR), final infarct size (FIS), regional wall motion and regional wall thickening
      respectively.

      Area at risk (AAR): (That part of left ventricle that is without perfusion prior to PCI)
      Determined by tracer injection during ongoing coronary occlusion which means tracer injection
      prior to PCI but imaging after pPCI.

      Final infarct size (FIS): (That part of left ventricle that is without perfusion 1 month
      after PCI) Determined by myocardial scintigraphy at rest 1 month after pPCI.

      The following parameters are calculated:

      Salvage : AAR minus FIS (% of left ventricle) Salvage index (%): Salvage / AAR. Left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (%): (EDV - ESV)/EDV. Each myocardial scintigraphy is
      performed after administration of 700 ± 10% MBq 99mTc-Sestamibi as an intravenous bolus
      injection. Acquisition is performed as gated SPECT within 8 hours after tracer injection. The
      myocardial perfusion is analyzed and quantitized by the use of the interpretation software
      QPS and QGS. At each examination partly myocardial perfusion defect as a percentage of left
      ventricular myocardium, partly left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volume (EDV
      and ESV) and partly regional wall motion and wall thickening is determined.

      Design and data registration The patients are randomized to pPCI treatment with or without
      prior rIPC. All data analyzes from the study will be analyzed blinded regarding to the
      patient's randomization.

      For each participant included in the study, a case record form (CRF) is filled in.

      Definition and characteristic of effect parameters and other registered data A consecutive
      patient registration is performed by a characteristic of the study population and a
      registration of causes of exclusion. Clinical, angiographic and procedure related variables
      as in the West-Danish Heart Database will be used.

      Data evaluation For each of the primary and secondary clinical effect parameters, a
      comparative examination of the rPerC and not rPerC treated patient groups is performed.

      Statistics Dimensioning the study: Previous investigations have shown that area at risk in
      connection with STEMI is approximately 30% of left ventricle. Experiences from investigations
      at Department of Cardiology B and Department of Nuclear Medicine, Skejby Sygehus, have shown
      that the final infarct size in STEMI patients treated with pPCI is approximately 15%.

      It is estimated that a 20% reduction in infarct size (e.g. from 15% to 12%) will be
      clinically relevant. With a spreading of the infarct size of 15%, which are in accordance
      with our previous findings, detection of such a reduction with a risk of type 2 errors of 80%
      (2α=0.80) will require 109 patients in each group. We plan inclusion of a total of 250
      patients to secure complete data.

      The study will be analyzed after intention-to-treat principles. A final specification will be
      performed with unpaired parametric or non parametric statistics.
    
  