
    
      Rationale: Hand fractures including intra- and extra-articular phalanges and metacarpal are
      common and account for approximately 40% of upper extremity fractures and lead to functional
      loss of the hand.Fractures can be treated conservatively with a nonsurgical approach(Closed
      reduction) by placing the damaged figure in a splint; this may results in displacement,
      rotation, angulation and/or instability, therefore require surgery. Surgical techniques for
      treatment of hand fractures include internal fixation with metal plate or screws after Open
      reduction and external fixation with insertion of percutaneous pins or screws. Percutaneous
      external fixation is one of the widely used methods, but is difficult to maintained when
      accompanied by unstable fractures and soft tissue injuries or there are severely comminuted
      fractures and sometimes results in restricted motion of adjacent joints due to prolonged
      fixation. In comparison, internal fixation is an operation using internal fixators such as
      plates, wires, screws etc. solely or concurrently depending on the location and severity of
      hand fracture. With the recent advancement of implant design and fixation techniques, a
      variety of screws are widely used for fixation of small-bone fractures.

      The present study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of magnesium alloy screw
      as a novel bioabsorbable and biodegradable material.

      Study Duration: After an approval of clinical protocol from MFDS in Korea, total 20 months
      were required including 14 months for subject enrollment and 6 months of follow-up. An
      additional 1 month was required after completion of the study for handling of data,
      statistical analysis and preparation of study report.

      Target Subjects: Patients who require internal fixation using screws due to hand fractures

      Investigational Device: K-MET™ Bioresorbable Bone screw (manufactured by U&I) This device
      divided into two type,Cortex screw and Headless compression screw.

      Number of Subjects: A total of 34 cases of bone fractures in 28 subjects.
    
  