
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of crizotinib and pemetrexed (pemetrexed
      disodium) compared to pemetrexed monotherapy as measured by progression-free survival (PFS)
      in anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)+ non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients
      who achieved clinical benefit with crizotinib monotherapy and subsequently progressed
      systemically.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses)
      in patients randomized to receive pemetrexed monotherapy to historical data.

      II. To assess overall survival in both arms. III. To evaluate the patterns of failure
      (central nervous system [CNS], extra-CNS) of the combination of crizotinib and pemetrexed and
      of pemetrexed monotherapy in ALK+ non-squamous NSCLC after progression on crizotinib.

      IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities resulting from the administration of
      crizotinib and pemetrexed compared to pemetrexed monotherapy.

      V. To evaluate PFS and the response rate in patients treated with crizotinib following
      progression on the pemetrexed monotherapy arm.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) and response rates (RR) between ALK dominant
      and ALK non-dominant patients in the entire study population and within each treatment arm.

      II. To evaluate if the magnitude of difference in these outcomes between ALK dominant and ALK
      non-dominant patients varies by treatment arm.

      III. To assess blood biomarkers of sensitivity and resistance to crizotinib and pemetrexed in
      an exploratory manner. The blood biomarkers include cell free circulating deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA), micro ribonucleic acid (microRNA) before treatment, during treatment (after 2
      cycles) and at treatment progression.

      IV. To assess pharmacogenomic factors in peripheral blood that might affect the drug level
      and treatment outcomes in an exploratory manner.

      V. To assess proteomic/immunologic parameters that might affect the treatment outcomes in an
      exploratory manner.

      VI. To evaluate the frequency of individual mechanisms of resistance (copy number gain [CNG],
      mutation, alternate oncogene).

      VII. To identify alternative driver mechanisms in ALK fluorescence in situ hybridization
      positive (FISH+) otherwise unknown.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive crizotinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and pemetrexed
      disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1.

      ARM II: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Upon disease
      progression or symptomatic deterioration, patients may crossover to Arm I.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.
    
  