
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the activity of a CDK inhibitor in patients with progressive brain metastases
      derived from lung cancer, breast cancer, and other cancers harboring actionable genetic
      alterations associated with sensitivity to CDK inhibitors as measured by response rate
      (Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology [RANO] criteria).

      II. To determine the activity of a PI3K inhibitor in patients with progressive brain
      metastases derived from lung cancer, breast cancer, and other cancers harboring actionable
      genetic alterations in the PI3K pathway as measured by response rate (RANO criteria).

      III: To determine the activity of an NTRK/ROS1 inhibitor in patients with progressive brain
      metastases derived from lung cancer harboring actionable NTRK/ROS1 gene fusions as measured
      by response rate (RANO criteria).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the systemic response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
      criteria in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

      II. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR] +
      stable disease [SD]) by Brain Metastases (BM)-RANO for central nervous system (CNS) in each
      of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

      III. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (CR + PR + SD) by RECIST for extracranial disease
      in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

      IV. To evaluate the duration of response by BM-RANO in each of the cohorts determined by
      treatment and primary cancer type.

      V. To evaluate the duration of response by RECIST in each of the cohorts determined by
      treatment and primary cancer type.

      VI. To evaluate the progression-free survival for intracranial disease in each of the cohorts
      determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

      VII. To evaluate the progression-free survival for extracranial disease in each of the
      cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

      VIII. To evaluate the site of first progression (CNS versus [vs] non-CNS) in each of the
      cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

      IX. To evaluate the overall survival in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and
      primary cancer type.

      X. To evaluate the toxicity profile of agents in patients with brain metastases in each of
      the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I (CDK GENE MUTATION): Patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days
      1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II (PI3K GENE MUTATION): Patients receive PI3K inhibitor paxalisib PO once daily (QD) on
      days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM III (NTRK/ROS1 GENE MUTATION): Patients receive entrectinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8 weeks for 2 years, then
      every 3 months for years 3-4, and then every 6 months thereafter for up to 5 years after
      registration.
    
  