
    
      Malaria is a major health problem in the Solomon Islands, with an annual estimated incidence
      of 158 per 1000 population in 2005, and P. falciparum and P. vivax responsible for
      respectively 71% and 29% of the clinical cases. Not much is known about the burden of malaria
      in pregnancy and the effectiveness of weekly chloroquine prophylaxis, the national policy for
      the prevention of malaria in pregnancy. In Honiara, the capital, 42.7% of the pregnant women
      are anaemic at their first antenatal clinic (ANC) visit. In a national data-base, clinical
      malaria in pregnancy was associated with an increased risk of anaemia. High levels of
      chloroquine drug resistance have been reported (67% treatment failure at day 28 in 2001).
      Among women who attended an ANC in Honiara and had been offered chloroquine prophylaxis, a
      high low birth weight risk among primigravidae compared to multigravidae was noted. This
      information indicates that the current policy may not be optimal for the prevention of
      malaria and its effects in pregnancy. Intermittent preventive treatment (IPTp) with
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) in pregnancy is an alternative strategy which has been
      introduced in many malarious countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Studies which compared IPTp
      with chloroquine prophylaxis in Africa showed that IPTp was more beneficial. Resistance to SP
      monotherapy in the Solomon islands has not been examined; however, the resistance to the
      combination of SP and chloroquine is low (< 10%). IPTp with SP has so far not been
      implemented in a region where P. vivax is common, and the effect of SP on P. vivax is not
      clear.

      We propose a randomized controlled trial to assess the effectiveness of IPTp with SP compared
      to chloroquine prophylaxis in Honiara, the Solomon Islands. As outcome measures we will
      examine the effect on anaemia in third trimester, placental malaria, maternal anaemia at the
      time of delivery, infant birth weight, and prematurity. Outcomes in women allocated IPTp with
      SP will be compared with those allocated chloroquine prophylaxis. We expect 2504 women from
      Honiara City Council to participate in the randomised controlled trial. To assess the burden
      of malaria in pregnancy in other locations women we expect 1000 women to participate in a
      survey at the time of delivery among women not participating in the trial. At the end of this
      study, we will know the burden of malaria in pregnancy in Honiara and Guadalcanal, and we
      will be able to assist in developing evidence based national guidelines for malaria
      prevention among pregnant women in the Solomon Islands. The information obtained will be
      important for other areas and countries with a similar epidemiology of malaria in pregnancy.
    
  