
    
      This study is a retrospective study. Enrollment study. Enrolled in the Department of
      Hepatology, Beijing Ditan Hospital, Capital Medical University, Department of Liver
      Histology, Department of Hepatology, Chronic HBV HBV infection. The data collected included
      patient gender, . The data collected included patient gender, . The data collected included
      the patient's gender, age, HBV age of infection, past family history, etc., the age of the
      collected subjects, the current family history, etc., the liver histopathological diagnosis
      information collected in the group, and the liver disease examination Clinical toxicities and
      indicators, including serological diagnostic information, clinical toxicities and indicators
      for liver disease tests, including serological diagnostic information, clinical toxicities
      and indicators for liver disease tests, including serum HBV DNA HBV DNAHBV DNAHBV DNA HBV DNA
      content, HBsAg/HBsAg/HBsAg/HBsAg/anti-HBsHBsHBs, HBeAg/HBeAg/HBeAg/HBeAg/HBeAg/anti-HBe
      content, biochemical indicators coagulation function and routine data. Content, biochemical
      indicators, coagulation function and routine data. Content, biochemical indicators,
      coagulation function and routine data. Observe patient demographic data, HBV DNA HBV DNAHBV
      DNAHBV DNA HBV DNA content, HBsAg/HBsAg/HBsAg/HBsAg/HBsAg/anti-HBsHBsHBs,
      HBeAg/HBeAg/HBeAg/HBeAg/HBeAg/HBeAg/anti-HBe HBe content, biochemical indicators, coagulation
      Correlation between function and routine, coagulation function and conventional indicators
      and liver histological changes. Explore the relevance of effective diagnosis of liver
      changes. To explore the characteristics of clinical indicators that can effectively diagnose
      liver histopathological changes, and to provide clinical indicators for patients with chronic
      hepatitis B to receive timely treatment of histopathological changes, and provide important
      evidence for patients with chronic hepatitis B to receive timely treatment.
    
  