
    
      Alzheimer's dementia (AD) is a major public health challenge for our century. Research into
      pharmaceutical therapies has been disappointing and not provided any safe medications that
      can halt the disease's trajectory of decline in the cognitive, functional, emotional and
      social capabilities of the affected individuals. For non-pharmacological approaches,
      multi-domain exercise programs that address several of these capabilities in an integrated
      way have shown strong promise for their ability to slow the decline. The team of
      investigators has systematically developed one such program-the Preventing Loss of
      Independence through Exercise (PLIÉ) program-an integrative exercise program that uses
      procedural memory (memory for movements without explicit recall), can be taught at and
      integrated into senior day care centers and has been pilot-tested by our team with
      encouraging results for functional, cognitive and social outcomes (see Table 1).

      However, (1) most people in the community do not have access to a day care center, are
      concerned about the stigma associated with day care or are unable to afford it. This was
      endorsed by semi-structured interviews conducted with caregivers and community-based
      organizations in preparation for a larger study of the PLIÉ program. There is a huge need for
      innovative programs to assist individuals with dementia and their caregivers in the
      community. Irrespective of having access to day care or not, motivated caregivers, who are
      aware of the benefits of exercises for their loved ones and spend hours alone with them at
      home, ask: "What can we do with our [e.g. mother]?" They point out a major lack of guidance
      for caregivers in the community to be able to use a regular exercise practice on a long-term
      basis at home. Caregivers and seniors with dementia living together in the community are
      dyads in need of a paired exercise program. (2) How exercise may delay cognitive and
      functional decline is unknown. One hypothetical mechanism of action is an improved brain
      oxygenation related to exercise. Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) is a non-invasive method
      to assess regional cortical oxygenation levels, has been suggested for the early diagnosis of
      Alzheimer's dementia, but has never been applied to longitudinal studies in this population.

      Paired home exercise programs for seniors with dementia and their primary caregivers have
      rarely been studied. A pilot study that used 6 'sticky hands' movement variations based on
      Tai Chi, music and exercise incentives found improvements in 2 outcome measures considered to
      be important in fall prevention (sit-to-stand time, one-legged stance time). However,
      movements were limited to tai chi and outcomes to fall-related function, leaving out
      cognitive function for which the PLIÉ program had shown such promising results.

      The group of investigators is an established collaboration between the Osher Center for
      Integrative Medicine and the Department of Psychiatry at UCSF and has recently pioneered a
      novel, 45-minute, multi-domain program called Preventing Loss of Independence through
      Exercise (PLIÉ) that integrates physical activity (training of procedural memory for basic
      daily activities such as sitting and standing), cognitive stimulation (mindful body
      awareness), social engagement (group movement and sharing of in-the-moment experiences), and
      caregiver education (monthly home-visit). The investigators pilot-tested PLIÉ in 11
      individuals with mild to moderate dementia who were attending an adult day program at the
      Institute of Aging in San Francisco, CA (ClinicalTrials.gov registered NCT01371214), and
      found (Table 1) preliminary evidence of medium to large, clinically meaningful effect sizes
      com-pared to usual care (UC; 45 minutes of usual chair-based exercises at the day care
      center) across a wide range of out-comes including measures of quality of life (0.83),
      cognitive function (0.76), physical performance (0.34) and caregiver burden (0.49).7,11 That
      study methodologically mimicked a drug study by including measures that are commonly used in
      dementia medication trials, which enabled comparison of the magnitude of our results to
      currently available dementia medications.. The investigators are now completing data
      collection for a second implementation of the PLIÉ program at an adult day program in San
      Rafael, CA (Senior Access). The intervention of the current proposal will be similar to PLIÉ
      in using the same principles6 and taught by instructors trained in the PLIÉ program. However,
      it will differ in its format: instead of a day-care center-based group program taught by
      professional exercise instructors, it uses a dyadic approach, introduced through caregiver
      support groups to pairs of individuals with dementia and their caregivers, initially using a
      group class format, but taught to enable caregivers to practice independently at home. To
      allow for wide-spread long-term routine application, it will be brief (20 minutes), use
      personalized music associated with positive affect memories, and be supported by video
      instructions.

      2 papers have been published about the study.

      Therefore, the investigators propose studying a paired integrative exercise intervention that
      can be practiced in dyads of caregivers and affected individuals at home or in a
      community-based support group environment, does not require additional equipment, can be
      easily learned by caregivers, and may ameliorate the impact of dementia for older persons and
      caregivers. The investigators suggest a multimodal program that is based on implicit
      procedural learning and the integrative principles of the PLIÉ program: it includes physical
      (through touch) and social interaction with a trusted family member, focuses on physical
      function such as balance, includes personalized music choices and singing, supports positive
      affect, and uses language to cognitively enhance the experience of mind-body integration. It
      promotes a playful, non-judgmental supportive attitude to foster a sense of embodied
      personhood in individuals with dementia through joyful social interaction with an empowered
      caregiver.

        1. Recruitment. Study participants will be recruited from local caregiver support groups of
           Kaiser Permanente in Oakland. Exercise instructors and the PI have already been invited
           to give presentations at their regular meetings. Contacts have been established with 3
           caregiver support groups meeting at Kaiser Permanente in Oakland, totaling about 100
           caregivers, who meet once a month and confirmed strong interest to participate. Thus, it
           is highly likely that we will twice be able to recruit 10 dyads of eligible
           participants. In addition, investigators will give study flyers to caregiver support
           managers at Kaiser Permanente, the local Alzheimer's Association groups, and the
           Alzheimer's Services of the East Bay (ASEB). In addition, we will recruit at ASEB.

           Caregivers will be informed about the study by brief presentations by the PI and an
           exercise instructor during regular support group meetings. A flyer will be handed to
           interested potential participants describing the study and providing an opportunity to
           learn more by returning a form or calling the research study staff. Those caregivers who
           express interest will be contacted by research staff by phone to further assess
           interest/eligibility and to schedule a consent visit.

        2. Informed consent. Verbal consent to be screened will be obtained over the telephone
           prior to collecting information on demographics and medical and psychiatric history.
           Written consent will be obtained with the affected individuals and caregivers together,
           as described in more detail below. The consent forms will be reviewed and capacity to
           consent will be assessed in primary participants based on responses to questions to
           determine level of understanding of study procedures, risks, benefits and rights.
           Participants who do not demonstrate capacity to consent will be asked to assent to study
           procedures and caregivers will be asked to consent on their behalf. A separate consent
           form will request permission to participate in video recording of exercise classes for
           quality control purposes. After the consent process has been completed, the Modified
           Mini-Mental State Exam (3MS) will be administered to affected individuals to assess
           level of cognitive impairment. Consent procedures will take place at the Kaiser group
           room unless otherwise requested by caregivers.

           If the caregiver is not the Legally Authorized Representative (LAR) or the legal
           guardian of the affected individual, the screening interview will be stopped.
           Investigators will then mail a letter to the LAR or legal guardian and invite her/him to
           contact us by mail or phone to discuss the study and the consent process. The screening
           and eligibility questions for the affected individual will then be completed with the
           LAR or legal guardian. If investigators do not get a response within 2 weeks they will
           call the LAR or legal guardian by phone assuming that she/he has received our letter.
           Only if this person permits the affected individual's study participation investigators
           will contact the caregiver and the affected individual again.

           How will investigators assess the potential participant's capacity to consent? Capacity
           to consent will be assessed by research assistants (RA) who will be extensively trained
           by the PI and co-investigators using a standardized procedure. Investigators first
           provide the consent form to the patient and caregiver together and allow them to review
           it. RAs then describe the key points of the form, pointing to the areas on the form
           where the information is described in more detail. They then ask a series of yes/no
           questions to assess understanding of the information in the form. If the participant
           cannot answer the questions, RAs review the material again and point to the section on
           the form. Investigators then repeat the questions. If participants are unable to answer
           all of the questions on their own after review, RAs consider them to lack capacity to
           consent. RAs then ask them if they would like to participate in the study to obtain
           their assent. RAs say that they are going to ask the caregiver to sign the form on the
           participant's behalf to obtain written consent. Most of the team's research assistants
           have been and are psychology graduate students who are highly sensitive to working with
           vulnerable patients. Investigators train new research staff by having them role play the
           consent process until senior personnel determine that they are adequately prepared. They
           then observe senior personnel performing the consent process on at least one study
           participant. Subsequently they are observed performing the consent process until senior
           personnel determine that they are competent. Investigators/RAs also have weekly team
           meetings to discuss any difficulties that arise during consent or any other study
           procedure.

           Randomization: Following the baseline assessments, assessing staff will open an opaque,
           sealed envelop for each dyad (affected individual and caregiver). Envelops will be
           numbered and will contain the group assignment. A statistician not involved in the study
           will prepare these envelops and create a random sequence of numbers using a computer
           program. There will be 2 piles of envelops, one for men and one for women to recruit a
           similar proportions of male and female participants in both groups.

        3. 1st Pilot-test Phase. Affected individual/caregiver dyads who consented will be invited
           to participate in the first pilot phase of 10 dyads. These subjects will participate in
           either Group 1 (initial intervention), which will participate first, or Group 2 (wait
           list control group). Group 1 will participate in the Paired PLIÉ program 2 times/week
           for 45 minutes for 4 weeks and then once/month for additional 3 months while Group 2
           will be wait-listed. After Group 1 has completed their training, Group 2 will
           participate in the PLIÉ program 2 times/week for 45 minutes for 4 weeks and then
           once/month for additional 3 months. Group assignment will be random. Investigators will
           strive to have an equal distribution of men/women in the two groups.

           Intervention: the exercise protocol is based on the PLIÉ protocol, which the
           investigators have developed in consultation with experts worldwide who have experience
           performing different types of exercises in individuals with mild-to-moderate dementia,
           including traditional strength-building exercises, yoga, Tai Chi and Feldenkrais.
           Specifically, investigators have identified exercises from each of these traditions that
           engage the muscles most needed to maintain independence--including lower body strength
           (to help with getting out of bed/chair), balance (to minimize risk of falls), upper body
           strength (to help with lifting), fine motor exercises (to help with activities such as
           eating and brushing teeth), and pelvic floor exercises (to help with continence)--and
           have combined them into a unique integrative exercise program. These exercises are
           designed to be purposeful (i.e., to achieve a goal) and to build procedural ('muscle')
           memory. In addition, breathing and guided meditation exercises are included to promote
           relaxation and well-being.

           While the PLIÉ program has been tested in a senior day care setting, investigators are
           combining these exercises in a new way, that they can be practiced at home in dyads of
           affected individuals and caregivers.

        4. 2nd Pilot-test Phase. In a second phase investigators will repeat the identical protocol
           and intervention with 10 more dyads of affected individuals and caregivers.

        5. Pre- and post-intervention assessment. Investigators will perform a variety of standard
           measures in all participants and caregivers. The following assessments will occur at
           baseline and after the 3 follow-up months. They will primarily be utilized to assess
           feasibility and logistics of data collection procedures. Separate appointments will be
           made for affected individuals and caregivers to maximize the validity of data collected
           (e.g., to ensure that caregivers do not 'help' affected individuals with answers to
           questions and feel comfortable providing information about issues such as difficult
           behaviors or levels of stress). Affected individuals assessments will take place at the
           group room. The initial caregiver assessment will take place at the caregiver's home or
           the group room. The first line of communication for follow-up appointments will be via
           telephone or in person to minimize the risk of loss of privacy. At the caregiver
           participant's request, further communication may be conducted via mail, email, fax or
           text. Caregivers will be informed that these modes of communication may increase their
           risk of loss of privacy. Mail, email, fax and text communications will include a
           confidentiality statement. The minimum amount of identifying information will be
           included in all communications. Study forms will include unique study ID numbers only.
    
  