
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of a structured weight loss program
      versus traditional weight-loss counseling on pregnancy outcomes in women with recurrent
      pregnancy loss. The study protocol is as follows:

        1. Patients will be notified of study via flyer inserted into patient chart at initial
           clinic visit, physician referral or Stanford website. Patients expressing interest will
           have their charts reviewed to confirm that they meet all enrollment criteria. Potential
           subjects will then be contacted via phone and verbal consent to participate obtained.

        2. The participant will then have an office visit for consent signing and randomization. A
           formal weight will be obtained, the Beck Depression Inventory will be administered by
           Penny Donnelly, a self-administered questionnaire will be completed, and a basic
           laboratory evaluation, including a fasting lipid panel, alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
           fasting glucose and insulin levels, 2-hour glucose tolerance test, hemoglobin A1c and
           CRP will be preformed.

        3. The patients will then be randomized to traditional weight loss counseling (control
           group) or to the structured weight loss program (study group). Patients will be
           instructed to discontinue attempts at conception.

        4. Those patients randomized to the control group will receive the ACOG Patient Education
           pamphlets on obesity.

        5. Those patients randomized to the study group will have a formal evaluation and
           counseling by Dr. Sun Kim, a medical endocrinologist specializing in weight management.
           They will then be enrolled in a structured weight loss program.

        6. For all patients, a 3-month follow-up office visit will be scheduled. At this visit, a
           formal weight will be obtained, the Beck Depression Inventory will be re-administered by
           Penny Donnelly, a self-administered questionnaire will be completed, and a follow-up
           laboratory evaluation, including a fasting lipid panel, alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
           fasting glucose and insulin levels, 2-hour glucose tolerance test, hemoglobin A1c and
           CRP will be preformed. Patients will be informed that they may now being attempts to
           conceive.

        7. Patients randomized to the study group will continue in the structured weight loss
           program for 6 months.

        8. Six months after enrollment, all patients will have a telephone interview in which a
           close-out questionnaire will be administered and a final, self-reported weight will be
           obtained.

        9. Primary and secondary outcomes will be followed for 2.5 years after date of enrollment
           for all patients.
    
  