
    
      The growing elderly population and rising rates of costly chronic disease have led to the
      development of preventative homecare management opportunities to improve health outcomes and
      reduce the number of patients who enter costly inpatient care. Partners HealthCare at Home
      (PHH) is a preventative homecare management system which offers general care as well as
      specialized services to help patients and their loved ones manage chronic conditions at home.
      Such continuity of care is achieved through a multidisciplinary clinical team and the
      integration of telemonitoring into the patient's care plan.

      The Philips Lifeline Personal Emergency Response Service (PERS), a wearable button device
      worn on the wrist or as a pendant, is a telemonitoring device available to patients receiving
      care through PHH. When the patient presses the button, the patient is immediately connected
      with a Lifeline response agent. Philips Lifeline (PLL) has developed CareSage, a predictive
      analytics engine that combines continuous monitoring with predictive analytics. The clinical
      interface (CareSage platform) helps care teams monitor the patient's calculated risk scores
      for emergency transport. The algorithm used by this integrated risk assessment system was
      originally developed after studying a large cohort of the PERS subscribers (N = ~600,000). In
      Phase 1 of this study the algorithm was validated among a cohort (N = 3,335) of PHH patients
      to predict emergency transports in this population (AUC = .76).

      In Phase 2 of this study, the investigators will conduct a prospective, randomized trial of
      370 patients to assess the effect of the risk assessment CareSage platform and PHH tailored
      interventions on the rate of readmissions, quality of life, and the overall cost of medical
      care. The investigators hypothesize that a multidisciplinary intervention approach could
      significantly reduce the healthcare resource utilization in patient at high risk for
      hospitalization. The intervention will flag those patients at the highest risk for hospital
      transport, alert the patient's care team that an intervention may be needed, thereby
      targeting care at high risk patients who are most likely to get readmitted. By predicting
      which patients are at high risk of hospital transport which may lead to hospitalization,
      targeting interventions at those patients and engaging patients with their care team, the
      investigators hope to reduce readmissions, hospital days, and rates of mortality in high risk
      patients.

      The goal of this 2-arm randomized controlled study is to assess the impact of the CareSage
      risk assessment platform on 90- and 180-day Emergency Department (ED) visits in a cohort of
      PHH patients. All patients will receive the PERS device and be followed for a total of 9
      months, including an initial 3-month observation period and followed by a 6-month
      intervention period. At the beginning of the observation period (baseline), enrolled patients
      will be randomized into 2 groups: the Intervention Group or the Control Group. During the
      observation period the CareSage algorithm will calibrate using patient data (both groups)
      collected during this interval from the PERS device. Then, during the intervention period,
      patients in the intervention group will be actively monitored by the CareSage algorithm and
      will receive tailored PHH interventions if flagged as being at high risk for emergency
      transport. Patients in the control group will receive care as usual during the intervention
      period. All data collected during the study will be used to further strengthen the CareSage
      algorithm developed in the Phase I of this study.
    
  