
    
      Turner syndrome is due to the absence of a part of or the entire X chromosome in females.
      Stature is short, and morbidity is increased due to risk of osteoporosis and fractures, type
      2 diabetes, ischemic heart disease, hypertension, and stroke, but also the risk of cirrhosis
      is increased. Clinical studies have shown a frequent occurrence of elevated liver enzymes,
      primarily alanine aminotransferase, g-glutamyl-transferase, and alkaline phosphatase, while
      bilirubin is normal.

      We and others have shown a normalizing effect of hormone replacement therapy (HRT),
      containing 17bestradiol and a gestagen, on liver enzymes, which may point towards a
      protective effect on hepatocyte integrity. Marked architectural changes, including nodular
      regenerative hyperplasia, multiple focal nodular hyperplasia and cirrhosis are observed in
      some patients and are associated with a risk of liver-related complications. These changes
      are frequently associated with vascular disorders such as obliterative portal venopathy,
      probably related to congenitally abnormal vessels. Steatosis, steatofibrosis, and
      steatohepatitis are seen and may be caused by metabolic disorders. In addition, bile duct
      alterations resembling small duct sclerosing cholangitis are observed in several patients.
      Presently, it is not known whether these perturbations in liver morphology and in
      liver-derived enzymes are related to functional defects in females with TS and whether this
      may change by HRT. To further explore quantitative liver function in TS, we examined adult
      women with TS on and off HRT and compared them with a control group of age matched normal
      women. We used the galactose elimination capacity to assess hepatocyte cytosol activity, the
      plasma clearance of indocyanine green to assess hepatic blood flow and excretory liver cell
      function independently of hepatic blood flow, the antipyrine plasma clearance to estimate
      hepatic microsomal system activity, and the functional hepatic nitrogen clearance to assess
      mitochondrial- cytosolic metabolic capacity for conversion of amino-nitrogen.We assumed that
      one or more these metabolic liver functions would be diminished in untreated TS and
      normalized by HRT. Our principal objective was to understand mechanistically how HRT improves
      liver function in TS.
    
  