
    
      1. Patients in the Memphis VA Medical Center with documented vitamin D deficiency,
           determined by measurements of 25(OH)D3, were recruited for this study. 25(OH)D3
           measurements are commonly obtained during routine clinical care in both primary care and
           nephrology clinics. Patient with a wide range of kidney function, ranging from normal
           estimated glomerular filtration rate (e GFR) to patients with stage III and V (CKD)
           (estimated GFR <60 ml/min) were recruited treated with weekly oral administration of
           10,000 IU of cholecalciferol for a total of 8 weeks in order to correct the vitamin D
           deficiency.

        2. Data collected:

           Baseline characteristics including demographics, laboratory data obtained at primary
           care clinic visits, clinical data from the VAMC medical record and medications were
           obtained at the time of inclusion into the study. Serum concentrations of FGF23,
           25(OH)D, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D(1,25 (OH)₂D), 24,25 dihydroxyvitamin D(24,25(OH)₂D)
           ,intact parathyroid hormone (PTH), Calcium, Phosphorous and creatinine and urinary
           concentrations of calcium, phosphate and creatinine from 24 hr urine collections were
           obtained at the time of inclusion into the study and after 8 weeks of weekly
           cholecalciferol therapy. Serum and buffy coats which were recollected from dialysis
           patient's who agreed to participate, were used to measure mRNA levels of FGF-23, CPY27B1
           and Cyp 24 expression.

        3. Methods utilized in analyzing and interpreting the data Descriptive statistics will be
           performed to compare serum and urinary measurements before and after cholecalciferol
           therapy. Associations between estimated glomerular filtration rate and levels of vitamin
           D metabolites and FGF23, before and after treatment, will also be evaluated. The mRNA
           expression of FGF-23, CPY27B1 and Cyp 24 will be measured in a subset of dialysis
           patients who completed the treatment course and agreed to provide the additional
           samples.

        4. Duration of the project: 1 year.
    
  