
    
      Pandemic influenza threatens to cause substantial disability, death, and societal disruption
      and to overwhelm health care systems in the United States and around the world. Because
      effective vaccines may not be available during the initial months of a pandemic, and because
      anti-viral medication is both largely ineffective and in short supply, non-pharmacological
      personal protection and behavioral changes may be the only means to combat the epidemic. In
      our computational modeling work (through the Models of Infectious Disease Agent Study
      network), we have shown the potential value of multiple targeted and layered
      non-pharmacological interventions in blunting the peak impact and slowing of a pandemic
      (Nature, in press).

      Phase 1 of the project will be a pilot study in two elementary schools in the City of
      Pittsburgh. The project has already obtained agreement to collaborate from the Pittsburgh
      Public School System and we have assembled a multi-disciplinary team of epidemiologists,
      systems analysts, modelers, community and minority health workers, and virologists to
      implement the project. Phase one was in 2 schools.

      Phase 2 will be similar to Phase 1 with the addition of additional schools and application of
      a "hygiene" intervention to selected schools and families. Phase 2 is in 10 schools with 3800
      students.

      Specific aims (year 02):

      Primary

        1. Measure the effectiveness of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) in reducing
           influenza rates among enrolled students in the intervention and control schools when
           influenza is known to be circulating in the community. [Note: Enrolled, for purposes of
           PIPP, will indicate students who present with ILI, consent to participate, and are
           tested for influenza during the flu season.] Secondary: School-Based

        2. Measure number of absentees and determine the reason for absence by using a school based
           absentee illness surveillance system prior to and through the end of influenza season.

        3. Measure the effectiveness of NPIs in reducing absenteeism from all causes, including
           illness/URI, illness/ILI, illness/other, and illness/GI through the end of influenza
           season.

        4. Measure the effectiveness of NPIs in reducing secondary spread of ILI within classrooms
           of participating schools.

        5. Assess adoption of NPI behaviors and activities in classrooms of intervention schools.

           Secondary: Home-Based

        6. Measure the effectiveness of NPIs in reducing secondary cases of ILI within families of
           enrolled school children with influenza.

        7. Assess adherence of families of enrolled school children with influenza to
           isolation-related NPI behaviors and activities.

           Tertiary

        8. Measure correlation between rapid flu testing and PCR testing for influenza.

        9. Collect and archive influenza specimens for future molecular epidemiological studies.

       10. Contribute a sample of influenza-positive specimens to the CDC for national influenza
           surveillance purposes.
    
  