
    
      Laser refractive surgery (LASIK and PRK) has been established for 25 years to treat myopia
      (short-sightedness). Over this time, the technology has been significantly improved to enable
      safe treatment of myopia up to -15D. Improvements including changing the shape of the lens of
      corneal tissue removed to better match the natural shape, and increasing the diameter of the
      applied correction to cover larger pupil sizes, have greatly reduced side-effects such as
      night vision glare and halos. Similarly, safety has been improved by using a laser
      (femtosecond laser) to create the corneal flap rather than a blade (known as a
      microkeratome), meaning that the cornea is reliably left with more than the safe amount of
      tissue.

      In 2006, a new method of laser refractive surgery was introduced, small incision lenticule
      extraction (SMILE), which provides a minimally invasive keyhole method as it avoids the need
      to create a flap. In SMILE, a single laser (femtosecond laser) is used to make two curved
      cuts inside the cornea (without breaching the outside) that separate the lens of tissue that
      needs removing to focus the vision. This lens of tissue is removed in once piece (rather than
      evaporated as in LASIK) through a small 2mm wide tunnel to the surface.

      SMILE has been used to treat short-sightedness up to -10D for more than 200,000 procedures
      worldwide and has been shown to achieve similar results to LASIK. However, because no flap is
      needed, this upper part of the cornea can also contribute strength, meaning that the cornea
      is stronger after SMILE than after LASIK. It is also expected that the accuracy for higher
      corrections using SMILE would be better than LASIK because the potential inaccuracies
      associated with excimer lasers (used in LASIK) are eliminated. This study will investigate
      the results of SMILE for myopia above -10D.
    
  