
    
      Malignant gliomas represent the majority of primary brain tumors in adults and are among the
      most intractable tumors. Cancers reprogram their metabolism to meet the needs of rapid cell
      growth. Alterations in metabolite abundance may serve as biomarkers of malignancy, and the
      capability to monitor the changes non-invasively would have significant clinical utility in
      cancer. Gliomas often contain a specific metabolic activity that is predictive of the
      genotype and has predictive value with respect to tumor stage and patient survival. A high
      fraction of gliomas contain mutations in the metabolic enzymes, isocitrate dehydrogenase
      (IDH) 1 and 2. These heterozygous mutations are confined to the active site of the enzyme and
      result in a neomorphic activity that causes the mutant enzyme to produce an "oncometabolite",
      2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG). Non-invasive identification of this onco-metabolite by MRS is
      therefore a major breakthrough in cancer research. Beyond simple detection of 2HG, our
      preliminary data show that 2HG is a remarkably sensitive biomarker for monitoring tumor
      progression and response to treatment in IDH mutated gliomas. Glycine (Gly) is a biomarker of
      tumor malignancy, as indicated in prior studies. Our data also indicate that citrate (Cit) is
      elevated in gliomas.

      Over the course of this preliminary study, there has been crucial need for 3D evaluation of
      these onco-metabolites within the tumor mass. The Investigators will examine the clinical
      utility of 2HG, Gly and Cit, in a large cohort of subjects using multi-slice 2D MRSI at 3T.
      The specific aims include, first, an in-vivo MRS study for the disease specificity of 2HG
      (Aim 1). The Investigators will examine clinically proven non-glioma lesions that mimic
      glioma in clinical MRI. To increase the clinical applicability of the result, the
      Investigators will select non-enhancing brain diseases, given that IDH mutation occurs
      largely in grade-2 and -3 gliomas, which are often non-enhancing. Second, the Investigators
      will examine the clinical utility of 2HG, Gly, Cit and other metabolites in patients with IDH
      mutated gliomas (Aim 2). Third, the Investigators will examine the clinical utility of Gly,
      Cit and other metabolites in patients with IDH wild type gliomas (Aim 3). In Aim 2 and 3, the
      patients will undergo MRSI scans at multiple time points, and the Investigators will monitor
      the metabolic changes with tumor progression and in response to treatment. The Investigators
      anticipate our study will provide significant value in many aspects of management of gliomas.
      3D evaluation of the cancer biomarkers using MRSI will provide biological insights for making
      the diagnosis of gliomas, tracking of infiltrative cells during follow up, and determining
      response to treatment. Success of the 2HG specificity study in non-glioma neurological
      diseases will provide an experimental evidence for use of non-invasive 2HG imaging as a
      triaging tool in the workup of a new brain mass.
    
  