
    
      Under conditions of simulated microgravity, it is well known that normal cellular processes
      of vascular cells are altered. While these studies provide important information about these
      alterations in cells, it is likely not a complete picture due to the limitations of ground
      based simulated microgravity. It is our hypothesis that real microgravity, as is experienced
      in space, will reveal changes in EC and SMC phenotype and function that alters cell-cell
      communication. The study team will test our hypothesis by culturing mature endothelial cells,
      as well as stem cell derived endothelial cells, and mature smooth muscle cells in low Earth
      orbit (LEO) on the International Space Station (ISS) U.S. National Laboratory. The specific
      aims the Study team have proposed are the following:

      Specific Aim #1: Preflight isolation and characterization of circulating stem cell derived
      endothelial cells. Specifically, the Study team will isolate CSCs from whole blood then
      direct them down an EC pathway. Once differentiated the study team will characterize their
      phenotype.

      Specific Aim #2: Culture mature ECs, SMCs, and CSC derived ECs under conditions of low Earth
      orbit (LEO) aboard the ISS. Specifically, The study team will use advanced flight hardware to
      establish an active cell culture on the ISS. The cells will be cultured for a duration of 3
      and 10 days, at which time the cells will be frozen for subsequent analysis. Simultaneously,
      the study team will culture the same populations in a ground based microgravity simulator as
      well as a normal gravity control.

      Specific Aim #3: Assess the morphologic and genetic changes in cells after 3 and 10 days of
      space flight. Specifically, upon return to Earth, a transcriptome analysis will be completed
      from the frozen cell samples to assess changes in the cells molecular machinery.

      This proposed study builds upon the abundant literature, including our own, surrounding the
      effects of ground based simulated microgravity on vascular endothelial cells. However, the
      study team include the less studied populations of smooth muscle cells and stem cell derived
      ECs. The goal of this work is to leverage conditions on the ISS, a powerful one-of-a-kind
      microgravity research platform in low Earth orbit, to study these cells and their cellular
      processes as it relates to cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cardiovascular deconditioning.
      This work seeks to reveal currently unknown changes in vascular cell health that lead to
      these diseases. The impact of this work is broad and can lead to new treatment options for
      millions of people who suffer from CVD including neointimal hyperplasia.
    
  