
    
      Bacterial Vaginosis (BV), defined as an alteration in the normal vaginal bacteria
      ("microbiome"), is characterized by a reduction of hydrogen peroxide-producing gram-positive
      lactobacilli and overgrowth of gram-negative and anaerobic bacteria. BV is more prevalent in
      SSA and usually recurs soon after treatment. BV is associated with vaginal inflammation, an
      increased HIV acquisition risk among uninfected women, and increased HIV transmission to the
      male sexual partner of a co-infected woman. Therefore, BV may be responsible for up to 17% of
      HIV transmission events in SSA.

      There are several hypotheses for the mechanisms by which BV may increase the risk of HIV
      acquisition. These include the disruption of mucosal barrier, alteration of protective innate
      immunity, and increased number and/or susceptibility of HIV target cells in the genital
      mucosa. Longitudinal studies that address the mechanisms by which the vaginal microbiota
      alters host mucosal immunology and HIV risk will help us better understand the impact of BV
      and it's treatment on mucosal immunology and HIV susceptibility. The goal of this
      non-randomized, interventional, longitudinal clinical study is to use a novel ex vivo HIV
      infectivity assay developed in the Kaul lab to quantify the effect of BV and its treatment on
      HIV susceptibility and genital immunology in HIV-uninfected women from Nairobi, Kenya. Fifty
      HIV, STI-uninfected women with bacterial vaginosis on Nugent scoring will be provided with
      one week of metronidazole 400mg po three times daily (as per Kenyan National Guidelines).
      Cytobrush and vaginal SoftCup sampling will be performed at baseline and 4 weeks after
      treatment initiation, at the same stage of the menstrual cycle. The primary endpoint will be
      pseudovirus entry into cervix-derived CD4+ T cells. Secondary endpoints will include a
      pre-defined cervico-vaginal inflammation score; genital CD4+ T cell immune characteristics;
      the genital microbiome; the genital proteome.
    
  