
    
      Primary Hypotheses: The study has two primary hypotheses to evaluate the impact of using an
      off-pump versus an on-pump surgical technique for CABG procedures. One is a short term
      objective to assess the immediate impact of the two surgical techniques while the second
      assesses the long-term impact of the two techniques: 1) Short-Term Null Hypothesis: For
      patients having CABG-only procedures performed, there will be no difference in the short-term
      composite clinical outcome (30 day death or major morbidity) between patients randomized to
      the on-pump and off-pump procedures, 2) Long-Term Null Hypothesis: For patients undergoing
      CABG-only procedures, there will be no difference in long-term clinical outcome as measured
      by one year mortality and/or acute myocardial infarction prior to one year and/or a
      subsequent revascularization procedure within one year between patients randomized to the
      on-pump and off-pump procedures.

      Secondary Hypotheses: Major secondary objectives are to determine if there are differences in
      patients undergoing CABG-only procedures using the on-pump and off-pump techniques for 1)
      long-term completeness of revascularization, 2) one year graft patency and stenosis rates as
      determined by angiography at one year, and 3) short-term completeness of revascularization.
      Other secondary objectives are to evaluate the two surgical techniques on 1) changes in
      neuropsychological function, 2) traditional clinical outcomes, 3) general and disease
      specific quality of life, and 4) use of system resources.

      Intervention: Patients requiring an elective or urgent CABG-only (no other procedures to be
      done) surgical procedure will be randomized to either the off-pump procedure or to the
      on-pump procedure.

      Primary Outcomes: The short-term primary outcome measure is a composite measure of death,
      repeat cardiac surgery, new technical support, cardiac arrest, coma, prolonged stroke and/or
      renal failure requiring dialyses occurring within 30 days of surgery or prior to discharge,
      whichever is latest. The long-term primary outcome measure is a composite of death, acute
      myocardial infarction, and/or subsequent revascularization procedure prior to one year
      post-surgery.

      Study Abstract: Ischemic heart disease is one of the most frequent diagnoses in the VA
      system. Moreover, 5,819 coronary artery bypass graft (CABG-only) procedures were performed in
      the VA in FY 1999. Throughout VA and non-VA cardiac surgery programs nationwide, myocardial
      revascularization is now being performed using two surgical techniques. One technique is
      performed with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) usually with cardioplegic arrest ("on-pump") and
      the other without CPB on a beating heart ("off-pump"). The overall purpose of this proposed
      randomized, controlled, clinical trial is to rigorously evaluate the impact of using an
      on-pump versus off-pump surgical technique for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG-only)
      procedures (performed with a traditional median sternotomy incision) upon patient clinical
      outcomes and resource utilization.
    
  