
    
      First, we will search our cell bank to see if there is a CTL line that is a match with the
      subject and his/her donor. This matching is done using HLA type, which measures 6 proteins on
      the cell surface. If HLA type has not been previously checked, we will do a blood draw (half
      to one tablespoon) so that this can be done.

      These CTL lines have been made at Baylor College of Medicine from donors for other transplant
      patients or other normal donors from the National Marrow Donor Program. All donors have been
      screened in the same way that we screen blood donors. When the CTL lines were made, blood was
      taken from the donors and used to grow T cells. To do this, we first grew a special type of
      cells called dendritic cells or monocytes and we put a specially produced human virus
      (adenovirus) that carries the LMP genes into the dendritic cells or monocytes. They were then
      used to stimulate T cells. This stimulation trained the T cells to kill cells with LMP on
      their surface.

      We then grew these LMP specific CTLs by more stimulation with EBV infected cells (made from
      the same blood). We also put the adenovirus that carries the LMP genes into these EBV
      infected cells so that we increased the amount of LMP that these cells had. These EBV
      infected cells were treated with radiation so they could not grow. Once we made sufficient
      numbers of T cells, we tested them to make sure they kill cells with LMP on their surface and
      froze them.

      To make sure that these cells won't attack the subject's tissues, we will also test the cells
      against his/her own cells, which we will grow in the laboratory.

      If the level of circulating T-cells in the patient is relatively high, s/he will receive one
      treatment of cyclophosphamide. This drug will decrease the numbers of the patient's own
      T-cells before the investigators infuse the LMP-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes. If the
      patient is already receiving chemotherapy, this may not be needed.

      The LMP specific CTLs will be thawed and injected IV over 1-10 minutes. Initially, one dose
      of T-cells will be given. If after the first dose, there is a reduction in the size of the
      patient's disease, they can receive up to five additional doses of the T-cells if they wish.

      This is a dose escalation study, which means that the doses of cells will be increased as
      more patients are treated, as long as the lower doses are determined to be safe.
    
  