
    
      Currently, ICP (Intracranial Pressure) can be measured only using invasive techniques. In a
      previous (pilot study) a non-invasive technique for measurement of ICP was investigated
      (based on simultaneously measuring of ophthalmic artery (OA) blood flow parameters in the
      intracranial (IOA) and extracranial (EOA) segments of the OA with two-depth transcranial
      Doppler (TCD)). Based on the good results of the previous study, the study should be repeated
      in order to further validate the new method in more patients and to obtain additional insight
      with more measurements.

      This single centre, observational comparative study shall investigate a new non-invasive ICP
      absolute value measurement method in patients presenting with TBI, ICH, or secondary edema
      after stroke or Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (SAH) compared to current standard invasive ICP
      monitoring methods.Suitable patients are to be recruited soonest after their referral or
      admission to the Department of Neurosurgery at the Kantonsspital Aarau. Measurement will be
      done either at the surgical Intensive Care Unit, Stroke Unit ("SIC") or Neurosurgical
      Intermediate Care Unit ("NCW"). All measurements will be performed on intubated and sedated
      patients with invasive ICP Monitoring trough an intraparenchymatous or intraventricular
      probe. In the same patient, several measurements will be allowed daily.

      The non-invasive technique for measurement of ICP is based on simultaneously measuring of an
      ophthalmic artery (OA) blood flow parameters in the intracranial (IOA) and extracranial (EOA)
      segments of the OA with two-depth transorbital Doppler (TCD) measurements including
      mechanical head frame for fixation of ultrasonic transducer on the closed eye lid. ICP
      pressure will be measured non-invasively by using Vittamed 205® device. This device has CE
      marking since July 2014.

      It is planned to recruit 25 patients and to collect 69 independent paired non-invasive and
      invasive ICP measurements during a 24 months period after study approval.
    
  