
    
      Posttraumatic stress is a severe and often disabling condition affecting millions of
      veterans. Within VA, significant staffing and financial resources are devoted to the mission
      of treating PTSD and the anticipated need for treatment is expected to accelerate as veterans
      return from the Iraq war.

      Research has identified a number of successful strategies for the treatment of PTSD,
      including both psychotherapy and pharmacology. Several treatments, including group
      psychotherapy and benzodiazepines have demonstrated a lack of efficacy in the treatment of
      PTSD. Despite this knowledge, many veterans with PTSD do not receive an evidence-based
      treatment and may even receive a treatment known to not be effective. Among the group of
      proven effective treatments, the patient time commitment and adverse effects differ
      considerably. Patients with PTSD are often ill informed about the available treatments, and
      there has been little formal effort aimed at matching the patients' preferences to a specific
      treatment.

      We propose to conduct a clinical trial of a decision aid for veterans with PTSD. Decision
      aids are standardized, evidence-based tools to help patients choose between two or more
      preference-sensitive, clinically acceptable options when there is no clear "best" option.
      Decision aids are designed to provide patients with detailed balanced information about all
      the viable treatment options. In addition, they seek to assist the patient in clarifying
      their own values and preferences such that the patient may choose among the available
      treatment options.

      We believe that the use of a decision aid, compared to treatment as usual, will result in a
      more patient-centered approach that ultimately will increase the likelihood of the patient
      receiving evidence based care, both of which are priority goals of VHA.
    
  