
    
      Studies have shown that there may be an inverse relationship between infections with worms
      including hookworms and inflammatory diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS). This has
      been explained by a protective immune reaction that is triggered by the hookworm in the body
      that dampens inflammation. In mice with MS, infections with some mouse worms reduced the
      inflammation and damage to their brain. The primary purpose of this study is to determine
      whether people with MS who are exposed to a small number of hookworms will develop this
      protective immune reaction that may reduce MS disease activity. We also plan to determine the
      effect of the hookworms on relapses during 1 year study.

      A study of people with MS naturally infected with intestinal parasites did show significant
      protection over 5 years, and the levels of biological markers of the infection and some
      immune substances triggered by it were similar to the ones we obtained with controlled
      infection in normal volunteers, allergic and asthmatic peoples. We think the study has a
      genuine potential to benefit people with MS, and there is known interest in the MS patient
      community. At the therapeutic doses proposed here, this is an innocuous infection. Natural
      hookworm infection affects 1 billion people worldwide, often without symptoms unless the
      parasite load is very high. Our controlled exposure studies have shown good tolerability and
      safety; the risk of infecting others and auto-infection virtually is nil in Western standard
      hygiene conditions. Many people with MS when asked stated they would prefer an innocuous
      infection with microscopic larvae to a man-made product that may have more side effects. If
      the protective mechanisms are determined these studies may also lead to new ways of treating
      MS, possibly by selecting only the specific chemical components of the worms and the immune
      response to them that confer protection.

      The increase in MS in the Western world, along with other autoimmune inflammatory diseases
      and asthma may be attributed to decreased exposure to infections such as gut parasites due to
      improved hygiene ('the hygiene hypothesis'). In animal models, controlled parasite infections
      including hookworms and related worms protect against MS-like disease. Parasites have evolved
      host-specific molecular mechanisms to dampen or condition the excessive immune responses
      against them and thus survive. These parasites induce regulatory mechanisms including Treg
      and a novel class of B cells that also dampen immune responses called Breg and were recently
      shown to improve MS in natural infection. They may suppress a class of lymphocytes that cause
      most damage in MS, Th17 cells. We will produce, with controlled exposure, a similar response
      to those associated with protective natural exposure in MS. We have the unique combination of
      expertise in hookworm biology, controlled parasite exposure and immunology of MS and MS
      trials and our data from our other human studies indicate this is a safe and tolerable
      intervention of significant potential.
    
  