
    
      Caudal anesthesia is one of the most commonly used regional anesthetic and analgesic
      technique in pediatric patient as it is an easy safe and reliable method that can be
      performed for both intraoperative and postoperative analgesia in patient undergoing lower
      abdominal and lower limb surgery. It can be used for upper abdominal surgery by increasing
      the volume of local anesthetic injected or through advancing a catheter.

      Caudal anesthesia is a common practice given along with general anesthesia to decrease
      intraoperative inhalational anesthesia requirements, postoperative pain and emergence
      agitation.

      So many patients are complaining from ano-rectal pathologies, these diseases are common in
      both sexes and all age groups. The spectrum of anorectal disorders ranges from benign and
      irritating (pruritus- ani) to potentially life-threatening (anorectal cancer) and the
      surgical intervention is performed mostly under general or regional anesthesia.

      While general and regional anesthetics provide reliable anesthesia, they are often associated
      with nausea,vomiting, urinary retention and motor blockade of lower limbs. Moreover, repeated
      spinal or epidural punctures performed by inexperienced anesthesiologists often cause delays
      in the tight schedule of operations.

      Several reports have described various forms of local anesthetic infiltration for ano- rectal
      surgery , hemorrhoidectomy,anal fistula or fissure surgeries or lateral sphincterotomy. Local
      peri-anal infiltration is a simple procedure that can be easily learned and performed by
      surgeon and this method allows the operation to begin almost immediately.

      There are different types of local anesthesia like infiltration, nerve block, ring block
      field block. Considering anorectal surgeries, nerve bock mainly pudendal nerve along with
      infiltration anesthesia is used worldwide. Perianal block by local anesthetic infiltration is
      safe simple and effective for various anal operations with very high degree of acceptance and
      satisfaction among patients .it had been found to be associated with low pain score and
      postoperative complications and faster return to daily social activity.

      Although there are studies on the use of caudal block and local infiltration of anesthetic
      agent for the surgical resolution of anorectal pathologies, there is no established protocol
      for comparing efficacy, postoperative pain, and satisfaction among pediatrics patient
      undergoing trans-anal pull through in congenital megacolon (Hirschsprung's disease).
    
  