
    
      In Ante- and post-natal care, low adherence to recommended health and nutrition strategies
      during the critical 1,000 day-window of opportunity is multifactorial, but low-quality
      communication is key limitation. Innovative strategies to improve interpersonal communication
      can reduce the burden and the fatigue of community health workers and may result in a greater
      change. The findings of this project will support governments and other stakeholders in their
      delivery of high impact nutrition and health practices.

      Focused antenatal care (FANC), including iron and folic acid supplementation (IFA) is one of
      the main strategies to reduce maternal and child deaths. The WHO recommends at least four
      hospital visits during the pregnancy. Supplementation with IFA during pregnancy improves
      birth weight and reduces megaloblastic anemia by 79%. The uptake of nutritional and health
      practices is influenced by complex, contextual determinants at the individual and community
      levels. Evidence showed that Social and Behavior Change Communication (SBCC) is an effective
      approach to increase the uptake of key strategies and to sustain behavior change.

      Ethiopia, a low-income country in sub-Saharan Africa, has one of the highest maternal and
      infant mortality rates. It is estimated that 676 mothers die per 100,000 live births and that
      59 infants die per 1,000 live births. Maternal anemia is associated with an increased risk of
      maternal death. Iron deficiency anemia is a strong risk factor for low birthweight (LBW) and
      perinatal mortality. genital infections such as bacterial vaginosis, candidiasis and worm
      infections (such as intestinal hookworm infections) are considered important infections that
      possibly could confound the study results. Bacterial vaginosis and candidiasis are a known
      risk factor for preterm birth. these infections are also linked with anemia and maternal
      nutritional status. Hookworm infections are highly prevalent in Ethiopia and are associated
      with undernutrition and anemia.

      The reports of the Ethiopian Demographic and Health Survey showed an increase in women aged
      15-49 years in Ethiopia receiving antenatal care (ANC) from a skilled provider up to 62% in
      2016 (EDHS, 2016). The percentage of women taking IFA supplements for 90 days or more remains
      at a substandard level of only 5% (EDHS, 2016). Antenatal care coverage for at least one
      visit is 28% but coverage for at least four visits declines to 12%, suggesting systemic
      barriers that potentially prevent the mothers from returning to the health centers. One of
      the barriers may be perceived failure of the existing interventions to make a meaningful
      impact that could stimulate the desired behavioral change.

      This intervention aims to improve adherence to ante- and post-natal care practices and
      recommendations by the use of our video-based health education. These videos will be
      implemented through home-based counseling by trained assistants, and video-based forum
      participation led by community nurses and Health Extension Workers (HEWs). The
      nutrition-specific education packages will be based on the WHO-UNICEF key messages booklet on
      the community, infant and young child feeding counseling package and will be culturally
      adjusted to fit the local context and translated into the main four local languages. The
      videos will also include some hygienic aspects that reduce the risk of both genital and
      parasitic infections, that are also causing undernutrition, anemia and/or adverse pregnancy
      outcomes. During the monthly forums, the educational package will be delivered in a video
      form - locally prepared using multiple approaches like testimony, comedy, dramas in the form
      of questions and answers, group discussions and deductive approaches (more details can be
      found on OMPT website https://www.ompt.org/).

      The main objective of this project is to assess the effects of this innovative video-based
      health education on reproductive health, and on birth outcomes and the nutritional status of
      women and their infants from birth to six months of age.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

        1. To assess the effects of video-based health education package provided to pregnant and
           lactating women on the knowledge, attitude and practice on recommended health including
           adherence to ANC visits and to IFA supplementation.

        2. To assess the effects of video-based health education on birth outcomes and anemia
           status of women during pregnancy, at delivery and six-month postpartum.

        3. To evaluate the effect of video-based health education on early initiation and exclusive
           breastfeeding (EBF) of infants from 0-6 months of age In this two-arm cluster randomized
           trial, 675 pregnant women in their first trimester (12 weeks of gestation) will be
           recruited and followed up until delivery and then with their infants for six months
           postpartum.

      The intervention will include home to home visit for delivery of healthy nutrition and
      hygienic messages using prepared video-based messages. participation in monthly forums will
      be facilitated by nurses using also videos for demonstration of nutritional and hygienic care
      and will be delivered at the homes of the participants every month by trained HEW until
      delivery, in addition to the ANC regular visits. During the monthly forums (six in total
      during the pregnancy and the post-partum periods), the messages will all be given as a video
      show, coordinated by a nurse/ health professional who will further answer any questions.
      During the postnatal period, two counseling sessions will be organized within the first two
      weeks after birth, and a further six sessions ( every month) till 6 months postnatally.

      The HEW will distribute the IFA 30 tablets (30 mg elemental iron and 400 µg of folic acid)
      every month, and will provide counseling on the importance of- and instructions on adherence
      and other recommendations as detailed earlier. Pregnant women in the control group will
      receive the standard education package as per the Ethiopian guidelines. In the standard
      health care, pregnant women receive a minimum of four ANC visits at the health centers during
      which they also receive IFA supplementation. The control and the intervention groups receive
      the same amount of tablets (i.e. 30 tablets containing 30 mg elemental iron and 400 µg of
      folic acid, every month). Monthly IFA utilization will be checked through HEW or our trained
      service delivery workers during home to home visit. Women who test positive for
      soil-transmitted helminth will be treated according to the national protocol starting from
      the second trimester (treatment is not advised during the first trimester). Women who
      experience odor, itching or discharge will be treated for candidiasis and bacterial
      vaginosis.

      Data will be collected in pregnant women at baseline, at six and at 9 months of pregnancy .
      After delivery data will be collected in the pairs mother-infant within two weeks and at 3
      and 6 months postpartum. At the different time points, biological samples will be collected
      to assess the micronutrient status, the presence of inflammations and the presence of genital
      and parasitic infections.
    
  