
    
      All patients performed a simple spirometry that was carried out using a Stead-Wells bell
      spirometer (Biomedin, Padua, Italy). Upon provision of informed consent, patients in the
      telemonitoring group were invited to a session during which they were instructed on how to
      wear the wristband and to operate the cellular telephone. A study physician was available on
      call during office hours to assist patients needing further instructions. A technician was
      also available in order to solve ingoing hardware problems.

      All participants were also clinically evaluated at baseline and received a multi-dimensional
      assessment including: Activities of daily living scale (ADL), Instrumental activities of
      daily living scale (IADL), Mini-mental state examination (MMSE) test. These are well
      validated and routinely used tools to screen geriatric patients in order to detect global,
      physical and instrumental autonomy and consequent degree of dependence, as well as cognitive
      status.

      Patients in both groups were followed up for 9 months, during this period they attended the
      standard schedule of clinical controls. For patients in the SweetAge group, the parameters
      received were evaluated daily by a study physician. In case of abnormal readings, the
      physician systematically contacted the patient to verify whether their symptoms had worsened
      or new symptoms had arose. In this event, the patient's adherence to her/his therapy was
      checked and, if unsatisfactory, individually tailored interventions promoting adherence were
      carried up. Otherwise, a diagnosis of exacerbation was made and, on the basis of its
      severity, an outpatient clinical assessment (for mild exacerbations) or a hospital admission
      was scheduled.

      The outcome measures of these study were: number of exacerbations (defined as a sustained
      worsening of the patient's condition, from the stable state and beyond normal day-to-day
      variations, that is acute in onset and necessitates a change in regular medications, and
      number of hospital admissions.
    
  