
    
      RATIONALE : Acute coronary syndrome is the first cause of mortality in cardiology.
      Development of stent and dual antiplatelet therapy have led to important declines in
      morbi-mortality. Despite this, the risk of recurrent events and mortality after stent
      implantation remains substantial, especially within the first six months. Non-adherence to
      antiplatelet therapy is the major modifiable risk factor that expose to adverse outcomes
      following stent implantation and has been identified as the major risk factor of stent
      thrombosis. Prior interventions to improve medication adherence in cardiovascular populations
      have produced mixed results and have not specifically assessed compliance to antiplatelet
      therapy in patients treated by stent implantation after acute coronary syndrome.

      It is currently unknown if interventions to improve antiplatelet therapy compliance in the
      six month after stenting discharge will improve medication adherence and clinical outcomes or
      will be cost-effective

      OBJECTIVES: investigators propose to assess the effectiveness of a multi-faceted
      patient-centered adherence intervention among patients following stent implantation to
      improve adherence to antiplatelet therapy (primary aim).

      Secondary aims will assess whether the intervention improve :

        1. Cardiovascular events : ACS, stent thrombosis, re - hospitalization and coronary
           angiography, new revascularization, all-cause mortality

        2. Cost-effectiveness.

      METHOD : Investigators propose a six month, mono-site patient-level randomized controlled
      trial to evaluate, relative to usual care, a multi-faceted patient-centered intervention to
      improve adherence to antiplatelet treatment among stented patients following ACS. The study
      will enroll 800 patients to intervention versus usual care for 6 months in one university
      hospital (CHU Timone, Marseille, France). The proposed intervention will be based on several
      conceptual frameworks (Chronic Care Model and Medication Adherence Model) and adapt elements
      of prior successfully adherence interventions, including: collaborative care, patient
      education, tailoring of medication regimens, and daily mobile phone short message service
      (SMS). The primary analyses will be a comparison of adherence to antiplatelet therapy using
      specific laboratory testing of drug effect. Secondary analyses will compare incidence of
      clinical endpoints in both groups, cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed. All
      analyses will be intention to treat
    
  