
    
      After the phase I/II CG0070 trial review, it became apparent that the use of CG0070 oncolytic
      vaccine as an intravesical agent for oncolytic lysis of tumor cells, together with the
      transcription of GM-CSF on site, may have distinct advantages. This first study showed
      excellent tumor response rates of 48-77% depending on the dose schedule administered. All of
      these patients had residual non-muscle invasive bladder cancer who have previously failed BCG
      therapy at the time of treatment.

      With the addition of a transduction agent such as DDM, the intravesical instillation of
      CG0070 enabled uniform distribution of viral particles and exposure to the tumor during those
      30-60 minutes instillations as contrast to the intra-tumor injection, intra-arterial or
      intravenous injection of viral particles in other oncolytic viral trials. Some or most of
      these delivering methodologies have obvious intrinsic imperfections and potential toxicity.
      This unique opportunity of an relatively easy intravesical tumor exposure is difficult to
      duplicate in other solid tumor models.

      The replication of CG0070 in the majority of patients during the first phase I/II trial
      indicated tumor lysis with release of tumor specific or tumor associated antigens that have
      been stably expressed, in abundant quantities during tumor cell death. Release of tumor
      antigens have been the key elements, together with sufficient on-site GM-CSF, in stimulating
      strong cross-presentation and confirmation signals to the antigen presenting cells such as
      dendritic cells interacting with CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. This concept of a "real time" vaccine
      like regimen is expected to compare favorably with other forms of cancer immunotherapy
      treatment such as BCG in this patient population.

      It is with this thought that CG0070 may find a success in this setting because of a
      reasonably and proven complete response rate in residual and failed BCG bladder cancer
      patients in the first phase I/II study (some cases with only one instillation). Of importance
      as well, is the demonstration in the study data of a strong GM-CSF expression during its
      replication phase. Those patients with carcinoma in situ disease and those with RB pathway
      dysfunction were particularly responsive.

      It is therefore, desirable to formulate a protocol to encompass the specialty of this
      oncolytic vaccine and the unique intravesical delivery to prove the efficacy by a randomized
      controlled study. This opportunity allows a study on the CG0070's beneficial effects, if any,
      on the standard of care for carcinoma in situ non muscle invasive bladder cancer patients
      after they failed BCG therapy. The prognosis of this group presently depends mainly on early
      radical cystectomy, which carries a high morbidity and decrease of quality of life generally
      viewed as unacceptable for this group of older patients.
    
  