
    
      Study Procedure:

      The study is a randomized, experimental, parallel design conducted in a group of Mexican
      subjects during a 6-month period. Anthropometric and biochemical data will be determined at
      0, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.

      Subjects:

      Overweight or obese adults were assigned into two groups: LGL diet and HGL diet. Subjects who
      were pregnant or had diabetes, cancer, psychiatric disorders or physical disabilities were
      excluded.

      Diets and Dietary Assessment:

      Two diets were designed including LGL and HGL diets. GI values of each food were estimated
      from the tables by Foster-Powell et al. Daily GL was determined by the product of total
      dietary carbohydrate (grams) and GI of each food and adjusted to energetic intake using the
      following formulas: GI = Σ (GI of each food X proportion of total carbohydrate contributed
      from each food); GL= Σ (GI of each food × grams of total carbohydrate from each food)/1000
      kcal.

      Diets were designed according to the food habits of Mexicans living in the Tijuana area. On
      the first day, subjects received different menus of either LGL or HGL diets, according to the
      randomization. A research assistant was available by mail or by phone for questions during
      the 6-month period. An e-mail, as a reminder and reinforcement to maintain the diet, was sent
      every 2 weeks to all participants. Subjects who completed the 3-day dietary record (two
      weekdays and one weekend day) were included in the analysis.

      Anthropometric Measurements:

      Height was measured to the nearest millimeter using a portable stadiometer (model 214 Road
      Rod, Seca Corp., Hanover, MD). Weight was measured to the nearest 0.1 kg using an electronic
      scale (Bod Pod, Life Measurement Inc., Concord, CA). Subjects were dressed in light clothing
      and were not wearing shoes. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated using the following formula:
      weight (kg)/height (m2). Waist circumference (WC) was measured at the minimum circumference
      between the iliac crest and the rib cage. Fat mass (in kg) and total body fat percentage were
      measured by plethysmography with the Bod Pod. The subjects entered the Bod Pod wearing a
      bodysuit and Lycra hat.

      Blood Analysis:

      Venous blood samples were taken at 8 AM from an antecubital vein after a 12-hour overnight
      fast, again at baseline and at 3 months after beginning the study. Blood samples were
      centrifuged at 3500 × g for 3 minutes, and plasma was removed and analyzed immediately after
      collection. For quantitative determination of glucose in serum, the glucose oxidase procedure
      based on a modified Trinder method was used (SERA-PAK Plus, Bayer, Sées, France). Serum
      insulin levels were determined by chemiluminescent immunoassay by the IMMULITE 2000 analyzer
      (Diagnostic Products Corporation, Los Angeles, CA). Homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) was
      used to estimate insulin resistance and was computed as follows: (fasting serum insulin
      [μU/ml] × fasting plasma glucose [mmol/L]/22.5). Total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and
      triglycerides were measured by enzymatic methods (SERA-PAK Plus); LDL-cholesterol was
      calculated using the Friedwald formula: LDL (mmol/L) = total cholesterol - (TG/2.2) - HDL.

      Physical Activity Assessment:

      A questionnaire containing seven questions from the International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire (IPAQ) was used to evaluate physical activity at baseline and at 1, 3 and 6
      months after study initiation.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Mean ± standard deviations were calculated using descriptive statistics in all variables.
      Anthropometric measurements were evaluated, and it was determined that they did not meet the
      normality test (Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Shapiro-Wilk). To test differences between groups on
      biochemical and anthropometric measurements, Mann-Whitney non-parametric test for independent
      samples was performed. For comparison of differences before, at 3 and 6 months after
      intervention in the same treatment group, we used Friedman non-parametric test for repeated
      measurements. To test differences between groups on diet intake at baseline and at the end of
      the study, Mann-Whitney non-parametric test for independent samples was performed.
    
  