
    
      In this study, enrolled patients from age 1 through 18 years with newly diagnosed and
      biopsy-proven HL are stratified into 3 risk groups according to 3 COG published trials:
      AHOD0831 (high risk-all Ann Arbor stages III and IV with B symptoms), AHOD0031 (intermediate
      risk-Ann Arbor stages IB, IAE, IIB, IIAE, IIIA, IVA with or without bulk disease, and IA or
      IIA with bulk disease) and AHOD0431 (low risk-Ann Arbor stage IA or IIA without bulky
      disease). Staging was determined with contrast-enhanced CT scanning or MRI, bilateral bone
      marrow biopsies and FDG-PET. B symptoms included weight loss > 10%, unexplained recurrent
      fever > 38°, or drenching night sweats. Bulk disease included a mediastinal mass with
      diameter greater than one third of the thoracic diameter on an upright anterior-posterior
      (AP) chest radiograph or extramediastinal nodal aggregate > 6 cm in the longest transverse
      diameter on axial CT.

      Low risk group: Patients receive 2 cycles of doxorubicin,vincristine, etoposide,
      cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (AVE-PC) followed by early response (ER) evaluation. Rapid
      early responders (RERs) receive 2 additional AVE-PC cycles. Slow early responders (SERs)
      receive 2 additional ABVE-PC cycles followed by involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT). IFRT
      consists of 21 Gy in 14 fractions of 1.5 Gy per day and is scheduled within 4 weeks after
      chemotherapy.

      Intermediate risk group: Patients receive 2 cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincristine,
      etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (ABVE-PC) followed by ER evaluation. RERs receive
      2 additional ABVE-PC cycles. SERs receive 2 additional ABVE-PC cycles followed by IFRT. IFRT
      consists of 21 Gy in 14 fractions of 1.5 Gy per day and is scheduled within 4 weeks after
      chemotherapy.

      High risk group: Patients receive 2 cycles of ABVE-PC followed by ER evaluation. RERs receive
      2 additional ABVE-PC cycles followed by IFRT. SERs receive 2 cycles of IFOS/VINO and 2 cycles
      of ABVE-PC followed by IFRT. IFRT consists of 21 Gy in 14 fractions of 1.5 Gy per day and is
      scheduled within 4 weeks after chemotherapy.

      Patients who have disease progression at any time will be removed from this protocol.
    
  