
    
      The ANRS VRI06 clinical trial follows the prophylactic vaccine strategies developed since the
      encouraging results obtained during the RV144 trial. The RV144 study identified binding IgG
      antibodies directed at conserved regions of the V1/V2 loop and antibody-dependent
      cell-mediated cytotoxicity as immune correlates of reduced risk of HIV infection in the
      absence of inhibiting serum IgA antibodies.

      We have developed DC-targeting vaccines, in order to increase protein antigen efficacy
      through their selective delivery to dendritic cell (DC), the key cell type for initiating and
      regulating immune responses, via the endocytic receptors expressed at the DC surfaces.
      Following the screening of vaccines targeting different several DC-receptors, the
      CD40-targeting vaccine has been shown to be the best candidate for inducing both cellular and
      humoral responses. Anti-CD40.Env GP140 vaccine (CD40.HIVRI.Env) adjuvanted with Poly-ICLC
      (Hiltonol®), in a prime/boost association with poxvirus vector vaccines, has shown to be safe
      and elicit robust Env specific T and B cell responses in a non-human primate study.

      In this trial we will also capitalize on data generated in a recent phase I/II trial showing
      that co-administration of DNA-HIV-PT123 with an Env protein vaccine (as compared to other
      vaccine regimens which do not co-administer the protein during the priming) results in the
      rapid generation of high titers of binding anti V1/V2 Env region IgG Abs and Tier 1 nAb
      responses (HVTN 096 study).

      We therefore hypothesize that co-administration of CD40.HIVRI.Env adjuvanted with Poly-ICLC
      (Hiltonol®) with the DNA-HIV-PT123 vaccine will be safe and induce high titers of binding
      anti V1/V2 Env region IgG Abs and other immunological parameters considered as immune
      correlates in RV144 trial.

      When all the 12 participants of "Solo 0.3" group have reached W26 (2 weeks after the last
      vaccination), or when the first 6 participants of the subsequent dose groups have reachedW6
      (2 weeks after the second injection), the Protocol Safety Review Team (PSRT), composed of
      sponsor's pharmacovigilance expert, coordinating investigator, co-coordinating investigator
      and methodologist, will review all accumulated Adverse Event (AE) data so far, blinding
      manner. All AE, in particular grade 3 and grade 4 AEs, as well as Serious Adverse Events
      (SAEs) will be reviewed. The current version FDA grading scale will be used for grading.

      Go-criterion for opening enrolment into the next groups: If no grade 3 or 4 clinical
      solicited local/systemic or unsolicited AE or grade 3 or 4 biological clinical significant,
      is reported at W26, two weeks after the last injection in any of all the 12 participants of
      "Solo 0.3" group or at W6, 2 weeks after the second vaccination in any of the first 6
      participants of one of the other groups, the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)
      assessment will not be requested for the go to the next group and the " go-criterion " is
      met. The trial can be continued by opening to the inclusions of the following 2 groups. The
      DSMB will be informed.

      Otherwise, the DSMB will review all accumulated AE data. Enrolment in next group will only
      start after the DSMB gives the green light.

      In addition, the following pausing rule (pausing of all injections) will apply during the
      trial:

      Pausing rule for vaccine related safety events : If a serious adverse reaction (relatedness
      as judged by the pharmacovigilance department or the investigator responsible of the SAE
      notification) is reported during any stage of the study, all vaccinations will be halted,
      inclusions in the trial will be suspended, competent authorities must be informed and an
      ad-hoc DSMB meeting convened for recommendations on the trial continuation. Vaccinations may
      resume only after authorization is given by competent authority.

      By the conservative method, if the causality assessment could not be provided by the
      investigator, the AE will be considered as possibly related.
    
  