
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer and the third leading cause of cancer
      death in both men and women in the U.S., with nearly 50,000 deaths each year. Since CRC
      develops over a number of years from precursor lesions called polyps, it is largely
      detectable and preventable in early stages. As these polyps become larger, they, like most
      CRCs, tend to bleed, which is the rationale for the use of fecal occult blood tests (FOBTs)
      to detect both polyps and cancers early, while they are curable. However, early screening and
      detection is much less common than it could be, with about 43% of eligible individuals
      unscreened. Fecal immunochemical tests (FITs) are a type of FOBT that can be a sensitive,
      specific, and low cost alternative to colonoscopy for CRC screening. Modeling studies have
      shown that for population screening, a strategy of annual FIT testing from age of 50 to 75
      years results in an equal number of life-years gained as compared with colonoscopy every 10
      years. However, about 90% of screening in the U.S. is done with colonoscopy, the most
      expensive and invasive screening test. FITs are far less costly and largely replacing the
      guaiac test in CRC screening programs internationally, where only individuals with positive
      results are referred for a colonoscopy. Studies done on FITs in other countries often used
      FITs not available in the U.S. or studied high-risk populations; thus, results are not
      applicable in the U.S. It is critical to determine the FIT(s) with the best test
      characteristics in order to implement successful FIT-based screening programs in this
      country.

      It is estimated that 24 million more individuals will need to be screened by 2018 to reach
      the "80% by 2018" goal set by the National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable. To address this
      knowledge gap, investigators propose to compare the test characteristics of three Clinical
      Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-waived FITs and two automated FITs, using
      colonoscopy as the gold standard. The rationale for this proposed study is that, for almost
      all of the FITs currently marketed in the U.S., there is no evidence of the accuracy claimed.
      Specific aims are: Aim 1: To assess the diagnostic accuracy for advanced colorectal neoplasms
      of three of the most commonly used CLIA-waived FITs and two automated FITs, using colonoscopy
      as the gold standard.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of two quantitative FITs using receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) analysis. Aim 3: To assess factors associated with false positive and
      false negative FIT results for each device.

      These findings will provide essential information about FITs with the best test
      characteristics for future expanded use of FIT, critically important to achieving the
      long-term goal of reducing morbidity and mortality from CRC. FITs are more acceptable to
      patients, will allow higher screening rates, and will reduce costs as compared with a
      screening strategy based on colonoscopy as the primary initial screening method.
    
  