
    
      Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in patients suffering from cardiac arrest out of
      hospitals is based on strict clinical practice guidelines. However, the evidence base for
      these treatment recommendation is insufficient in many respects. While knowledge about basic
      interventions, that are capable of restoring spontaneous circulation and improving
      neurologically intact survival - chest compressions, application of oxygen and early
      defibrillation -, has increased over the last decade, advanced treatment options - advanced
      airway management, vascular access, application of vasoactive drugs - are still recommended,
      although clinical trials of varying quality failed to demonstrate any benefit in patient
      related outcomes.

      This study seeks to establish hemodynamic threshold values that are able to discriminate
      between patients that achieve return of spontaneous circulation (survivors) and those that
      fail to do so (non-survivors). These cutoff values could act as targets for interventions
      during CPR (i.e. application of vasoactive drugs, use of mechanical compression devices, …)
      in further trials and may potentially influence clinical practice later on. Furthermore,
      reliable cutoff values could act as additional prognostic factors during CPR, enabling
      prehospital care providers to base their decisions to continue or terminate ongoing CPR
      efforts on a more solid basis.

      To achieve this goal, 22 patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) treated by
      physicians of the prehospital physician response system located at the Medical University of
      Graz shall be included into this trial. All patients will receive Advanced Life Support (ALS)
      interventions according to current guidelines issued by the European Resuscitation Council
      (ERC). In addition, arterial lines will be placed and arterial blood pressure will be
      measured continuously. This intervention is already considered standard of care at this
      prehospital physician response system and performed routinely as part of the local ALS
      algorithm.

      Relevant parameters - systolic arterial pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial pressure (DAP),
      mean arterial pressure (MAP) etc. - will be documented electronically using both the
      electronic documentation system already used by the prehospital physician response system and
      the monitor/defibrillator device. Median values will be compared between survivors and
      non-survivors and possible threshold values will be calculated. Cutoff values that would be
      best suited to act as targets in future research and clinical practice will be identified by
      receiver operating characteristics (ROC).
    
  