
    
      Rationale: cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC (CRS-HIPEC) is a curative intent treatment for
      patients with isolated resectable colorectal peritoneal metastases (PM). Upfront CRS-HIPEC
      alone is the standard treatment in the Netherlands. The addition of neoadjuvant and adjuvant
      systemic therapy, together commonly referred to as perioperative systemic therapy, to
      CRS-HIPEC could have benefits and drawbacks. Potential benefits are eradication of systemic
      micrometastases, preoperative intraperitoneal tumour downstaging, elimination of
      post-surgical residual cancer cells, and improved patient selection for CRS-HIPEC. Potential
      drawbacks are preoperative disease progression and secondary unresectability, systemic
      therapy related toxicity, increased postoperative morbidity, decreased quality of life, and
      higher costs. Currently, there is a complete lack of randomised studies that prospectively
      compare the oncological efficacy of perioperative systemic therapy and CRS-HIPEC with upfront
      CRS-HIPEC alone. Notwithstanding this lack of evidence, perioperative systemic therapy is
      widely administered to patients with isolated resectable colorectal PM. However,
      administration and timing of perioperative systemic therapy vary substantially between
      countries, hospitals, and guidelines. More importantly, it remains unknown whether
      perioperative systemic therapy has an intention-to-treat benefit in this setting. Therefore,
      this study randomises patients with isolated resectable colorectal PM to receive either
      perioperative systemic therapy (experimental arm) or upfront CRS-HIPEC alone (control arm).

      Study design: multicentre, open-label, parallel-group, phase II-III, randomised superiority
      study.

      Setting: nine Dutch tertiary referral centres qualified for the surgical treatment of
      colorectal PM.

      Objectives: objectives of the phase II study (80 patients) are to explore the feasibility of
      accrual, the feasibility, safety, and tolerance of perioperative systemic therapy, and the
      radiological and histological response of colorectal PM to neoadjuvant systemic therapy. The
      primary objective of the phase III study (an additional 278 patients) is to compare survival
      outcomes between both arms. Secondary objectives are to compare surgical characteristics,
      major postoperative morbidity, health-related quality of life, and costs between both arms.
      Other objectives are to assess major systemic therapy related toxicity and the objective
      radiological and histological response of colorectal PM to neoadjuvant systemic therapy.

      Study population: adults who have a good performance status, histological or cytological
      proof of PM of a colorectal adenocarcinoma, resectable disease, no systemic colorectal
      metastases within three months prior to enrolment, no systemic therapy for colorectal cancer
      within six months prior to enrolment, no previous CRS-HIPEC, no contraindications for the
      planned systemic treatment or CRS-HIPEC, and no relevant concurrent malignancies.

      Randomisation and stratification: eligible patients are randomised in a 1:1 ratio by using
      central randomisation software with stratified minimisation by a peritoneal cancer index of
      0-10 or 11-20, metachronous or synchronous onset of PM, previous systemic therapy for
      colorectal cancer, and HIPEC with oxaliplatin or mitomycin C.

      Intervention: at the discretion of the treating medical oncologist, perioperative systemic
      therapy consists of either four 3-weekly neoadjuvant and adjuvant cycles of capecitabine with
      oxaliplatin (CAPOX), six 2-weekly neoadjuvant and adjuvant cycles of
      5-fluorouracil/leucovorin with oxaliplatin (FOLFOX), or six 2-weekly neoadjuvant cycles of
      5-fluorouracil/leucovorin with irinotecan (FOLFIRI) followed by either four 3-weekly
      (capecitabine) or six 2-weekly (5-fluorouracil/leucovorin) adjuvant cycles of
      fluoropyrimidine monotherapy. Bevacizumab is added to the first three (CAPOX) or four
      (FOLFOX/FOLFIRI) neoadjuvant cycles.

      Outcomes: outcomes of the phase II study are to explore the feasibility of accrual, the
      feasibility, safety, and tolerance of perioperative systemic therapy, and the
      radiological/histological response of colorectal PM to neoadjuvant systemic therapy. The
      primary outcome of the phase III study is 3-year overall survival, which is hypothesised to
      be 50% in the control arm and 65% in the experimental arm, thereby requiring 358 patients
      (179 in each arm). Secondary endpoints are surgical characteristics, major postoperative
      morbidity, progression-free survival, disease-free survival, health-related quality of life,
      costs, major systemic therapy related toxicity, and objective radiological and histological
      response rates of colorectal PM to neoadjuvant systemic therapy.

      Burden, risks, and benefits associated with participation: it is hypothesised that
      perioperative systemic therapy and CRS-HIPEC (experimental arm) significantly improve the
      overall survival of patients with isolated resectable colorectal PM compared to the current
      standard treatment in the Netherlands: upfront CRS-HIPEC alone (control arm). This potential
      overall survival benefit should be weighed against the burden and risks of the experimental
      arm. The most important are: additional hospital visits for the perioperative systemic
      therapy, preoperative disease progression and secondary unresectability, increased
      postoperative morbidity, systemic therapy related toxicity, and an intensified and prolonged
      initial treatment that could decrease health-related quality of life. The investigators feel
      that the potential overall survival benefit of the experimental arm outweighs the burden and
      risks (that are closely monitored in the phase II study).
    
  