
    
      Subjects (DoD beneficiaries) will be recruited from all male and female subjects whom are at
      least 18 years of age and are Nellis Air Force Base dependents or retirees. A total of 65
      subjects will be recruited.

      Screening Visit:

        -  Obtain signed Informed Consent document and HIPAA Authorization

        -  Women of child bearing potential will have a serum pregnancy test (approximately 1-2
           teaspoons of blood)

        -  25-OH Vitamin D baseline levels will be drawn via 1 venipuncture (approximately 1-2
           teaspoons of blood)

      Visit 1 (within 1 week of screening visit):

      • Subjects will be prescribed oral omeprazole 20mg (a proton pump inhibitor) by one of the
      Investigators. Subject will take oral omeprazole 20mg for 60 consecutive days.

      Telephone Call 1 (2 weeks after visit 1):

      • Review with the patient (see attached telephone call script)

        -  If they have been taking the omeprazole 20 mg as prescribed? (studies have shown that
           patient recall is as accurate as pill counts)

        -  Review any adverse effects the patient may have experienced.

      Telephone Call 2 (2 weeks after Telephone Call 1):

      • Review with the patient (see attached telephone call script)

        -  If they have been taking the omeprazole 20 mg as prescribed? (studies have shown that
           patient recall is as accurate as pill counts)

        -  Review any adverse effects the patient may have experienced.

      Telephone Call 3 (2 weeks after Telephone Call 2):

        -  Review with the patient (see attached telephone call script)

             -  If they have been taking the omeprazole 20 mg as prescribed? (studies have shown
                that patient recall is as accurate as pill counts)

             -  Review any adverse effects the patient may have experienced.

        -  Schedule for Final Visit 2.

      Final Visit 2 (after 60 days of taking omeprazole):

        -  Review with the patient:

             -  If they have been taking the omeprazole 20 mg as prescribed? (studies have shown
                that patient recall is as accurate as pill counts)

             -  Review any adverse effects the patient may have experienced.

        -  25-OH Vitamin D levels will be drawn via 1 venipuncture (approximately 1-2 teaspoons of
           blood) (research-driven).

      Patient's participation in this study is completed after Final Visit 2.

      The data will be analyzed and a paper will be written and submitted to a scientific journal.

      If at any time during the study, the subject decides to withdraw from the study, they may do
      so with no further testing required. If a subject becomes pregnant during the study, they
      will be told to stop omeprazole and withdrawn from the study and referred to their PCM for
      standard of care treatment.

      Patients must agree to take precautions to prevent pregnancy during the course of this study
      due to the possible severe harm the Omeprazole may cause an unborn child. The only completely
      reliable methods of birth control are total abstinence or surgical removal of the uterus.
      Other methods, such as the use of condoms, a diaphragm or cervical cap, birth control pills,
      IUD, or sperm killing products are not totally effective in preventing pregnancy. Also, women
      who are breastfeeding may not participate in this study.

      If at any time, 25-OH Vitamin D levels are measured and found to be below 10, the patient
      will be notified immediately to stop taking the oral Omeprazole 20mg and will be referred to
      their PCM to initiate standard of care treatment.

      Oral omeprazole 20mg is a Food & Drug Administration approved dosage. Its use in this
      protocol is not considered standard of care since it is being used on healthy subjects.

      "In accordance with 21 CFR 312.2(b)(i-v), an IND exemption is requested based on the
      following provisions: (i) The investigation is not intended to be reported to FDA as a
      well-controlled study in support of a new indication for use nor intended to be used to
      support any other significant change in the labeling for the drug; (ii) If the drug that is
      undergoing investigation is lawfully marketed as a prescription drug product, the
      investigation is not intended to support a significant change in the advertising for the
      product; (iii) The investigation does not involve a route of administration or dosage level
      or use in a patient population or other factor that significantly increases the risks (or
      decreases the acceptability of the risks) associated with the use of the drug product; (iv)
      The investigation is conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review
      set forth in part 56 and with the requirements for informed consent set forth in part 50; and
      (v) The investigation is conducted in compliance with the requirements of §312.7."
    
  