
    
      The role of genetic factors in the development of coranary heart disease (CHD) exacerbations
      studied not enough. Most research in this area planned and carried out on a "case-control".
      Using a similar protocol entails significant errors are associated with a high incidence of
      subclinical atherosclerotic vascular lesions. Moreover, much of atheroma is extravasal,
      making it impossible to identify them by angiography. Therefore, necessary to conduct
      prospective studies to estimate the frequency of so-called hard endpoints. Previously,
      similar trials were conducted, mainly in connect with drug approving procedures. The spread
      data from them to other patients directly is not entirely justified. At the same time, the
      influence of genetic factors in this group of patients can be substantial.

      In the previous part of the study, the sample of patients of Moscow, St. Petersburg, Kazan,
      Chelyabinsk, Stavropol, Perm, and Rostov-on-the-Don was formed, of 1,200 people admitted due
      to acute coronary syndrome (ACS) including unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction,
      at coronary care units with follow-up for three years. We found several factors, including
      genetic, that significantly affect the outcomes of the disease. Coronary atherosclerosis and
      its complications now considered as a multifactorial disease associated with inherent
      factors. Therefore, the project provides, besides accounting a significant amount of clinical
      and instrumental data, the determination of a wide range of genotypes and alleles of
      polymorphic markers candidate genes encoding the protein factors of the hemostatic system,
      enzymes of lipid metabolism system, and anti-inflammatory cytokines. It is assumed that the
      prediction outcomes of coronary heart disease should be carried out taking into account the
      fact that several factors (gender, diabetes, age, aortic stenosis, atrial fibrillation, etc.)
      can not only significantly change the forecast itself but also affecting the significance of
      other risk factors. Since the last study, the standards significantly of ACS management
      changed. Invasive treatment not only creates opportunities to reduce coronary mortality but
      also increased demands on the patient's adherence to the assigned medication and creates
      additional risks associated with its activity (especially with an antithrombotic treatment
      activity). In these circumstances, the development of personalized approaches to prescribing
      drugs is particularly important. Thus, the prediction of coronary heart disease outcomes
      after an ACS on a set of clinical, instrumental, biochemical and genetic indicators is of
      great importance, as it allows to plan the most optimal treatment for the individual patient.

      The aim of the study was to develop a model of individualized risk of coronary heart disease
      outcomes and side effects of therapy based on clinical and instrumental, biochemical, and
      genetic parameters in patients with ACS.
    
  