
    
      Intervention: Device description The Dexcom G6 intended use is for the management of diabetes
      in persons aged 2 years and older. The Dexcom G6 System is intended to replace fingerstick
      blood glucose testing for diabetes treatment decisions. Interpretation of the Dexcom G6
      System results should be based on the glucose trends and several sequential readings over
      time. The Dexcom G6 System also aids in the detection of episodes of hyperglycemia and
      hypoglycemia, facilitating both acute and long-term therapy adjustments. The Dexcom G6 System
      can be used alone or in conjunction with these digitally connected medical devices for the
      purpose of managing diabetes. The system consists of a sensor, transmitter, receiver, and
      mobile app. The sensor is a small, flexible wire inserted into subcutaneous tissue where it
      converts glucose into electrical current. The sensor incorporates an interferent layer that
      minimizes the effect of potential electroactive interferents, such as acetaminophen, by
      preventing it from reaching the sensor wire surface. The benefit of this interferent layer in
      blocking the effects of acetaminophen prevents falsely high glucose readings. Thus, users may
      ingest acetaminophen while wearing the G6 CGM system. The transmitter, which is connected to
      the sensor and worn on the body, samples the electrical current produced by the sensor and
      converts the measurement into a glucose reading using an onboard algorithm. The receiver
      and/or the app displays the glucose reading along with a rate of change arrow and a trend
      graph. Additionally, the receiver and/or app issues alarms and alerts to notify the patient
      of glucose level changes and other important system conditions. The app provides the
      additional capability to share data with "followers" using the Dexcom Share service. The
      receiver can be put into a blinded mode using CLARITY® software. In this mode, users are
      unable to see the CGM data or receive CGM alerts.

      CGM Ancillary Devices Dexcom CLARITY® is an accessory to users of the Dexcom CGM system. It
      is a software program that allows the transfer of glucose data from the CGM system to Dexcom
      remote servers for data management to allow use of the CGM data by the user and study
      clinicians. Target ranges of 60 to 140 mg/dl [3.3 to 7.8 mmol/l] will be set and the patients
      will be introduced in the use of alarm settings. Both participants and study sites will use
      CLARITY® to transfer glucose data between user and study site, whether CGM is used in blinded
      or real-time mode. A CLARITY® mobile app can be used for retrospective review of glucose data
      on the smart device and can also be set up to allow receipt of push notifications of CGM data
      facilitating weekly data review. For all patients (intervention and control group) an
      anonymized CLARITY® account will be created by using a sequential study number which is
      allocated at randomization (sex will be female and birth date for each account will be set to
      1.1.1990 for all accounts).

        1. For participants that have a supported phone, the G6 CGM app will be installed on
           participant's smart phone.

        2. An anonymized CLARITY® mobile account will be set up and linked to the research site.

        3. Participants will use CGM data for their diabetes management.

      5. A high alert threshold will be set at 140 mg/dl [7.8 mmol/l]. Low alert threshold and
      urgent low soon alerts will be turned off. If participants require insulin, the low alert
      will be turned on and the threshold set at 65 mg/dl [3.6 mmol/l]. In addition, the urgent low
      alert (55 mg/dl [3.1 mmol/l]), the urgent low soon alert (when glucose levels are falling
      fast and will be below 55 mg/dl [3.1 mmol/l] in less than 20 min) as well as alerts for rise
      and fall rate (3 mg/dl [0.17 mmol/l]) in addition to alerts for signal loss and no readings
      for more than 20 min will be enabled. 6. Participants with applicable smart phones may have
      CLARITY® push notifications on the CLARITY® mobile app about weekly time in range comparison
      enabled during the study.

      7. For app users, the "Share and Follow" functionality will be discussed and encouraged (i.e.

      the study participants are able to invite followers to review their glucose levels).

      8. For participants using the receiver only, the receiver will be downloaded into the
      CLARITY® clinic account at each visit. 9. For participants using real-time CGM data summary
      will be downloaded for documentation at V3 and V4 (between 36+0 and 38+6) as well as after
      delivery (VPP1) 10. The research team will review the CGM in CLARITY® to inform lifestyle and
      therapy recommendations. 11. The Dexcom G6 system will not be calibrated during the study
      period.
    
  