
    
      Our long-term goals are to evaluate the effectiveness of canine- assisted therapy for persons
      with aphasia and to operationalize aphasia treatments targeting psychosocial consequences of
      aphasia such that they may be implemented with fidelity across clinical settings. The overall
      objective of this application is to determine the feasibility and impact of a canine-assisted
      therapy program, the Persons with Aphasia Training Dogs (PATD) Program. This feasibility
      study, a crucial first step toward our long-term goals, will evaluate participants' ability
      to learn positive reinforcement dog training techniques, and provide data regarding the
      impact of treatment with respect to feasibility metrics associated with recruitment,
      retention, compliance, and importantly, program satisfaction/acceptability. The hypotheses
      are that PWA are able to learn positive reinforcement techniques to apply to dog training and
      that retention, compliance, and program satisfaction rates for this canine-assisted treatment
      will be high, with program satisfaction linked to psychosocial benefits such as increased
      self-confidence and social engagement for PWA. These hypotheses have been formulated on the
      basis of the PI's funded work designing and implementing the PATD program for the MossRehab
      Aphasia Center, as well as work in aphasia rehabilitation and canine-assisted interventions,
      including those with persons with aphasia. Accomplishment of the overall objective of this
      application will be achieved through this small-scale feasibility study aimed to garner
      preliminary support for our hypotheses and provide data to inform design of a future,
      large-scale clinical trial.

      Specific Aim 1: Determine whether PWA, through participation in the PATD program, can learn
      and implement positive reinforcement techniques to train dogs in basic obedience skills.
      Hypothesis 1: On program completion, PWA will be competent in using positive reinforcement
      techniques, to independently cue a dog to complete a minimum of 4 (of 5) trained obedience
      skills. To test this hypothesis, participants will be assessed using a PI-adapted version of
      the Pet Partners© Animal-Handler Evaluation.

      Specific Aim 2: Define participant characteristics associated with recruitment, retention,
      compliance and program acceptability/satisfaction relevant for determining PATD candidacy.
      Hypothesis 2: PWA will demonstrate high (above 80%) retention and compliance rates, and high
      program satisfaction, including increases in self-reported ratings of psychosocial
      well-being. To test this hypothesis, our primary outcome measure will be the Assessment of
      Living with Aphasia, complemented by self-report of participants' PATD experience gathered
      through an ALA-modeled qualitative spoken interview and a written, aphasia-friendly,
      satisfaction survey.

      Accomplishment of the overall objective of this application will be achieved through this
      small-scale, feasibility study aimed to garner preliminary support for our hypotheses and to
      provide the foundation for a future, large-scale clinical trial.

      Specific Aim 1: Determine whether PWA, through participation in the PATD program, can learn
      and implement positive reinforcement techniques to train dogs in basic obedience skills.
      Hypothesis 1: On program completion, PWA will be competent in using positive reinforcement
      techniques, to independently cue a dog to complete a minimum of 4 (of 5) trained obedience
      skills. To test this hypothesis, program participants will be assessed using a PI-adapted
      version of the Pet Partners© Animal-Handler Evaluation.

      Skills Training: In consultation with a certified professional dog trainer, the PATD program
      was developed by the PI, a trained speech language-pathologist with eighteen years of
      experience working with people with aphasia, who has spent more than ten years working with
      shelter animals using positive reinforcement techniques. Participants enrolled in the PATD
      program will engage in five once-weekly individual training sessions with the PI, either with
      a family dog (PATD) or by volunteering at a local shelter, the Pennsylvania SPCA
      (PATD-PSPCA). PATD-PSPCA participants will work only with dogs that have been evaluated by
      PSPCA staff as appropriate for interaction with new volunteers. Each session will be
      dedicated to one of five pre-determined, sequentially-presented, obedience skills (i.e.,
      LOOK, TOUCH, SIT, STAY, COME). Training sessions will last approximately 75 minutes, with an
      additional half hour allotted to the beginning of the first training session to review
      principles of positive-reinforcement training. Subsequent sessions will begin with a brief
      probe of the participant's skill in cueing the dog to perform the behavior trained the
      previous week. Following the probe, sessions will continue with a review of that week's
      lesson plan, after which the PI will model the first training step three times. After the
      model has been provided, the participant will attempt the procedure, receiving instructive
      feedback or reinforcement from the trainer. Instruction will proceed to the subsequent step
      when the participant and dog have attained 5 successful trials at the current step. The same
      demonstration procedure will be used at each subsequent step. Commands will be trained using
      one hand gesture for each behavior. To mark behaviors, participants will use a clicker
      attached to a wrist band, which can be hand-held or allowed to dangle for ease of use for
      those with hemiplegia. Participants will have the option of introducing the verbal command,
      but will not be required to do so. All participants will be asked to provide their dog with a
      walk before training sessions to support the dog in being ready to participate.

      Skills Practice: Participants will not be required to complete all steps for an obedience
      skill in a single session, and will be encouraged to practice the skill with the dog for at
      least 3 practice sessions over the course of the week. Practice will be used as a measure of
      participant compliance. Each participant will be provided with a copy of the lesson plan and,
      if interested, a video demonstrating the PI performing the target skill with her own dog.
      Participants will also be provided with a training log to complete after each time they
      practice over the course of the week. Using a nine-point visual analog scale adapted from the
      Assessment of Living with Aphasia (ALA), participants will rate their own and the dog's
      performance during each practice session. To facilitate responses on the log, participants
      will be provided with a pictographic list of questions to consider in determining their
      ratings (e.g., "How many times did I have to cue the dog", "Did I 'click' as soon as the dog
      did what I asked?".

      Specific Aim 2: Define participant characteristics associated with recruitment, retention,
      compliance and program acceptability/satisfaction relevant for determining PATD candidacy.
      Hypothesis 2: PWA will demonstrate high (above 80%) retention and compliance rates, and high
      program satisfaction, including increases in self-reported ratings of psychosocial
      well-being. To test this hypothesis, the primary outcome measure will be the Assessment of
      Living with Aphasia, complemented by self-report of participants' PATD experience gathered
      through an ALA-modeled qualitative spoken interview and a written, aphasia-friendly,
      satisfaction survey.

      Feasibility Metrics: Recruitment rates will be tracked appropriate to the creation of a
      CONSORT flow diagram including: # contacted, # screened, # eligible (vs. ineligible), #
      consented/enrolled (vs. declined). To evaluate further the size of the population that may
      benefit from the treatment, participant screening will include surveying of interest in
      interaction with dogs and in dog-related activities. Similarly, participant retention rates
      will be tracked including: # completing baseline assessment, # completing immediate
      post-treatment assessment, and # completing follow-up assessment. Participant withdrawals
      will be tracked for whether initiated by researcher or participant. Participant compliance
      rates will be tracked including # assessment and training sessions (relative to total
      possible) completed, and # self-reported home practice sessions.

      Outcome Measurement: The primary quantitative outcome measure of acceptability, the ALA, is a
      pictographic self-report measure of quality of life developed to assess the impact of aphasia
      on daily life. Questions address participants' perceptions of aphasia, their environment,
      their relationships, their community engagement, experiences of self-confidence and respect,
      and their progress toward "living well with aphasia". Participants respond by pointing to a
      visual analog scale, providing for quantification of responses, and rendering the tool
      accessible to those with language impairment. Overall score and subdomain scores have
      demonstrated acceptable-to-high test-retest reliability and internal consistency. To augment
      standardized evaluation, the PI has developed a complementary interview, consistent with the
      format of the ALA, to more specifically probe PATD participants' perceptions of the impact of
      the training program. Participant narratives produced during the administration will be
      supported using interviewing strategies appropriate for persons with aphasia. A written,
      visual analog scale satisfaction survey designed to adhere to guidelines of
      'aphasia-friendly' written materials will also be administered. It is anticipated that the
      assessment battery will take two hours to complete.

      Outcome Measurement/Participation Timeline: Participants will be randomized into immediate
      and waitlist treatment groups using permuted block randomization with stratification.
      Analysis between these two arms will be exploratory only in nature, and will inform us
      regarding the feasibility of the waitlist control design for use in a larger clinical trial.
      All participants will be evaluated before training begins, immediately following training,
      and at a 3-month follow-up. Participants in the delayed arm will participate in two
      pre-training evaluations, one immediately upon enrollment and one at the end of the delay
      period immediately before beginning training.
    
  