
    
      The Supertowel is a microfiber towel treated with a permanent anti-microbial bonding and has
      been designed as a soap alternative in emergency situations.

      The treated fabric must be dipped in water and then rubbed against the hands so that
      pathogens will be transferred to the fabric where they will be killed. Several laboratory
      test have demonstrated the bactericidal effect of the fabric against different bacteria. The
      Supertowel will kill microbes efficiently and within seconds once the microbe is on the
      towel. The Supertowel provides an alternative to large-scale soap distribution. It could be
      beneficial to emergency responders as it will be easier (smaller and lighter) to distribute
      and last longer than soap, negating the need for frequent distributions. The Supertowel will
      reduce water wastage associated with hand washing and reduce drainage problems that are often
      seen around hand washing facilities. The Supertowel will also be beneficial to those effected
      by emergencies as it can easily be carried by users all the time, making hand cleaning more
      convenient.

      Over the last two years the investigators have been able to prove, under controlled
      laboratory conditions, that hand cleaning with the Supertowel is more efficacious than
      handwashing soap and water. Another field study conducted by the investigators in a refugee
      camp in Northern Ethiopia indicated that the Supertowel is an acceptable and desirable
      product among crisis-affected populations and is likely to result in more frequent
      handwashing in these difficult circumstances.

      The aim of this study is to develop greater evidence on whether the Supertowel remains is as
      efficacious when used under conditions which mimic "real-world hand cleaning conditions".
      This will be tested through a set of controlled laboratory experiments with healthy
      volunteers in India. We will be testing the efficacy of the Supertowel as a hand-cleaning
      product using simulations of 'real-world' hand cleaning conditions.

      To test the efficacy of the Supertowel under the different conditions, we will use a
      crossover controlled study based and adapted on the protocol of the European Committee for
      Standardization (EN 1499) which is designed to evaluate the ability of hand-wash agents to
      eliminate transient pathogens from volunteers' hands without regard to resident
      microorganisms. This procedure is based on the "post-contamination treatment" of hands and
      involves the placement of the test organism (E. coli [ATCC 11229]) on the hands of test
      subjects, followed by exposure of the test product.

      The study will be organized in two rounds of tests. 32 healthy volunteers will be selected
      for the study. 16 volunteers will be invited for the first round and 16 more for the second
      round. Each volunteer will receive treatment with all the different procedures the same day
      of visit to the laboratory.

      This is a single centre study conducted in KET's Scientific Research Centre, Mumbai (India).
      The recruitment and performance of tests will be done at KET's Scientific Research Centre,
      Mumbai (India) Laboratory of India.
    
  