
    
      The goal of this proposal is to explore the feasibility of, and potential for, dietary
      supplementation with branched chain amino acids (BCAAs) to effect sleep quality and cognitive
      function in Veterans. The BCAAs (Leucine, Isoleucine, and Valine) cannot be synthesized
      endogenously (i.e., they must be obtained through the diet) and are the precursors to >50% of
      de novo glutamate and GABA synthesis in the brain, which are the primary excitatory and
      inhibitory neurotransmitters, respectively. Preclinical evidence strongly suggests that
      dietary BCAA supplementation restores normal sleep-wake patterns and cognitive function
      following TBI through a restoration in the global cortical excitation:inhibition ratio. BCAA
      supplementation has been studied extensively in healthy humans and in a variety of disease
      states, including following TBI, but not yet in Veterans in the chronic phase of recovery
      from TBI. BCAAs are a commercially available dietary supplement and very well tolerated with
      minimal side-effects.

      Subjects will be randomized in a double-blind fashion through the VA Research Pharmacy to one
      of three groups: 1) BCAA; 60 g/day in two 30 g doses, 2) rice protein; 60 g/day in two 30 g
      doses, and 3) placebo; 60 g microcrystalline cellulose in two 30 g doses. BCAA and placebo
      will be prepared by the VA Research Pharmacy and dispensed in a blinded fashion to Veterans
      after demonstrating informed consent. Following a ~4-week period of baseline, Veterans will
      be instructed to consume study product after waking and ~6 hours later, on an empty stomach
      for a period of up to 21-days. Self-report questionnaires assessing sleep quality, cognitive
      function, trauma-related symptom severity, and other measures of mental and physical
      well-being will be administered before and after the experimental period. Wrist actigraphy
      will be continuously collected over the baseline and the experimental period. Cognitive
      function will be assessed before and after the experimental period using an established
      battery of neuropsychological tests (i.e., selected tests from WAIS, D-KEFS, HVLT, COWAT,
      among others. Pressure pain testing will be conducted before and after the experimental
      period.
    
  