
    
      Acute pancreatitis represents the most common complication after ERCP. The reported incidence
      of this complication varies from less than 1% to 40%, but rates of about 10% are reported in
      most prospective studies involving non-selected patients. Although most episodes (about 90%)
      of post-ERCP pancreatitis are mild, a small percentage of patients (about 10%) may develop
      severe pancreatitis resulting in significant morbidity and occasional mortality. Despite
      technical improvements in recent years, the incidence of this complication has not decreased.

      The risk factors for development of post ERCP acute pancreatitis are now well known. Balloon
      dilatation of sphincter of Oddi, difficult papillary cannulation, pancreatic sphincterotomy
      and multiple pancreatic duct injections have been found to be independent risk factors for
      post-procedure pancreatitis (Odds ratio of 4.5, 3.4, 3.1, 2.7 respectively) in a recent
      prospective, multicenter study by Freeman et al. Opacification of the main pancreatic duct
      alone (MPD) is associated with a 31% incidence of hyperamylasemia. This figure is similar to
      the 24% incidence of hyperamylasemia which occurs after cholangiography alone. However both
      injection pressure and volume of contrast medium injected into the pancreatic duct contribute
      to ductal epithelial or acinar injury by disruption of the intercellular tight junctions with
      a backflow into the interstitial space.

      The role of the osmolarity and ionic nature of the contrast medium is controversial. However
      non-ionic, low osmolarity contrast media is preferred by most endoscopists. Electrocautery in
      the vicinity of the MPD orifice may produce edema of the tissues with subsequent obstruction.
      Etta et al recently showed that use of pure cutting current significantly reduced
      pancreatitis rates when compared with blended current (3% vs 11%).Precut or access
      papillotomy is associated with higher risk of pancreatitis when used by endoscopists with
      less experience, but not in the hands of experienced endoscopists.Operator experience also
      seems to be a potential risk factor for post ERCP complications. Large volume centers
      performing > 200 procedures per year had significantly less overall complications (2.0% vs
      7.1%, p<0.001) and less complication related deaths (0.18% vs 0.75%, p<0.05), compared to low
      volume centers in a large Italian multicenter prospective study.

      Various agents have been tried with an aim to prevent post ERCP pancreatitis in the last 10
      years. These include Gabexate, Somatostatin, Nifedipine, Octreotide, Hydrocortisone,
      Prednisone, Allopurinol, Interleukin-10, and Methylprednisolone which have been evaluated in
      randomized controlled studies.Of these agents only Interleukin-10, Somatostatin and Gabexate
      have been found efficacious. However 13 patients need to be treated prophylactically with
      Somatostatin and 27 with Gabexate to prevent a single case of post ERCP pancreatitis. Hence
      these agents are unlikely to be cost-effective or universally applicable. The ideal agent to
      prevent this complication should be cheap, widely applicable and have a rational basis.

      It has been found that cannulation trauma to the papilla or electrocautery leads to sphincter
      of Oddi spasm and/or papillary edema, thus obstructing free flow of pancreatic juice and
      contrast with resultant acute pancreatic inflammation.

      Akashi et al recently showed that although the frequency of pancreatitis was higher in
      patients who underwent sphincterotomy, the frequency of severe pancreatitis within 48 hours
      and the worsening of pancreatitis after 48 hours is significantly lower in this group. Thus
      the lowering of intraductal pressure after endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) mitigates the
      severity of post procedural pancreatitis.

      In fact pancreatic stent placement has been shown to be effective for the prevention of post
      ERCP pancreatitis in high risk patients. In a recent randomized trial, patients had either a
      5 Fr nasopancreatic catheter/a stent placed at the end of ERCP or no endoprosthesis was
      placed. Patients undergoing MPD stenting had a lower frequency of pancreatitis as compared
      with those in the control group (28% vs 5%, p<0.05)10 However pancreatic stenting on a
      regular basis is difficult and impractical solution. Repeated attempts to place the
      pancreatic stent may cause more harm, and a second procedure may be required to remove the
      stent. Hence instituting adequate drainage of MPD at the end of ERCP seems to be rational and
      useful but pharmacological rather than mechanical means may be desirable.

      Sphincter of Oddi relaxation is modified by cholecystokinin (CCK), vasoactive intestinal
      peptide (VIP) and nitric oxide (NO) in the physiological state besides a complex neural
      control involving sympathetic, parasympathetic and enteric nervous system. Jurkowska et al
      studied the role of nitric oxide (NO) in cerulein induced rat pancreatitis model. It was
      found that glyceryl trinitrate (NTG, a NO donor) and L-arginine (a substrate for NO
      synthesis) resulted in significant attenuation of pancreatic damage as well as earlier
      recovery and augmented cell proliferation in comparison to the saline treated or L-NNA (NO
      synthase inhibitor) group.

      In a randomized double-blind study, prophylactive treatment with NTG (2mg given sublingually
      5 min before endoscopy) was compared with placebo in 186 patients. The incidence of
      pancreatitis was lower in the NTG group compared with placebo (7 of 90 vs 17 of 96; p<0.05).
      Mean serum amylase values were similar in the two groups.

      A more recent study tested the hypothesis that transdermal NTG could be effective in the
      prevention of post ERCP pancreatitis. One hundred forty-four patients were randomized: 71
      received a 15mg NTG patch and 73 a placebo patch. In the control group pancreatitis developed
      in 11 patients versus 3 in the NTG group (p<0.05). Twenty four hour to baseline serum amylase
      and lipase ratios were also lower in the NTG group. Hence NO donors seem efficacious in
      preventing hyperamylasemia and post ERCP pancreatitis Regardless of the initial trigger, the
      acinar cell injury leads to oxidative stress, nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa-B
      and subsequent transcription of chemo and pro-inflammatory cytokines. This is followed by
      chemo-attraction and activation of macrophages, T lymphocytes and neutrophils, which are
      responsible for acinar necrosis and amplification of the pro-inflammatory cascade. Finally
      after amplification by Kupffer cells, systemic inflammatory response syndrome and multiple
      organ dysfunction occur. All these events occur within a very short period of time, likely
      within an hour or two. There is thus a very short therapeutic window during which it is
      theoretically possible to shut the inflammatory cascade.

      Cyclooxygenases (COX) are key enzymes of prostaglandin synthesis and have important role in
      the regulation of inflammation. Both isoforms of COX are synthesized in acinar cells and
      their expression is differentially regulated. Upon induction of pancreatitis in the rat
      model, COX-2 mRNA increases while COX-1 expression remains constant. Song et al studied the
      effect of pharmacological inhibition of COX-2 and genetic deletion of COX-2 in cerulein
      induced acute pancreatitis in mice. In both groups, the severity of pancreatitis and
      pancreatitis induced lung injury was reduced compared with the non-inhibited strains of COX-2
      sufficient mice. This indicates that COX-2 plays an important proinflammatory role in
      pancreatitis and that COX-2 inhibitors may be beneficial in preventing acute pancreatitis or
      reducing its severity.

      Parecoxib is the prodrug of Valdecoxib -a selective COX-2 inhibitor. Following IV or IM
      injection, Parecoxib is rapidly converted to Valdecoxib, the pharmacologically active
      substance by enzymatic hydrolysis in the liver. Following a single intramuscular injection of
      20mg of Valdecoxib, peak blood levels are achieved in approximately 1 hour. Parecoxib
      demonstrates an incidence of gastroduodenal ulceration similar to placebo and in twice daily
      doses had no effect on platelet aggregation or bleeding compared to placebo.
    
  