
    
      An innovative HIV-screening strategy is developed based on mathematical modelling on
      undiagnosed HIV and being implemented in primary care settings in Belgian's Flemish region.

      A multidisciplinary advisory board including stakeholders from the public sector,
      community-based organizations and primary care physicians (general practitionners; GPs) has
      been set up to advise on the different phases of the intervention's systematic development
      and implementation.

      Mathematical modelling using a back-calculation approach with national HIV-surveillance data
      delivered estimations of undiagnosed HIV and time-distribution between HIV-acquisition and
      diagnosis: 2805 (confidence interval: 2478 - 3186) people living with HIV remained
      undiagnosed in 2015, with highest rates among non-Belgian men having sex with men, and
      sub-Saharan African (SSA) women followed by SSA men (Marty et al., 2017) . These results
      informed the intervention objectives: to increase the numbers of HIV-tests performed, of new
      HIV-diagnoses among the priority groups with undiagnosed HIV, and of timely HIV diagnoses in
      these groups to link HIV positive individuals to care.

      A systematic literature review (Deblonde et al., 2018) indicated that many diagnostic
      opportunities were missed in primary care. Therefore, formative qualitative research was
      conducted with 122 purposively selected GPs to understand their perceived barriers and
      facilitators for HIV-testing. Based on these results, the following intervention determinants
      are addressed: HIV-knowledge, motivation to test and skills to proactively offer an HIV-test
      in a non-judgmental manner. Formative research and input from the advisory board also
      informed the delivery mode of the intervention.

      The intervention consists of an HIV-screening advice combining indicator-condition based
      screening (adapted for primary care) and target-group based screening. A multidisciplinary
      group-level training (one evening session) to apply this advice in routine practice is being
      delivered as part of the continuing medical education through GP-associations.

      The intervention is implemented across Flanders using a modified stepped wedged design t
      evaluate its effectiveness: two different intervention levels (1) delivering written/online
      information only on the HIV testing advice versus (2) information plus group-level training,
      are being compared with a control condition (standard of care or no specific intervention).
      regional HIV surveillance data are being used for the outcome evaluation. A mixed-method
      study evaluates the intervention's effectiveness, feasibility, and acceptability.

      Deblonde J, Van Beckhoven D, Loos J, Boffin N, Sasse A, Nöstlinger C, Supervie V. HIV testing
      within general practices in Europe: a mixed-methods systematic review. BMC public health.
      2018 Dec;18(1):1191.
    
  