
    
      The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), a diverse group of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)
      disorders, are characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis that manifest clinically as anemia,
      neutropenia, and/or thrombocytopenia. MDS is most frequently observed in the elderly
      population (median age between 60 and 70 years) and has a male predominance. The incidence of
      MDS varies from 2.1 to 12.6 cases per 100,000 people per year, with an estimated prevalence
      of up to 55,000 patients in the United States [Catenacci, 2005; Williamson, 1994; Aul, 1998;
      Aul, 2001]. Patients with MDS most frequently present with symptoms of fatigue, pallor,
      exertional dyspnea, infection, bleeding or bruising [Catenacci, 2005].

      MDS can be divided into 2 major subtypes: indolent (or early) MDS, in which pro-apoptotic
      forces predominate, and aggressive (or advanced) MDS, in which pro-proliferative factors are
      more common.

      The only curative therapy for MDS is allogeneic transplantation [Catenacci, 2005; Thompson,
      2005]. Curative treatments are restricted to younger, healthier individuals with
      histocompatible-matched donors or those able to undergo intensive chemotherapeutic regimens
      [Catenacci, 2005]. Recently, the FDA approved 3 agents for the treatment of this disease,
      Vidaza, Dacogen, and revlimid. The latter is approved for a subset of patients with MDS with
      del 5q abnormality, the former two are more applicable to higher risk disease. Rhu-EPO is
      currently available to patients with low risk MDS however, if they fail, their options are
      limited to the agents mentioned above, all of which have significant myelotoxic effects.
      Effective and less myelosuppressive treatments for low-risk MDS are needed.

      We are proposing a novel approach for the treatment of patients with low-risk MDS using heme
      supplementation with Panhematin® (hemin for injection). Panhematin® is an iron-containing
      metalloporphyrin, indicated for the amelioration of recurrent attacks of acute intermittent
      porphyria; it acts to limit the hepatic and/or marrow synthesis of porphyrin, presumably, as
      a result of the inhibition of aminolevulinic acid synthetase (the enzyme which limits the
      rate of porphyrin/heme biosynthetic pathway) [Panhematin® Product Prescribing Information].

      There are pre-clinical and clinical data to suggest that heme supplementation with
      Panhematin® (hematin for injection) has potential as a treatment option for patients with
      MDS. Preliminary data indicate hemin administration has the potential to stimulate progenitor
      cell growth, stimulate globin synthesis, and elevate overall hemoglobin levels. Panhematin®
      has been proven to be well tolerated when used therapeutically in patients with acute
      intermittent porphyria, and it is anticipated to be well tolerated in this patient
      population. For this study, selected patients will have low or intermediate 1 risk disease by
      IPSS, and the standard of care for MDS (supportive therapies) will be administered as needed.
      Measurement of serum porphyrin levels and Hgb F will be done at baseline and at week 8.
    
  