
    
      Two- thirds of American adults are overweight or obese, and that number continues to rise.
      Thus, it is not surprising that the prevalence of overweight/obesity has more than doubled in
      school children and tripled in adolescents. Concomitant with the rise in obesity has been a
      significant decrease in physical fitness levels (1,2). At least one study has shown the youth
      of today demonstrate lower aerobic fitness levels than their parents (3). Low aerobic fitness
      levels are most prevalent among Hispanic and Black (non-Hispanic) minority youth. No doubt
      the increases in TV viewing, computer time and technology have contributed to the increase in
      sedentary habits and decline in physical activity levels (4).

      The THINK program translates fitness and health-related information into knowledge and skills
      that children can understand and incorporate into their own personal health and lifestyle
      behaviors. The program is unique in that it combines educational and hands-on clinical
      experiences with physical activity and exercise. The goal is to promote healthier, more
      active children of today who demonstrate improved levels of physical fitness, exercise
      knowledge, and enjoyment of tomorrow.

      Each unit in the THINK program has three components: a seminar on the scientific aspects of a
      health-related theme, clinical experiences related to the theme, and related physical
      activities performed in the field. The THINK seminars engage students by getting them up and
      moving, while asking questions that prompt them to think creatively to come up with their own
      answers. Clinical experiences reinforce the educational themes allowing children to learn
      more about their bodies, how it functions, and how it adapts through various movement
      exercises. Finally, games and enjoyable physical activities round out the program
      contributing to enhanced motor skill development and improved physical fitness levels.

      The THINK program will begin with a series of baseline physical assessments comprising both
      heath and performance-related physical fitness. Participants will also receive a quiz on
      nutrition and exercise-related information and two surveys regarding nutritional behaviors
      and physical activity levels. They will be asked to complete one survey on exercise enjoyment
      and self-confidence. Parents will also be asked to complete a survey each on their child's
      nutritional habits. This will be done in two experimental and two control YMCA after school
      programs comprising primarily minority (Hispanic and Black) participants. Testing will again
      take place midway through the program and at the conclusion of the program nine months later.
      The control group will not go through the THINK program but will instead go through the
      traditional SPARK curriculum.

      The purpose of the study is to determine whether the THINK program results in improvements in
      physical fitness, nutrition and exercise knowledge/habits, and exercise enjoyment and
      self-confidence above that of the control group.
    
  