
    
      Study eyes will receive scatter photocoagulation given by one of the following two regimens.
      To reduce selection bias, investigators will be required, prior to study initiation, to
      indicate which treatment (1 PRP sitting or 4 PRP sittings) they will administer. Only the
      selected treatment will be performed by a given investigator on study eyes.

        -  1 sitting with a minimum of 1200 to a maximum of 1600 burns, with one burn width
           separation of burns and scatter extending from the peripheral arcades to beyond the
           equator.

        -  4 sittings, each separated by four weeks (+4 days), with approximately 300 burns in each
           of the first two sittings and investigator judgment for number of burns for the third
           and fourth sittings as long as the total for the four sittings is between 1200 and 1600
           burns.

      Both of these regimens conform with usual clinical practice.

      The study aims to enroll 150 eyes. At least 40 eyes will be enrolled with prior focal laser
      photocoagulation and at least 40 eyes without prior focal laser treatment. After enrollment
      of 80 eyes (40 with prior treatment and 40 without prior treatment), an interim analysis will
      be conducted so that focused enrollment strategies can be implemented if the analysis
      suggests that more subjects in a subgroup should be entered. Approximately half of the eyes
      will receive each scatter treatment regimen.

      The following procedures will be done on the study eye at baseline and at each scheduled
      visit (except 8 and 12 weeks at which exam data are not collected) unless otherwise
      specified:

        -  OCT

        -  E-ETDRS visual acuity in both eyes (refraction in the study eye at baseline, 17 weeks,
           and 34 weeks)

        -  Fundus photographs (7-fields at baseline and 3-fields at 34 weeks only)

        -  Photographs to document the scatter photocoagulation (day of the first PRP sitting only)
    
  