
    
      Bariatric surgery has been widely used in the treatment of obesity in recent years.
      Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is defined as the first-step bariatric surgery for
      patients in the high surgical risk group. It has been shown that the laparoscopic approach
      has lower complication rates, shorter hospital stays, and earlier mobilization compared to
      open surgery. However, postoperative pain management is very important because it might cause
      major morbidity, especially pulmonary complications in the early postoperative period.
      General recommendations for bariatric surgery include multimodal analgesia without sedatives,
      local analgesic infiltration, and early mobilization. Opioid analgesics are often preferred
      for pain management because of their strong analgesic potentials. However, opioids have
      undesirable adverse effects such as sedation, dizziness, constipation, nausea, vomiting,
      physical dependence and addiction, hyperalgesia, immunologic and hormonal dysfunction, muscle
      rigidity, tolerance, and respiratory depression. Therefore, the American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) recommends the use of multimodal analgesia including local
      anesthesia, regional anesthesia and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).

      NSAIDs have long been used in the treatment of pain and inflammation. Ibuprofen is a
      propionic acid derivative that has anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, and analgesic effects
      similar to other NSAIDs. The intravenous (IV) form of ibuprofen has been used in the pain
      treatment since 2009. It has been shown to be effective, safe and with less adverse effects
      in the treatment of postoperative pain. It has been reported that ibuprofen provides
      effective postoperative pain management after LSG surgery.

      The ultrasound (US) guided erector spina plane block (ESPB) is a novel interfacial plan block
      defined by Forero et al. The ESPB contains a local anesthetic injection into the deep fascia
      of erector spinae. This area is away from the pleural and neurological structures and thus
      minimizes the risk of complications due to injury. Visualization of sonoanatomy with US is
      easy, and the spread of local anesthesic agents can be easily seen under the erector spinae
      muscle. Thus, analgesia occurs in several dermatomes with cephalad-caudad way. Cadaveric
      studies have shown that the injection spreads to the ventral and dorsal roots of the spinal
      nerves. ESPB provides thoracic analgesia at T5 level, abdominal analgesia at T7-9 level. In
      the literature, it has been reported that ESPB provides effective analgesia after LSG
      surgery.

      The aim of this study is to compare US-guided ESPB and IV ibuprofen for postoperative
      analgesia management after LSG surgery. The primary aim is to compare postoperative opioid
      consumption and the secondary aim is to evaluate postoperative pain scores (VAS), adverse
      effects related with opioids (allergic reaction, nausea, vomiting).
    
  