
    
      As cesarean birth rates continue to climb, the number of women (currently about 420,000
      annually) facing the decision of whether to have a repeat cesarean or to attempt a vaginal
      birth after cesarean (VBAC) will also increase. The objective of this proposed 18-month
      exploratory research study is to help pregnant women weigh risks and benefits in a childbirth
      decision using the Preferences Assessment Computer Module developed by the principal
      investigator. The long-term objective of the proposed research is to understand and improve
      the decision-making process of these women by creating a computerized childbirth decision
      aid. Such decision aids provide value when the decision is complex, when the outcome is
      uncertain, and when people vary in how they prioritize preferences; childbirth decisions for
      women with a prior cesarean meet all these criteria.

      No study to date quantifies how women weigh the complexities of various
      considerations-medical and otherwise-in the delivery decision. The proposed research is
      significant, therefore, in that it will provide a much-needed method to help women prioritize
      and weigh their preferences related to childbirth decisions. More broadly, it responds to the
      recent NIH and AHRQ initiatives to promote the development of computerized decision aids to
      improve the quality of medical decisions.

      A new investigator will lead a well-qualified, multi-disciplined team that has expertise in
      decision analysis, obstetric medicine, and research methodology in pursuit of the following
      specific aims:

        1. To validate a precise method to measure childbirth preferences. During the initial phase
           of this study, we will verify the accuracy of the Preferences Assessment Computer
           Module, measure internal consistency and assess content validity in a cross-sectional
           study.

        2. To test whether women who use the Preferences Assessment Computer Module will have
           increased clarity about their preferences-and about the implication of those
           preferences-in comparison to women in a control group. We will conduct a randomized
           controlled trial of pregnant women with a prior cesarean.

      This Preferences Assessment Computer Module is appropriate to address not only VBAC
      decisions, but also decisions related to elective cesareans and induction. In short, the
      proposed research will advance the field by improving the quality of the decision-making
      process for childbirth.
    
  