
    
      Study:

      Study Design: A prospective randomized clinical trial. Study setting: The study will be
      conducted in Ain Shams University Maternity Hospital.

      All pregnant women in the delivery ward will be submitted to:

        1. Detailed complete history taking with special emphasis to maternal age, Parity, Maternal
           weight, as well as presence of any disease.

        2. Clinical Examination:

           a. General examination. b. Abdominal examination (Symphysis-fundal height) and pelvic
           examination.

        3. Investigation

             1. Ultrasound assessment to evaluate GA, fetal weight, AFI and Placental site.

             2. Basal complete blood picture, urine analysis and random blood sugar.

                The selected patients will fulfill the following criteria:

                • Pregnant women between 18-35 years of age with normal pregnancy.

                • A singleton fetus at a gestational age of 37 - 42 weeks in a cephalic
                presentation.

                • Neonatal birth weight of 2500 to 4500 grams.

                Exclusion criteria:

                • Medical disorders and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.

                • Intrauterine fetal death.

                • Known or suspected fetal anomalies.

                • Oxytocin induction or Augmented cases.

                  -  Obstetrical complications (bleeding, premature rupture of membranes).

                  -  Previous CS or Previous Myomectomy.

                Study population:

                The present study will be conducted on 150 women recruited from the delivery ward
                of our hospital after they had received information on the purpose and course of
                the study from the medical investigator and had provided the written consent during
                routine prenatal visits , The 150 study participants will be divided into three
                groups using simple random distribution technique. After monitoring the duration of
                active phase and second stage of labor by following the partograph.

                Randomization and Allocation concealment:

                Randomization will be based on the sequence generation created by computer and the
                randomization tables will be kept with the study supervisor. Consenting patients
                fulfilling inclusion criteria will be randomized into one of the following 3
                groups. Randomized allocation will be kept in opaque sealed envelopes, with
                enrollment numbers written on the envelopes. The envelopes will contain a card on
                with the designated study group will be written. After enrollment of the patients
                in the study, the envelopes marked with study number will be unsealed and the
                patients allocated to either groups:

                • Group (A) "Study Group 1": In the labor room women in Group A (n = 50) receive
                intraumbilical vein injection oxytocin 20 units diluted in 20 ml of 0.9% saline
                solution immediately after delivery of the baby, clamping and cutting the cord.

                • Group (B) "Study Group 2": The women in Group B (n = 50) have placental drainage
                immediately after delivery. This scenario will include placental cord clamping and
                cutting after delivery of the baby followed by immediately unclamping of the
                maternal side, allowing the blood to drain freely for a duration of three minutes.

                • Group (C) "Control Group": The women in Group C (n = 50) as a control group
                receive no intervention. Placenta will be delivered spontaneously after appearance
                of clinical signs of placental separation, which include strong uterine
                contraction, vaginal bleeding, and descending of umbilical cord through the vulva.
                This scenario will include placental cord clamping and cutting after 2 minutes of
                delivery of the baby.

                Outcome:

                Retained placenta is defined as a placenta that remained in the uterus for 30
                minutes or more after delivery (Begley et al., 2014).

                  -  1ry outcome: Duration of the third stage of labor.

                  -  2ry outcome: Retained placenta, need for manual removal of placenta and the
                     drop in Hb will be recorded.

                Sample size calculation:

                Sample size was calculated using PASS® version 11 program, sample size calculation
                was based on study carried out by (Güngördük et al., 2011). A preliminary power
                analysis was carried out to calculate the sample size using a formula: d = Δ/SD,
                where d is standardized difference, Δ is the smallest clinically significant
                difference and SD is standard deviation of the test group. Duration of 1.6 minutes
                was considered as the smallest clinically significant difference, and the SD (1.6
                minutes) was selected the study performed by (Güngördük et al., 2011). Also, a
                standardized difference of 1.0 was obtained using nomogram. The power analysis
                suggested that a sample of 50 women in each group would provide a power of 95%, at
                5% significance.
    
  