
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess median progression-free survival rate (PFSR) as well as PFSR at 6 and 12 months
      in patients with recurrent or metastatic adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) treated with a
      combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of nivolumab and ipilimumab according to response rate (RR),
      disease control rate (DCR; complete response [CR], partial response [PR], and stable disease
      [SD] at 6 and 12 months), overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) using
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria in patients with recurrent or
      metastatic ACC.

      II. To assess the efficacy of nivolumab and ipilimumab according to overall response rate
      (ORR), DCR, progression free survival (PFS), and OS in patients with recurrent or metastatic
      ACC using immune-related response criteria (irRC) criteria.

      III. To assess the safety and tolerability profile of nivolumab and ipilimumab therapy in
      patients with recurrent or metastatic ACC using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events (CTCAE) version 4.03.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess safety, tolerability and activity of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab in non-ACC malignant
      salivary gland tumors (MSGT's) using clinical benefit rate (CBR), ORR, PFS, OS.

      II. To assess the predictive value of genomic aberrations observed upon comprehensive genomic
      profiling of the tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) derived from archival tumor tissue, if
      available, or blood from patients with recurrent or metastatic ACC and non-ACC MSGTs.

      III. Circulating cell free DNA genomic profiling will also be performed at baseline and
      during treatment with each imaging to explore the genomic landscape of clonal evolution that
      may elucidate mechanisms behind response or resistance with immunotherapy in adenoid cystic
      carcinoma and non-ACC MSGTs.

      IV. Correlation between expression of PD-L1 and response to treatment will be explored in all
      patients enrolled in the study.

      V. Correlations between other markers of inflammatory/immune signature will be performed that
      may include but not be limited to PD-1, OX40, CD73, CD39, T cell immunoglobulin and mucin
      domain containing protein 3 (TIM3), GITRL, CTLA-4, CD3, CD4, CD8, protein tyrosine
      phosphatase receptor type C (CD45RO), forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), and granzyme by
      immunohistochemistry analysis and/or flow cytometry.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, 29, 43, 57, and
      71 of course 1 and on days 1 and 15 of course 2, over 60 minutes on days 29 and 57 of course
      2 and on days 1, 29, and 57 of subsequent courses. Patients also receive ipilimumab over 90
      minutes on days 1 and 43. Courses repeat every 84 days in the absence of disease progression,
      unexpected toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 4 weeks for
      12 weeks, and then every 12 weeks for up to 2 years.
    
  