
    
      Performance of arthroscopic knee repairs on day care basis necessitates adequate
      post-operative analgesia for successful home discharge since post-operative pain is known to
      be the commonest cause of unanticipated readmissions of day care patients. Early return to
      activity is also crucial to ensure adequate surgical outcomes. Anterior cruciate ligament
      (ACL) repair is commonly performed by arthroscopic approach with an ipsilateral
      hamstring-gracilis graft. This has shown to be superior to patellar tendon grafts with
      regards to pain and functional outcomes after surgery. Postoperative pain from the graft
      donor site and anterior knee pain form the surgery can lead to decreased range of motion and
      poor rehabilitation. A variety of regional anesthetic techniques are being tried for
      out-patient knee surgery like spinal adjuvants; intra and peri-articular injection, single
      injection and continuous blocks of the femoral and sciatic nerves, oral pills and
      cryoanalgesia. Opioid based analgesia with or without co-analgesics is not suited for dynamic
      pain relief since Aα and Aδ nerve fibres that carry pain are poorly inhibited by opioids
      while effectively inhibited by local anesthetics. Multimodal analgesic regimens work well for
      ambulatory surgeries especially when combined with regional analgesic techniques. Regional
      techniques decrease opioid consumption and hence opioid related side effects. Intra and
      peri-articular injections have a short duration of action compared to nerve blocks apart from
      the concerns of chondrotoxicity of intra-articular local anesthetics. Although femoral- and
      sciatic nerve blocks provide adequate analgesia, the weakness of the quadriceps and
      hamstrings can prevent early rehabilitative efforts and also pose a risk for patient falls
      following home discharge. Hence, novel regional techniques of analgesia like blocking the
      infrapatellar branch of saphenous nerve, graft site injections of local anesthetics through
      the arthroscopic sleeve and single injection adductor canal block have been tried. Isolated
      sensory block of the surgical and graft site without motor block is the Holy Grail in search
      for these ambulatory patients.

      Saphenous nerve, the terminal branch of femoral nerve supplies the majority of the knee
      joint. The femoral nerve exits the adductor canal and gives the terminal branch of saphenous
      nerve which lies between the Sartorius muscle and femoral artery in the sub-sartorial canal.
      Subsartorial canal block has been successfully utilized for forefoot surgery and knee
      arthroplasty but this has not been evaluated for ACL repairs. Saphenous nerve can be
      successfully blocked in the subsartorial canal without the risks of leg weakness but this
      alone is insufficient to provide analgesia to the graft donor site which is usually the
      gracilis tendon and the hamstrings tendon. Depositions of local anesthetics around the
      harvested muscle or blockade of the nerve supplying it are attractive strategies to decrease
      donor site pain but have not been explored for this purpose in a randomized fashion. The
      investigators hypothesize that the combination of any of the above two techniques to decrease
      donor site pain along with subsartorial saphenous nerve block can provide adequate analgesia
      in these patients. The anterior branch of the obturator nerve needs to be blocked since it
      supplies the gracilis muscle. To decrease the donor site pain, the saphenous nerve block can
      be combined with block of the anterior branch of obturator nerve. Alternatively, the
      saphenous nerve block can be combined with deposition of local anesthetic around the graft
      donor muscles. The extent to which the two techniques benefit the patients in terms of
      overall analgesia and the graft site analgesia has not been evaluated. With this background,
      the investigators want to compare the analgesic efficacy of subsartorial saphenous nerve
      block with either perihamstrings infiltration or blockade of the anterior division of
      obturator nerve in patients undergoing ACL reconstruction with ipsilateral autograft from
      gracilis and hamstring muscles.
    
  