
    
      Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are bone marrow malignancies characterized by poor bone
      marrow function that may progress to acute myeloid leukemia. Many patients become red blood
      cell transfusion-dependent. Transfusion dependence is associated with inferior quality of
      life (QOL). However, the relationship between the degree of anemia and QOL is less clear. A
      commonly used transfusion strategy is to target the hemoglobin (Hb) in the range of 80-90 g/L
      (normal hemoglobin > 120-130g/L). The question is: would a higher hemoglobin target lead to
      improvement in QOL despite the negative impact transfusion dependence may have on QOL (due to
      associated time commitments, expense, transfusion reactions etc). Several groups have
      prospectively shown that targeting hemoglobin levels of greater than 120 g/L (with
      hematopoietic growth factors (HGFs) and/or blood transfusions) or incremental increases of
      15-20 g/L (with HGFs alone) were associated with improved QOL. The investigators MDS program
      has been conducting prospective assessments of QOL since 2007 in all registered and consented
      patients using a variety of validated questionnaires. Preliminary analysis (in 236 patients)
      revealed that, compared with an age-matched healthy general population, MDS patients have
      inferior QOL. Transfusion dependence and anemia were independently predictive of poor
      functioning, fatigue and decreased health utility. Furthermore, a hemoglobin level of ≥100
      g/L seemed to be the key threshold for improvement in function and symptom scores. The
      investigators hypothesize that the target hemoglobins in transfusion dependent MDS patients
      are too low and this may account for their inferior quality of life. Our goal is to compare
      the effect on QOL of a restrictive strategy (which is the current standard of care), with a
      liberal transfusion strategy in a large randomized controlled trial of transfusion dependent
      MDS outpatients. Before embarking on such an endeavor, the investigators must first prove
      feasibility in a smaller pilot randomized controlled trial.
    
  