
    
      Specific Aims The Emergency Department (ED) typically serves as the front line for patients
      with fractures and tendon ruptures. Pain control for these patients is an essential task of
      the ED physician. With the advent of the opioid epidemic, ED physicians are becoming more
      inclined to prescribe non-narcotic pain medications such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs (NSAIDs). Yet, the effects of NSAIDs on musculoskeletal healing are highly
      controversial. There is some evidence that NSAIDs may prevent osteoblasts from rebuilding
      bone after fractures by inhibiting COX-2. Indeed, some retrospective studies have found NSAID
      use to be associated with an increased incidence of fracture nonunion after acetabular,
      tibial, and humeral shaft fractures, while other studies reported no difference. The only
      prospective randomized controlled trials evaluating the effects of NSAIDs on fracture healing
      reported no effect of NSAID use on healing after Colles fractures; however, these trials were
      likely underpowered to detect a difference in nonunion rates. Here, I propose to pilot the
      first large, prospective, randomized, double-blinded study examining the effects of NSAIDs on
      healing after tibia fractures, which are vulnerable to nonunion.

      Similar to fractures, the effects of NSAIDs on tendon healing are unclear. Some studies
      suggest that NSAIDs may inhibit proliferation and migration of tendon cells after injury,
      while other studies indicate that NSAIDs enhance collagen synthesis. Rodent studies are
      equally conflicting, with some reports of worse outcomes associated with NSAID use and other
      studies showing no difference. Recently, I obtained preliminary data showing that NSAID use
      after Achilles tendon ruptures is associated with worse functional outcomes as measured by
      the Achilles Tendon Total Rupture Score (ATRS). While this was the first study examining the
      effects of NSAID use on recovery after Achilles tendon rupture in humans, the data were
      retrospective, observational, and not blinded. Here, I propose to pilot the first
      prospective, randomized, double-blinded study to determine the effects of NSAIDs on recovery
      after Achilles tendon ruptures.

      Aim 1: Determine whether NSAID use is associated with an increased incidence of fracture
      nonunion and worse functional recovery six months after tibia fractures.

      Hypothesis: I hypothesize that NSAID use after tibia fractures will be associated with an
      increased incidence of fracture nonunion and worse functional recovery.

      Aim 2: Determine whether NSAID use is associated with worse functional recovery six months
      after Achilles tendon ruptures.

      Hypothesis: I hypothesize that NSAID use after Achilles tendon ruptures will be associated
      with worse functional recovery.

      Experimental Approach: Adult patients (18 years old and over) presenting to either the
      University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Ronald Regan Emergency Department, the UCLA Santa
      Monica Emergency Department, or the UCLA Orthopedic after hours acute care clinic within 24
      hours of sustaining a tibia fracture or Achilles tendon rupture will be screened for
      eligibility to participate. Patients will be excluded if they have a contraindication to
      Ibuprofen or Acetaminophen use, if they do not have access to e-mail, if they do not wish to
      participate, if they require emergent surgery (such as an open fracture), if they have a
      diagnosis of osteoporosis, or if they have already taken pain medication since their injury.
      Pregnant women will be excluded due to their inability to take NSAIDs. Children will be
      excluded due to differences in bone and tendon healing. The ED represents the optimal
      environment in which to conduct this study because most patients will initially present
      acutely to the ED with these injuries, often before taking any pain medication.

      If patients elect to participate, they will be randomized to receive either Ibuprofen (600mg
      by mouth every 6 hours as needed for pain) or Acetaminophen (650 mg by mouth every 6 hours as
      needed for pain). I will use a permuted block design to develop the randomization schedule.
      Randomization will be stratified by sex. Sealed envelopes will be used to conceal the
      allocation. The treating physician will open the envelope and provide the assigned study
      medication and prescription bottle at discharge. Patients will be provided a one-month supply
      of their assigned pain medication. Patients and providers will be blinded to which medication
      the patient received. The individual medication capsules will be formulated to lack
      identifying information. Study coordinators will record the patients' randomly generated
      study identification number and prescription bottle number in Qualtrics, a HIPAA-compliant
      online resource that collects, stores, and analyzes data. Demographic information such as age
      and sex will also be stored in Qualtrics. Each week for one month, patients will be sent an
      email with a link asking them to complete a Qualtrics survey to report 1) the number of
      remaining pills, 2) their average pain scale ranging from 1-9, 3) what additional medications
      they took, if any, and 4) whether they have experienced any medication-related side effects
      or complications. In this way, we will determine the timing of medication administration for
      each patient and quantify each patient's level of pain, while assessing for patient safety.

      Six months post-injury, patients who sustained tibia fractures will receive repeat X-rays.
      One final Qualtrics survey will be e-mailed to these patients at this time to determine their
      average degree of pain on a scale of 1-9, their functional recovery on a scale of 1 to 3
      (mild, moderate, or severe impairment) and whether they underwent treatments such as physical
      therapy or surgery. The survey will also assess for lifestyle factors known to increase
      nonunion rates including body habitus, medical problems, and other medications taken.

      Six months following enrollment, patients who ruptured their Achilles tendon will be sent a
      link to a Qualtrics survey via email. On this survey, they will be asked 10 questions with
      responses on a scale of 0 to 10 that comprise the ATRS (29). A higher score (out of 100)
      indicates better functional outcomes. Patients will also be asked if they underwent
      treatments such as physical therapy or surgery. Body habitus, medical problems, other
      medications taken, smoking status, pregnancy status, and fluoroquinolone use will also be
      assessed on this survey, as these factors may impact tendon recovery.
    
  