
    
      We have previously shown that fasting, and the caloric restriction mimetic nicotinamide
      riboside (NR) confer anti-inflammatory effects on a broad array of circulating innate and
      adaptive immune cells. Three major effects include fasting-mediated blunting of the NLRP3
      inflammasome and of CD4+Th17 responsiveness, and of NR-induced downregulation of monocytic
      type 1 interferon signaling. In parallel, dietary interventions including intermittent
      fasting (IF-alternate day eating) and time-restricted feeding (TRF-for e.g. eating during the
      first 6 hours after waking each day) reduce inflammatory and cardiometabolic risk factors.
      Animal studies suggest that pharmacologic mimics of dietary restriction are inferior to
      dietary manipulations themselves. This discrepancy is postulated to be due to wide array of
      biological responses evoked by the 'low levels of stress' (hormesis) evoked by IF or TRF
      compared to the targeting of distinct biological pathways. Hence to advance our understanding
      on the role of these dietary interventions on immune modulation in health and disease, a
      pilot study is being planned to test the effect of TRF in subjects with mild to moderate
      psoriasis compared to a matched healthy control population. For this pilot study we elected
      to employ TRF over IF, as this will enable repetitive hormesis periods in a relative short
      time span to compare TRF immunological signatures to conventional dietary intervals. This
      initial study will be domiciled in the Clinical Center Metabolic Unit in collaboration with
      NIDDK Investigators, to ensure complete adherence to the TRF in this initial proof of concept
      study. Psoriasis has been selected as the disease comparator to the control group in this
      initial study, as this is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that effects cardiometabolic
      risk and is linked to both the NLRP3 inflammasome and Th17 inflammation.
    
  