
    
      This is a single center, pilot study to evaluate critically ill patients diagnosed with acute
      pulmonary embolism using endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS). The investigators anticipate to
      enroll 20 subjects at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and UCLA Medical Center, Santa
      Monica. The enrolled subjects will be imaged using the flexible bronchoscopy with EBUS.

      After informed consent is obtained, the following procedure will be performed:

      An Olympus EBUS bronchoscope will be used for all endobronchial ultrasound examinations. This
      scope has a 6.9 mm outer diameter, a 2.7 mm working channel and 30-degree oblique
      forward-viewing optics. A 12 MHz linear ultrasound transducer with a maximum penetration of
      50 mm will be linked to a processor (Olympus EU-ME2) that allows an integrated power Doppler
      mode to visualize the vascular blood flow.

      Bronchoscopy will be introduced through the adaptor connected to the endotracheal tube, in
      patients who are already under general anesthesia and on mechanical ventilation. The
      bronchoscope will be advanced into the airways and endobronchial ultrasound of the main
      pulmonary artery (PA) and lobar branches will be performed in a standardized fashion as
      follow:

      Advance the bronchoscopy into the right main bronchus distally to the level of the right
      lower lobe, between 12 and 3 o'clock position where the interlobar artery of the PA is seen.
      Then the scope will be pulled back slowly, turning counterclockwise, following the course of
      the PA on the medial wall of the right bronchial tree until the level of the carina, where
      the right main PA and the PA trunk are seen. The scope is then turned to the right again,
      towards 3 o'clock following the right upper lobe bronchus to examine the upper lobar artery.
      The scope is then advanced into the left main bronchus, towards 9 o'clock to examine the
      upper lobar artery, then advanced distally to the left lower lobe bronchus to examine the
      interlobar artery. At the completion of the imaging the EBUS bronchoscope will be withdrawn.

      Ultrasound images and video will be stored to the machine and visualized thrombi will be
      marked.

      For patients who have had a chest CT for suspected PE, the investigators will assess
      sensitivity and specificity of EBUS to visualize or exclude PE. For patients who are unable
      to have a CT, the investigators will not be able to determine true efficacy, but will report
      the number of positive and negative studies and follow these patients for outcome and
      subsequent definitive diagnosis of venous thromboembolism.

      As this is a pilot study looking at the feasibility of EBUS for diagnosing acute pulmonary
      embolism, study personnel performing the EBUS will not be blinded to the clinical diagnosis
      and the management of the subject. A brief report of the procedure results will be uploaded
      in the patient's medical record. Any clinically relevant findings from the EBUS will be
      communicated to the subject's treating team. Regardless of the findings, a note stating that
      the EBUS technique is not yet established for evaluating acute pulmonary embolism in
      critically ill patients will be emphasized in order to prevent any bias in the patient's
      clinical care.

      Pulmonary Vascular Mapping Substudy:

      Of the 60 total subjects enrolled in the study, approximately 20 subjects under the criteria
      below will be enrolled at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and UCLA Medical Center, Santa
      Monica undergoing clinical bronchoscopy as a part of their standard of care. The enrolled
      subjects will be imaged using the flexible bronchoscopy with EBUS.

      Retrospective Chart Review:

      Of the 60 total subjects enrolled in the study, media including images and videos that are
      previously recorded for 20 patients who underwent a clinical bronchoscopy with EBUS as a part
      of their standard of care will also be available to our research team without consent from
      the patient to help supplement the data we obtain from the 20 subjects that are enrolled in
      the pulmonary vascular mapping substudy.
    
  