
    
      To evaluate the effectiveness of the Habit Design approach, the investigators will conduct a
      randomized controlled trial with 424 corporate health program participants over the course of
      one year. Study subjects will be employees of TriHealth or their spouses who have completed a
      health screening as part of their corporate wellness program and identified as having
      metabolic syndrome. All subjects will be coached to increase physical activity, which will be
      monitored with a Fitbit and Fitabase software. Additionally, prior to randomization, subjects
      will choose a goal of increasing fruit and vegetable intake or substituting water for
      sugar-sweetened beverages. Subjects will be randomly assigned to receive either standard
      coaching (control condition) or HD-enhanced coaching (experimental condition). Conditions
      will be stratified/balanced by choice of goal and gender using urn randomization. In both
      conditions coaching will be manualized, monitored for fidelity, and delivered via telephone
      in 12 weekly active coaching sessions followed by 4 monthly maintenance coaching sessions.
      Coaching sessions will last 15-30 minutes. The primary outcome will be average daily step
      count measured with Fitbit over the course of at least one week at baseline, 16 weeks, 32
      weeks, and 48 weeks. The secondary outcomes will be indices of fruit/vegetable intake or
      water intake, according to the participant's choice. Tertiary outcomes will consist of
      fasting blood glucose, triglycerides, high density lipoprotein, blood pressure, waist
      circumference, and body mass index, measured at each time point. Additionally, self-reported
      physical activity; junk food, and sugar-sweetened beverage consumption; automaticity of
      exercise and fruit, vegetable, and water consumption; self-efficacy and social support for
      target behaviors; and health-related quality of life will be assessed over time. Ratings of
      usability and satisfaction and app usage metrics will also be examined. Analyses will be
      intent-to-treat and assume 15% loss to follow-up.
    
  