
    
      The Investigators (The Biophotonics Research Unit, University of Exeter and University of
      Bristol) have developed these "smart needle" probes, consisting of fibre-optics within a fine
      needle for investigating cancer below the skin's surface. It is difficult to create a
      sensitive probe to fit inside a needle; however, The Investigators have demonstrated this
      approach in lymph node tissue samples from 68 patients in the laboratory, where The
      Investigators showed that our probe could detect cancer with a high level of accuracy.

      Following on from our success with lymph nodes The Investigators wish to trial our smart
      needle on excised thyroid to demonstrate the device in another ENT cancer. Earlier studies
      have shown that thyroid cancer can be diagnosed using RS under a microscope with an accuracy
      greater than 78%.9 By eliminating the need for unnecessary surgery by diagnosis with our
      device, The Investigators will minimise the risk to patients, eliminate delays in obtaining
      results and reduce the cost of surgery and overnight stay in the hospital. The Investigators
      wish to advance this device closer to the clinic for a new cancer to improve the patient care
      pathway and remove the need for unnecessary surgery, by facilitating the work of the one-stop
      ENT diagnostic outpatient clinics.

      The study consists of measuring spectra of new tissue taken during routine diagnostic
      surgical thyroid lobectomy.

      New tissue for this project will be collected during routine biopsy will be rapidly analysed
      by a spectrometer before proceeding with conventional histopathological analysis. The new
      tissue will consist of thyroid and adjacent tissue biopsies. No additional tissue will be
      taken for this research, The Investigators only plan to measure samples taken during routine
      diagnosis in under 5 minutes, before passing the sections back to the surgical team for
      routine histopathological analysis.

      Anonymous background information relevant to known risk factors, family history and details
      of any treatment, menopausal status, details relevant medical procedures, and any treatment
      for thyroid cancer will be provided with the samples. An example of the report can be found
      in Appendix 3. Tissue specimens taken during routine clinical care are to be subjected to ex
      vivo vibrational spectroscopic analysis immediately prior to being sent for routine
      histopathological analysis. Vibrational spectra are to be correlated with consensus
      histopathology of adjacent sections. Multivariate analysis is to be used to evaluate the
      classification accuracy of VS ex vivo. The vibrational spectra will be assessed for both
      prognostic as well as diagnostic information.
    
  