
    
      Design

      A group of 20 people with type 2 diabetes and 10 control subjects are twice invited to the
      laboratory, respectively.

      The type 2 diabetes group consist of 10 individuals being treated with metformin and 10
      individuals who are not being treated with Metformin. The latter group may be diet-treated
      diabetics or diabetics who have stopped taking their oral antidiabetic agent for 72 hours
      before the day of the experiment.

      On the first visit, the following is carried out:

        -  DXA scan, blood pressure measurement, determination of ECG and VO2-max on a
           cycleergometer

        -  Blood sample

        -  Questionnaire about everyday physical activity (I-PAQ)

      On the second visit, the following is carried out:

        -  3 days of carbohydrate loading prior to this day.(By diet recommendations).

        -  Insertion of arterial cannula, blood sample extraction.

        -  Insertion of venus cannula. Insertion of stable glucose isotopes over a period of 4.5
           hours: 2,5 hours of relaxation in bed followed by 45 minutes of cycling on an exercise
           bicycle (during continued isotope infusion) at 60% of maximum heart rate reserve, which
           was measured on test day 1. Followed by relaxation with continued blood sampling and
           isotope infusion, one hour after cycling ceased.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Age between 30 and 60 years old,

        -  Maximum oxygen consumption between 20 and 50 ml/kg/minute,

        -  BMI between 25 and 35 kg/m2,

        -  Normal ECG,

        -  Must have a stable weight throughout the last three months and have a normal balanced
           diet,

        -  Can cycle for 45 minutes

      Exclusion criteria

        -  For patients with type 2 diabetes: insulin treatment,

        -  ECG that indicates cardiovascular disease,

        -  Illness or medicine that may affect the results,

        -  On-going weight loss diet

      DXA scan

      Minimal radiation - The scan lasts from six to 10 minutes and the total radiation dose with
      measuring is below 0.01 mSv (millisievert). This is approximately equivalent to the natural
      daily background exposure.

      Cycling test

      Prior to this test, an ECG is carried out and the person is quizzed about his/her state of
      health. Regarding all experiments, there is quick access to doctors in the laboratory. The
      laboratory is equipped with a defibrillator.

      Infusion with stable glucose isotopes

      Stable glucose isotopes occur naturally in the body, though in much smaller amounts. They are
      not radioactive and require no special precautions.

      Blood sampling

      An arterial cannula is inserted, from which blood samples are subsequently taken. A sample is
      immediately analysed (ABL analyser) for glucose and lactate concentrations and blood gases,
      Hgb and Hct.

      Other blood samples are processed on a centrifuge and the plasma is frozen at - 80 °C until
      it will be analysed.

      The plasma is analysed to determine concentrations of:

      Insulin, glucagon, cortisol, growth hormone (GH), adrenocorticotrophic hormone
      (ACTH),C-peptide, catecholamines , alanin, concentration of ketone, cholesterol free fatty
      acids,glycerol, glucose isotope (Ra) content before, during and after the cycling.

      The biological material (in the form of plasma) will be stored in a freezer. When the
      experiment is completed, the material will be analysed in our laboratories. When all of the
      analysis has been carried out, any excess materials will be destroyed. All materials will be
      stored anonymously.

      Ethical considerations

      At all times, the study will be carried out in accordance with the latest of Helsinki and
      current Danish legislation.

      Among other things, this includes voluntary participation and that test subjects can withdraw
      their consent at any time and without having to provide any explanation.

      The study protocol and the written patient information will be submitted to the Research
      Ethics Committee of the Capital Region of Denmark and the Danish Data Protection Agency will
      be informed. Patient inclusion cannot begin until a written approval has been received from
      both of these institutions. Both positive and, negative and inconclusive results must be
      published.
    
  