
    
      In this study, patients with primary open-angle glaucoma who have recently received a new
      diagnosis with healthy volunteers with age-matched groups were enrolled. All data from 49
      glaucoma patients and 47 healthy volunteers were recorded and the study was completed. The
      study was carried out at the Afyon Kocatepe University Ophthalmology Department between
      January 2014 and April 2015. Routine ophthalmologic examinations of all participants were
      performed. Medical treatment was initiated on patients diagnosed with primary open-angle
      glaucoma. Intraocular pressures and visual acuities of all participants were recorded at
      baseline, at 1-month, at 3-month, and at 6-month. All participants underwent tests of
      multifocal electroretinography and the measurements of optic nerve head optical coherence
      tomography parameters and the choroidal thickness, at the same follow-ups. Visual acuities
      were measured by using the Snellen chart as the best corrected visual acuity. Intraocular
      pressures were measured by using applanation tonometry. Choroid thicknesses were also
      measured and recorded using EDI-OCT mode of optical coherence tomography device (Cirrus HD
      4000, Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Germany). Choroidal thicknesses were measured in three regions:
      fovea, 3mm nasal and temporal distances of the fovea. The mean of these three measurements
      was recorded as macular choroidal thickness. The same technician performed all multifocal
      electroretinography tests of the participants (Metrovision Monpack 3, Metrovision, France).
      Multifocal electroretinography tests were carried out from a distance of 33 cm using ERG-jet
      electrode, ground electrode, and a reference electrode. Electrical potential responses from
      103 retina regions were recorded. Results were compared statistically and correlations were
      analyzed (SPSS 20.0, SPSS Inc. IL, USA).
    
  