
    
      ECHO-Care Transitions is a healthcare outreach program utilizing videoconferencing technology
      to improve the quality and efficiency of care transitions for medically-complex elderly
      patients by connecting post-acute care facilities that receive BIDMC patients with a
      multidisciplinary BIDMC team that sends these patients following discharge. This case-control
      study seeks to determine if ECHO-CT can improve clinical outcomes and reduce cost and
      resource utilization during transitions of care in both an academic (BIDMC Boston) and
      community (BIDMC Needham) hospital.

      Our prospective cohort study of the ECHO-CT intervention will take place in the two
      Boston-area hospitals, one providing tertiary care and one community-based care, in which the
      outcomes of patients transferred to Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNFs) associated with these
      hospitals will be compared to those transferred to SNFs from similar hospitals in New
      England. We will also be comparing outcomes from individual patients enrolled in the ECHO
      program to matched controls. Using a national database available from the Brown University
      Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research, the outcomes of Medicare beneficiaries
      residing in SNFs that are participating in ECHO-CT will be compared to those in the
      comparison group using a difference-of-difference analytic approach. Analyses will be
      adjusted for potential confounders as appropriate.

      In this study, the investigators also plan to measure satisfaction as well as process,
      utilization, cost and patient safety outcomes to determine best practices for implementing
      the program at a community hospital and affiliated SNFs.

      Data will be obtained from the following sources:

        1. Protected health information (PHI) from resident assessment data, as well as Medicare
           claims and enrollment data to be obtained via a data use agreement (DUA) with the
           Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) by the Brown University Center for
           Gerontology and Health Care Research during years 2-3 of the study to include the
           following:

             1. The resident Minimum Data Set Resident Assessment (MDS) assessments. The MDS has
                nearly 400 data elements including cognitive function, communication/hearing
                problems, physical functioning, continence, psycho-social well-being, mood state,
                activity and recreation, diagnoses, health conditions, nutritional status,
                oral/dental status, skin conditions, special treatments, and medication use. The
                assessments are done for all patients admitted to Medicare and Medicaid certified
                SNFs, including enrollees in both traditional Medicare and Medicare Advantage.
                These data will already be housed at Brown University,Brown has an active DUA to
                obtain quarterly pulls of the population of MDS assessments .

             2. Medicare claims which will be used to ascertain 30-day costs, re-hospitalizations,
                and use of other medical services by Medicare fee for service (FFS) patients
                admitted to the SNFs. The data also include diagnosis fields to ascertain
                comorbidities.

             3. Medicare enrollment file includes demographic information such as sex and race,
                dates of birth and death, and various indicators of Medicare/Medicaid eligibility,
                Part D eligibility, and Medicare Advantage enrollment.

             4. BIDMC will collect and share ECHO-CT participating patient's social security number
                and health insurance claims number with Brown University. Their clinical
                information will be matched with control patients from the Medicare claims data to
                show study effect on 30-day costs, re-hospitalizations rate and patient length of
                stay.

        2. In addition to aggregates derived from above, facility level data will come from the
           Certification and Survey Provider Enhanced Reporting (CASPER) data, which are publicly
           available and based upon facility surveys for Medicare/Medicaid certification. They will
           be used in addition to data from "Nursing Home Compare and the Long Term Care: Facts on
           Care in the US (LTCFocus.org) websites to describe the SNFs.

        3. Intervention-specific data: Project-specific quality improvement data derived from
           questionnaires, staff satisfaction surveys, and structured meeting minutes will be
           designed and evaluated by BIDMC and Hebrew Senior Life

             1. SNF Satisfaction: Every 6 months the investigators will send a satisfaction
                questionnaire to the hospitals and SNFs participating in ECHO-CT to assess their
                views of the ECHO-CT sessions, the value of time spent, feelings of empowerment,
                inter-professional relationships, learning, and recommendations. All answers to the
                survey questions will be kept strictly confidential. This information will be used
                to improve the content and organization of the sessions and to develop tools for
                dissemination (Aim 3). The investigators will develop the satisfaction
                questionnaire during the first 6 months of the project, building upon our previous
                survey experience and literature review. Metrics to quantify the quality of
                transitional care will be derived from the work of Coleman et al.3 and incorporated
                into the questionnaire. Survey design and evaluation will be conducted by the
                outcome evaluation group under the leadership of Dr. Thomas Travison at Hebrew
                SeniorLife's Institute for Aging Research.

             2. Process assessment: The investigators will keep attendance logs to assess adherence
                to the ECHO-CT intervention and its changes over time. Any consistent decline in
                staff attendance for 2 or more weeks will be followed up by phone calls to assess
                barriers to participation and corrective actions will be taken. These may include
                changing to a more convenient time, identifying other providers who can attend
                instead, contacting facility administrators or medical directors for their support,
                and providing incentive gifts or continuing education credits In addition, during
                each ECHO-CT session, the hospital based team will inquire about unexpected
                outcomes or issues that arose during the transition process, including those
                related to patients already discussed. This element will allow for an ongoing
                technology-enabled learning platform and continuous quality improvement mechanism
                over the course of the proposed project. The value of the video-conferencing
                approach is that it creates a mutually trusting learning community in which "all
                teach and all learn."
    
  