
    
      Nutrition and human health are strongly related. Altering overabundance through
      fasting/calorie-restricted diets has profound effects on homeostasis, tissue regeneration,
      and cancer. Tissue stem cells respond to the physiological changes that occur during fasting
      through dynamic shifts in their metabolism. Restricting energy intake in mice or introducing
      mutations in nutrient-sensing pathways can extend lifespans by as much as 50%. Post-mortems
      reveal that tumours, heart problems, neurodegeneration and metabolic disease are generally
      reduced/delayed in long-lived mice. Therefore, extending lifespan by energy restriction (ER)
      also seems to increase 'healthspan', the time lived without chronic age-related conditions.
      These insights have hardly made a dent in human medicine. Molecular and cellular insights
      should be established in humans to validate interventions such as ER to delay ageing and
      associated conditions e.g. cognitive decline (Murphy et al., 2014).

      Stem cells from the central nervous system also respond to ER. Recently, the Thuret lab have
      found that ER, in the absence of malnutrition, promotes hippocampal stem cells to proliferate
      and differentiate into new-born neurons. Because these new postnatal hippocampal neurons have
      been shown to play a role in cognition, ER also promoted enhanced cognition in rodents
      (Zainuddin et al., 2012; de Lucia et al., 2017; Thuret et al., 2012). This phenomenon of
      neurogenesis, the process by which new neurons are generated from neural stem cells, is also
      occurring in humans (Spalding et al., 2013). It is a tightly regulated process occurring in
      the mammalian hippocampus which is an environmentally responsive brain structure known to
      regulate learning, memory and mood. Proposed functions of adult hippocampal neurogenesis
      (AHN). include enhancing recognition memory, the ability to recognise previously encountered
      stimuli, and pattern separation, the ability to differentially encode small changes in
      similar inputs (Clelland et alk., 2009; Sahay et al., 2011). It has been posited that calorie
      restriction may increase neurogenesis as a "cellular relic" of intermittent feeding patterns
      during evolution as a response to alternating periods of famine and abundant food (Murphy &
      Thuret, 2015). Human trials have found significant improvements in verbal recognition memory
      after 30% reduction in calorie intake (Witte et al., 2009). Also, intermittent fasting in
      humans has been associated with significant increases in brain activation volume in areas
      involved in brain function control and plasticity(Belaïch et al., 2016). Food texture and
      mastication have also been implicated in AHN and cognitive ability (Smith et al., 2016).
      Decreased mastication due to the removal of molars and edentulism in both humans and animals
      have a negative impact on AHN and associated cognition. Human populations, in particular,
      have shown a close association between masticatory function, cognitive status and age-related
      neurodegeneration in the elderly (Miura et al., 2003). The exact mechanism by which
      mastication affects cognition is unknown.

      Research question: In older, overweight participants does IER and/or extended periods of
      mastication enhance performance inhippocampus-dependent memory tasks and increase anti-ageing
      marker Klotho?

      Objectives:

        1. A randomised controlled parallel-design trial will determine the impact of an IER diet
           (2 consecutive days of a very low calorie diet, 5 days of normal healthy eating for 3
           months) and/or extended periods of mastication (10 minutes 3 times a day for 3 months)
           compared to a control group (continued habitual eating behaviour, dietary patterns) on
           primary outcome variables (MST and Klotho) in older, healthy participants with
           overweight or class I obesity.

        2. To assess the impact of an IER diet and extended periods of mastication on secondary
           outcomes variables including body composition, mood and sleep.

        3. To explore whether extended periods of mastication can be utilised as a weight
           loss/fasting aid.
    
  