
    
      Phase 1 is a randomized, controlled, double-blinded study comparing the use of low-dose
      ketamine (LDK) to morphine for acute pain control in emergency department patients. A
      convenience sample of subjects will be enrolled from a population of patients aged 18-50 who
      present to the Brooke Army Medical Center Emergency Department with acute abdominal pain,
      flank/lumbar back pain and/or pain to the extremities. To take part in the study, a need for
      opioid analgesia must be indicated by the treating physician in addition to the patient
      meeting all other study criteria.

      The patient will then be randomized into one of the two treatment arms. Prior to receiving
      either the study medication (ketamine) or the active control (morphine) the patient will be
      asked to rate their pain on a numeric rating scale (NRS) with 0 being no pain and 10 being
      the worst pain possible. Their baseline vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory
      rate and oxygen saturation) will also be documented. These vital signs and the NRS will be
      reassessed at 5, 10 and 20 minutes post medication dosage. At 20 minutes they will also
      document a Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) score and will ask the patient if they
      require additional pain medication. If the patient denies the need for a second dose of
      medication they will continue to be re-assessed every 20 minutes (vital signs, NRS, and RASS)
      until either inpatient admission, discharge home, transfer to the operating room or until a
      total of 120 minutes after initial dosing.

      If at any time during the study the patient requires a second dose of pain medication,
      following the administration of the med, they will be assessed for vital signs at 5,10 and 20
      minutes after the dose. At 20 minutes, a RASS score and NRS score will also be documented.
      They will then be re-assessed every 20 minutes (vital signs, NRS, and RASS) until either
      inpatient admission, discharge home, transfer to the operating room or until a total of 120
      minutes after initial dosing.

      If they require a third dose of pain medication at any time during the study, this is
      considered a treatment failure and the treating physician will be contacted to provide any
      further pain control.

      The second phase of the study will be observational. An anonymous satisfaction survey will be
      provided to the treating nurse, physician or physicians assistant (PA) of the patients
      recruited from part one of the study. The purpose of conducting the survey is so that an
      observation point of view can be added to the data to provide a measure of how well the
      patient's pain was controlled.
    
  