
    
      Objective:

        1. To evaluate the seroprotection rates after the 3 doses of primary polio vaccination
           among age eligible children in pilot areas where the IPV was introduced into NIP;

        2. To evaluate the seroprotection rates after different dose(s) of polio vaccine(s) using
           sequential schedule.

      Sample size:752

        1. Jilin shall select 120 subjects to collect blood samples for evaluation of immune
           response,of whom 90 will be given OPV as second vaccine and 30 will be given IPV as
           second vaccine

        2. Hubei shall select 132 subjects to collect blood samples for evaluation of immune
           response,of whom 102 will be given OPV as second vaccine and 30 will be given IPV as
           second vaccine

        3. Ningxia shall select 260 subjects to collect blood samples for evaluation of immune
           response. The subject will be divided into 5 groups.

        4. In Guangdong province,120 children will be selected as subjects , of whom 80 children
           will be given OPV as first vaccine and 40 children will be given IPV as first vaccine.

        5. Tianjin shall select 120 subjects to collect blood samples for evaluation of immune
           response, of whom 80 will be given OPV as second vaccine and 30 will be given IPV as
           second vaccine

      Organization Chart of the Study:

        -  Chinese Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (China CDC) lead the overall study,
           and be responsible for the study design, supervise the five selected provinces, conduct
           field monitor, data analysis and result distribution and explanation.

        -  The five pilot Provincial CDCs conduct the supervision and monitoring of 1-2 counties
           CDCs in each of pilot province.

        -  The County CDCs organize several vaccination clinics to recruit the subjects who meet
           the Inclusion criteria.

      Quality Assurance Plan:

        -  China CDC and provincial CDC will monitor and supervise the field work, ensure the
           quality of the study.

        -  County CDCs organize vaccination clinics to service the subjects receiving timely polio
           vaccines in accordance with the immunization schedule, and that the blood samples are
           collected in accordance with the required timeline in difference groups.

        -  Clinic doctors will communicate and explain the purpose and procedure of the survey to
           parents, and the signed informed consent from by parents will be obtained before the
           children participate the study.

        -  The target drop-out rate of subjects without the second blood samples in each province
           should be less than 10%.

        -  The samples will be tested for polio antibody in a qualified laboratory, which should be
           a World Health Organization certified polio network laboratory in China.
    
  