
    
      The aim of this study is to assess whether alternative treatment strategy such as traditional
      Chinese acupuncture can improve the following parameters in children with Autism (or Autistic
      Spectrum Disorder): cognition, communication, function and behaviour.

      Randomized double-blind controlled cross-over trial in Autism: Real electro-acupuncture (R)
      versus Sham electroacupuncture (S)

        -  Subject Recruitment Parents will be informed with regard to the nature of the study,
           potential risks and benefits. Consent forms for enrolment, photographs/Videos taking
           will be obtained.

        -  A semi-structured diagnostic interview with the parents and neurological examination
           will be conducted.

        -  Assessment of outcomes will be performed by trained research assistant, being blinded to
           the treatment or control group.

      Methodology:

      R will consist of a total course of 12 sessions, with 3 sessions per week for 4 weeks.

        -  Acupuncture (AC) will be applied to specific body and scalp acupoints using sterile
           disposable 0.3 x 4-cm acupuncture needle (Made in China -HwaTo).

        -  EA instrument (Model SDZ-II Electronic Acupuncture Treatment Instrument, Suzhou China)
           will be connected to the handles of acupuncture needles to provide electrical
           stimulation for 25 minutes. No sedation is required.

      S will consist of a total course of 12 sessions, with 3 sessions per week for 4 weeks.

      * AC will insert into points that 5 to 10 mm away from the correct acupoint locations and
      maintained at a superficial level of insertion to minimize stimulation, and with the same EA.

      For both R and S, electrical stimulation was monitored by an indicator light throughout the
      treatment period. To ensure the integrity of blinding, the acupuncturist will not discuss the
      acupuncture procedure with the parents or patients.

      Treatment Arm (AC):

      * Treatment AC for 4 weeks (3 times per week), then wash out for 2 weeks; then Sham
      acupuncture 3 times per week for 4 weeks

      Control Arm:

      * Sham acupuncture for 4 weeks (3 times per week), then wash out for 2 weeks; then Real
      acupuncture 3 times per week for 4 weeks

      Assessment tools:

        -  Children will be assessed before (Week 0), washout period (Week 6) and after Treatment
           (Week 14).

        -  Control group will undergo same assessment and reassessment procedures during the same
           period.
    
  