
    
      Oxytocin is applied to the women in the experimental group before the delivery.

      There is a procedure on the usage of oxytocin at the delivery room. In accordance with the
      relevant procedure, it is administered as an intravenous infusion by adding 5 units of
      oxytocin in 500 cc of physiological saline solution.

      The initial dosage is adjusted in order to allow for the flow of 4 drops per minute. Maximum
      40 drops in total can be applied by increasing for 4 drops every 20 minutes. The dosage can
      be increased by considering the intensity and duration of contractions. The initial dosage of
      the oxytocin procedure applied to the women is the same for all women. As the total duration
      of delivery is different, there are differences between the dosages of oxytocin received.

      In accordance with the postpartum procedure at the delivery room, it is administered as an
      intravenous infusion to all women (primiparous, multiparous) by adding 20 units of oxytocin
      in 500 cc of physiological saline solution immediately after the delivery.

      The women in the control group do not receive any oxytocin induction before the delivery, and
      these women give birth spontaneously. After the delivery, the postpartum procedure applied
      for the control group is preferred.

      Episiotomy is applied routinely to the primiparous pregnant women at the gynecological
      examination table in order to enlarge the opening of the vagina during the delivery.
      Episiotomy is a surgical incision applied to the bulbo-cavernous muscle in the perineal
      region while the baby's head appears in order to protect the perineal tonus, prevent
      undesired repairs, and to provide an easy, quick and safe delivery by enlarging the vaginal
      opening. Medio-lateral episiotomy is applied routinely to all women.

      Immediately after the delivery, the baby's umbilical cord is clamped and cut. The postpartum
      hemorrhage bag is placed under the mother's perineal region immediately after the umbilical
      cord is cut, and it is waited for separation of the placenta. The duration for separation of
      the placenta is 30 minutes in maximum. After separation of the placenta, episiotomy repair is
      made. The loss of blood in the postpartum hemorrhage bag is recorded after the episiotomy
      repair. Before the woman is taken to her bed, necessary pads are provided, postpartum
      hemorrhage is followed-up, and the pads are weighed in the 24th postpartum hour.

      The perineal region is evaluated by the REEDA scale in the postpartum 12th hour and the 24th
      hour.

      Pain is evaluated by the VAS in the postpartum 6th hour and the 24th hour.

      The LATCH, the Breastfeeding Assessment, and the BSES are applied in the postpartum 24th hour
      and the first week.
    
  