
    
      This research will assess and map four different exergame sports (bowling, boxing, tennis,
      and a mat/aerobics) games developed by Xavix for behavioral principles and evaluate how those
      behavior change principles impact game play sustainability. In the first phase of the study,
      we mapped and coded video games based on behavior contingencies of antecedents to the
      behavior, the behavior, and consequences to the behavior. Each of the games and subgames will
      be categorized as hi fidelity and lo fidelity.

      Field Trial A home visit was scheduled for eligible and interested participants and an
      accelerometer was send to the participant's home to wear for one week prior to the home
      visit. Participants were randomized to one of four XaviX sports games: tennis, bowling,
      boxing, or J-mat. Two research assistants visited the participant's home to complete assent
      and consent forms, install the game on a television in the home, and give an overview on how
      to play the game. Participants were given a paper game log and instructed to record time
      spent playing the XaviX games. Participants were asked to play the exergame for as much or as
      little as they like for the next 4 weeks. The participant and parent completed a baseline
      survey during the visit. Participants continued to wear the accelerometer during the first
      week of exergame play and then returned the accelerometer by mail.

      During the four weeks of exergame play, participants were contacted by telephone by study
      staff three times, approximately once a week, to complete short surveys about their game play
      and attitudes about the exergame, and to address any questions from participants. At week
      four, participants were mailed an accelerometer and instructed to wear it for seven days.
      After week four, a second home visit was conducted to collect the game cartridge and system,
      administer final surveys to the participant and a parent, and distribute the incentive.
      Participants received $50 for completing all study measurements.

      Lab Trial In the lab phase, participants that completed the field trial and were randomized
      to the bowling, boxing, or J-Mat exergames were eligible to participate in the lab trial.
      During the lab trial, participants will play two subgames (a hi fidelity and a lo fidelity
      game) from the game that they were randomized to. Participants also completed a relative
      reinforcing value (RRV) task to assess reinforcing value of Xavix subgames ranked on
      theoretical fidelity and exertion. The RRV task is a method to measure the responsiveness of
      individuals to two or more choices. In the context of competing choice options, the RRV task
      assesses how much work an individual would be willing to do given increasing response effort
      to gain access to each option.
    
  