
    
      Intraoperative goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) is proposed to improve the outcomes of
      patients undergoing major surgery. In the GDFT algorithm, the employment of fluid bolus plays
      a crucial role. Dynamic fluid responsiveness parameters, such as stroke volume (SV) response
      and stroke volume variation (SVV), are precise fluid indicators that specifically determine
      patient volume status and are helpful for clinicians to determine the appropriate time for
      fluid bolus. During GDFT, fluid is commonly administered to maximize perfusion by maintaining
      patient blood volume at the plateau portion of the Frank-Starling curve by keeping patient at
      a lower SV response (i.e., SV increase < 10% and maintained for 20 minutes). However,
      maximization does not necessarily imply optimization; the role of fluid maximization of
      perfusion in GDFT remains controversial.Moreover, the importance of intraoperative GDFT in
      thoracic surgery has rarely been explored, because most intraoperative GDFTs have been
      conducted during abdominal surgery. Acute lung injury (ALI) following thoracic surgery
      remains a major source of morbidity and mortality after lung resection. Despite the
      advancement in both the surgical techniques and the perioperative management, the incidence
      of postoperative ALI remains remarkable. Risk factors are evident, including preoperative
      pulmonary function, type of surgical procedure, intraoperative fluid management, one-lung
      ventilation, and ventilator settings. Fluid management for thoracic surgery is challenging.
      Evidence has shown the association between excessive fluid administration and development of
      acute lung injury. Therefore, fluid restriction may benefit patients undergoing thoracic
      surgery. By contrast, restrictive fluid management incurs risks such as a hypovolemic state
      with impaired tissue perfusion which may result in organ dysfunction and in particular
      postoperative acute kidney injury. Accordingly, maintenance of perfusion through a maximized
      fluid protocol may be favorable. However, this debate has not yet been investigated.In this
      study, two fluid strategies guided by SV response, namely maximization and nonmaximization
      protocols, during intraoperative GDFT for patients undergoing thoracic surgery requiring
      one-lung ventilation. Clinical outcomes and perioperative changes in serum biomarkers of
      oxidative injury were compared between the two groups as the primary and secondary outcomes
      respectively.
    
  