
    
      Objective. The objective of the proposed study is to investigate the spatio-temporal
      characteristics of brain activity during sleep. A number of recent fMRI (Ogawa, Lee et al.
      1990) studies have shown that in absence of external stimuli, the brain continues to show
      spatial patterns of activity that resemble the networks that activate during sensory and
      cognitive tasks. This phenomenon greatly affects the interpretation of neuroimaging studies
      based on PET and fMRI, since these rely on differential imaging in which activity during a
      task is contrasted against activity during rest. In addition, resting state activity in
      itself potentially contains unique information on the large scale organization of neuronal
      networks and reveals information about functional abnormalities related to disease processes.

      Study Population. To avoid confounding factors related to disease processes, subjects for
      this study will be recruited from the normal adult population. In addition, subjects will be
      screened for sleep behavior, and subjects with abnormal sleep behavior will be excluded.

      Design. The study is designed to facilitate MRI detection of cerebral metabolic differences
      between the sleep and awake states. Wakefulness and sleep, and the various stages will be
      classified in accordance with the EEG criteria, consistent with the guidelines of
      Rechtschaffen and Kales (Rechtschaffen, 1968). For this purpose, we will optimize the
      methodology for the concurrent acquisition of EEG and fMRI signals. Using concurrent EEG and
      state-of-the-art MRI, we plan to establish the precise spatial distribution of changes in
      brain activity that are associated with changes in the sleep/wake state and the various
      stages of sleep, specifically early sleep (stage 1 and 2). Secondly, we plan to investigate
      whether changes in regional brain metabolism as measured by MRI correlates with transitory
      EEG phenomena during sleep, including fluctuations in band-specific power, sleep spindles,
      and K-complexes.

      Outcome Measure. As an outcome of this study, an atlas of activity clusters in normal
      subjects will be established, both during waking conditions, as well as during several sleep
      stages. Further outcomes will be spatial patterns of covariance with EEG band-specific power,
      spindles, and K-complexes. These data will serve as a baseline for comparison with activity
      patterns in patients.
    
  