
    
      Twenty ocular hypertension and twenty early open angle glaucoma patients will be randomly
      divided into two groups: 1. placebo group [ocular hypertension, n = 10, early glaucoma
      (n=10)], taking an oral placebo in addition to standard beta-blocker treatment for ocular
      hypertension; 2. Treatment group [ocular hypertension, n = 10, early glaucoma (n=10)], taking
      Epigallocatechingallate oral treatment (200 mg/day) in addition to standard beta-blocker
      treatment for ocular hypertension. The patients will undergo standard clinical examination
      including automated Humphrey perimetry (30-2), pattern electroretinogram recording and
      measurement of retinal nerve fiber layer thickness by Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT
      stratus) at baseline, 3 and 6 months of treatment and follow-up. All patients will be again
      tested at 3 and 6 months after changing, in a cross-over design, placebo with drug assumption
      and vice versa.

      Main outcome measure will be pattern electroretinogram amplitude. Secondary measures will be
      Humphrey perimetry mean deviation and corrected pattern standard deviation, and the thickness
      of optic nerve fibers measured by OCT.

      Pattern Electroretinogram recordings.

      Stimuli will be horizontal gratings of 1.6 cycles/degree spatial frequency, modulated in
      counterphase at 8.14 Hz and electronically generated on a high-resolution TV monitor
      (contrast: 70%; mean luminance: 80 cd/m2; field size: 31° [width] x 24° [height]). Subjects
      fixate at the center of the stimulating field with natural pupils, whose size will be
      measured, at a viewing distance of 57 cm. The subjects or patients will wear full refractive
      correction for the test distance. Signals will be recorded by a standard, flat-cup, 9 mm
      Ag/AgCl electrode taped on the skin of the lower eyelid. A similar electrode, placed over the
      eyelid of the contralateral, unstimulated eye, will be used as reference. Responses will be
      amplified (100, 000), bandpass filtered (1-30 Hz), sampled with a resolution of 12 bits and
      averaged (250 events) with automatic artifact rejection. Two replications will be obtained
      for each record to verify reproducibility. Peak-to-peak amplitude (in microV) of the Fourier
      analyzed response 2nd harmonic will be measured.

      Retinal Nerve Fiber Thickness by OCT

      All patients will undergo OCT imaging (software version 4.0.1, Carl Zeiss Meditec Ophthalmic
      Systems Inc, Dublin, CA) of the peripapillary RNFL. The instrument will be properly aligned
      after the subjects are comfortably seated with their head and chin firmly positioned against
      the relative rests. The OCT lens will be adjusted for the patient's refractive error. The
      subject will be instructed to stare at the internal fixation target with the eye under
      examination, to enable the optic disc to come into the window and to be successively
      centered. The Z-offset and the polarization will be adjusted to optimize the axial interval
      to the OCT scan and to maximize the reflective signal, respectively. The scan protocol will
      be the fast RNFL thickness 3.4 (3 circular scans consecutively performed, each 3.46 mm in
      diameter, centered on the optic disc and averaged to form a mean baseline). All scans will be
      acquired five times per eye during the same day, with short breaks between measurements,
      under dark room conditions. Images with eye movements during scans, poor centration, poor
      focus, or a signal strength less than 7/10 were excluded. The mean of 3 separate RNFL
      measurements (256 A-scans each) with the best optic disc centration, reproducibility of the
      signal profiles and signal strength will be used. Retinal thickness will be measured with the
      location of the vitreoretinal interface and the retinal pigment epithelium defining the inner
      and outer boundaries of the retina, respectively. The boundaries of the RNFL will be defined
      by first determining the thickness of the neurosensory retina. The location of the posterior
      boundary of the RNFL will be determined by evaluating each A-scan for a threshold chosen to
      be 15 dB greater than the filtered maximum reflectivity of the adjacent retina. Various
      machine-generated parameters will be used for evaluation of RNFL thickness, including RNFL
      average thickness over the entire cylindrical section and average RNFL thickness in each
      quadrant (inferior, superior, temporal and nasal). Abnormal RNFL measurements using OCT will
      be defined as mean or quadrantic thickness values outside 95% normal limits, based on the
      instrument's normative age-matched database, that will be confirmed on at least three out of
      five repeat scans. The reference values obtained from the normal control group included in
      the study will be also considered. The average RNFL thickness, inferior RNFL thickness, and
      the superior RNFL thickness have been shown to be the best discriminators for glaucoma by the
      Stratus OCT. These three measures will be the RNFL parameters analyzed in our study. One
      author (DM) will perform all the image acquisitions.
    
  