
    
      The adequacy of the protein dietary requirement for strength (ST) and endurance (ET) exercise
      trained individuals has been a subject of considerable debate for many years and, at present,
      there is a discrepancy between those who establish dietary protein requirements for healthy
      adults and those issuing guidelines for athletes. Despite past nitrogen balance studies
      suggesting a greater protein requirement in ST and ET athletes, the Institute of Medicine
      (2005) recommends "no additional dietary protein for healthy adults undertaking resistance or
      endurance exercise". Current protein and amino acid (AA) requirement estimates for adults are
      based on nitrogen balance data which are considered to be flawed due to several
      methodological problems including the use of single linear regression for analyzing nonlinear
      data and an over/underestimation of nitrogen intake and excretion, respectively. To overcome
      these problems, the indicator amino acid oxidation technique (IAO) was developed for
      determination of dietary AA or protein requirements. The IAO method is based on the concept
      that when dietary protein is inadequate, all AA, including the indicator AA, will be
      oxidized. With increasing total protein intake, oxidation of the indicator AA will decrease.
      Once the requirement is met, there is no further change in the oxidation of the indicator AA
      and the inflection or 'breakpoint' is the estimated requirement. A mixed-effects change-point
      regression analysis to F13CO2 (label tracer oxidation in 13CO2 breath) in response to graded
      amounts of protein will be utilized to over come the limitations of linear regression
      previously used with nitrogen balance. These protein requirement measures using the IAO has
      not been carried out on ST or ET individuals previously so this will be the first study to do
      so. The results of this study will help determine the optimal protein requirement in ST and
      ET athletes which is important not only for athletes but also for older individuals whose
      loss of muscle mass has been linked to a variety of health concerns.
    
  