
    
      The main objective in this trial is to investigate whether continuous infusion of iloprost at
      a dose of 1 ng/kg/min for 72-hours is safe and significantly increase the number of intensive
      care unit (ICU) free days, within 28 days from admission compared to infusion of placebo in
      trauma patients with haemorrhagic shock and SHINE.

      Patients are presented at the investigator site in an acute critical condition and therefore
      informed consent will be obtained from a scientific guardian. Next-of-kin and subsequently
      the patient will co-sign as soon as possible. During the trial additional blood samples will
      be obtained daily for the first 72 hours. Patients will be observed and assessed
      continuously. During the extended follow up period at day 28 and 90, no contact will be made
      to the patient, but the data will be collected from department/hospital databases to
      establish length of stay and potential mortality.

      The trial is conducted in accordance with the Helsinki 2 declaration and International
      Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use,
      Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP) and in compliance with the protocol. As part
      of the quality assurance site monitoring will be performed by an independent GCP-Unit
      including source data verification. Standard Operation Procedure to address protocol specific
      procedures such as data collection and adverse event reporting are developed.

      The power calculation is based on not yet published data from the following trial
      'Implementing Treatment Algorithms for the Correction of Trauma Induced Coagulopathy
      (iTACTIC)' [NTC 02593877] having the same in- and exclusion criteria as the present trial.
      The number of ICU free days within 30-days from admission is chosen as the primary endpoint
      and a clinically relevant increase in ICU free days within 28-days of 30% with α 0.05, power
      0.85 will require 107 patients in each 1:1 randomization group. We plan on including 110
      patients in each group and 220 in total. The final statistical analysis plan will be
      published before the last patient is included in the trial and analysis of the data from the
      randomized trial will be performed by Theis Lange, Associate Professor, Section of
      Biostatistics, Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen.

      The primary end point will be analyzed using linear regression adjusted for site. Effect size
      will be summarized using adjusted mean differences with confidence intervals based on robust
      standard errors as residuals are not expected to be normally distributed. The same analysis
      will be employed to continuous secondary outcomes. All-cause mortality will be further
      illustrated using Kaplan-Meier curves. All analysis will be conducted following the intention
      to treat principle (this will be the primary analysis) and per-protocol. In addition, the
      following patient subgroup will also be analyzed separately:

      • Patients with traumatic brain injury
    
  