
    
      Type of study will be a prospective cohort. The study will be performed at the Laboratory of
      Cardiopulmonary Physiotherapy of the Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPE). The sample will
      be calculated from a pilot study to be previously performed. The pilot study should have 10
      individuals, 5 patients in each of the two groups. A group of patients who has brachial
      plexus injury and a group of healthy individuals for the pairing by sex and age. Eligibility
      criteria: patients who will undergo surgical intervention (within one year of the trauma), of
      both sexes, between 20 and 45 years of age, sedentary (oriented and encouraged to perform the
      activities of daily living at home, however , outside of any rehabilitation program) and
      encouraged to refrain from using tobacco. Patients with pulmonary contusions, severe
      pneumopathies, patients with congestive heart failure (NYHA class III or IV), diabetes
      mellitus, coronary artery disease, hemodynamic instability (MAP <60 mmHg), multiple thorax
      fractures, amputation of one limb cognitive changes. Physiotherapeutic evaluations will be
      performed by a single physiotherapist trained in the preoperative one, three and six months
      after surgery for brachial plexus injury. The instruments of evaluation included are:
      optoelectronic plethysmography, spirometry, manovacuometry, diaphragmatic ultrasound, g-walk,
      upper limb dynamometry, pain questionnaires (Mcgill and DN4), upper limb functionality
      questionnaire (DASH) minutes and the quality of life questionnaire (Whoquol). Expected
      Results: The greatest impact should be to assist the patient in the prevention and
      physiotherapeutic treatment in relation to the possible sequels arising from the surgical
      process, besides fomenting the literature, expanding the knowledge about the subject and
      determining the applicability of the existing therapeutic resources, so that these are not
      used indiscriminately in daily practice.
    
  