
    
      More than 20 million Americans suffer from asthma, and nearly half of asthma sufferers do not
      have their asthma under control. Although commonly diagnosed using physiological measures of
      airflow and bronchial hyperreactivity, asthma pathophysiology is related to chronic
      inflammation of the airway.

      Current diagnostic evaluation and monitoring are inadequate for proposed practice guidelines.
      The most commonly used test for evaluation of asthma is the measurement of airflow
      obstruction by spirometry. The National Asthma Education Prevention Program (NAEPP) and
      Expert Panel Reports set forth grading of asthma severity based on the frequency of symptoms,
      airflow, and the need for inhaled beta-agonists. Practice guidelines outline that the goals
      of therapy for asthma are to: maintain normal activity with near normal parameters of lung
      function, prevent exacerbations that lead to tissue injury, and avoid medication toxicity. In
      order to facilitate these goals, NAEPP defines key components for management including
      disease monitoring and stepped care pharmacotherapy. Unfortunately, there is no optimal plan
      for monitoring inflammation, which causes us to fail in key components in management of
      asthma. Limited options for anti-inflammatory treatments to control asthma likewise often
      lead to substantial morbidities due to treatment with high doses of corticosteroids. Our AIR
      program plans to develop novel asthma monitoring tests and design targeted therapeutics,
      which altogether may reduce toxicities and improve the long-term health of patients.

      Impact on broad scientific advancement. Our cumulative studies provide fundamental
      information on the molecular mechanisms that contribute to unresolving and excessive
      inflammation that leads to tissue remodeling. This mechanistic knowledge is of broad
      scientific importance as nearly all chronic human diseases are defined by prolonged and
      active inflammation, with tissue destruction, and failed attempts at healing. Thus, our
      investigations will provide comprehensive knowledge and consequent translational deliverables
      that may be widely applicable as diagnostic strategies and therapies in other chronic
      inflammatory diseases.
    
  