
    
      Administrative hold due to COVID-19 pandemic.

      Background Veterans with spinal cord injury (SCI) have many adverse secondary medical and
      quality of life (QOL) changes as a result of immobilization. Veterans with SCI who have
      completed rehabilitation after injury and are unable to ambulate receive a wheelchair as
      standard of care (SOC) for mobility. Powered exoskeletons are a technology that has recently
      become available as an alternate form of mobility by providing an external framework for
      support and computer controlled motorized hip and knee joints to assist with overground
      ambulation.

      Research Questions (Objectives) Will Veterans with chronic SCI of six months duration, who
      are medically stable and who use a wheelchair as SOC plus an exoskeletal-assisted walking
      (EAW) device in their home and community environments have clinically meaningful net
      improvements in mental health, bladder, bowel, and pain patient-reported outcomes compared
      with those who use only the SOC? Additionally, will the use of an EAW device for four months
      in the homes and/or communities of the participants result in a reduction of total body fat
      mass? Study Design A two-group (Intervention and Control), randomized, clinical trial will be
      performed with a one-year feasibility component. The Intervention group will receive SOC plus
      EAW. The Control group will receive SOC only. The study will require seven years in total to
      complete and includes fifteen VA SCI Services as study sites. A feasibility phase will be
      employed using a staggered start by initially starting six sites, four sites starting one
      year later, and 5 other sites starting two years later. These initial six sites will be used
      to assess the start-up activities [hiring, training, equipment procurement, Central
      Institutional Review Board (CIRB) paperwork, etc.], the rate of recruitment, and any other
      issues that may be of value for the successful completion of the study. Lessons learned will
      be implemented for the remaining sites.

      Relevance to VA In pilot studies conducted at the James J. Peters VA Medical Center, Bronx,
      NY, improvements in mental-emotional health, physical health and body composition were
      demonstrated by providing the participants the ability to walk for 4 to 6 hours per week over
      the course of three to five months. As of July 2014, a Class 2 designation was established by
      the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for "powered exoskeletons". To date, one device
      (ReWalk ) has received FDA Class 2 approval for institutional and home use and is currently
      available by prescription. The Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA) is the largest single
      provider to persons with SCI in the USA, caring for about 26,000 of the 42,000 estimated
      Veterans with SCI. The VA presently lacks the infrastructure to support Veterans with SCI to
      train to use this device in order to make this technology available for the home/community
      use. A controlled research study would be anticipated to be the optimal manner to demonstrate
      the efficacy, amount of use and safety of a powered exoskeleton in the home and community
      environments; findings would be immediately transferable to clinical care.

      Number of Research Participants (Sample Size) One hundred-sixty participants (80/group) will
      be randomized. Each of the 15 study sites will be expected to pre-screen 100 potential
      participants, screen 60 participants, to reach the target of 160 randomized over 15 sites.

      Participating Sites Fifteen SCI Services will be selected on the basis of potential
      recruitment numbers (N=13,606 total Veterans with SCI in the sites' catchment areas and
      N=7,022 followed annually at these sites) and geographic location, to permit an even
      distribution across the country. The fifteen sites include: Boston, Richmond, St. Louis,
      Tampa, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Dallas, Houston, Palo Alto, Long Beach, Augusta, San Antonio,
      Bronx, Cleveland, and Albuquerque. Of these fifteen sites, five are VA Cooperative Studies
      Program (CSP) Network of Dedicated Enrollment Sites (NODES).

      Duration of Participant Intake (Study Duration) The CS #2003 study duration is projected to
      be a total of seven years: The initial six sites will have a start-up year, followed by
      participant enrollment/data collection during years 1-4, and continued data
      collection/closeout during year 5, for a total of six years. The next four sites will begin
      the start-up year one year after the first six sites and follow the same enrollment, data
      collection and closeout schedule over the next five years. The next five sites will begin
      start-up one year after the four sites and follow the same enrollment, data collection and
      closeout schedule. All fifteen sites will be closed out after six years, and there is an
      additional year for the Coordinating Center and Chairperson's Office to complete data
      analysis and manuscript writing, thus the study total time is seven years. Participants in
      both groups will be asked to commit 33 weeks to this study. Participants in the Control arm
      will be offered an additional 8 weeks to receive EAW training in the medical centers, without
      outcome data being collected.

      Treatment (follow-up) The intervention being tested is four months of home and/or community
      use of a powered exoskeleton.

      Definition of Participant Samples (Study Population) One-hundred sixty male or female
      Veterans or military members with chronic SCI, six months duration, 18 years of age,
      functional use of their hands, medically stable, and wheelchair users for indoor and outdoor
      mobility, will be eligible for screening. All potential participants will be Veterans or
      military members with SCI. Study participants will generally be outpatients with the
      exception of those inpatients who meet the eligibility criteria, and who are approved by the
      Site Investigator (e.g., some inpatients may have been admitted for a wheelchair fitting or
      another non-medical reason). Non-veterans with SCI will not be eligible.

      Treatment Arms All participants will receive four months of treatment, randomized into two
      arms: SOC plus EAW or SOC only.

      Endpoints Primary outcome one will be the Mental Component Summary of the Veterans Rand-36
      (MCS/VR-36). Primary outcome two will be the sum T-score of the SCI-QOL bladder management
      difficulties, bowel management difficulties and pain interference item banks. The major
      secondary outcome will be total body fat mass. The two primary and the major secondary
      outcomes will be analyzed as the proportion of participants in each group who achieved a
      clinically meaningful change in score. The endpoint will be success or failure for these
      outcomes.
    
  