
    
      Heart Failure is defined as a complex clinical syndrome that can result from any structural
      or functional cardiac disorder that impairs the ability of the ventricle to fill or eject
      blood with diagnosis relying on clinical examination and associated with significant
      mortality and morbidity. Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a cardiovascular complication in
      which the heart becomes unable to supply a sufficient amount of blood to meet the metabolic
      requirements and fulfill the body's oxygen demand.

      CHF is an independent risk factor for early mortality in ESRD patients. More than half of all
      deaths among ESRD patients are due to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Cardiovascular changes
      secondary to renal dysfunction, including fluid overload, uremic cardiomyopathy, secondary
      hyperparathyroidism, anemia, altered lipid metabolism, and accumulation of gut
      microbiota-derived uremic toxins like trimethylamine N-oxidase (TMAO), contribute to the high
      risk for CVD in the ESRD population. Also, conventional hemodialysis (HD) itself poses
      myocardial stress and injury to the already compromised cardiovascular system in uremic
      patients.

      The characteristics of cardiovascular dysfunction observed in dialysis patients are distinct
      from those noted in the general population. Although traditional cardiovascular risk factors
      in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are highly prevalent, they play only a
      partial role in the excessive cardiovascular morbidity and mortality of this population. The
      paradoxical association between several traditional risk factors, such as body mass index,
      blood pressure (BP) and serum cholesterol, and mortality have been previously reported.

      In the ESRD population, Hemodialysis (HD) contributes itself to the development of CHF with
      sustained fluid overload a major cause of hypertension, heart failure, and mortality in
      patients with ESRD. We postulate that repeated myocardial micro-injury during maintenance
      hemodialysis may lead to irreversible cardiac dysfunction and subsequent heart failure and
      death in some patients.
    
  