
    
      Rationale: Preclinical research showed improved efficacy of sorafenib when given in a
      high-dose, pulsatile schedule compared with conventional (lower dose) continuous scheduling
      as a result of higher peak concentrations in the tumor. In this phase I study patients will
      be treated with high-dose, pulsatile sorafenib in exposure escalation cohorts. Exposure
      escalations cohorts are based on a target plasma AUC0-12h (area under the curve) and are used
      instead of conventional dose escalation cohorts because the effect of a drug is dependent of
      its AUC levels and large differences in plasma sorafenib AUC0-12h have previously been shown
      between patients treated at the same dose level.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated plasma AUC0-12h of high-dose sorafenib administered
           in a weekly, pulsatile schedule.

        -  To assess the safety and tolerability of high-dose, pulsatile sorafenib.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetic behaviour of sorafenib and its major active metabolite
           pyridine N-oxide when administered in a weekly, pulsatile schedule.

        -  To determine a recommended phase II plasma AUC0-12h of high-dose sorafenib in a weekly
           pulsatile schedule.

        -  Preliminary assessment of the efficacy of high-dose, pulsatile sorafenib administered at
           the maximum tolerated plasma AUC0-12h.

        -  To determine skin and intratumoral concentrations of sorafenib and their correlation
           with plasma and whole blood concentrations.

        -  To select 1-2 optimal time points from the AUC0-12h data to determine sorafenib exposure
           using a finger puncture.

      Study design: A single center, open-label, phase I study of high-dose, pulsatile sorafenib
      administered in exposure escalation cohorts.

      Study population: Adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic disease for whom no
      standard therapy exists.

      Treatment: Patients will be treated in exposure escalation cohorts with high-dose sorafenib
      administered in a weekly pulsatile schedule. Using pharmacokinetic monitoring, the sorafenib
      dose will be adjusted to a target plasma AUC0-12h. The escalation cohorts consist of 3-6
      patients per exposure level starting with a target plasma sorafenib AUC0-12h level of 25-50
      mg/L/h. After the determination of the maximum tolerated AUC0-12h, 10 additional patients
      will be entered into an expansion cohort. In the expansion cohort the patients will be
      treated with a weekly pulse of sorafenib at the maximum tolerated AUC0-12h for further
      assessment of safety and preliminary exploration of efficacy.
    
  