
    
      Foraminal periradicular infiltrations for therapeutic purposes are currently recognized as an
      integral part of the treatment of radiculalgia, particularly in case of radiculalgia
      refractory to a well-conducted initial treatment, in combination with the rehabilitation and
      education of the patient. The incidence of low back pain, lumbar pain or pure radiculalgia in
      the general population is very high. In fact, the majority of people will experience at least
      once in their life low back pain or neck pain, favored by the growing aging of the
      population. This leads us to propose infiltrative techniques more and more modern, as much in
      the technique performed as in the type of medication used, presenting the best risk / benefit
      ratio. Infiltrations guided by imaging tend to become less and less "invasive", with the
      undeniable contribution of ultrasound as a major tool in the diagnostic and therapeutic
      approaches, both in specialized pain management clinic as in other medical specialties. To
      date, infiltrations are still mostly performed under fluoroscopic control by injection of
      contrast medium (epidurography), or under CT control, where the identification of the
      anatomical structures and therefore the target allows a greater accuracy of the level of
      infiltration. These two techniques have proven their effectiveness, but have significant
      disadvantages, such as the irradiation of the patient as well as that of the practitioner
      because of the number of daily acts performed; their cost, and the need for a radiologist in
      the case of a CT technique. For its part, ultrasound is easily available, easy to use,
      represents a lower cost, and the lack of irradiation.

      In recent years ultrasound has proved effective in identifying anatomical structures of the
      spine and in the techniques of lumbar periradicular infiltration, whether performed in
      sagittal paramedian or oblique sagittal paramedian, the latter having shown a better
      intra-foraminal distribution of the injected product. (39.5% vs 87.5% in terms of
      intraforaminal diffusion of the contrast medium). In addition, teams have shown the
      superiority of ultrasound-guided lumbar foraminal infiltration compared with CT control in
      terms of time spent on infiltration, for exact accuracy in 90% of patients, and an
      improvement in radiculalgia at 1 month similar between the two techniques.

      We propose here to evaluate the precision of lumbar periradicular infiltration performed
      under a transverse ultrasound approach by performing a fluoroscopic control once the needle
      in the desired position. The effectiveness of the technique will be assessed by measuring
      different pain and disability scores at four weeks post-infiltration: the Visual analogue
      pain scale score, the DN4 score, and the Oswestry disability score (ODI); The decrease in
      irradiation received will be collected, compared to that of the conventional fluoroscopic
      technique.
    
  