
    
      Nigeria has had a national HIV/AIDS care and treatment program in place since 2003. Included
      in this national program are prevention programs; the largest of which is the
      prevention-of-mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) program. Despite more than 10 yrs of
      providing PMTCT, Nigeria still has significant problems with uptake of, and retention in
      these services. Only 30% of HIV-positive pregnant women receive HIV drugs for both treatment
      and prophylaxis, and Nigeria has an estimated 41,000 new child infections annually, the
      highest of any country in the world.

      Mentor Mothers (MM) are women living with HIV who are experienced users and navigators of HIV
      services, particularly PMTCT. Public health interventions engaging MM to support other
      HIV-positive women for linkage and retention in PMTCT and treatment services has been tested
      in South Africa, and has been adopted and applied in several other African countries. Similar
      MM programs have also been adopted and implemented in Nigeria since 2007; however, objective
      evaluations of MM impact on PMTCT service uptake and retention have not been performed to
      date.

      While MM and similar peer support interventions have shown some success in other African
      countries, their implementation between and within countries has not been standardized.
      Incremental impact may be gained with more structured, objective-specific MM programming and
      service delivery.

      The MoMent (MOther MENTor) is an implementation research study that is evaluating the impact
      of structured vs routine peer support on PMTCT outcomes in Nigeria, focusing on two
      North-Central states, the Federal Capital Territory and Nasarawa. The intervention consists
      of a simple but detailed standardized training curriculum for MMs coupled with daily MM
      supervision by dedicated personnel as well as standardized, user-friendly tools for both MMs
      and their supervisors to use for service delivery. These trained MM, along with trained MM
      Supervisors, form the basis of the Mentor Mother Intervention package. The choice of rural
      areas served by Primary Healthcare Centers is due to the fact that PMTCT coverage and uptake
      is lowest in these areas; the study sites are located in hard-to-reach-areas where a
      significant number of PMTCT-eligible clientele live.
    
  