
    
      Extensive computer use is no longer an employment-specific challenge. Use of digital devices
      in work, home, and leisure settings is now the norm, and it is now socially expected. While
      the introduction of high-powered computers and digital devices have greatly improved many
      aspects of modern life, the pervasive use of digital devices has caused some patients to
      develop a condition known as Digital Eye Strain (DES). DES has been reported to be as high as
      93% the population depending upon how the condition is defined, and its severity has been
      found to increase with increased digital device time. DES is a condition where patients
      experience symptoms such as glare, accommodative dysfunction, defocus, fatigue, discomfort,
      and dryness from digital device use, and these dry eye symptoms may also result in decreased
      quality of life. While dryness symptoms in DES are likely multifactorial (e.g., contact lens
      use, systemic disease status), much of the dryness symptoms in DES are probably due to tear
      film evaporation secondary to having a reduced number of blinks per minute while using
      digital devices. Since much of the ocular symptoms associated with DES stem from excessive
      tear evaporation, artificial tears have become an accepted DES treatment

      Systane Hydration PF is a recently released preservative-free artificial tear that is able to
      supplement the ocular surface's moisture while simultaneously soothing the eye. Systane
      Hydration PF has HydroBoost technology, which is thought to enhance the drop's effectiveness
      by incorporating ingredients that increase drop retention. While Systane Hydration PF should
      in theory improve the symptoms and subsequently the quality of life of patients who have DES,
      this clinical application has yet to be tested. This drop furthermore is available in both
      unit-dose and multi-dose options; however, it is unclear if patient perceive a difference
      between the two dispensing methods. Therefore, the primary purpose of this study is to
      recruit patients who have DES and to treat them with Systane Hydration PF and determine how
      regular use of this drop impacts a patient's ocular surface symptoms and overall quality of
      life. This study will secondarily compare the two dispensing methods to determine if patients
      prefer one method over the other.
    
  