
    
      Background

      Despite the well documented cardio-protective effects of aerobic exercise of moderate
      intensity, short- and long-term consequences of strenuous exercise are less clear. There is
      increasing evidence that maintaining a high cardiac workload over a prolonged duration may
      result in transient impairment of cardiac function. Recent studies have also reported a
      transient increase in cardiac biomarkers after prolonged strenuous exercise. While in
      patients with cardiac disease the presence of cardiac dysfunction and increased cardiac
      biomarkers generally reflects myocardial damage, the impact of these observations in athletes
      is ill defined. It is a matter of concern whether in athletes such findings simply reflect a
      reversible response or whether repetitive events may lead to an accumulative cardiac damage.
      Traditional echocardiographic methods used to determine potential cardiac changes in
      morphology or function are investigator-dependent and may be subject to interference by
      cardiac pre- and afterload. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging provides an
      investigator-independent and objective method to quantify cardiac dimensions and function.
      Delayed contrast enhancement MR imaging is a highly reproducible cardiovascular magnetic
      resonance imaging technique to directly visualize myocardial edema, necrosis and fibrosis.

      Objective

      To use cardiac and delayed contrast enhancement magnetic resonance imaging in combination
      with echocardiographic methods to to assess whether athletes involved in prolonged strenuous
      exercise over years reveal persistent alterations of cardiac morphology and function.

      Methods

      Cardiac and delayed contrast enhancement magnetic resonance imaging will be used in
      combination with echocardiographic methods to investigate whether involvement in prolonged
      strenuous exercise over years leads to changes in cardiac function and morphology. Therefore
      we study and compare 15 veteran elite athletes and 15 sedentary controls. The use of cardiac
      MRI and delayed contrast enhancement magnetic resonance imaging techniques will be paralleled
      by echocardiographic and tissue Doppler measurements to allow comparative analyses of the two
      methods.
    
  