
    
      Background: In daily living, walking usually combines with cognitive or motor dual tasks. For
      individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD), gait performance becomes worse while doing dual
      tasks, which may due to insufficient executive function. Declined executive function may
      occur in early stage of PD. For those with stroke, impaired dual-task performance also
      exists. Although 75% of patients with stroke may suffer from impaired executive function,
      impaired dual-task performance correlates with declined executive function directly or not
      still unknown. Undoubtedly, impaired executive function decreases their daily activities.
      Recently, dual-task training by walking with secondary tasks resulted in improvement of
      single or dual-task gait performance in individuals with PD. As for stroke, dual-task
      training performed in walking with secondary tasks and resulted in improvement of single or
      dual-task gait performance. However, previous studies less mentioned about combine cognitive
      and motor tasks simultaneously with gait training. While dual-task training with exergame and
      treadmill can include cognitive and motor tasks simultaneously while walking. Thus, whether
      dual-task training with exergame and treadmill can improve executive function and dual-task
      performance in individuals with PD and stroke is worth to investigate. Purposes: To
      investigate the effects of dual-task training with exergame and treadmill on executive
      function and dual-task performance in individuals with PD and stroke and discuss the
      correlation between the change values of executive function and dual-task performance after
      training. Besides, investigate cortical activation after training. Methods: This research
      will be implemented in two phases. First phase will include 50 subjects with PD and the
      second phase will include 50 subjects with stroke. After pre-test, subjects will be randomly
      assigned into either the experimental group or the control group. Subjects in the
      experimental group will receive 24 sessions dual-task training with exergame and treadmill in
      8 weeks; while the control group will receive treadmill training only in same frequency. Each
      session lasts an hour. Primary outcomes include general cognitive performance, executive
      function, dual-task performance, dual-task effects and cortical activation. Secondary
      outcomes include single walking performance, functional walking and quality of life.
      Statistical analysis: Descriptive statistics will be generated for all variables. Intergroup
      differences among baseline characteristics will be evaluated by independent t test or χ2
      analysis. Primary and secondary outcomes will be analyzed by two-way repeated measures ANOVA
      and post-hoc test. The correlation between change values of executive function and dual-task
      performance will be evaluated by Pearson correlation coefficient. Statistical significance
      will set at P<0.05.
    
  