
    
      IDEA is a multicenter (4 centers in France and 1 center in Belgium), randomized, controlled,
      single blind trial using a modified Zelen design .It concerns children with ASD aged 15 to 36
      months without severe neurological or physical disorder and living in the proximity of one
      the early intervention units. After diagnostic, Children will be included in a longitudinal
      cohort with the consent of the parents. Sixty children will be drawn lots among 180 children
      of the cohort and will be included in an ESDM intervention with the consent of the parents.
      Two groups will be compared: an experimental group of 60 children receiving 12 hours a week
      of ESDM intervention delivered by trained therapists during 2 years and a control group of
      120 children receiving typical heterogeneous 'as-usual' intervention proposed by
      professionals and public services over the same period. In IDEA development of communication
      and social interactions and global developmental of all the children will be measured at
      different time points (at baseline (t0), after 1 year (t1), after 2 years( t2)) over the two
      years through standardized tests such as Autism diagnostic observation Schedule (ADOS-2),
      Mullen Scales of Early Learning (MSEL) and the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale (VABS-2).

      Children will be included in this second study called IDEA-EYE with parents' consent. Then,
      preference for biological motion and social scene, shifting attention time and preference for
      sameness will be measure in both groups with an Eye-tracker Tobii TX 300 at t0,t1 and t2.
      These measures will also be collected in a group of children without ASD at t0,t1 and t2.

      the investigators expect, as primary criteria, a significant superior time spend on
      biological motion in ESDM group versus control group after 2 years of treatment. the
      investigators also expect a significant superior orientation toward eyes in complex social
      scenes, an inferior shifting attention time and a superior preference for unpredictable
      stimuli in ESDM group versus ASD control group after 2 years. the investigators also expect
      that ESDM group would have time spend on biological motion, orientation toward eyes in
      complex scenes, shifting attention time and preference for unpredictable stimuli comparable
      to children without ASD after 2 years.

      This study would allow better understanding of ESDM active principles.
    
  