
    
      Facial mucosal recession still poses a threat to long-term success of implant therapy
      especially esthetic appearance. To study the timing and extent of mucosal recession and the
      associated risks, a prospective study is strategically important. This will allow the
      collection of valuable longitudinal data about facial mucosal level changes, peri-implant
      tissue dimensions, and implant/restoration parameters that are considered critical for
      determining the mucosal level. Forty adult patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be
      recruited to participate in this study. Patients that had an implant crown placed a minimum
      time frame of 6 months and have existing relevant clinical data (mucosal level and thickness,
      radiographs, cone beam computed tomogram (CBCT) scans, study casts and intra-oral
      photographs) at baseline and if possible at other follow-up visits will be invited to
      participate in this study. Patients that volunteer to be screened will not be examined for
      study eligibility until an informed consent has been obtained. Patient information will be
      protected according to HIPAA. The enrolled subjects will have research measurements taken, an
      ultrasound scan, intraoral photos and an impression of the arch including the study implant.
      One dental cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) scan will be taken to evaluate the implant
      position in relation to the alveolar ridge and to evaluate relative bone quality. The primary
      outcome will analyze the changes in the facial mucosal level, by superimposing the digital
      images of the stone models that were taken previously. On ultrasound images, peri-implant
      tissue parameters, implant positions, restoration contour, etc., will be measured and
      recorded. The primary outcome will then be equated with clinical and radiographic readings,
      and ultrasound parameters, along with timing of provisionalization or final restoration, in
      regression analysis to identify factors related to facial mucosal recession.
    
  