
    
      The proposed R01 project Effects of a Prenatal Depression Preventive Intervention on
      Parenting and Young Children's Self-Regulation and Functioning (EPIC) examines whether a
      prenatal depression prevention intervention-Mothers and Babies (MB)-improves parenting
      practices and child self-regulation through 54 months of age. The investigators build on an
      existing cluster randomized controlled trial that enrolled 874 diverse, low-income women from
      36 home visiting (HV) programs. The investigators anticipate 598 of these women will be
      eligible for EPIC (489 intervention, 109 control) and the research team will enroll an
      additional 260 control participants as part of this R01, for a total sample of 858. The
      research team will also enroll 429 fathers. Perinatal depression is consistently linked to
      poor parenting practices and poor child self-regulation. This project builds on previous work
      that has demonstrated MB's effects on improving maternal mental health outcomes and will
      examine the intervention's longer-term impact on parenting and child self-regulation from
      30-54 months of age. Intervention participants will have received the six-week MB
      intervention delivered in a group format in addition to usual HV services while control
      participants will have only received HV services. Data collection for the R01 includes
      maternal self-report with all 858 participants every six months, beginning at 30 months
      postpartum and continuing until 54 months postpartum. An intensive sub-study of parenting and
      child development will occur at 36, 42, and 48 months for a subset of 460 participants (230
      intervention, 230 control). Paternal self-report surveys will occur at 30, 42, and 54 months.
      There are three specific aims. First, the investigators test the hypothesis that MB improves
      parenting and child self-regulatory skill acquisition through 54 months of age. The
      investigators will use intent-to-treat as well as propensity score adjusted analysis. Second,
      the investigators test hypotheses about the maternal mechanisms by which MB influences
      parenting and child self-regulation. The investigators hypothesize that MB intervention
      effects will be mediated by core skills targeted by MB-in particular, increased awareness of
      thoughts and feelings and increases in mood regulation-as these cognitive-behavioral skills
      are deficient in mothers with depressive symptoms and compromise mothers' ability to engage
      in parenting practices that promote young children's self-regulation. Third, the
      investigators will examine fathers' and other key sociodemographic variables' role in
      moderating the impact of MB on mother's parenting and the child's self-regulation. The public
      health significance and innovation of this project is substantial. Addressing maternal mental
      health has been identified as a highly impactful enhancement to HV programs. If, as expected,
      the investigators are able to generate a robust science base that precisely identifies
      mechanisms and outcomes impacted by the intervention in young children among our racially and
      ethnically diverse sample, HV programs currently using MB are likely to enhance their
      programmatic outcomes. Moreover, given the large number of HV programs that could adopt MB
      nationally, findings from this study can provide powerful data suggesting that MB become
      integrated into their core set of services.
    
  