
    
      Among Black women with HIV in the U.S, generally low rates of adherence to ART are likely due
      to relevant psychosocial and contextual factors facing Black women with HIV, such as having a
      history of physical, sexual, and emotional abuse, post traumatic stress, racial
      discrimination, and contextual variables related to traditional gender roles; each of which
      are associated with worse HIV outcomes.

      Despite the need, there is currently no evidenced-based psychosocial intervention for Black
      women with HIV that addresses these contextual factors to improve adherence to HIV self-care.
      A psychosocial intervention including content on reducing the effects of trauma and
      discrimination and increasing resilient coping strategies and gender empowerment may be most
      culturally appropriate, and therefore effective, in improving quality of life and increasing
      treatment adherence in Black women living with HIV/AIDS.

      Striving Towards Empowerment and Medication Adherence (STEP-AD) is a research study aimed at
      developing an intervention for Black women living with HIV to address psychosocial factors
      (i.e. abuse/trauma histories, racial discrimination, HIV stigma/discrimination, and
      prescribed traditional gender roles) that have been associated with medication nonadherence
      or poor HIV outcomes (e.g. viral load, CD4), but are unaddressed in existing interventions.

      Individual, in-depth qualitative interviews (n=30) were conducted with Black women with HIV
      and community stakeholders to gather information on the perceived acceptability and to inform
      the development of a manualized intervention of an integrated treatment to improve ART
      adherence by addressing trauma symptoms, racial discrimination, HIV discrimination, and
      gender related stressors experienced by Black women with HIV. This information was used to
      develop the resulting intervention.

      An open pilot trial (n=5) of the resulting intervention was conducted (December 2015 through
      August 2016) in order to initially assess the feasibility of all study procedures and
      intervention delivery, acceptability, and a potential clinically significant improvement on
      ART adherence and hypothesized psychosocial mediators.

      A pilot randomized control trial (RCT) comparing the newly developed intervention (N=25) to
      an enhanced treatment as usual control (N=25) on ART adherence (primary outcome) and viral
      load (secondary outcome) over 6 months (baseline, 10 weekly treatment visits [approximately 3
      months], and a 6 month follow-up) begun enrolling participants as of August 2016.

      Actual enrollment at baseline for all the phases are below. Please note that not all
      participants enrolled at baseline moved on to the relevant phase due the need to meet
      inclusion criteria.

      Formative qualitative phase: 30 Black women living with HIV, 15 community Stakeholders

      Open Pilot phase: 20 Black women living with HIV

      Pilot RCT: 119 Black women living with HIV

      Total: 184
    
  