
    
      A systematic review of the literature will be carried out using Patient, Intervention,
      Comparison and Outcome method (PICO), with the aim of answering the following clinical
      question: "Is pretreatment under lymphocyte to monocyte ratio (LMR) a prognostic factor in
      non-metastatic renal cell carcinoma ? "

      All analyzes will be based on previously published studies. For this reason, patient consent
      and ethical approval will not be required.

      An exhaustive search will be conducted in PubMed, Science Direct and Cochrane Database of
      Systematic Reviews for eligible studies that explored the prognostic role of LMR in patients
      with localized renal tumors, who underwent to partial or radical nephrectomy from January
      1965 to July 2019. The terms search will include: "monocyte lymphocyte ratio", "renal
      cancer", "prognosis".

      Cohort studies or observational studies will be included, patients with localized renal
      tumors who underwent partial or radical nephrectomy, with histopathologically confirmed
      neoplasms, who had access to the full text and without language limitation.

      Inclusion:

      Any observational study (cross-sectional, case-control, longitudinal with cross-sectional
      data) will be included.

      Patients with localized renal tumors who underwent partial or radical nephrectomy, with
      histopathologically confirmed neoplasms, who had access to the full text and without language
      limitation will be included.

      Exclusion: Reviews, case reports, conference abstracts, letters, animal or cell studies.

      Relevant articles will be identified in duplicate by two independent reviewers by first
      screening the titles and abstracts followed by the full text against inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. Any disagreement will be resolved by consensus with a third reviewer experienced in
      the renal cancer management.

      The studies reflected the hazard ratio (HR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI),
      in which the overall survival (OS), specific cancer specific survival (CSS), recurrence-free
      survival (RFS), disease-free survival (DFS) and progression-free survival (PFP).

      Information will be extracted for the first author, publication year, geographic location,
      study design, patient information (sample size, mean/median age, sex distribution,
      performance status), LMR, endpoint (OS, CSS, RFS, DFS, PFS), therapy, follow up duration,
      multivariate factors, hazard ratio (HR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs), or
      exact P values. When univariate HR and multivariate HR were both reported, only the
      multivariate HR will be used.

      OS is defined as the interval from the date of surgery in the primary tumor until death. CSS
      is defined as the interval from the date of surgery in the primary tumor to death for
      urological tumors. RFS is defined as the interval from the date of surgery in the primary
      tumor to local, regional or distant recurrence or death from any cause. DFS is defined as the
      interval from the date of surgery in the primary tumor to local, regional or distant
      recurrence. PFS is defined as the interval from the date of surgery in the primary tumor to
      the progression of the disease (including local recurrence or distant metastasis) or death.

      The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) will be used to assess the quality of studies. A maximum of
      9 points can be given for each study in the categories of: selection of patients,
      comparability of the study groups, and assessment of outcomes. We will define high-quality
      studies with scores >7.

      If the necessary data are available, subgroup analyses will be performed to explore the
      potential sources of heterogeneity according to country, analysis type, tumor type, sample
      size and cut-off value.

      Statistical study:

      Data will be combined using random effect models. The Cochrane χ² (Cochrane Q) statistic and
      the I² test will be used to analyze heterogeneity.

      Before calculating the combined results for all trials, statistical heterogeneity will be
      evaluated by using the I² statistic and p-value, which assessed the appropriateness of
      pooling the individual study results. The I² value provided an estimate of the amount of
      variance across studies because of heterogeneity rather than chance. I² values of 25%, 50%,
      and 75% corresponded to low, moderate, and high levels of heterogeneity, respectively. If p>
      0.05, the heterogeneity will be not substantial. Thus, a fixed-effect model will be used to
      calculate forest plots. If p < 0.05, however, the heterogeneity will be considered
      substantial. Then a random effects models were used.

      The publication bias will be graphically explored through funnel plot, and Duval and
      Tweedie's "trim-and-fill" test will be used to correct possible publication bias.

      Statistical significance was defined as p less than 0.05.

      Statistics will done using R 3.5.0 (R Core Team, 2018) and the meta (v4.1-5; Schwarzer,
      Guido, 2019) package.
    
  