
    
      Adults with severe mental illness (SMI) are three times more likely to smoke than non-SMI
      adults, consuming 35-44% of all cigarettes in the U.S.; and, the highest rates of
      tobacco-related illnesses and death are among smokers with schizophrenia. Unfortunately, not
      only are patients with schizophrenia less likely to receive smoking treatments, but cessation
      medications are only modestly effective in helping this subset of smokers quit. Therefore, it
      is vital to discover new treatment adjuncts that specifically aid this high-risk subset of
      smokers to achieve successful abstinence. Toward that end, the investigators propose a novel
      non-pharmacologic technique that directly targets both cognitive impairment, an avenue
      considerable past research suggests may be particularly effective to exploit in smokers with
      schizophrenia, and reactivity to prepotent stimuli, shown to be enhanced in smokers with
      schizophrenia. Combining a subset of cognitive enhancement therapy known as Cognitive
      Remediation (CR), with another safe and effective technique, Transcranial Direct Current
      Stimulation (tDCS), the investigators propose a new cognitive training method aimed at
      enabling smokers with schizophrenia to gain greater control over smoking and stimuli-induced
      reactivity (e.g., craving). Recent studies have found significant tDCS-induced cognitive
      enhancement, as well as reduction in both cue-induced craving and smoking behavior among
      healthy smokers. This combined with knowledge of the cognitive deficits that exist among
      individuals with schizophrenia, and clear evidence of a relationship between cognitive
      function and smoking treatment success, provides the rationale for testing novel CR + tDCS to
      target underlying mechanisms of smoking among individuals with schizophrenia. Specifically,
      the proposed study will examine the extent to which targeted cognitive enhancement with CR +
      tDCS, leads to changes in cognitive control, cue-provoked craving, reaction time and ERP
      measures of attentional bias; as well as the impact of these changes on smoking behavior and
      intention and confidence to quit among 80 smokers with schizophrenia. The goal of this study
      is to inform the development of new non-medication, noninvasive, therapeutic techniques to
      specifically target smoking among patients with schizophrenia. The long term goal is to
      establish an effective treatment adjunct to help smokers with schizophrenia successfully
      achieve abstinence.
    
  