
    
      A meta-analysis of >100 prospective studies, showed that diabetes mellitus (DM) in general
      carries a two-fold excess risk of vascular outcomes (coronary artery disease, ischemic
      stroke, and vascular deaths), independent of other risk factors (1). Although type 2 diabetes
      mellitus (DM) is far more common than type 1 DM, these results confirm adverse prognosis in
      both populations, which is particularly severe in the young in general and young onset female
      individuals with type 1 DM, emphasizing the need for intensive risk-factor management in
      these groups.

      According to new 2019 European Society of Cardiology (ESC) / European Association for the
      study of diabetes (EASD) guidelines for diabetes, pre-diabetes and cardiovascular diseases
      (2) individuals with DM and cardiovascular diseases (CVD), or DM with target organ damage,
      such as proteinuria or renal failure (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <30
      mL/min/1.73 m2), are at very high risk (10-year risk of CVD death >10%). Patients with DM
      with three or more major risk factors, or with a DM duration of >20 years, are also at very
      high risk. Type 1 DM at the age of 40 years with early onset (i.e. 1-10 years of age) and
      particularly female are associated with very high CV risk (2). Most others with DM are high
      risk, 10 year risk of cardiovascular diseases death (CVD) 5-10%, with the exception of young
      patients (aged <35 years) with type 1 DM of short duration (<10 years), and patients with
      type 2 DM aged <50 years with a DM duration of <10 years and without major risk factors, who
      are at moderate risk.

      Screening for asymptomatic CAD in patients with DM remains controversial. According to
      current guidelines only resting ECG is recommended in patients with suspected CVD, whereas
      computed tomography (CT) angiography or functional imaging (radionuclide myocardial perfusion
      imaging, magnetic resonance imaging, or physical or pharmacological stress echocardiography)
      may be considered (class IIb) in asymptomatic patients with DM for screening of coronary
      artery disease (CAD) (2). With CT, non-invasive estimation of the atherosclerotic burden
      (based on the coronary artery calcium score) and identification of atherosclerotic plaques
      causing significant coronary stenosis (CT angiography) can be performed. Patients with DM
      have a higher prevalence of coronary artery calcification compared with age- and sex-matched
      subjects without DM (3). While a coronary artery calcium (CAC) score of 0 is associated with
      favorable prognosis in asymptomatic subjects with DM, each increment in CAC score (from 1 -
      99 to 100 - 399 and ≥400) is associated with a 25 - 33% higher relative risk of mortality
      (3). Importantly, CAC is not always associated with ischemia. Therefore, coronary artery
      calcium score may be considered as risk modifier in CV assessment in asymptomatic patients
      with moderate risk (2).

      Stress testing with myocardial perfusion imaging or stress echocardiography allows the
      detection of myocardial ischemia, particularly silent form which is more prevalent in
      patients with DM as demonstrated by observational studies (22%) (4-6). Randomized trials
      evaluating the impact of routine screening for CAD in asymptomatic DM and no history of CAD
      have shown no differences in cardiac death and unstable angina at follow-up in those who
      underwent stress testing, or CT angiography (4,6,7). A meta-analysis of five randomized
      studies with 3299 asymptomatic subjects with DM showed that non-invasive imaging for CAD did
      not significantly reduce event rates of non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) (relative risk
      0.65; P=0.062) and hospitalization for heart failure (HF) (relative risk 0.61;P=0.1)
      (8).Observed low event rates in these studies and the disparities in patient population and
      the management of screening results (different imaging techniques, invasive coronary
      angiography and revascularization were not performed systematically) may explain the lack of
      benefit of the screening strategy. Accordingly, routine screening of CAD in asymptomatic DM
      is not recommended (2, 8) However, stress testing or CT angiography may be indicated in very
      high-risk asymptomatic individuals (with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), a high CAC score,
      proteinuria, or renal failure) (9).

      The addition of circulating biomarkers for CV risk assessment has limited clinical value
      (10). In patients with DM without known CVD, measurement of C-reactive protein or fibrinogen
      (inflammatory markers) provides minor incremental value to current risk assessment. The
      addition of hs troponin (Tn) T to conventional risk factors has not shown incremental
      discriminative power in this group (11). In individuals with type 1 DM, elevated high
      sensitive troponin T (hsTnT) was an independent predictor of renal decline and CV events
      (12). The prognostic value of N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro BNP) in an
      unselected cohort of people with DM (including known CVD) showed that patients with low
      levels of NT-pro BNP (<125 pg/mL) have an excellent short-term prognosis (13).

      With emerging role of CT angiography in diagnosis of CAD according to the last 2019 ESC
      guidelines on Chronic coronary syndrome (14), as well as advanced functional imaging
      techniques, there is an obvious gap in evidence on prognostic value of both functional and
      angiographic advanced imaging techniques in patients with diabetes, particularly high risk
      subgroup.

      The investigators hypothesized that a strategy using either functional evaluation with
      advanced stress echocardiography using wall motion abnormalities, coronary flow reserve and
      strain, or CT angiography visualization will lead to better outcome than no testing at all in
      asymptomatic high risk diabetic patients.
    
  