
    
      The literature demonstrates a significant impact of influenza on the disease course of
      children with cystic fibrosis (CF) and superior efficacy of live-attenuated influenza vaccine
      (LAIV - Flumist®) compared to trivalent inactivated vaccine (TIV) in healthy and asthmatic
      children and adolescents. LAIV has recently been approved for use in Canada in people aged
      2-59 years. CF is described as a hyper-inflammatory disorder, with abnormal inflammatory
      signaling, excessive inflammatory response, and impairment in the resolution of inflammation
      that could be a risk for the development of adverse events after LAIV. Given the impact of
      influenza in CF patients, the likelihood of superior protection of LAIV, the
      hyper-inflammatory status of CF patients that could increase the risk of adverse events, and
      the scarcity of data on the safety of LAIV use in this population, the assessment of LAIV's
      safety profile in CF patients is necessary to determine whether the anticipated benefits
      associated with LAIV use will outweigh potential risks, mainly respiratory deterioration. Our
      study specifically aims to:

      Aim 1: Explore the mucosal inflammatory response in participants exposed to LAIV: Using
      self-procured nasal swabs in 75 participants with CF (30 previously vaccinated and 45 LAIV
      naïve) and 45 healthy siblings, the investigators aim to explore: (a) the inflammatory
      response profiles in patients with and without CF before and after LAIV and (b) if
      participants' inflammatory profiles differ whether they report respiratory deteriorations
      after LAIV or not. As viral infections were shown to induce cytokines production (IL-1b IL-6,
      TNFa and CXCL-8 [IL-8]) in nasal secretions, the expression of these 4 inflammatory markers
      will be profiled using a multiplex cytokine detection kit after LAIV in participants with and
      without CF. The inflammatory signatures will be compared in patients with/without CF and
      with/without respiratory deteriorations.

      Aim 2: Determine LAIV efficacy in preventing shedding of viral strains upon challenge: Using
      the same 75 participants with CF and 45 healthy siblings from aim 1, the investigators will
      compare the proportion of children shedding vaccine strains among the LAIV naïve and LAIV
      experienced. The clinical efficacy will be extrapolated from the efficacy in preventing
      shedding and derived as 1 - (% shedding in LAIV experienced/% shedding in LAIV naïve).

      Aim 3: Assess LAIV safety in patients with CF: Compare the incidence of severe AEFI following
      LAIV in children with CF vaccinated with LAIV during the previous season (n = 70) compared to
      those without prior vaccination with LAIV (n = 45). Using a self-controlled case-series
      design, the investigators will compare the incidence of AEFI during the at-risk period (Day
      1-28 post LAIV) and non at-risk period (Days 29-56). These incidence rate ratios will be
      compared in children with CF who are LAIV experienced and LAIV naïve.

      Methods: The cohort of children with CF will be vaccinated with LAIV and followed for 56 days
      by phone for the development of severe adverse events following immunization (AEFI). Both
      periods (4 weeks) will be monitored using the same methodology: a diary for monitoring of
      symptoms and hospital charts. The cohort of children without CF will be vaccinated with LAIV
      and followed for 8 days by phone (one phone call on day 8) for the development of severe
      AEFIs.

      A subgroup of participants with CF (30 LAIV experienced at MCH and 45 LAIV naïve in BC) and
      45 participants without CF will be recruited to also provide self-procured nasal swabs on day
      0 (before LAIV), and then on days 1,2, 4, and 7 for inflammatory markers and viral shedding.

      Knowledge gained from this project will be used to determine LAIV safety in children with CF,
      a patient population in whom influenza has major health impacts and who could greatly benefit
      from a recommendation for LAIV preferential use. Moreover, the intranasal route of
      administration should make this vaccine more acceptable to patients that need yearly
      vaccination, thereby potentially increasing vaccination coverage. Patients with CF are also
      the population in whom the risk of adverse events with LAIV is the highest, given their
      baseline respiratory condition and inflammatory dysregulation. Therefore, if LAIV is well
      tolerated in this population, the investigators could generalize LAIV preferential use to
      other pediatric populations with chronic conditions.
    
  