
    
      Patients diagnosed with poor ovarian response will be included in the study. The definition
      of poor response was based on the presence of at least one of the following criteria: Age >
      40 years old, day 2 FSH >9.5 mIU/ml, AMH < 2ng/ml ,at least one previous COH with less than 3
      oocytes retrieved, at least one cancelled attempt due to poor response, estradiol less than
      500 pg/ml on the day of HCG. All patients will be counseled regarding their prognosis and
      other treatment options including oocyte donation as well as adoption were also presented and
      discussed in detail. Early follicular phase FSH, estradiol (E2) and Anti-Mullerian Hormone
      (AMH) will be measured prior to the initiation of treatment. Women in the Clomiphene group
      will receive 100-150 mg of Clomiphene citrate once per day for 5 days in combination with
      gonadotropins according to short GnRH-antagonist protocol: all women will have measurements
      of serum FSH and estradiol and a pelvic sonogram on the second day of their cycle. Providing
      that serum FSH is < 17 mIU/ml and estradiol is < 70 pg/ml on day 2 , ovarian stimulation will
      be initiated with 100-150 mg of Clomiphene citrate in combination with 450 IU of
      gonadotropins either in the form of a combination of highly purified urinary FSH and LH or
      with a combination of Rec FSH and Rec LH. All patients will be re-evaluated on day 5 of the
      stimulation, and dosage adjustments will be made and the antagonists (Cetrorelix or ganirelix
      0.25 mg/day) will be initiated. When at least 2 follicles reach an average diameter of 17 mm,
      final oocyte maturation will be triggered with 10,000IU of hCG ( Pregnyl, Organon, Greece
      Inc.). Oocyte retrieval will be performed 34 to 36 hours later. All patients will undergo
      ICSI. Patients with successful fertilization will have embryo transfer under sonographic
      guidance on day 3 after retrieval. Women in the Gonadotropin group will receive only
      gonadotropins according to short GnRH-antagonist protocol as it was mentioned above.
    
  