
    
      Original hypothesis

      A simple Physiology-guided Incremental Optimisation Strategy (PIOS) can increase the
      proportion of patients undergoing PCI in whom a post-PCI FFR ≥0.90 can be achieved from 40%
      to 60%.

      Experimental details and design of proposed investigation

      Overall aim:

      A randomised controlled trial of a physiologly-guided optimisation strategy to determine the
      feasibility of increasing the proportion of post-PCI FFR measurements ≥0.90 in a consecutive
      series of patients undergoing standard PCI procedures.

      Study Population:

      260 consecutive patients with stable angina referred for invasive management to the cardiac
      catheterisation lab who have been selected to undergo PCI based on either angiographic
      appearances or prior FFR assessment. Patients will be caffeine free for >12 hours
      pre-procedure.

      Methods/Design:

      Informed consent will be obtained prior to cardiac catheterisation in all potential subjects
      conforming to the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Patients will then be randomised to one of two groups (described below) and PCI will be
      performed, using a pressure guidewire, according to standard practice at the Golden Jubilee
      National Hospital (including lesion pre-dilation and post-dilation of the stented segment).

      Group 1 (PIOS Group):

      Operator-blinded coronary physiology measurements will be recorded pre and post PCI.

      If the post-PCI FFR is ≥0.90, no further intervention will be performed and the procedure is
      considered complete.

      If post-PCI FFR is <0.90, the result will be disclosed to the operator and a hyperaemic
      pressure wire pullback during a standard peripheral intravenous adenosine infusion
      (140mcg/kg/min) will be performed. Depending on the result the operator would then have the
      following options:

      A. If there is a step-up of ≥0.05 across the stented segment(s) further post-dilatation with
      a 0.25 - 0.50mm larger non-compliant balloon to at least 18 atmospheres should be performed
      followed by repeat FFR. Alternatively, the operator may choose to employ intracoronary
      imaging (IVUS or OCT) to guide post-dilation/optimisation of the stented segment.

      B. If there is a step-up of ≥0.05 across a relatively focal (<20mm) unstented segment which
      is technically suitable for further stenting then a further stent should be implanted
      followed by repeat FFR.

      C. If the FFR remains <0.90 after steps A +/- B, a further FFR pullback will be performed. If
      the criteria for Step B are again met, one additional stent may be deployed and a final FFR
      pullback performed. Following this, the FFR result will be accepted.

      D. If the residual pressure gradient is interpreted to reflect diffuse atherosclerosis with
      no focal step-ups, the result is accepted.

      E. At the end of the procedure the pressure wire sensor will be withdrawn to the tip of the
      guiding catheter and compared with the aortic pressure. A pressure drift of ≤0.03 will be
      accepted and the final FFR result adjusted accordingly.

      F. If there is a drift of ≥0.04, the wire should be re-equalised and the final FFR
      measurement be repeated.

      G. The patients will have their demographics and procedure details recorded. All patients
      will be asked to complete follow-up questionnaires at 3 months.

      Group 2 (Control Group):

      Pre and post-PCI coronary physiology measurements will be recorded but not disclosed to the
      operator. The angiographically defined result will be accepted. The patients will have their
      demographics and procedure details recorded. All patients will be asked to complete follow-up
      questionnaires at 3 months.

      Expected value of results

        1. Confirmation that the proposed PIOS protocol significantly increases the proportion of
           patients obtaining a physiologically optimal post-PCI result will demonstrate the
           feasibility of this strategy and should lead to an increase in post-PCI pressure wire
           usage to achieve physiologically optimal results for patients.

           The investigators hypothesise that the PIOS intervention can increase the proportion of
           patients achieving this target from 40% to 60% and believe that an increment of at least
           this magnitude would be necessary to make a future larger study with both
           patient-oriented clinical (target vessel failure) and health care system (resource
           utilisation) outcomes acceptable to the interventional cardiology community and
           potential funders.

        2. The secondary outcome measures, albeit underpowered for clinical outcomes in this study,
           will hopefully still give a signal that achieving a target post-PCI FFR ≥0.90 does yield
           objective benefits for patients. This could then form the basis for a larger phase 3
           trial to confirm improved clinical outcomes and cost- effectiveness of FFR-targeted PCI
    
  