
    
      After informed consent is obtained, each patient will be started on the study between 72 to
      96 hours of age. Each infant will be assigned via block randomization to an initial
      ventilation mode (PSV+VG or SIMV+VG). Mechanical ventilation will be provided using the
      Dräeger Babylog 8000Ò. Once on study, infants will receive each ventilation mode (PSV+VG and
      SIMV+VG) twice, administered in alternating ninety minute blocks. Ventilator management in
      each mode will be standardized as follows: ventilator rate of 30 breaths per minute, volume
      guarantee of 4-6 cc/kg, inspiratory time of 0.3-0.35 seconds, and positive end-expiratory
      pressure of 5-7 cmH2O. Peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) will be set at 15-20% above the PIP
      needed to achieve the set tidal volume. FiO2 will be maintained to keep oxygen saturation in
      the range of 85-96%. The FiO2 will only be adjusted if the infant's oxygen saturation is
      persistently outside of the target range. End tidal carbon dioxide levels will be obtained at
      two times (30 minutes and 90 minutes) during each study block.

      No laboratory tests will be obtained for this study. However, blood gases may be obtained by
      the NICU care team during the study per their daily care plan, and subsequent ventilator
      changes may be made by the NICU care team if necessary to correct an undesired blood gas
      value.

      All data will be obtained using the pre-existing equipment in place to care for the patient
      prior to this study. This equipment includes the mechanical ventilator, endotracheal tube,
      cardio-respiratory monitor, and blood pressure monitor.

      The key measurements during this study are ventilator variables and physiologic vital signs.
      Ventilator variables include respiratory rate, actual PIP, mean airway pressure, FiO2,
      expiratory tidal volume, minute ventilation, and actual I-time. Vital signs include heart
      rate, oxygen saturation, and blood pressure. Ventilator variables will be continuously
      downloaded from the Dräeger Babylog 8000Ò using BabyviewÒ software. Heart rate and oxygen
      saturation data will be downloaded from the MassimoÒ pulse oximeter. Blood pressure
      measurements will be documented every ten minutes if the infant has an umbilical artery
      catheter (UAC) or percutaneous arterial line (PAL) in place. If the infant does not have an
      UAC or PAL in place prior to the study, blood pressure measurements will be obtained every
      thirty minutes via manual blood pressure cuff.
    
  