
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death in Trinidad and Tobago. There has
      been a 20.4% increase in cardiovascular deaths from 2007 to 2017(1). Prevention of
      non-communicable diseases decreases the burden and progression to cardiovascular disease.
      Prevention of death from cardiovascular disease can also be decreased by early detection,
      intervention and appropriate management of coronary artery disease.

      Due to the burden of the cost of health care on the economy of Trinidad and Tobago, patients
      are required to go on a waitlist to receive specialist medical investigation such as a
      coronary angiogram. This investigation is only offered at one public health facility in
      Trinidad and Tobago, the Eric Williams Medical Sciences Complex.

      Coronary artery disease is graded by a scoring system, the SYNTAX score, which is calculated
      based on the assessment of the complexity of coronary artery disease by coronary angiography
      (2). In a study done on 173 patients- the EYE-MI study, patients with the lowest retinal
      vascular density had a higher SYNTAX score, indicating a direct correlation between retinal
      artery calibre and the severity of coronary artery disease (3).

      Retinal artery calibre is assessed using the Optical Coherence Tomography. It is a relatively
      affordable non-invasive test performed by an Ophthalmologist that allows three dimensional
      imaging of the retinal vasculature. It is recommended by the American Association of
      Ophthalmologist for assessing retinal disease (4). This test is not available in the public
      health care system in Trinidad and Tobago.

      In a country with a Human Capital Index of 0.61 (5), and cardiovascular disease being the
      number one cause of death, a cheaper non-invasive tool to screen for coronary artery disease
      would be of benefit to the population. We postulate that there is a direct correlation
      between the retinal artery calibre assessed by the Optical Coherence Tomography and the
      severity of coronary artery disease. There are not many studies assessing this relationship
      and this study will promote further avenues for research into this correlation.
    
  