
    
      The study will be conducted through four overlapping phases: formative research phase, the
      MFTs deployment phase, the evaluation phase and the post-evaluation phase.

        1. Formative research phase

           1.1 Objective

           Generate baseline information and to develop intervention tools for the pilot
           implementation of MFTs for uncomplicated malaria in the study area.

           1.2 Design

           Cross-sectional surveys using desk reviews, qualitative and quantitative research
           methods:

             -  Individual in-depth Interviews

             -  Focus group discussions

             -  Household surveys for the assessment of malaria-related morbidity and mortality at
                community level as well as the healthcare system utilisation

             -  Health facility-based surveys for malaria morbidity and mortality, antimalarial
                drugs and malaria rapid diagnostic tests availability.

           1.3 Duration

           Six months from obtaining the approval of the ethics committee for health research.

        2. MFTs deployment phase

           2.1 Objective

           Implement the MFTs for uncomplicated malaria in the health district of Kaya that is
           feasible, acceptable and achieve high coverage rate.

           2.2 Drugs deployment

           Study ACTs and respective target populations:

             -  Artesunate-Pyronaridine for children less than five years of age

             -  Artemether-Lumefantrine for pregnant women

             -  Dihydroartemisinin-Piperaquine for individuals five years of age and above

           NB: Community case management of malaria using Artemether-Lumefantrine as per National
           Malaria Control Program recommendation.

           2.3 Duration

           Twelve months including low and high malaria transmission seasons in the study area.

        3. Monitoring and evaluation phase

           3.1 Objectives

           Assess the feasibility, the acceptability, the cost and the effects of the pilot MFTs
           pilot programme for uncomplicated malaria in the health district of Kaya.

           3.2 Design

           Cross-sectional surveys using desk review, qualitative and quantitative research
           methods:

             -  Individual in-depth Interviews

             -  Focus group discussions

             -  Household surveys for the assessment of malaria-related morbidity and mortality at
                community level as well as the healthcare system utilisation

             -  Health facility-based surveys for malaria-related morbidity and mortality, the
                availability and use of antimalarial drugs and malaria rapid diagnostic tests.

             -  Costs assessments.

           3.3 Duration

           Four months.

        4. Post-evaluation phase

      4.1 Objectives

      Communicating and disseminating the findings of the pilot implementation of multiple
      first-lines artemisinin-based combination therapies for uncomplicated malaria in the health
      district of Kaya, Burkina Faso;

      4.2 Methodology

        -  Feedback meetings for reporting to local communities

        -  National workshop aiming at reporting the programme findings

        -  Final report to be submitted to the donor

        -  Oral presentations of findings at congresses, conferences, seminars and publication of
           findings in peer-reviewed scientific journals
    
  