
    
      This is an open, single center, prospective phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy
      and safety of domestic PD1 antibody (Camrelizumab for injection) combined with mFLOT regimen
      in the treatment of unresectable locally advanced or limited metastatic gastric cancer. This
      study will be carried out in our center, about 40 patients will be enrolled.

      Patients with unresectable locally advanced or limited metastatic gastric cancer who had not
      received any prior antitumor therapies were treated with domestic PD1 antibody (Caerelizumab
      for injection) commbined with mFLOT regimen, and human epidermal-growth-factor receptor 2
      (HER-2) positive patients were treated with Herceptin. The efficacy of therapy was evaluated
      every 3 treatment cycles. After 6 cycles, surgical experts evaluated the resectability of the
      tumor, and the patients who were confirmed to be resectable received surgery within 3-6 weeks
      after immunochemotherapy. The patients with good postoperative recovery continued to receive
      the same immunochemotherapy in 3-6 weeks, and totally at most 12 cycles. Patients who were
      evaluated as progressive disease (PD) at any time withdrawn from the study as conversion
      failure.Patients who did not PD at 6 cycles of treatment but did not reach the criteria for
      R0 resection, continued to receive another 3 cycles of the prior chemotherapy. If resectable
      then, surgical treatment was performed, if still unresectable, the immunochemotherapy for
      transformation was evaluated as unsuccessful. The patients were treated according to the
      principle of palliative treatment until the disease progressed or intolerable toxicity. The
      efficacy and safety will be continuously monitored and evaluated throughout the study period
      (including a 30 day follow-up period). 40 cases were expected to be enrolled: 3-4 cases per
      month, completed in 1 year and finished in 2 years.
    
  