
    
      Prostate cancer is considered as a disease with relatively slow natural course and good
      clinical prognosis. Such description, however, does not well refer to intermediate and
      high-risk cases where long-term rate of biochemical progression remains not satisfactory, and
      the available treatment modalities entail a considerable morbidity. Over the last decade
      several competitive therapeutic approaches have evolved in curative treatment for
      intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer. The use of intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      (IMRT) made possible to escalate the total dose to the prostate without excessive toxicity.

      Based on assumption of low value of low α/β value for adenocarcinoma of prostate, there is a
      potential of escalating the biological dose to the tumor with higher dose per fraction.
      High-dose-rate brachytherapy (HDR-BT) is one of the options, with the ability to conform
      radiation dose to the prostate with sharp dose gradient adjacent to critical organs. An
      increasing number of studies suggest its usefulness as a boost in intermediate and high risk
      disease. The randomized trial conducted in UK compared external beam radiotherapy (EBRT)
      alone with EBRT and HDR brachytherapy as a boost. Combining EBRT with HDR BT - boost resulted
      in significantly higher relapse-free-survival (RFS) with comparable incidence of severe late
      toxicity. However, the total dose used in EBRT alone - arm and radiotherapy technique may be
      considered suboptimal according to current standards.

      Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) may be an interesting alternative to HDR brachytherapy,
      not requiring implantation of multiple catheters and anesthesia. SBRT boost for advanced
      localized prostate cancer has the potential to reduce toxicity while escalating the dose.
      First results of trials combining conventional irradiation with hypofractionated stereotactic
      boost and institutional pilot results gave promising outcome.

      The comparison of these modalities of radiation therapy for prostate cancer will be performed
      in the current phase III trial study.
    
  