
    
      The purpose of this project is to see if heritable alterations in the function, biology and
      vascular repair capacity of vascular cells make a major contribution to the burden of
      coronary artery disease (CAD), fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD), and other vascular diseases.

      Patients will be referred for this study by their physician if he/she feels that the patient
      qualifies for entry into the study based upon the Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria and is
      expected by their physician to be a suitable candidate. This will include: 1) patients with
      FMD and non-affected control subjects, 2) patients with early onset CAD in the absence of
      significant CAD risk factors, or matching healthy controls those with ≥2 cardiovascular risk
      factors and no CAD (those with angiographically 'normal' coronary arteries). Also, as an
      extension of this study, patients with rare, undiagnosed or unusual forms of CAD (e.g.
      unexplained dissection, fulminant calcification, aneurysms etc.) and appropriate controls,
      will be recruited, particularly if there is a strong family pedigree.

      This study will include collection of whole blood for subsequent DNA isolation and
      sequencing, a plasma sample, and a skin biopsy. Blood will be handled in a standard fashion
      to obtain DNA from leukocytes and plasma. These will be stored pending later batched
      analysis. Once the skin biopsy tissue is collected, the tissue will be sent to the lab for
      further processing. The initial step is that we will derive fibroblasts from the skin
      biopsies. In brief, the biopsies are washed, cut into small fragments are distributed on a
      culture dish with growth medium and incubated at 37°C. Over the next 4 - 6 weeks, fibroblasts
      progressively grow and can be collected. We may then induce these fibroblasts to undergo
      changes so that they become stem cells (called "induced pluripotent stem cells" or iPSCs).
      Once we have made iPSCs, we can then make endothelial cells (iPSC-ECs), or in fact, many
      other cell types. The cells can be frozen until analysis, or until experiments are done in
      the future. All of the derived cells (fibroblasts, iPSCs and iPSC-ECs) generated under this
      protocol will be kept indefinitely, and may be used for future studies into the causes and
      other aspects of FMD or CAD.

      This study is not concerned with any clinical events after patient enrollment. Only clinical
      events that have occurred prior to enrollment (e.g. prior myocardial infarction, stroke,
      dissection) will be recorded. Once we have obtained these cells, detailed cellular and
      molecular analyses will be performed to study the particular cellular defects that are
      associated with these differing conditions. This data will be combined with the DNA- and
      plasma-derived data in an attempt to define the underlying basis for these disorders.

      As this is not a treatment, no alternative treatment options apply. The subject can decide
      not to participate in the trial. No benefit can be promised to any subject in this study. The
      information gained may benefit others with the same condition.
    
  