
    
      Clusterin, known as apolipoprotein J, sulphated glycoprotein-2 or testosterone - repressed
      prostate message-2.

      It plays important roles in several pathophysiological processes, including tissue
      remodelling, lipid transport, reproduction, complement regulation and apoptotic cell death .

      As clusterin expression is markedly upregulated in various normal and malignant tissues
      undergoing apoptosis, it has been regarded as a marker for cell death.

      There is a conflicting findings concerning the relationship between elevated clusterin
      expression and enhanced induction of apoptosis; that is, clusterin has appeared to have a
      powerful anti-apoptotic function through a chaperone-like activity.

      In addition to the anti-apoptotic activity, seminal clusterin was reported to promote a
      tolerogenic response to male antigens, thereby contributing to female tolerance to seminal
      antigens.

      In the testis, clusterin is secreted by Sertoli cells into the fluid of the seminiferous
      epithelium and deposited onto the membranes of elongating spermatids and mature spermatozoa.

      To date, however, there has been little information with respect to the functional roles of
      clusterin in the male reproductive tract under physiological conditions.

      In particular, it remains controversial as to whether or not clusterin helps assist the
      normal spermatogenesis.

      Nonobstructive azoospermia (NOA) males are characterised by impaired spermatogenesis.

      Although NOA patients have impaired global spermatogenic function, focal areas of
      spermatogenesis may still exist in their testes.

      Focal spermatogenesis could possibly be obtained by testicular sperm extraction (TESE)
      technique .

      A number of factors have been suggested to be of predictive value for patients with a good
      chance to retrieve sperm cell such as testicular volume, serum FSH levels , serum total
      testosterone and serum inhibin B levels.
    
  