
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The present study was preceded by the earlier San Antonio Heart Study 1 supported under this
      grant. The San Antonio Heart Study 1 was a population-based survey of diabetes and
      cardiovascular risk factors in Mexican American and non-Hispanic whites conducted from 1979
      to 1982. Participants included all men and non-pregnant women ages 24 to 64, who resided in
      households randomly sampled from three socio-culturally distinct neighborhoods of San
      Antonio. The low-income barrio residents were almost exclusively traditional
      Mexican-Americans. The middle-income neighborhood was ethnically balanced with equal numbers
      of Mexican Americans and Anglos whereas the upper income suburb was approximately 90 percent
      Anglo. Risk factors measured included obesity, glucose intolerance, hypertriglyceridemia, low
      levels of high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and blood pressure. The total number of
      people who were examined medically was 2,386, divided as follows: 1,288 Mexican Americans;
      929 Anglos; and 169 other Hispanics such as Cubans. The San Antonio Heart Study was designed
      to test the hypothesis that as Mexican Americans became progressively more affluent and
      acculturated to 'mainstream' United States culture, they would gradually lose their diabetic
      pattern of cardiovascular risk factors of obesity, diabetes, and hypertriglyceridemia.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Beginning in 1979, a random sample was conducted to select participants. Sampling was
      performed to match the two groups on obesity, thereby enabling an analysis of the ethnic
      differences in diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors independent of the confounding
      effects of obesity. For those selected, an interview and medical examination were conducted
      in a mobile clinic. The interview consisted of a personal and family history of diabetes and
      cardiovascular risk, knowledge of and attitudes towards cardiovascular risk factors, dietary
      questionnaire, Rose Angina questionnaire, intermittent claudication questionnaire, and
      medication history. The medical examination consisted of anthropometric measurements, plasma
      glucose, plasma insulin, hemoglobin, serum cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and VLDL,
      genetic markers, blood pressure, skin color and electrocardiogram. It was estimated that 400
      diabetics would be available over the four years of the study to permit a Diabetic Recall
      Examination. The purpose of the Diabetic Recall Examination was to assess possible end-organ
      complications of diabetes involving the eye, kidney, peripheral and autonomic nervous
      systems, and the peripheral vascular system. The assessment provided baseline data on
      diabetics which was used for a prospective incidence study. Beginning in 1989, a prevalence
      survey of type II diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular risk factors was conducted in a
      low-income barrio in Mexico City. Information collected on this population included
      demographic data, socioeconomic status, level of acculturation, medical history, diet,
      exercise, and smoking. The physical examination included measurements of blood pressure,
      obesity, body fat distribution, and skin color. The laboratory examination included
      measurements of lipids and lipoproteins, oral glucose tolerance tests, fasting and
      post-glucose load insulin concentrations and genetic markers.

      Beginning in FY 1989, Michael Stern and associates carried out an epidemiologic study of type
      II diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular risk factors in a low-income barrio of Mexico City
      and compared results to those obtained in San Antonio. They recruited and interviewed
      subjects for data on demographics, socioeconomic status, level of acculturation, medical
      history, health habits including diet, physical exercise, and smoking. The physical
      examination included blood pressure, obesity, body fat distribution, skin color, the latter
      to estimate percent Native American genetic admixture. The laboratory examination included
      measurements of lipids and lipoproteins, an oral glucose tolerance test to determine the
      prevalence of diabetes according to the National Diabetes Data Group criteria, fasting and
      post-glucose load insulin concentrations, and genetic markers.

      The study was renewed in 1996 through August, 2001. A 3.25 year followup examination (FU1) of
      a cohort of 2,296 Mexican men and women, ages 35-64 years at baseline, was completed. The
      cohort was re-examined at 3.25-year intervals (6.5 years (FU2) and 9.75 years (FU3) after
      baseline). The investigators tested the hypothesis that different risk factors would prevail
      in the early (more than 3.25 years prior to conversion to diabetes) than in the late (3.25
      years or less prior to conversion) prediabetic period. They hypothesized that in the early
      prediabetic period risk factors associated with the Insulin Resistance Syndrome would
      predominate, i.e., high "specific" insulin concentration (measured by a specific
      immunoassay), hypertriglyceridemia, low HDL-cholesterol, and hypertension, whereas in the
      late prediabetic period factors associated with insulin secretory failure, i.e., increased
      proinsulin and low "specific" insulin, would predominate.

      Michael Stern and associates assessed carotid wall thickness by ultrasonography on all
      subjects at FU1 and planned to repeat this at FU2. They measured advanced glycation
      endproduct (AGE)-modified apolipoprotein B and a panel of inflammatory risk factors (serum
      albumin, serum amyloid A, alpha1-acid glycoprotein, and C-reactive protein) on stored
      contingency specimens from baseline and FU1 in order to determine if these factors predicted
      accelerated thickening of carotid walls and/or the development of type II diabetes. They also
      quantified the extent to which carotid wall thickness and ECG documented myocardial
      infarction preceded clinical diabetes as predicted by the "common soil" hypothesis, i.e., the
      hypothesis that both type II diabetes and atherosclerosis have common genetic and
      environmental antecedents.
    
  