
    
      This study will investigate the use of linguistic deficits through a computational diagnostic
      model for the prediction of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and Probable Alzheimer's disease
      (PrAD) from speech samples (verbal utterances). The premise is that MCI and PrAD are
      characterized by the deterioration of nerve cells that control cognitive speech and language
      processes, which consequently affects how patients compose verbal utterances. As the Amyloid
      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan is making advances in giving confirmatory evidence of
      the existence of plaques in the brain, there is the opportunity to investigate whether the
      result of the scan would confirm the effectiveness of a less expensive and less intrusive
      diagnostic technique. In this study, participants of a previous IRB approved study on Imaging
      Dementia-Evidence for Amyloid Scanning (IDEAS) who consent to participate in the new study
      will be requested to perform a basic descriptive task. The main task to be done by the
      participants is to verbally describe the scenes on a projected image, while their verbal
      utterances will be recorded via an audio recorder. The descriptive task is expected to take
      between 10 to 15 minutes on average. Participants will be required to describe the scenes on
      the projected Cookie-Theft image (http://www.amyspeechlanguagetherapy.com/thecookie-
      theft-picture.html). The image is part of the Provide a brief but thorough description of the
      study. What is the study about? This does not need to contain a summary of background
      literature. It should just summarize the study itself. Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination
      (BDAE-3) and it is adapted in our study for the purpose of capturing the complexity in the
      linguistic expression similar to the DementiaBank project
      (https://talkbank.org/media/DementiaBank/Pitt/cookie/). Note that we are NOT conducting any
      psychological examination using the BDAE-3, we have only referenced the source of the
      Cookie-Theft image, which is publicly available for research and has been used for decades.
      An example of the task is demonstrated in this video:
      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1NB8wBBguMg. The transcripts of the recorded interview will
      be analyzed by our proposed computational model to detect the presence of Mild Cognitive
      Impairment or probable Alzheimer's disease. Finally, the IDEAS study PET scan data would be
      used in conjunction with the transcripts of the recorded interview to compare the results of
      the linguistic analysis of the transcript with those of the PET scan in making Mild Cognitive
      Impairment or probable Alzheimer's Disease diagnoses.
    
  