
    
      Background and Significance: Community Health Centers (CHCs) are the nation's largest and
      fastest growing network of primary care (PC) clinics. There are 1,200 CHCs that provide
      clinical services to 21 million Americans. Almost half (49%) of CHC patients live in rural
      areas, 72% live at or below the Federal Poverty Level (100%), 67% are racial/ethnic
      minorities, and 36% are uninsured. Nationally, over one million CHC patients are diagnosed
      with a psychiatric disorder and the need for mental health (MH) services is increasing
      exponentially, with a 547% increase in CHC patients with a psychiatric diagnosis between 2001
      and 2012. CHCs located in rural areas face the greatest challenges to managing psychiatric
      disorders due to the lack of MH specialists on staff and weak linkages between CHCs and MH
      specialists in the community. Because rural, minority, low income CHC patients face
      insurmountable geographical, cultural and financial barriers to specialty MH care, many of
      their PC providers feel obligated, yet unprepared, to manage complex psychiatric disorders
      like posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and Bipolar Disorder (BD). PTSD and BD are
      devastating psychiatric disorders that often go undetected and untreated in PC. Most patients
      do not receive effective specialty MH care for these problems and the care provided in PC
      settings is often poor and ineffective. Patients with PTSD and BD have significantly worse
      educational attainment, lower family, social, and occupational functioning, and significantly
      lower quality of life. Comparative effectiveness research is needed to guide policy makers
      about how to best manage the growing demand for MH services in CHCs.

      Study Aims: The central question addressed by this mixed-methods pragmatic comparative
      effectiveness trial is whether it is better to expand the scope of collaborative care
      programs to treat patients with more complex psychiatric disorders or to facilitate
      successful referrals to specialty mental health care. The primary objective of this trial is
      to compare Telepsychiatry Collaborative Care (TCC) and Telepsychiatry Enhanced Referral (TER)
      from the patient and provider perspective. The secondary objective is to determine whether
      patients not engaging to TER, improve with Phone-Psychiatry Enhanced Referral (PER). There
      are four specific aims. Specific Aim #1: To quantitatively compare the treatment experience,
      engagement, self-reported clinical outcomes, and recovery-oriented outcomes of patients
      initially randomized to TCC and TER. Specific Aim #2: For the subset of patients randomized
      to TER who do not engage in treatment and are still symptomatic at 6 months, quantitatively
      compare treatment experience, treatment engagement, self-reported clinical outcomes and
      recovery-oriented outcomes of patients randomized to continued-TER or PER. Specific Aim #3:
      To gain an in-depth understanding of patients' and providers' treatment experience,
      qualitatively compare those randomized to TCC, TER and PER. Specific Aim #4: To examine
      treatment heterogeneity among subgroups of patients randomized to TCC and TER based on
      race/ethnicity, age and clinical severity.

      Study Description: The study will be conducted in 15 CHC systems located in the states of
      Arkansas, Michigan and Washington. These 15 CHC treat 294,645 adult patients living in rural
      areas; 96.1% live in poverty and 53% are racial/ethnic minorities. Participating clinics will
      screen patients for PTSD and BD and patients screening positive will be recruited. We will
      enroll 1,000 patients (500 with PTSD and 500 with BD). A Sequential, Multiple Assignment,
      Randomized Trial (SMART) design will be used to compare TCC and TER, and to determine whether
      patients not engaging to TER improve with PER. Specifically, patients not engaging to TER by
      six months will be randomized a second time to either continued-TER or PER. Patients
      randomized to TCC will meet with an offsite telepsychiatrist consultant via interactive video
      at the beginning of treatment who will assign an accurate diagnosis and provide treatment
      recommendations for the PC providers who will retain primary responsibility for treatment. In
      addition, PC providers will be supported by onsite care managers who will conduct patient
      outreach to foster proactive communications between an activated informed patient and a
      coordinated care team. Patient randomize to TER will remain in the PC setting, but receive
      ongoing pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy from offsite MH specialists via interactive video.
      Patients not engaging and responding to TER who are randomized to PER will receive ongoing
      treatment from offsite MH specialists via phone in the comfort of their own home. We will use
      a pragmatic trial design, with broad inclusion criteria (screening positive for PTSD or BD)
      and limited exclusion criteria (already engaged in specialty MH care). Intervention fidelity
      will be measured, but not controlled. Patient engagement will also be measured, but not
      required, and intent to treat analysis will be conducted. Patients will be the unit of
      randomization. Mixed quantitative and qualitative methods will be used to assess
      self-reported outcomes. All patients will be administered surveys at baseline, 6 and 12
      months by telephone to minimize patient burden and attrition. A sub-sample of patients will
      be invited to participate in qualitative interviews to describe their treatment experience
      using their own words. Likewise, PC providers will be invited to participate in qualitative
      interviews to voice their perspective. The primary outcome will be patient self-reported
      health related quality of life. Secondary outcomes include access to care, therapeutic
      alliance with providers, patient-centeredness, patient activation, satisfaction with care,
      appointment attendance, medication adherence, self-reported clinical symptoms, medication
      side-effects, and progress towards life goals.
    
  