
    
      Laparoscopic bariatric surgery poses special demands on the anaesthesiologist as well as the
      surgeon. The surgeon requires good visualisation of the operative field while the
      anaesthesiologist is concerned with adequate postoperative respiratory function in these
      morbidly obese patients. With the advent of advanced laparoscopic techniques the time span
      between adequate neuromuscular blockade (NMB) and adequate postoperative recovery of
      respiratory muscle function is growing ever shorter with an increasing risk of postoperative
      residual NMB.

      Even minimal postoperative residual NMB with a train of four ratio (TOF) of 0.8 is associated
      with impaired respiratory function as witnessed in reductions of forced expiratory volume in
      1 second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) in healthy volunteers. Moreover, a TOF < 0.7
      correlates with increased postoperative respiratory complications due to the inability to
      swallow normally leading to aspiration, atelectasis and pneumonia. However, neuromuscular
      blocking agents not only impair respiratory function due to skeletal muscle relaxation. Also
      the body's response to hypoxia is impeded due to carotid body chemoreceptor suppression.
      Worryingly, reversal of NMB with neostigmine can lead to respiratory complications such as
      bronchospasm and even induce neuromuscular transmission failure in patients who already
      recovered from NMB.

      Obese patients are at even greater risk for postoperative respiratory complications. In a
      recent study after bariatric surgery, 100% of patients had at least one hypoxic event (oxygen
      saturation <90% more then 30seconds). Restrictive ventilatory defects are clearly associated
      with body mass index (BMI) and obesity hypoventilation syndrome. Since respiratory failure is
      responsible for 11.8% of mortalities after bariatric surgery, optimal respiratory care for
      these patients is primordial. Optimal reversal of NMB plays an important role herein. With
      the advent of Sugammadex, a cyclodextrin molecule that encapsulates and inactivates
      rocuronium and vecuronium, rapid and dose-dependent reversal of profound NMB by high dose
      rocuronium is possible without the risk of impaired upper airway dilator muscle activity when
      given after recovery from NMB.

      Furthermore, little is known about the cerebral tissue oxygen saturation (SctO2) in these
      morbidly obese patients during laparoscopic gastric bypass surgery. Since the unexpected
      finding that NMB influences hypoxic ventilatory response, more research is needed into the
      effect of neuromuscular blockers and their reversing agents on cerebral oxygenation. Using
      near infrared spectroscopy (Fore-sight®) technology absolute brain tissue oxygenation can be
      quantified to study these effects.

      In this study we wish to investigate if a deep neuromuscular block with a continuous infusion
      of rocuronium titrated to a post-tetanic count (PTC) of 1-2 responses combined with reversal
      of NMB with sugammadex results in:

      i. Improved surgical conditions for the surgeon ii. Improved post-operative respiratory
      function for the patients

      as compared to a standard technique with an intubation dose of rocuronium and top-ups as
      needed to maintain a NMB with a TOF count of 1-2 and reversal of NMB with
      neostigmine/glycopyrrolate.

      Furthermore, we wish to investigate the effect of pneumoperitoneum, and NMB with rocuronium
      and reversal with Sugammadex or neostigmine/glycopyrrolate on cerebral tissue oxygenation.
    
  