
    
      The PRIMARY objective of this open-label Phase III clinical trial is to compare the
      effectiveness of a three-month (12-dose) regimen of weekly rifapentine and isoniazid
      (3RPT/INH) to the effectiveness of a nine-month (270-dose) regimen of daily isoniazid (9INH)
      to prevent tuberculosis (TB) among high-risk tuberculin skin-test reactors, including
      children and HIV-infected persons, who require treatment of latent TB infection (LTBI). The
      3RPT/INH regimen will be given under direct observation and the 9INH regimen will be
      self-administered.

      SECONDARY Objectives:

        -  Compare the rates of drug discontinuation due to adverse drug reactions associated with
           3RPT/INH and 9INH.

        -  Compare the rates of drug discontinuation for any reason associated with 3RPT/INH and
           9INH.

        -  Compare the rates of any grade 3, 4, or 5 drug toxicity associated with 3RPT/INH and
           9INH.

        -  Compare treatment completion rates of 3RPT/INH and 9INH. Compare the efficacy (i.e.,
           among persons who complete study-phase therapy) of 3RPT/INH and 9INH.

        -  Compare the effectiveness and tolerability of 3RPT/INH and 9INH in HIV-infected persons.

        -  Compare the effectiveness and tolerability of 3RPT/INH and 9INH in children < 18 years
           old.

        -  Compare the rates of methadone withdrawal associated with 3RPT/INH and 9INH among
           persons concomitantly receiving methadone.

        -  Describe patterns of antibiotic resistance among M. tuberculosis isolates in patients
           who develop TB despite treatment of latent infection.

      Amendment of the study protocol to allow extension of enrollment to children < 12 years old
      and HIV-infected persons:

      For assessment of the primary outcome, development of TB, a sample size of approximately
      4,000 persons per arm will be required. To assess tolerability (one of the secondary
      outcomes) in sub-groups, children less than 12 years old and HIV-infected persons, a sample
      size of 644 per strata will be required. A sample size of 8,053 patients for the primary
      outcome was reached on February 15, 2008 (with expected follow-up completion time in 2010),
      leaving approximately 454 additional young children and 200 HIV-infected persons to be
      enrolled to achieve the targets of 644 for each group. The additional data on tolerability in
      those sub-groups will available for analysis in 2013.
    
  