
    
      -  This phase Ib study is combining standard chemoradiotherapy with weekly cisplatin and
           BKM120 to assess tolerability of this combination in high risk patients with locally
           advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN). The investigators will
           also obtain preliminary information about the efficacy of this treatment.

        -  The participant will receive the study drug buparlisib once daily, by mouth, for 45
           days. The participant will be given a study drug-dosing diary for each cycle. It will
           include special instructions for taking the study drug at home.

        -  The investigators are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be
           administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects, not everyone who
           participates in this research study will receive the same dose of the study drug. The
           dose given will depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled in the study
           before and how well they have tolerated their doses.

        -  All participants will receive weekly cisplatin injection. Cisplatin will be given
           intra-venously (IV) on days: (1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36 and 43) at DFCI.

        -  All participants will receive daily radiotherapy with intensity-modulated radiotherapy
           (IMRT) for 7 weeks, delivered at DFCI. IMRT is a type of 3-dimensional radiation therapy
           that uses computer-generated images to show the size and shape of the tumor. Thin beams
           of radiation of different intensities are aimed at the tumor from many angles. This type
           of radiation therapy reduces the damage to healthy tissue near the tumor.

        -  The investigators would like to keep track of the participant's medical condition.
           Follow-up will continue every 4 to 12 weeks after the end of treatment for the first
           year and at the investigator's discretion thereafter.
    
  