
    
      -  To determine whether a Phase III trial of acupuncture for postoperative recovery after
           colorectal surgery is warranted as defined by evidence of reduction of postoperative
           ileus when compared to sham acupuncture.

        -  To explore whether acupuncture reduces the length of hospital stay more than sham
           acupuncture

        -  To explore whether acupuncture improves patient satisfaction with the hospital
           experience by ameliorating other postoperative symptoms such as pain and nausea and
           vomiting.

        -  To determine the feasibility of a Phase III trial in terms of sample size, accrual rate,
           attrition rate and data completion.

      Postoperative ileus contributes to prolonged hospital stay, readmission and postoperative
      morbidities in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. Reduction of postoperative ileus
      is important in postoperative recovery. Postoperative pain may require opioids, which further
      reduce gastrointestinal (GI) motility. Postoperative nausea and vomiting hamper the
      resumption of oral intake. Together, these three common postoperative problems contribute to
      patient discomfort, delayed discharge and increased overall hospitalization costs, despite
      current multi-modal management options. Any safe and effective therapy in addition to current
      standard of care would be welcomed by patients, surgeons and hospitals.

      Acupuncture is a complementary medicine modality shown to reduce postoperative pain, suppress
      nausea and vomiting, and promote GI motility. It is associated with few adverse events. Here
      we propose a randomized, sham controlled phase II study to evaluate acupuncture, in addition
      to conventional therapy, for its safety and effectiveness in improving postoperative recovery
      of colorectal cancer patients undergoing segmental or subtotal colectomy. The overall
      objective of this developmental project is to determine whether a more extended research
      project is warranted.

      The specific aims are:

        -  To determine whether a Phase III trial of acupuncture for postoperative recovery after
           colorectal surgery is warranted as defined by evidence for a reduction of postoperative
           ileus when compared to sham acupuncture. Hypothesis: acupuncture promotes upper and
           lower GI motility in patients experiencing postoperative ileus after colectomy more than
           sham acupuncture.

        -  To explore whether acupuncture improves patient satisfaction with the hospital
           experience by ameliorating other postoperative symptoms such as pain and nausea and
           vomiting. Hypothesis 2a: acupuncture reduces postoperative pain more than placebo in
           colectomy patients; 2b: acupuncture reduces postoperative nausea and vomiting more than
           placebo in colectomy patients.

        -  To determine the feasibility of a phase III trial in terms of sample size, accrual rate,
           attrition rate and data completion. Hypothesis 3: a phase III study of acupuncture in
           the treatment of post-colectomy ileus in cancer patients is feasible.
    
  