
    
      All patients served by the SMART clinic in UK Psychiatry will be invited to complete an
      online survey to assess for lifetime history of trauma, current PTSD symptoms perceptions of
      how patients' trauma history and PTSD symptoms are related to their substance use (e.g., do
      they perceive there to be a connection) and other mental health problems, whether patients
      have received treatment directly focused on trauma and/or PTSD symptoms and if so how helpful
      they perceived this treatment to be, and patient interest in receiving additional individual
      trauma-focused treatment as part of their care within the SMART program.

      Patients indicating interest in trauma-focused treatment will be provided with additional
      details regarding the purpose of the pilot trial to obtain patient feedback regarding their
      impressions of the 12-session COPE intervention, and feedback regarding how the treatment
      could be modified to better meet the needs of patients in the UK Psychiatry SMART Program and
      other MAT programs. Information regarding patient recovery is collected and retained within
      an internal database within the SMART program to track patient recovery services week-to-week
      as part of routine clinical services. This database is retained on secured computer systems
      within the clinic. The investigators will seek permission from participants to draw the
      following historical information from this database and link it to the survey responses they
      provide as part of this research study to allow us to examine whether the following clinical
      factors differ as a function of trauma history or PTSD symptoms:

        -  Dates of scheduled and attended visits (length and frequency of care)

        -  Results of urine drug screens

        -  Weekly report of substance use, mental health, physical pain, and recovery activities
           (See attached Recovery Update Form)

        -  Medications patients are taking

        -  Emergency department visits or hospitalizations since beginning treatment In addition,
           patients with probable PTSD on the PCL-5 who express interest in participating in the
           pilot trial will be invited to complete clinical interviews at baseline to assess for
           PTSD diagnosis/severity and co-occurring conditions that would contraindicate
           participation in the treatment portion of the study (i.e., schizophrenia or other
           psychotic disorders, current manic episode, acute suicidal ideation with intent). A
           total of 6 patients with a current diagnosis of PTSD (who are deemed not at high risk
           for suicide, have been actively engaged in MAT for at least 4 weeks, and are determined
           to be medically stable) will be invited to participate in the pilot trial. Eligible
           patients will then complete additional baseline interviews to assess substance use
           frequency/quantity, SUD and depression diagnoses, and qualitative information regarding
           participants' beliefs regarding the role of trauma and PTSD symptoms in their recovery,
           satisfaction with prior treatment experience, and expectations regarding their
           experience with COPE.

      The treatment part of the study will utilize a randomized, non-concurrent multiple baseline
      design across participants. This is a form of single-case experimental design that provides a
      time and cost-effective method of evaluating initial efficacy or effectiveness of an
      intervention while controlling for the passage of time and repeated assessment in small
      numbers of patients. Patients will be randomized to either a 4- (n=3) or 6-week (n =3)
      baseline assessment phase where weekly self-report measures of PTSD symptoms will be
      completed prior to initiating the COPE treatment. Randomizing to varying baseline periods
      enables assessments of whether symptoms change (only or more rapidly) when the COPE
      intervention is applied (i.e., each participant acts as their own control). This design
      allows for causal inferences and controls for many threats to internal validity. Dr. Badour
      (PI) will train and supervise clinical psychology doctoral student therapists in delivery of
      the COPE intervention. Patients will meet with an independent assessor at three points
      throughout the treatment (3 visits at baseline, 1 visit after session 6, and 2 visits after
      session 12) to assess symptoms and to provide both quantitative and qualitative feedback
      regarding their preferences and perspective on the treatment (e.g., treatment credibility,
      clarity and applicability of material, patient satisfaction, therapeutic alliance) and ways
      the content could be modified to better fit their needs. At the session 12 assessment,
      interview measures of PTSD and depression symptoms will be repeated to assess symptom change.
      Self-report symptoms of PTSD and depression will be administered weekly throughout treatment.
      MAT adherence and substance use will be monitored as part of routine clinical procedures in
      the SMART program using the attached Recovery Update Form. As not all patients are seen
      weekly at the SMART Program, the Recovery Update Form will be administered by the research
      team on weeks when patients do not have regular clinic visits. The addition of up to two
      "stressor" sessions (for 14 total possible sessions) will be offered. Content of these
      sessions will be allowed to deviate from the protocol to address current stressors that arise
      during the course of treatment. A previous psychotherapy trial found that this modification
      increases flexibility in PTSD treatment without sacrificing efficacy, and is more in line
      with a patient-centered approach to treatment. With the exception of the addition of COPE,
      MAT and other therapeutic programming will continue per normal (e.g., group medication
      management, ongoing therapy groups, case management). Clinical and demographic data collected
      by providers in the course of treatment will be obtained and examined for its relevance to
      illness course and treatment outcome.
    
  