
    
      Communication between health care providers is an important factor for the continuity of
      patient care. In the medical records, narrative components, such as clinical notes become
      important for this purpose. The inappropriate use of features , such as copy & paste,
      produces "unreadable" documents, with redundant information, reducing the quality of them.
      Within this framework, it is essential to assess the quality of clinical notes to implement
      mechanisms to improve it.

      This study proposes to make a Spanish version of the Physician Documentation Quality
      Instrument (PDQI9) The original instrument evaluates the characteristics of a good quality
      clinical note for the purpose of physician communication. Due to a measuring instrument
      should be reliable and valid, not only for the original research population, and the score
      will be used in a different country, language and culture it is necessary a cross-cultural
      validation of the score.

      The objective is to do a cross-cultural adaptation and validation of the Spanish version of
      "PDQI9" score, analyzing the use of PDQI-9 in a different language (Spanish), in an
      institution of different size (Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires), with a different
      Electronic Health Record (EHR).

      The process of cross-cultural validation involves two phases: the first phase is the
      translation and cross-cultural adaptation of the instrument. This phase will produce a
      Spanish version of the score and involves an expert panel of internal medicine physicians and
      a group of internal medicine physicians for the pilot evaluation.

      The second phase evaluates the reliability and validity of the Spanish version. This phase
      includes internal consistency, intra-rater reliability, inter-rater reliability and the
      evaluation of the criterion validity of the adapted instrument. The validity of the adapted
      instrument will be measured comparing the score results with the Gold Standard represented by
      an expert committee. For every phase, the clinical notes (admission notes, progress notes and
      discharge summaries) will be randomly and stratified selected.
    
  