
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Chronic congestive heart failure (CHF), caused by left ventricular dysfunction (LVD), is a
      major cause of morbidity and mortality. CHF is the major form of cardiovascular disease that
      is increasing in prevalence, LVD progresses from an asymptomatic phase to a severe
      symptomatic phase. Recent clinical trials have proven that angiotensin converting enzyme
      inhibitor reduced mortality, morbidity, and disease progression in asymptomatic patients with
      objectively measured LVD. However, available estimates of LVD prevalence are based on
      symptomatic patients, not on objectively measured ventricular function parameters. The
      distributions of ventricular function parameters in the United States population are unknown.
      Since the prevalence of objectively measured asymptomatic LVD is unknown, the total number of
      patients with LVD who could benefit from medical therapy is also not known. Furthermore,
      screening techniques to identify persons with treatable asymptomatic LVD have not been
      evaluated in a population-based setting. The plasma concentration of n-atrial natriuretic
      peptide (n-ANP) is a marker for the presence of asymptomatic LVD that may be a valuable
      screening tool for asymptomatic LVD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a population-based study of the distribution of ventricular function parameters in
      2,050 adult residents of Olmsted County, MN and, in collaboration with the Strong Heart
      study, in 1,522 adult Northern Plains American Indians. This group of Northern Plains Indians
      is at increased risk for LVD, having a higher prevalence of cardiovascular disease than the
      general United States population. Subjects undergo echocardiography to measure ventricular
      function parameters, as well as a clinical assessment of symptoms, signs and risk factors for
      LVD. Plasma concentration of n-ANP are measured in these populations to determine the
      accuracy of n-ANP as a noninvasive marker for asymptomatic LVD. These studies provide:
      comparative population-based estimates of ventricular function parameters and LVD in Olmsted
      County and Northern Plains Indians; estimates of the magnitude of the population of patients
      that could benefit from current therapy; current data on risk factors for prevalent CAD in
      these populations; a foundation upon which future studies of incidence and clinical course of
      asymptomatic LVD could be based. They also assess the accuracy of plasma n-ANP in
      identification of asymptomatic LVD.

      The study was renewed in May 2001 and will end in March 2005. Studies continue on testing the
      hypotheses: that abnormalities of left ventricular systolic/diastolic function and left
      ventricular structure worsen over time; that increasing plasma brain natriuretic peptide is
      associated with progressive change of left ventricular structure and function; and that
      abnormal left ventricular structure/function and brain natriuretic peptide are associated
      with incident clinical events.
    
  