
    
      The long-term consequences of critical illness and intensive care unit (ICU) hospitalization
      in ICU survivors are profound and include cognitive, physical, and functional impairments.
      The purpose of this study is to pilot test a multi-component, cognitive and physical
      rehabilitation program beginning in the ICU, combined with a 12-week home-based cognitive
      rehabilitation program following hospital discharge to determine whether participation in a
      rehabilitation program will result in improved outcomes among ICU survivors. The study will
      rely on a randomized controlled clinical trial design, with patients assigned to one of three
      groups: a "usual care" control group, an early physical activity group (without cognitive
      therapy), or an early cognitive therapy and physical activity group. All individuals in the
      intervention groups will receive protocolized physical therapy while hospitalized. In
      addition, individuals in the early cognitive therapy and physical activity group will receive
      cognitive therapy starting in the ICU and continuing for 12 weeks once a patient leaves the
      hospital. In-home visits will occur every other week during the 12-week intervention period.

      The study's primary outcome is executive functioning (e.g. ability to plan, organize,
      multi-task) at 3-months following hospital discharge as measured by the Tower Test, a
      psychometric tool evaluating executive abilities. This has been chosen due to the fact that
      available research points to the presence of significant deficits in executive functioning
      among ICU survivors. Secondary outcomes include global cognitive function, physical function
      and Health Related Quality of Life by assessing scores on the following measures: Katz's ADL,
      Functional Activities Questionnaire, AD8, Short-Informant Questionnaire of Cognitive Decline
      in the Elderly, Clinical Dementia Rating Scale (if performed), Timed Up & Go test,
      Mini-Mental State Exam, Dysexecutive Questionnaire, Activities-Specific Balance Confidence
      Scale, Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function, Behavior Pain Inventory, Trails A & B
      test, Repeatable Battery for Assessment of Neuropsychological Status, General Employment
      Questionnaire, Beck Depression Inventory II, Post-traumatic stress checklist, Short Form 36,
      Canadian Study of Health and Aging and patient weight, and Tower Test score at 12 month
      follow-up. We will also track readmission to the hospital and admission to a nursing home or
      skilled rehabilitation facility as secondary outcomes during the 12-month follow-up period.
      The study duration will include 1 year of enrollment and 1 year for study completion
      following enrollment of the final patient.
    
  