
    
      Part I:

      Interview:

      If you agree to take part in this study, while you are at the clinic for a visit, you will be
      interviewed about skin problems and other symptoms that you have had since you began
      experiencing skin problems. The interview should take about 30 minutes to complete.

      Part I:

      Questionnaires:

      After the interview, you will be asked to answer a general symptom questionnaire, a
      quality-of-life questionnaire, a skin-specific questionnaire, and some demographic questions
      (such as your age and marital status). It should take about 15 minutes to complete all 4
      questionnaires.

      Part II:

      Symptom Questionnaires:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete a questionnaire about skin
      problems and other symptoms you are having. This symptom questionnaire will ask you to rate
      how severe your skin problems and other symptoms are and how the skin problems and other
      symptoms affect the activities of your daily life. It should take about 5 minutes to
      complete. You will complete the questionnaire at a routine clinic visit every 2 weeks for 1
      year. If you do not have a clinic visit every 2 weeks, you will be called by an automated
      phone system so you may complete the questionnaire at least 1 time every 2 weeks.

      You can decide what time is most convenient for the automated phone system to call you. If
      you are not available when the automated system calls, it will call you again at a later
      time. You will be given a secure user name and identification number to use with the
      automated phone system. The study staff will teach you how to use the automated phone system.

      Two (2) days after you begin the study, you will fill out the symptom questionnaire again.
      You will take home a paper copy of the questionnaire with you from the clinic with a
      pre-addressed, stamped envelope given to you by the research staff so you can return it. The
      research staff will also ask for your telephone number so that they may contact you and
      remind you to complete the questionnaire.

      Quality-of-Life/Demographic Questionnaires:

      At the first visit, you will also be asked some demographic questions (such as your age and
      employment status). Answering these questions should take about 1 minute. Some of these
      questions (such as employment status) will be repeated at regular clinic visits. You will not
      be asked to do this more often than every 3-5 weeks.

      At the first visit and at regular clinic visits, you will also rate your overall
      quality-of-life. This should take about 1 minute to complete. You will not be asked to do
      this more often than every 3-5 weeks.

      At the first visit and at regular clinic visits, you will be asked to complete a second
      questionnaire that asks specific questions about how problems with your skin affect the
      quality of your life. This should take about 5 minutes to complete. You will not be asked to
      do this more often than every 3-5 weeks.

      Opinion Questionnaire:

      If you are 1 of the first 20 participants enrolled in Part 2 of this study, you will be asked
      questions about your opinion of the symptom questionnaire after you have completed it for the
      first time. For example, you will be asked if the symptom questionnaire was easy to
      understand and complete, and if there were any other questions that should be included. The
      study staff will use your opinion to decide if changes should be made to the questionnaire or
      if important symptom questions are missing from the questionnaire. This questionnaire should
      take about 5 minutes to complete.

      Part I:

      Length of Study:

      After you have completed the interview and questionnaires, your participation on this study
      will be over.

      Part II:

      Length of Study You will be on study for 1 year. You will be off study after you complete the
      last symptom questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 60 participants will take part in this study. Up to
      20 will be enrolled in Part 1 of this study. Up to 40 participants will be enrolled in Part 2
      of this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  