
    
      DESIGN: This study is a randomized, double blind clinical trial of the gp120/NefTat/AS02A
      vaccine in individuals with well-controlled chronic HIV-1 infection who have been
      successfully treated with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The adjuvanted
      protein vaccine candidate consists of three recombinant viral antigens: the envelope
      glycoprotein gp120 and two regulatory proteins, Nef and Tat. The latter are expressed as one
      recombinant fusion protein, NefTat. The antigens are formulated in the proprietary AS02A
      adjuvant. The goal of this trial is to assess the safety and immunogenicity of the
      gp120/NefTat/AS02A vaccine in HIV-1-infected individuals.

      DURATION: 48 weeks

      SAMPLE SIZE: 20 subjects

      POPULATION: Subjects with chronic HIV-1 infection receiving highly active antiretroviral
      therapy (HAART) with HIV RNA levels <50 copies/mL on at least two measurements in the
      previous 6 months and a CD4+ T cell count >400 cells/mm3 within 45 days of study entry will
      be eligible for this study.

      REGIMEN: Enrolled patients will be randomized to receive either the vaccine
      (gp120/NefTat/AS02A) (10 individuals), the AS02A adjuvant only (5 individuals) or a placebo
      (5 individuals). Injections will be administered IM at weeks 0, 4, and 12.

      OBJECTIVES: The two primary objectives of this study are:

        -  to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the gp120/NefTat/AS02A vaccine in individuals
           with well-controlled chronic HIV-1 infection on HAART; and

        -  to evaluate the cell-mediated immune response (IL-2 secreting CD4+ T cells) to at least
           one vaccinal antigen induced by the vaccine-adjuvant combination in individuals with
           chronic HIV-1 infection on successful HAART, at two weeks after the third vaccination.

      ENDPOINTS: The two co-primary study endpoints will be:

        -  the occurrence, intensity, and relationship of any local and general signs and symptoms
           during a 7-day follow-up period after each vaccination (primary safety endpoint); and

        -  the changes in the frequency of IL-2 secreting CD4+ T cells in response to at least one
           vaccinal antigen (primary immunogenicity endpoint) in the three different patient
           categories, assessed two weeks after the third vaccination.
    
  