
    
      Our group has recently conducted a first-in-infants pilot trial of pairing transcutaneous
      auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) with feeding to assist learning oromotor skills. We
      are enrolling preterm and HIE infants who are failing to learn oral feeds and clinically
      determined to need a G-tube. In preliminary data, taVNS paired with one or two daily feedings
      for 2 weeks resulted in 50% of infants attaining full feeds and avoiding G-tube.

      A notable number of non-responders were infants of diabetic mothers (IDM) exposed to poor
      glucose control during pregnancy, all of whom required a G-tube. Uncontrolled maternal
      hyperglycemia is associated with increased systemic and neuro-inflammation, CNS oxidative
      stress, DNA damage, and worse neonatal outcomes compared to infants of euglycemic mothers. In
      neonatal animal models, hyperglycemia has been shown to decrease BDNF, alter long-term
      synaptogenesis and hippocampal neurochemistry, with ongoing CNS oxidative stress and
      inhibition of the cortical neuronal plasticity required for learning. In our pilot trial of
      taVNS-paired feeding, CNS glutathione concentrations (GSH), a MR spectroscopy (MRS) marker of
      oxidative stress, had significant interaction with IDM in predicting outcome, strongly
      suggesting that ongoing CNS oxidative stress contributes to neuropathology in IDMs failing
      oral feeding.

      NAC is an FDA-approved antioxidant that is safe and crosses the blood brain barrier,
      increasing CNS GSH. NAC reduces CNS oxidative stress, enhances learning and provides a
      neuroprotective effect after brain injury in our and others neonatal HI and neuroinflammatory
      animal models. Both GSH and BDNF enhance neuroplasticity. Therefore, we hypothesize that
      pre-treatment with NAC in IDMs who are failing oral feeding, followed by taVNS-paired
      feeding, will decrease oxidative stress induced by maternal hyperglycemia and IDM-associated
      brain injury, and increase response to taVNS-paired feeding rehabilitation.
    
  