
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To obtain preliminary estimates of the effects of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and
      various treatments (light therapy, melatonin, methylphenidate [methylphenidate
      hydrochloride]) and combinations of treatments in multimodal therapy (MMT) in reducing sleep
      disturbance in patients with cancer, as measured by change in Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI) scores taken at baseline and on day 15.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the effect of MMT on Insomnia Severity Index, cancer related symptoms (fatigue
      [Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT-F) subscale, Edmonton Symptom
      Assessment System (ESAS)], anxiety, depression anxiety [Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale
      (HADS), ESAS]), quality of life (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General [FACT-G],
      ESAS), and physical activity/sleep efficacy (actigraphy), before and after treatment with
      various sleep disturbance (SD) treatment combinations of MMT.

      II. To determine the safety of MMT (type, frequency, and severity of the adverse events).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 8 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo CBT comprising 3 30-minute counseling sessions between baseline and
      day 14. Patients also receive methylphenidate hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and
      therapeutic melatonin PO once daily (QD), and undergo light therapy over 30 minutes for 15
      days.

      ARM II: Patients undergo CBT as in Arm I. Patients also receive methylphenidate placebo PO
      BID and melatonin placebo PO QD, and undergo sham light therapy over 30 minutes for 15 days.

      ARM III: Patients undergo CBT as in Arm I. Patients also receive methylphenidate
      hydrochloride PO BID and therapeutic melatonin PO QD, and undergo sham light therapy over 30
      minutes for 15 days.

      ARM IV: Patients undergo CBT as in Arm I. Patients also receive methylphenidate hydrochloride
      PO BID and melatonin placebo PO QD, and undergo light therapy over 30 minutes for 15 days.

      ARM V: Patients undergo CBT as in Arm I. Patients also receive methylphenidate placebo PO BID
      and therapeutic melatonin PO QD, and undergo light therapy over 30 minutes for 15 days.

      ARM VI: Patients undergo CBT as in Arm I. Patients also receive methylphenidate placebo PO
      BID and melatonin placebo PO QD, and undergo light therapy over 30 minutes for 15 days.

      ARM VII: Patients undergo CBT as in Arm I. Patients also receive methylphenidate
      hydrochloride PO BID and melatonin placebo PO QD, and undergo sham light therapy over 30
      minutes for 15 days.

      ARM VIII: Patients undergo CBT as in Arm I. Patients also receive methylphenidate placebo PO
      BID and therapeutic melatonin PO QD, and undergo sham light therapy over 30 minutes for 15
      days.

      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up on days 29 and 45.
    
  