
    
      Background: Monitoring the patient safety and quality of nursing care is essential to
      identify patients at risk. Monitoring the nursing-related patient safety and quality
      indicators are important for high-quality nursing care. However, monitoring nursing-related
      patient safety and quality indicators through information system is a challenge. The nurses'
      to date workload is increasing. The comprehensive nursing-related patient safety and quality
      indicators information system should be used to make nurses work of collecting indicator data
      more efficiency and enhance patient care quality.

      Objective: The purposes of this study are 1) to understand the nurses' need and perception
      toward of the monitoring information system of nursing-related patient safety and quality
      indicators; 2) to establish the monitoring information system of nursing-related patient
      safety and quality indicators; 3) to evaluate the monitoring information system of
      nursing-related patient safety and quality indicators.

      Methods: There will be three phases and the study site in the medical center in northern
      Taiwan. The first phase is information needs assessment. Researchers will hold the meeting of
      focus group discussion. The subjects will be the nursing manager, head nurse, clinical nurses
      who are similar to nursing-related patient safety and quality indicators. The self-conducted
      semi-structure discussion form will be used to collect the data during the meeting of focus
      group discussion. The questionnaire will be used to collect the perception, attitude,
      behavior, satisfaction, time-consuming and the accuracy of nursing-related patient safety and
      quality indicators data from nurses. The second phase will establish the monitoring
      information system of nursing-related patient safety and quality indicators and clinical
      implementation. The third phase will evaluate the effectiveness of the monitoring information
      system of nursing-related patient safety and quality indicators. The questionnaire will be
      used to collect the satisfaction, time-consuming and the accuracy of nursing-related patient
      safety and quality indicators from nurses during the evaluation phase.

      Expected results: The investigators will understand the nurses' need and perception toward of
      the monitoring information system of nursing-related patient safety and quality indicators
      and establish it. After establishing the monitoring information system of nursing-related
      patient safety and quality indicators, the investigators can obtain the result through
      information technology to achieve the accuracy of indicator data and the high efficiency of
      nursing quality control. Moreover, it can decrease the time consuming and burden to collect
      data of indicators, improve the nurses' and nurse managers' satisfaction and positive
      experiences. In addition to that, the investigators can also get the goal of creating patient
      safety and high-quality nursing care.
    
  