
    
      Purpose

      There would be strong value in developing a brief, manualized, remotely delivered,
      intervention capable of simultaneously improving both emotional well being and cognitive
      functioning in survivors of malignant brain tumour. The proposed study is designed to test
      the acceptability, feasibility, apparent efficacy, and areas for improvement of a newly
      developed intervention designed for this purpose. This investigation is being undertaken as a
      step toward conducting an randomized clinical trial.

      Research Questions

      As a feasibility study there will be no hypotheses tested in this study. Instead, the
      research will be conducted in order to answer the following four questions about the
      intervention:

        1. How acceptable was the intervention?

        2. How feasible was the intervention?

        3. How much apparent efficacy did the intervention have?

        4. How could the involved processes be improved?

      Further the following three questions will be asked around the remote neuropsychological
      testing procedure:

        1. How feasible was the remote neuropsychological testing?

        2. How valid was the remote neuropsychological testing?

        3. How could the neuropsychological testing processes be improved?

      Justification

      A general justification for the proposed research will be offered below.

      Brain tumour survivors demonstrate very high levels of psychopathology. For example, they
      have been found to exhibit levels of clinical depression that are three times higher than
      those found in cancer patients overall. This finding is particularly important because
      symptoms of depression have also been found to be the strongest single predictor of overall
      quality of life primary in brain tumour survivors.

      The cognitive impacts of brain cancer, which are diverse, also have strongly negative effects
      on quality of life. Impairments in the areas of memory, attention, and executive functioning
      are the most common cognitive deficits involved.

      Despite this depth of suffering, researchers to date have done relatively little work in
      developing psychologically based interventions that can help to ameliorate these emotional
      and cognitive sequelae.

      More specifically, the remote aspect of this intervention is justified by the fact that this
      population faces multiple barriers to coming into the clinic for needed psychosocial care,
      including: geographical isolation; cognitive impairment; driving prohibition; and fatigue.
      This reality is reflected in the fact that previous researchers have reported facing faced
      strong challenges in recruiting participants for time consuming intervention studies of this
      kind in this population. A remote intervention may offer a means of overcoming this barrier
      to access.

      Finally, due to lengthy wait times and other factors, this is also a population that often
      struggles to receive needed neuropsychological testing in a timely manner. Therefore, there
      will also be value in validating a brief, remotely delivered neuropsychological testing
      procedure in this population, above and beyond the role that doing so will play in validating
      the particular intervention under investigation here.

      Objectives

      This study has four primary objectives:

        1. to develop and deliver a remotely delivered psychosocial intervention to this high needs
           population

        2. to develop a neuropsychological battery that can be remotely delivered to this same
           population

        3. to answer the four questions listed above in regards to the intervention

        4. to answer the three questions listed above in regards to the neuropsych assessment
           process

      Research Design

      The proposed design will involve a mixed method feasibility study design. A variety of data
      sources will be used in order to address the 7 research questions listed above. These data
      sources will include: self report questionnaires; neuropsychological test batteries; fill-in
      the blank questionnaires; interviews; and focus groups.

      6) Statistical Analysis

      The included types of quantitative data analysis will be: descriptive statistics; effect
      sizes; and repeated measures ANOVA.
    
  