
    
      Cardiac insufficiency is the main or secondary diagnosis of 10% of all hospitalised patients.
      Due to the age-structure of the population and to the increased life expectancy after
      myocardial infarction prevalence is increasing. Even though prognosis in patients with
      established heart failure has been improved it remains serious, with an average survival rate
      of 50% after 4 years. Approximately 2% of all expenses in health care are caused by cardiac
      insufficiency, the most expensive being the hospitalization phase. The rehospitalisation rate
      after the first hospital stay is 50% within 6 months. By optimal, guideline-adjusted therapy
      during hospital- and post-hospital-stay the rehospitalisation rate could be reduced by 50%.

      But our knowledge concerning therapies is based on study results, which are generated with
      selected patients under controlled study conditions. Thus it is necessary to collect data on
      the development of therapy, the successes as well as the complications in clinical everyday
      life. Results concerning the quality of therapies are required and measures are needed that
      will contribute to quality assurance and improvement. Due to these reasons EVITA was
      initiated with the following objectives, aims, structure, and organization form:

      The register will not substitute randomized, controlled, multi-center clinical trials (RCT)
      that have a defined prospective research question. Such randomized studies investigate the
      "efficacy" of a therapy, i.e. a clinical effect under experimental conditions. In contrast,
      registers investigate the transferability of RCT results to the daily routine within
      hospital, the so called "effectiveness". Both study types are complementary and are needed
      for a judgment of the clinical efficiency as well as of security aspects and possible adverse
      reactions. Furthermore EVITA should function as an idea supplier and should coordinate
      possible future studies. Other important tasks of the register are: (i) the establishment of
      recommendations for an optimal medicinal therapy (OMT) as well as for ICD- and CRT-treatment;
      (ii) the establishment of quality assurance measures, including monitoring of new therapy.
      Every 6 months each study center receives a complete overview concerning the centers own data
      in comparison with the data supplied by other centers.
    
  