
    
      It is estimated that 10%-15% of patients with cancer-related pain do not achieve acceptable
      levels of pain relief even when oral or parenteral opioids are skillfully combined with
      conventional adjuvant analgesics and intractable pain occurs in up to 2% of advanced cancer
      patients. Painful conditions arising from tumor-nerve structure involvement, neuropathic
      pain, skin lesions, iatrogenic (chemo-and radiotherapy lesion), or ischemic pain are those
      most likely to require more aggressive treatment, such as the use of unconventional agents or
      interventional management approaches.

      Despite considerable progress in the technologies of cancer-related pain management and an
      increased broadening array of medications, many patients fail to achieve adequate pain
      relief. In others, the availability of these treatments may be limited by such factors as
      side effects, or lack of or pain-management expertise. Furthermore, the development of opioid
      tolerance and the high incidence of side effects with escalating dose of opioid dose may
      contribute to treatment failure.

      The need to develop new pharmacologic approaches for refractory pain remains of critical
      importance. The most potent class of analgesics available for general use remains the
      opioids.

      Several lines of investigation have focused on the neuro-physiological as well as
      neuro-chemical mechanisms that may underlay opioid resistant pain, such as opioid induced
      hyperalgesia and opioid tolerance cause certain types of pain to be relatively resistant to
      the opioids or that may underlie the tolerance that can develop to their beneficial effects.
      Particular attention has been paid to the role played by glutamate neurotransmission in
      promoting and maintaining chronic pain states.

      Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter of the central nervous system and is
      normally released by pain-signaling afferent neurons as they synapse on central pain pathways
      in the spinal cord. The persistent release of glutamate, due to peripheral injury or
      inflammation, leads to the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. This process
      of activation has been shown to play a crucial role in mediating the phenomenon of "wind up"
      pain, a state in which spinal neurons become hyper-responsive to repetitive painful
      stimulation.

      The clinically observed phenomena of allodynia (pain due to a stimulus that does not normally
      provoke pain) and hyperalgesia (an increased response to a stimulus that is normally
      painful), which are the hallmarks of neuropathic pain, are expressions of "wind up" pain.
      Recent investigations indicate that this process can be prevented or mitigated by agents that
      block the effects of glutamate at the NMDA receptor. Other investigations have revealed that
      NMDA receptor antagonists can be useful in potentiating the analgesic efficacy of several
      classes of medication, including opioids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and
      local anesthetics. In addition, NMDA receptor antagonists may play an important role in
      mediating the development of opioid tolerance or in treating the perplexing syndrome of
      opiate-induced hyperalgesia.

      Of the small number of NMDA receptor antagonists currently available for clinical use, most,
      unfortunately, either have a narrow therapeutic window or require parenteral administration.
      Dextromethorphan, best known for its use as an antitussive agent, is dosed orally and shows
      activity as a noncompetitive NMDA antagonist. Multiple trials, however, generally have not
      shown dextromethorphan to be effective in treating neuropathic pain.

      Ketamine, a phencyclidine (PCP) derivative analog, has been used for more than 40 years to
      produce "dissociative" anesthesia.

      Early experience with ketamine revealed that it also produced analgesia that sometimes well
      outlasted its anesthetic effects. Although the mechanisms of ketamine's analgesic effects
      remain the subject of debate, and are likely multiple, antagonism at the NMDA-receptor site
      appears to be central to both its anesthetic and analgesic effects.

      Ketamine's utility as an anesthetic has been hampered by troublesome psychomimetic effects,
      which for many years have also limited its application as an analgesic. Recent investigations
      have shown, however, that analgesia can be produced with sub-hypnotic sub-anesthetic doses of
      intravenous ketamine (ie,10%-20% of those used for anesthesia) with a far lower frequency of
      psychomimetic reactions. These side effects are dose dependent and can be minimized by
      starting ketamine at low doses, titrating slowly, and concurrently starting a benzodiazepine
      or haloperidol.

      Over the years a variety of nociceptive (somatic and visceral) and neuropathic pain states
      have been treated with subanesthetic doses of ketamine. Early studies demonstrated its
      utility in treating the pain associated with wound dressings in burn patients, as a treatment
      for pain following severe trauma and for cancer-related pain.

      Racemic ketamine has an oral bioavailability of approximately 17%. When administrated orally
      in a dose of 0.5mg/kg the plasma ketamine concentration of ketamine was 40 ngml-1 (for the
      same i.m. dose the plasma ketamine concentration was 150 ng ml-1 ). Oral administration is
      associated with much greater concentrations of the metabolite norketamine, which may have
      contributed to the analgesic effect. Orally administered ketamine undergoes extensive first
      pass metabolism, primarily via N-de-methylation, resulting in low ketamine concentrations and
      high norketamine concentrations in blood and tissue. The plasma levels at which analgesia is
      achieved are 0.15 μg/ml following intramuscular administration and 0.04 μg/ml after oral
      administration. This difference may be explained by a higher norketamine concentration due to
      first-pass metabolism. This main metabolite apparently contributes to the antinociceptive
      effect Oral ketamine is more potent (30 to 40%) that subcutaneous route because first pass
      metabolism converts ketamine to an active analgesic metabolite.

      The benefits and harms of adding ketamine to a strong analgesics pain-killers such as
      morphine for the relief of cancer pain are not yet established. Only two small randomised
      controlled trials suggest that when ketamine is given with morphine it may help to control
      cancer pain. However, these data are insufficient to assess the effectiveness of ketamine in
      this setting. So far there is little clinical evidence to support this practice, furthermore,
      the The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2009 concludes that: "Current evidence is
      insufficient to assess the benefits and harms of ketamine as an adjuvant to opioids for the
      relief of cancer pain. More randomized randomised controlled trials are needed".
    
  