
    
      The labrum is a structure which provides stability to the shoulder joint. A superior labral
      tear from anterior to posterior lesion is an injury to the labrum at the insertion of the
      biceps muscle. The grading system is related to the severity of the tear. A type 2 tear is an
      intermediate grade tear. These are commonly treated in two ways: either by repairing the
      labrum with bone anchors or by cutting the biceps tendon and re-affixing it more distally. No
      method has been shown to be superior to the other and surgeons generally choose to proceed
      however they are most comfortable. The study will seek to determine how these injuries are
      best treated. Inclusion criteria: patients with type 2 superior labral tear from anterior to
      posterior tears who are under the age of 45. Throwing athletes are excluded due to their
      unique demands.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. Prior to surgery patients will be
      evaluated in clinic, full histories and physicals will be performed and their functional
      status will be evaluated using validated questionnaires including the American Shoulder and
      Elbow Society score and quality of life measurements.

      Both groups will be treated first with a shoulder arthroscopy. The experimental portion of
      the study will involve whether the patient is then treated with repair of the Superior Labrum
      Anterior and Posterior lesion or with tenodesis. Repair of a Superior Labrum Anterior and
      Posterior lesion involves placing small anchors in the glenoid to re-attach the torn labrum.
      A biceps tenodesis involves cutting the tendon within the shoulder joint and reattached
      further down the arm. Physical therapy will be initiated after surgery and will be identical
      in both groups. It will be recommended but not required as part of the study. Progress notes,
      operative reports, and questionnaires will also be retained as part of the study. Patients
      will be in a sling for the first 4 weeks after surgery. Post-operatively, physical
      examinations findings and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores at 3, 6, and 12 months.
      These will be compared to the preoperative results and to the other experimental arm of the
      study. Post-operative imaging will not be obtained. No computerized tomographies will be
      required as part of the study. No Magnetic Resonance Imagings will be required as part of the
      study--patients enrolled in the study will likely have had an MRI performed outside of the
      study period to determine if they have an isolated Superior Labrum Anterior and Posterior
      tear but no MRIs will be performed as part of the study. No lab reports or Physical therapy
      reports will be included in the study.
    
  