
    
      Cancer of the oesophagus (OC) is distinguished by having a poor outcome for most patients and
      an incidence that is rising faster than any other solid cancer. It is already the eighth most
      common cancer, and the sixth most common cause of death from cancer, worldwide. The majority
      of patients are diagnosed with late stage disease, which is incurable with the current
      standard multimodality therapy. Thus, there is a critical need to develop new treatments for
      this disease.

      Surprisingly, despite its high prevalence in developing countries, and its increasing
      incidence in Western populations, metastatic OC remains an 'orphan disease' with very few
      good quality or randomised trials available to guide practice. As a result, treatment for OC
      has changed little over the past few decades, and as a consequence there has been only modest
      improvement in overall survival for patients with this disease.

      TP53, a key tumour suppressor gene, is mutated in 70-80% of OC (both adenocarcinoma and
      squamous cell carcinoma) providing an attractive potential target for an OC therapy.

      Although paired tissue studies in primary and metastatic OC are lacking, p53 mutations occur
      very early in oesophageal carcinogenesis and are unlikely to be lost in advanced disease. OC
      with mutant (mut)-p53 are more resistant to conventional chemotherapy and mut-p53 is
      associated with poor patient prognosis. Over the last decade, several novel drugs have been
      developed that target mut-p53 and restore wild-type (wt)-p53 function in cancer cells. Of
      these, APR-246 (also known as PRIMA-1MET), a first-in-class agent targeting mutant p53
      resulting in re-expression of wild-type p53 activity, has proven to be the most effective
      against a wide range of mutants. APR-246 is a pro-drug that gives rise to the active compound
      methylene quinuclidinone (MQ), which covalently binds to thiol groups on cysteine residues in
      the p53 core domain resulting in refolding of mut-p53 protein and restoration of its tumour
      suppressor activity.

      While the reactivation of mut-p53 is thought to be the primary mode of action of APR-246,
      preclinical studies have suggested potential alternative mechanisms (e.g. through the
      depletion of cellular glutathione levels) may also be contributing to the efficacy of
      APR-246, especially when used in combination with cisplatin/5-FU chemotherapy. Thus, the
      anti-tumour activity of APR-246 may not be limited to mut-p53 bearing tumours.

      Mutation of p53 is the most common genetic aberration in oesophageal cancer being detected in
      up to 80% of both oesophageal squamous cell cancers and adenocarcinomas.

      APR-246 is a first-in-class agent targeting mutant p53. In vitro and in vivo preclinical
      models have demonstrated that APR-246 has excellent efficacy in OC (both adenocarcinoma and
      squamous cell carcinoma) and potently synergises with chemotherapies used in the treatment of
      OC, restoring sensitivity to chemotherapy-resistant tumours. An initial phase I clinical
      trial has shown APR-246 to be safe in humans and early results from a currently running phase
      Ib/II trial of APR-246 with carboplatin and liposomal doxorubicin in ovarian cancer have been
      promising. Together, these data provide a strong rationale for investigating the efficacy of
      APR-246 in OC.
    
  