
    
      With the improvement and development of medical technology and concepts, the types,
      progression, and outcomes of critically ill patients have changed dramatically. More and more
      critically ill patients can successfully escape from the early critical state, and the
      outbreak of multiple organ failure has been alleviated. However, due to the residual organ
      dysfunction, the number of cases staying in the intensive care department for a long time is
      increasing. Both severe trauma and sepsis undergo similar transformations. Although these
      patients have improved early survival, they have been suffering from organ damage and
      inflammation for a long time, which is called chronic critical illness (CCI). The definition
      of CCI includes the number of days of ICU hospitalization greater than or equal to 14 days,
      evidence of persistent organ dysfunction, and can be measured using components of the 14-day
      Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score. Even nearly 40% of sepsis patients will
      develop CCI. These critical survivors continue to recover and support treatment even after
      being discharged from the hospital, often failing to recover and eventually die. Among them,
      persistent inflammatory response-immunosuppression-catabolic syndrome (PICS) is a special
      type of chronic severe disease, and immune paralysis is its main feature. These patients also
      face several challenges such as persistent inflammatory response, acquired immunosuppression,
      and high catabolism. The clinical manifestations are repeated nosocomial infections,
      malnutrition, muscle loss, and difficulty in wound healing and require long-term emergency
      medical support, which ultimately leads to patients Repeated nosocomial infections, prolonged
      hospitalization, and increased mortality.

      Due to the decline in organ function reserve of elderly patients, chronic diseases of basic
      heart, lung, kidney and other systems are often combined. After suffering trauma and severe
      infection, organ function disorders or failures are prone to occur and stay in the ICU ward.
      With the advent of an aging population, such patients are increasing year by year. It is a
      heavy burden on society and a huge challenge for the future development and progress of ICU.

      The gut flora is involved in a wide range of functions, food digestion, hormone production,
      and the development and maturation of the immune system. After more than a billion years of
      co-evolution, a stable symbiotic relationship has been formed between mammals including
      humans and the gut microbiota. The gut provides the microbiome with habitat and the nutrients
      it needs, down-regulates the immune response to form immune tolerance, and promotes its
      colonization in the intestine; accordingly, the gut symbiotic microbiota promotes the health
      of the body in various ways to form symbiosis Mode: (1) Inhibiting the colonization of
      pathogenic bacteria by competing for niche and nutrients, producing virulence factors, and
      secreting bacteriocins, preventing their overgrowth, and protecting the body from pathogen
      infection, called colonization resistance; (2 ) Promote the proliferation of epithelial
      cells, secrete antimicrobial peptides and mucus to maintain the integrity of the intestinal
      barrier; (3) Indirectly regulate the differentiation of innate and adaptive immune cells
      located in the intestinal epithelial barrier and the whole body, promote the development and
      maturation of the immune system, and strengthen immune cells Function; (4) Induce
      extravascular tissue factor-protease activated receptor 1 (TF-PAR1) signal transduction,
      promote small intestine angiogenesis; (5) participate in hormone signal transduction,
      regulate intestinal endocrine function; (6) participate in intestinal origin Serotonin (5-HT)
      metabolism and intestinal neuro-immune cooperation, regulate gastrointestinal motility; (7)
      produce short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) by fermenting dietary fiber, improve glucose
      homeostasis and insulin sensitivity, participate in anti-inflammatory, Promote intestinal
      motility; (8) Synthesize essential vitamins and neurotransmitters and metabolize bile salts;
      (9) Participate in body drug metabolism and poison removal. This shows that under
      physiological conditions, the mutually beneficial symbiosis of the intestine and
      microorganisms promotes the body's homeostasis. The composition and biodiversity of the
      microbial community are highly susceptible to various factors, including diet, environment,
      drugs, infections, inflammation, etc. Especially for acute stress, severe stress, the use of
      broad-spectrum antibiotics, vasoconstrictors and opioids, intestinal ischemia/reperfusion
      injury, epithelial cell apoptosis, barrier integrity destruction, gastrointestinal Changes in
      the motility of the tract, lack of nutrients in the intestinal cavity, etc. lead to rapid
      changes in the intestinal flora, and this change can last for a long time; manifested by the
      loss of the richness and diversity of the intestinal microflora (especially the symbiotic
      flora), The ratio of Bacteroidetes/thickwalled bacteria is severely unbalanced, and a single
      flora (often a potential pathogen) overgrows, that is, bacterial flora imbalance or
      microecological disturbance.

      The local immune inflammatory storm in the intestine is an important cause of the imbalance
      of the systemic immune inflammatory response, and the hypothalamic metabolism center is an
      important target for regulating the body's continuous catabolism. In PICS, immunosuppression,
      inflammation, and catabolism are mutually causal, forming a vicious circle. So what is the
      reason for severe patients with different primary diseases to have the same PICS after the
      acute phase? Are there common pathological changes induced by PICS in severe patients? If
      further studies can be made to clarify the initiating factors of PICS and the path of
      occurrence and development of PICS, it is undoubtedly a new breakthrough in the treatment of
      PICS and the "fundamental" way to reduce the mortality of PICS patients. Combining our
      previous research results, applicants speculate as follows:

      1. The intestinal tract is the "promoting point" for the occurrence of PICS in severely ill
      patients, and it is also the "central organ" that promotes the development of the disease; 2.
      The disturbance of the micro-ecology of the intestinal tract is an important reason for
      causing PICS in the body (and may even be the decisive factor) ; 3. Correction of intestinal
      microecological disturbances can effectively block the path of PICS development.

      For the above ideas, specific explanations are as follows:

        1. The intestine may be the "promoting point" for PICS in critically ill patients, and it
           is also the "central organ" that promotes the development of the disease. The reasons
           are as follows:

             -  Our previous studies showed that acute gastrointestinal dysfunction is common in
                severe patients. Whether it is local simple abdominal exposure injury or systemic
                ischemia-reperfusion injury, it can cause acute gastrointestinal dysfunction; ②The
                intestine is not only the main organ of digestion and absorption, but also the
                body's largest immune organ (adult). When the intestine is acutely damaged, the
                intestine can affect the nutritional metabolism center of the hypothalamus through
                Grelin and other hormones, leading to refractory catabolism and exogenous
                nutrition. At the same time, the local inflammatory reaction of the intestinal
                tract can also cause an imbalance of the body's immune inflammatory response. In
                addition, changes in central metabolism in critically ill patients are related to
                hypothalamic inflammation (indicating that the intestine is "capable" to become the
                central organ that promotes the occurrence and development of PICS).

      Intestinal microecological disturbance is an important cause of PICS Under normal
      physiological conditions, the intestine has powerful barrier functions, such as physical
      barrier, chemical barrier, immune barrier, and biological barrier. Especially its biological
      barrier function plays an important role in the body's metabolism and immunity. There is a
      stable symbiotic relationship between the human body and the intestinal microbiota. The
      intestine provides the microbiome with habitat and the nutrients it needs to downregulate the
      immune response to form immune tolerance and promote its colonization in the intestine;
      accordingly, the physiological state Next, the gut symbiotic microbiota also maintains the
      body's health in various ways [2]. The intestine and microorganisms are symbiotic and promote
      the body's homeostasis. However, the composition and biodiversity of the microbial community
      are highly susceptible to various factors, including diet, environment, drugs, infections,
      inflammation, etc.
    
  