
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Morbidity and mortality from childhood asthma have been increasing in all developed countries
      over the past three decades, including in the United States. Numerous theories have been
      advanced to explain this asthma epidemic, but no single theory has held up to careful
      scrutiny. Recent international studies have suggested a relatively strong causal relationship
      between increased risk of childhood asthma and exposure to antibiotics during childhood,
      especially during the first year of life. The increased asthma risk was seen whether
      antibiotics were used to treat respiratory or non-respiratory infections. While these
      previous studies are suggestive, there are significant methodologic concerns about each
      study. A major concern with most of the studies is their reliance on retrospective recall of
      antibiotic exposure data from parents years after the exposure. The study relied on
      prospective data from the Childhood Asthma Study.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Data were used from the prospective, NIH-funded study of the relationship between early
      environmental exposures and the development of asthma in a birth cohort of children followed
      to an average 6.7 years of age. At 6.7 years, 482 (58%) of the original 833 children were
      clinically examined as part of this Childhood Asthma Study (CAS). In addition to clinical
      histories, the 6- to 7- year clinical examination included skin tests, IgE antibody tests,
      pulmonary function tests and methacholine challenge. At entry all of the CAS children were
      within the Health Alliance Plan (HAP) HMO. The study was based on combining the CAS data set
      with pharmacy data extracted from the HAP data archives. This allowed an examination of
      possible relationships between antibiotic use, as determined by prescriptions filled, and
      asthma at 6 to 7 years of age. While not strictly a prospective study, these methods avoided
      many of the potential sources of bias found in previous studies. The study was also able to
      evaluate any relationships between antibiotic exposure and asthma for confounding by other
      risk factors such as bedroom allergen levels, pet ownership, cigarette smoke exposure, and
      parental history of asthma or allergy.
    
  