
    
      Objective. The purpose of the protocol is to localize the prefrontal cortical regions
      mediating aggressive behavior. Utilizing two different experimental neuropsychological tasks
      during functional MRI, we will investigate hypotheses regarding the role of the ventro-medial
      prefrontal cortex in processing imagined and observed aggressive behavior. Additionally, we
      will determine the relationship between non-frontal neural structures involved in emotional
      expression, such as the amygdala, and the prefrontal structures involved in executive
      functions that may modulate aggressive behavior. We will record skin conductance responses
      (SCRs), heart rates, and respiration during the experiments to investigate autonomic changes
      during the processing of aggressive behavior.

      Study Population. In three separate studies, normal adolescent volunteers will participate in
      experiments dealing with processing of aggressive behavior using functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI). In addition, we will conduct two pre-studies in normal adolescent
      volunteers in order to determine appropriate stimuli for the fMRI studies.

      Design. The experiments we are conducting will employ within-subject, rapid event-related
      fMRI designs to determine whether the observation and imagination of aggressive behavior
      deactivates the ventro-medial prefrontal cortex (VM-PFC) and how varying intensities of
      imagined and observed aggressive acts may influence changes in activation patterns in the
      VM-PFC.

      Outcome Measures. The data collected will consist of fMRI activation images corresponding to
      varying intensities of observed or imagined aggression, questionnaire results, amplitudes of
      the skin conductance responses, heart rates, and respiration parameters. The results gained
      from this protocol will provide further evidence for the role of the ventro-medial prefrontal
      cortex in processing aggressive behavior, particularly in adolescents.
    
  