
    
      It has been shown, that fatiguing a muscles in a kinetic chain leads to changes in activities
      of other non-fatigued muscles during postural tasks. This indicates that central changes take
      place to adapt the muscle responses according to the new state of the kinetic chain. However,
      these studies have mainly been focused on studying the effects of localized isometrically
      induced muscular fatigue that is less relevant to the sport community. In sports training,
      trunk muscle fatigue is often induced by performing dynamic strength training during a
      workout session, followed by other training interventions that pose high demands on trunk
      stability. On the other hand, more complex and gross motor tasks are used such as running,
      that also have the potential to influence trunk stability. Their effect on trunk stability
      comes from changes in muscle function as well as form increased ventilation. In both cases,
      trunk stability can be affected, leading to increased risk of injury. Especially the
      localized fatigue of the trunk muscles can have a direct effect on trunk stabilizing
      activities. One might speculate, that the intramuscular coordination can change as to
      compensate for the decreased ability of the trunk muscles to produce trunk and spinal
      stabilization impulses. After exhaustive running, especially trunk extensors might be
      affected, because of the increased trunk forward lean. In addition, trunk muscles are
      important contributors to increased ventilation in such tasks. As opposed to isolated
      fatiguing, running might have more complex effects on the trunk stabilization.

      It is of most relevance for sports trainers and health care community dealing with athletes
      to be familiar with the effects of exhaustive running and localized trunk muscle fatigue on
      trunk and spinal stability in order to be better suited in preventing low back pain. This
      understanding will enable preparation of more suited training plans, periodization and
      individualization approaches.

      This study will recruit volunteers form local university. Each participant will receive his
      own identification code that will be known only to the principal investigator. In order to
      account for the possible bias of the investigators, these will not be allowed to participate
      in assessing subject, which they are familiar with. Six investigators will participate, all
      trained in performing the measurement and fatiguing protocols.

      All participants will be familiarized with the measurement tasks to overcome possible
      misunderstandings during the study and to ensure most fluent execution of the measurement
      protocol. The familiarization will account for as much time as needed for the participants to
      become proficient in each assessment task. Each participant will sigh an informed consent
      form that will be prepared in accordance with declaration of Helsinki.

      Prior to starting the measurements, each subject will perform a worm-up. The measurement will
      follow in a predefined order, starting with the EMG electrode placement. First subjects will
      (ii) perform measurements of trunk muscles reflex responses during a sudden hand loading,
      followed by (iii) measurements of anticipatory postural adjustments during a quick arm rising
      test, (iv) body sway during a sitting balance tasks, (v) joint position test and (vi)
      measurements of maximal voluntary contraction for trunk extension and flexion in a neutral
      upright stance. Next, subjects will perform a fatiguing protocol. One group of subjects will
      perform a twelve-minute running test (Coopers test) with the goal to cower as much distance
      as possible. Subjects in the second group will perform dynamic strengthening exercises
      (curl-up, right lateral trunk flexion, trunk extension and left lateral trunk flexion), each
      session performed until exhaustion. All together subjects in a dynamic strengthening group
      will perform three sets with minimal rest in between. Immediately after finishing the
      fatiguing protocol, the above measurement protocol will be repeated in the same order.

      The measurement data will be saved to a personal computers encoded with the subject's
      identification code. During data acquisition, processing, statistical analysis and data
      presentation only identification codes will be used. No individual data will be presented.
      All data will be gathered in a common data sheet for further statistical analysis.

      Prior to performing the study, the sample size will be calculated based on the effect size of
      data gathered during a pilot study using 10 subjects. For main results, fallowing statistics
      will be calculated:

        -  Descriptive statistics.

        -  For parameters not normally distributed, appropriate corrections will be made.

        -  Intra-group differences prior to fatiguing protocol will be identified using the T-test
           for independent samples.

        -  For parameters, where no baseline differences between the two groups were observed, a
           Two-way repeated measures ANOVA model will be used to observe the possible changes after
           fatiguing protocols and possible interaction effects for the two groups. Observed
           differences will be additionally studied with post-hock tests.

        -  In cases where the baseline status between the two groups will be different, ANCOVA
           model will be used.

        -  Correlations between the parameters will be studied using Pearson correlation
           coefficient.
    
  