
    
      Neurologic and cognitive decline remain common complications that adversely affect patients'
      outcome after cardiac surgery. By incorporating a brain monitor that measures cerebral oxygen
      content into our perioperative management we aim to decrease postoperative neurologic and
      cognitive deficits and improve quality of life in this patient population. We also aim to
      uncover how the compromised brain alters its metabolism in response to ischemic injury and
      how this new information can guide new preventive treatment methods for vulnerable patients.

      Briefly, cerebral near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) or cerebral oximetry is a non-invasive
      monitor that estimates cerebral oxygenation through measurements of regional venous
      saturation. It is based on measuring intravascular oxyhemoglobin fraction in a small sample
      of cerebral cortex through the skull using near-infrared light spectroscopy. Cerebral
      oximetry examines all reflected light, from both pulsatile arterial and non-pulsatile venous
      blood, without requiring pulsatility, hence cerebral oximetry can continue to monitor brain
      oxygenation during both CPB and circulatory arrest. With this advantage, cerebral oximetry is
      widely utilized in our daily cardiac anesthesia practice, routinely for surgeries requiring
      circulatory arrest, and for other elective CABG and valve replacement/repair surgeries in
      some institutions. Despite its wide use, controversy still exists in its interpretation and
      ability to optimize cerebral outcome after cardiac surgery. Key questions to be answered are:
      1) the desaturation threshold associated with poor prognosis; 2) the absolute desaturation
      value at which adverse clinical outcome increases, and 3); if the relative trend is more
      important to signal approaching deterioration. All of these questions are relevant to our
      clinical practice yet remain unanswered. Our research study aims to take a first step towards
      identification of the ideal method of utilizing cerebral oximetry in cardiac surgeries to
      improve neurological outcome through increasing precision in managing hemodynamic as well as
      laboratory values through a treatment algorithm.

      The second component of this study incorporates metabolomic profiling as we refine the
      perioperative management of cardiac surgery patient to improve their cerebral outcome.
      Despite enormous research efforts over the last decades, currently there is no specific and
      single neurologic biomarker (or panels of biomarkers) that has been validated for clinical
      use. Meanwhile, neuro-imaging (CT and MRI) remains the gold standard for the diagnosis of
      cerebral injury. Organ-specific biomarkers, if identified, have the potential to be a
      reliable and cost-effective method to diagnose, guide management, classify severity of
      stroke, anticipate cognitive function, and predict complications. Recently, metabolomic
      profiling has enabled comprehensive analyses of changes in metabolic fuel selection in a
      variety of models, including cardioplegic arrest. Advances in analytical technology have
      enabled quantitative analysis of several hundreds of metabolites in a single measurement with
      high throughput and sensitivity.

      Metabolomic profiling entails quantitating small-molecule metabolites from body fluids or
      tissues in a single step, and possesses the potential for early diagnosis, therapy monitoring
      and investigating the pathogenesis of various diseases. This biomarker detection is conducted
      in cells, tissues, or biofluids by either nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy or
      mass spectrometry (MS) which then undergoes multivariate data analysis. Jung et al., using
      1H-NMR spectropy combined with multivariate statistical analysis assessed stroke patients. In
      this study perturbed metabolic pattern in both plasma and urine from patients with known
      cerebral infarction incidents were assessed to identify a specific proteome associated with
      stroke. A similar investigation has been conducted with a wider quantification of
      neuroproteomics using a rodent model. Biomarker prognostic of acute kidney injury in patients
      undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) has also been investigated. Despite its potential for
      wide application, metabolomic profiling has not seen its utilization to guide neuroprotective
      management in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. We believe the unique combination of these
      two methods poses a valuable opportunity not only to improve the patient's neurocognitive
      outcome, but also to gain insights on which biomarkers represent cerebral ischemia or other
      signs of cerebral injury.

      Our specific aims are to: 1. Assess the transcerebral metabolomic profile and neurocognitive
      outcome in response to cerebral injury in patients monitored and treated according to
      cerebral oximetry (NIRS) and those that are just monitored with NIRS.

      Based on available literature, our working hypothesis is that compared to monitored only
      patients, cerebral fuel utilization will be differentially affected in patients monitored and
      treated by tightly following a specific neuroprotective algorithm.

      1.a. Test the plasma concentrations of metabolites representing the amino acid, carbohydrate,
      energy, lipid, and nucleotide pathways using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and mass
      spectrometry.

      1.b. Compare the neurocognitive function of treated and untreated patients using a
      comprehensive test battery consisting of 5 assessment modalities at baseline, at the time of
      discharge and 6 weeks postoperatively.
    
  