
    
      The objectives of the study are:

        1. to evaluate whether the programme can be delivered in the community, and

        2. to provide information necessary to design a definitive randomised controlled trial.

      The investigators aim to recruit at least 96 parent carers of children with special
      educational needs and disabilities aged up to 25 years in six sites in Devon, Cornwall and
      Somerset. Participants will be individually randomised, stratified by group delivery site
      when recruitment in each site is completed, to either take part in a group programme, which
      includes online Healthy Parent Carer programme materials (intervention), or to receive access
      to the online materials for self-study only (control).

      The programme content is organised into 12 modules, which can be delivered over six longer
      (4-hour) sessions or 12 shorter (2-hour) sessions. Groups will consist of at least 6 parent
      carers. The participant materials will be provided online.

      Demographics will be collected at baseline. Participants will complete measures of mental
      health, wellbeing, health-related quality of life, health behaviours, patient activation,
      protective factors, and resource use. These data will be collected before randomisation
      (baseline), at post-intervention (i.e. after the intervention arm completes the group
      programme), and at 6 months post-intervention.

      Recruitment will be monitored in order to plan for a definitive trial. Facilitators'
      adherence to the Facilitator Manual and participant engagement will be monitored using a
      facilitator checklist at the end of the sessions and we will audio-record the training
      sessions and group sessions. Participants' will provide feedback on the programme to assess
      the acceptability of the outcome measures. The investigators will conduct interviews with a
      sample of participants in both study arms and a focus group with facilitators to provide
      insights into intervention content, delivery and experience.
    
  