
    
      Capacity Builders (CBI) will implement the Youth Builders PREIS curriculum Native STAND,
      recruiting Navajo youth in grades 9-11 and between the ages 14-18 who attend school in the
      Consolidated School District in New Mexico. Using the Theory of Reasoned Action as a
      theoretical framework, the curriculum will be administered in classrooms over 27 sessions
      lasting 45 minutes. The curriculum will entail lessons conducted in either Physical Education
      or Health Classes and youth will be randomly assigned to two groups by the local program
      evaluator. Youth will be required to obtain signed consent and assent forms prior to
      participating in the intervention program. Youth will complete pre and post surveys to
      measure program outcomes. Random assignment will be conducted for the impact and comparison
      groups by being placed into a pool; students will be blindly pulled to become the impact
      group. Groups will be stratified to ensure balance between treatment and comparison groups.
      Quarterly evaluation reports (QERs) and an annual evaluation report will be provided to the
      Action Team for review.

      Capacity Builder's Inc. (CBI) Youth Builders PREIS program seeks to test a modification of
      the Native STAND curriculum in Northwest New Mexico with at least 834 Navajo teens and 3
      cohorts. The curriculum is intended to reduce pregnancies, births, and STI's including
      HIV/AIDS among high-risk youth populations by implementing culturally sensitive curriculum
      based on Navajo positive youth development. Additional curriculum of adulthood preparation
      subjects will increase participant knowledge in the areas of: healthy relationships,
      adolescent development, communication skills, healthy life skills. Youth Builders will be
      delivered within the traditional school day, embedded into regularly scheduled learning time.
      Presented once each week for 27 weeks over a 36-week school year, Youth Builders will reach
      students where they are, overcoming many challenges associated with retention. The project
      will support a Randomized Controlled Experimental Design. CBI will create valuable resources
      to support Youth Builders replication nationwide, including a comprehensive Youth Builders
      Blueprint, describing all action steps taken to achieve goals and objectives. In addition to
      action steps, the Youth Builders Blueprint will include: program curriculum; curricular map;
      training materials; sample parent consent forms; sample referral procedures / policies; staff
      training schedules; sample partnership agreements; Action Team meeting minutes,QERs, and
      annual evaluation reports The Youth Builders Blueprint will be available in both print and
      online format, and will be widely disseminated throughout the CBI network of non-profit
      agencies, Tribes, and school districts across the United States. Conference presentation will
      be ongoing at state and national conferences.
    
  