
    
      The Intraoperative, Percutaneous Localization of Peripheral Pulmonary Nodules for Resection:
      a Prospective, Open-Label, Multi-Center Registry Study of Thoracic Surgery Outcomes (PLOTS)
      registry is aimed at developing a high quality set of data regarding intraoperative
      percutaneous localization of peripheral pulmonary nodules (PPNs), and then identifying and
      promulgating efficient, evidence-based best practices for this technique. The resection
      procedure itself is standard of care and follows the investigator's standard protocol.

      Successful localization of PPNs is a challenge involving multiple factors, beginning with the
      subjects' health, lung function and also factors specific to the nodule including location
      within the lung, size, distance from the lung surface, whether solid or ground glass and
      proximity to a fissure. Hard to see or palpate nodules are currently localized with dye
      and/or hook wires or fiducials, either endoscopically or percutaneously. Successful, large,
      prospective studies have not been reported using modern electro-magnetic navigation
      (EMN)-guided percutaneous intraoperative localization, and different techniques (dye vs.
      fiducial vs. hook wire etc.) have not been broadly evaluated. It is for these reasons that
      the different localization techniques used with EMN-guided percutaneous localization will be
      collected for patients having a suspicious nodule and who undergo percutaneous
      intra-operative localization and immediate resection.

      This registry aims to record the localization techniques used by thoracic surgeons and
      IP/surgical teams to identify PPNs using the SPiN Thoracic Navigation System™ in the hands of
      trained physicians. The objectives of this study will be to accomplish the primary and
      secondary objectives listed below, and to observe localization in a real world context of
      pulmonary resection.
    
  