
    
      Patients and Methods The study was performed prospectively with the approval of the Local
      Human Ethics Committee. All procedures performed in studies involving human participants were
      in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research
      committee and with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable
      ethical standards. All patients included in the study were provided with a patient consent
      form.

      Study Group The analysis included male patients who were younger than 17 years and possessing
      one-sided inguinal hernia, hydrocele, or cord cyst and who were otherwise healthy. The study
      was performed prospectively between April 2016 and June 2016 in a medical faculty pediatric
      surgery unit.

      Study plan Following diagnosis, patients received a CDUS and testicular volume and blood flow
      were measured preoperatively. All patients then received surgery with modified Ferguson
      repair. Testicular volume and blood flow were then reassessed by CDUS on days 7 and 30
      following surgery.

      Radiological evaluation Radiological evaluation was performed by a single radiologist using
      color doppler ultrasound (CDUS) preoperatively and on days 7 and 30 post-surgery.
      Longitudinal, anteroposterior, and transverse diameters of the testis were measured, and the
      testicular volume was calculated automatically using the CDUS device (volume = 0.523 × D1 ×
      D2 × D3, where D1, D2, and D3 were the maximal longitudinal, anteroposterior, and transverse
      diameters defined by CDUS) for both testicles in each patient [1]. Peak systolic velocity
      (PSV) was calculated using the CDUS system (in cm3/s) for both testicles in each patient.

      Statistical analysis The SPSS 15.0 (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) software
      package was used for all statistical analysis. Testicular volumes and blood flow were
      analyzed as mean±standard deviation. The Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare differences
      in testicular volume and blood flow between the testis receiving surgery and the
      contralateral testis. Differences in preoperative, early postoperative (7 days post-surgery),
      and late postoperative (30 days post-surgery) testicular volume and blood flow of each
      testicle were compared using the Friedman test and P < 0.05 was accepted as statistically
      significant.
    
  