
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if the regimen of neoadjuvant cisplatin-pemetrexed disodium
      (pemetrexed)-atezolizumab, surgery +/- radiation, then maintenance atezolizumab is feasible
      and safe for patients with resectable malignant pleural mesothelioma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression free survival (both by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors [RECIST] 1.1 and also using a modified RECIST for pleural tumors) in patients with
      resectable malignant pleural mesothelioma treated with a regimen of neoadjuvant
      cisplatin-pemetrexed-atezolizumab, surgery +/- radiation, followed by one year of maintenance
      atezolizumab.

      II. To evaluate overall survival in patients with resectable malignant pleural mesothelioma
      treated with a regimen of neoadjuvant cisplatin-pemetrexed-atezolizumab, surgery +/-
      radiation, followed by one year of maintenance atezolizumab.

      III. To evaluate response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial, both by
      RECIST 1.1 and also using a modified RECIST for pleural tumors) in the subset of this patient
      population with measurable disease.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association between immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of PD-L1 in
      tumors and clinical outcomes in mesothelioma patients treated with trimodality/bimodality
      therapy including atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1).

      II. To evaluate the association between expression of immune-related genes identified by
      Immune Nanostring (depending on ribonucleic acid [RNA] availability) and clinical outcomes in
      mesothelioma patients treated with trimodality/bimodality therapy including atezolizumab.

      III. To evaluate the association between multiplex immunofluorescence (IF) of up to 10 immune
      markers in two panels and clinical outcomes in mesothelioma patients treated with
      trimodality/bimodality therapy including atezolizumab.

      OUTLINE:

      NEOADJUVANT: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes, pemetrexed
      disodium IV over 10 minutes, and cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Cycles repeats every 21
      days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

      SURGERY: Within 21-90 days after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo
      extrapleural pneumonectomy (EPP) or pleurectomy/decortication (PD). Patients who undergo EPP
      will then undergo radiation therapy (RT).

      MAINTENANCE: Within 90 days after completion of either PD or radiation (post-EPP), patients
      receive atezolizumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 1
      year in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 3 years.
    
  