
    
      Tipranavir efficacy as a rescue treatment in HIV-infected patients was assessed in the RESIST
      studies, which included patients with a wide antiretroviral experience who were found in
      viral failure despite being on PI-based antiretroviral therapy and in which resistance test
      showed the presence of major mutations in the protease gene. In those studies treatment with
      tipranavir/ritonavir at 500/200 mg dose every 12 hours was related with a major probability
      of achieving undetectable viral load after a 48 weeks follow-up, compared with conventional
      PI (33.6% vs. 15.3%, respectively). However, tipranavir clinical efficacy can be limited by
      the appearance of adverse events, mainly on a gastrointestinal level, but also altering the
      lipid profile or elevating the transaminase plasmatic concentration.

      According to the data of the BI 1182.52 study, response to tipranavir is related to its
      plasma trough concentration. So, concentrations higher than 20 mmol/L (10 times the IC90
      adjusted by the binding to proteins of HIV PI-resistant-strains) are related with a major
      probability of achieving the viral replication suppression. This concentration was achieved
      by the 77% and the 48% of patients who received tipranavir 500 mg every 12 hours
      co-administered with 200 and 100 mg of ritonavir every 12 hours respectively. Furthermore,
      viral load diminution was similar between patients treated with 100 or with 200 mg of
      ritonavir every 12 hours, as long as the number of mutations was less than 20. These data
      states the importance of putting together virological (mutations in the protease gene) and
      pharmacokinetic data (trough levels) so the antiretroviral treatment benefit can be
      maximized. The subanalysis that included 157 patients of the BI 1182.52 study and 311
      patients of the RESIST study showed that virological response in patients with treatment with
      tipranavir/ritonavir was better in patients with an IQ higher than 25-50.

      With this data the following conclusions can be inferred: tipranavir is a drug with a high
      antiretroviral activity, also in presence of major mutations in the protease gene. However,
      its necessity of being co-administered with 400 mg of ritonavir daily, limits the efficacy
      for the treatment of HIV-infected patients, due to a high incidence of gastrointestinal
      adverse events. Nevertheless, trough levels of tipranavir was over the proposed minimum
      effective concentration for patients with previous experience with protease inhibitors (IP).
      Furthermore, as the number of mutations in the protease gene is limited, there are no
      differences in the reduction of the viral load between patients treated with
      tipranavir/ritonavir at 500/200 mg and 500/100 mg every 12 hours. At last, the efficacy of
      tipranavir treatment has been closely related with the inhibition quotient (IQ) than with
      concentrations obtained considered isolated.

      Considering the previous arguments, it can be hypothesized that, basing in every subject IQ,
      it could be possible to identify those patients HIV-infected in treatment with
      tipranavir/ritonavir at 500/200 mg every 12 hours that could take advance of the reduction of
      ritonavir to 100 mg every 12 hours, without compromising the viral replication control. This
      strategy could improve the tolerability to the treatment, what could result in a better
      adherence and less proportion of treatment abandon due to this reason.
    
  