
    
      Previous research in lifestyle behavior weight loss intervention has 3 limitations. (1)
      Low-income overweight or obese mothers of young children have been significantly
      underrepresented. (2) Prior lifestyle interventions in overweight or obese mothers have
      suffered from threats to internal validity and have not specifically addressed motivation,
      emotion, and cognition (especially executive function), all of which are critical for
      promoting and maintaining healthy lifestyle behaviors and health outcomes. (3) There has been
      little evidence that any of the potentially efficacious strategies researched previously were
      even possible under real-world conditions. The proposed small pilot study builds on strength
      and effectively addresses limitations of prior research. The ultimate goal of the proposed
      study is to create a more feasible and scalable intervention that can be easily implemented
      and sustained in real-world settings. This self-directed, web-based goal-oriented episodic
      future thinking intervention will focus on increasing motivation (autonomous motivation and
      self-efficacy) and improving emotion (emotion control and stress) and cognition
      (impulsivity). the will lead to weight loss and decrease risk of chronic conditions
      associated with obesity, for example, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and cancer. All eligible
      women will be assigned to the intervention group. The intervention will last 3 weeks and will
      be delivered via weekly web and individual health coaching sessions. We will enroll 30
      low-income overweight or obese mothers of young children with diverse racial and ethnic
      backgrounds. All participants will be assessed at baseline (T1) and immediately after the
      three-week intervention (T2). Specific aims are to to (1) assess intervention fidelity (dose,
      delivery, receipt) and acceptability by the study participants, (2) investigate potential
      intervention impact on the primary (body weight) and secondary outcomes (waist
      circumference), (3) explore potential intervention impact on lifestyle behaviors (diet and
      physical activity), (4) explore potential intervention impact on motivation (autonomous
      motivation, self-efficacy, social support), emotion (emotion control, stress), and cognition
      (impulsivity), and (5) assess cost of different recruitment approaches.
    
  