
    
      This study is a single center, open-label Phase I clinical trial designed to determine the
      safety of escalating doses of autologous activated T lymphocytes (ATLs) co-expressing the
      chimeric antigen receptor specific for the CD30 antigen and the CCR4 chemokine receptor
      (ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4) in subjects with relapsed/refractory CD30+ Hodgkin (HL) and cutaneous T
      Cell Lymphoma (CTCL). Subjects with grey zone lymphoma will also be eligible to enroll on
      this protocol; the characteristics of grey zone lymphoma are very similar to HL and therefore
      will be referred to collectively throughout the protocol under the general term of HL.
      Subjects will receive either ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 or the ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 product in combination
      with an ATL product encoding only the CAR.CD30 (ATLCAR.CD30). The dose for ATLCAR.CD30 will
      be fixed at the highest dose level as this product has been shown to be safe in phase I
      trials with and without lymphodepletion. Six total dose levels of ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 with or
      without ATLCAR.CD30 will be tested. Prior to receiving the infusions, subjects will undergo
      lymphodepletion with bendamustine and fludarabine, The 3+3 design will be used for estimating
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 in combination with ATLCAR.CD30. Any
      dose level may be expanded to 4-9 subjects to explore adverse events (AEs) of special
      interest prior to moving to the next dose level. If due to the expansion ≥1/3 of the total
      number of subject on that dose level experiences a DLT, the study would not escalate to the
      next highest dose level and the maximum tolerated dose would be exceeded. The final MTD will
      be the highest dose of ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 and ATLCAR.CD30 with observed DLT rate of less than
      1/3. An expansion cohort will enroll up to 8 subjects at the MTD of ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 and
      ATLCAR.CD30 to further assess safety and efficacy of these cellular products. Secondary
      endpoints include evaluation of persistence of ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 vs. ATLCAR.CD30 in the
      peripheral blood, accumulation of ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 vs. ATLCAR.CD30 in tumor biopsies, and
      progression free survival (PFS).

      LCCC1606-ATL builds on LCCC1532-ATL, a phase Ib/II trial investigating the safety and
      efficacy of ATLCAR.CD30 in subjects with CD30+ lymphoma.

      OUTLINE

      Cell Procurement

      Up to 300 mL total of peripheral blood will be obtained (in up to 3 collections) from
      subjects for cell procurement. Up to 300 mL total of peripheral blood will be obtained (in up
      to 3 collections) from subjects for cell procurement. Additionally, leukapheresis may be
      performed to isolate sufficient cells in subjects with a low absolute lymphocyte count or who
      had inadequate peripheral blood collection. The parameters for apheresis will be up to 2
      blood volumes. Collected peripheral blood may be used for generation of CAR-T cells if the
      cells were collected on another CAR-T cell trial for which Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer
      Center is the sponsor and if the subject is eligible for procurement/screening on the LCCC
      1606-ATL protocol. ATLCAR.CD30 cells manufactured for a different protocol may be used for
      LCCC 1606-ATL, if they fit specifications for the protocol and the patient qualifies for the
      protocol.

      Lymphodepletion Regimen

      In order to receive lymphodepletion and CAR-T cells, subjects must still have evidence of
      active disease.

      All subjects will receive lymphodepletion with bendamustine 70 mg/m2 and fludarabine 30 mg/m2
      for 3 days to reduce possible toxicity associated with the agent prior to administration of
      CAR-T cells.

      NOTE: Any subject who tests positive for Hepatitis B core antibody and negative for Hepatitis
      B viral load during screening must initiate an anti-Hepatitis B prophylaxis regimen prior to
      lymphodepletion.

      Bendamustine and fludarabine will be administered concomitantly for lymphodepletion (i.e.,
      intravenous (IV) administration of bendamustine 70 mg/m2/day over 3 consecutive days and IV
      fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day over 3 consecutive days) prior to the first CAR-T cell infusion.
      Bendamustine should be administered first followed by IV administration of fludarabine.

      Cell Administration

      ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 with or without ATLCAR.CD30 cells will be given to eligible subjects 2-14
      days (preferably 2-4 days) after lymphodepletion with fludarabine and bendamustine. The dose
      of cells will vary, depending on the cohort enrolled. The cells will be administered by a
      licensed provider (oncology nurse or physician) via intravenous injection over 1-10 minutes
      through either a peripheral or a central line. The expected volume will be 1-50cc. Subjects
      in the dose expansion part of the study who received the highest safe dose level of
      ATLCAR.CD30 and ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 may receive a second infusion of ATLCAR.CD30 and
      ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 if cells are available equal to the dose administered for the first cell
      infusion (or a lower dose).

      Duration of Therapy

      Therapy in LCCC1606-ATL involves one to two infusion(s) of ATLCAR.CD30.CCR4 with or without
      ATLCAR.CD30 cells. Treatment with one infusion will be administered unless:

        -  Subject decides to withdraw from study treatment, OR

        -  General or specific changes in the subject's condition render the subject unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

      Duration of Follow-up

      Subjects who receive a cell infusion will be followed for up to 15 years for replication
      competent retrovirus (RCR) evaluation or until death, whichever occurs first. Subjects who
      are removed from study and do not receive the cellular therapy product due to unacceptable
      adverse events will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event.
      Subjects who have progressive disease or initiate another cancer therapy after receiving a
      cell infusion(s) will still be required to complete abbreviated follow up procedures.
    
  