
    
      AIMS and Objectives A randomised controlled clinical trial

      Primary objective

      • Improvements in 6-min walking distance

      Secondary objectives Determine

        1. Symptomatic improvement in quality of life, using the Minnesota Living with Heart
           Failure questionnaire

        2. Change in NT pro-BNP and echocardiographic parameters of LV function

        3. Does MRI Dyssynchrony Index (CMR-TSI) predicts responders.

        4. Morbidity and Mortality using CARE-HF definitions

        5. Packer combined clinical composite score

      Study Design A pilot randomised controlled clinical trial 60 patients. The biventricular
      pacemaker with be optimized for both A-V delay and V-V delay.

      Subject Selection Source - Patients attending Good Hope Hospital, Sandwell Hospital Centres
      involved - 2 Eligible Participants - 60 patients with heart failure and narrow QRS.

      Inclusion Criteria Sinus rhythm Symptomatic heart failure - NYHA class III or IV ECG QRS
      duration less than 120 milliseconds LV ejection fraction of less than 35% on echocardiography
      using Simpsons technique.

      Able to give informed consent

      Exclusion Criteria Age below 18 Current or planned pregnancy Patient refusal Ventricular
      tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation Current or recent (within last 30 days) involvement
      in other studies Requires implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) according to NICE
      criteria for implantation (England and Wales)

      Definition of clinical response:- 20% improvement in 6 minute walk distance or any
      improvement from 0

      Definition of echocardiographic response:- 15% or greater decrease in left ventricular end
      systolic volume

      Follow up 6 weeks and 6 monthly thereafter. Interim results at 6 months. Analysis of results,
      echocardiograms, MRI and BNP will be blind Walk distance to be measured by unblinded observer
      and by pedometer.

      Randomisation:

      Numbered envelopes will be prepared by sponsor (Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust) and
      kept from researchers. After informed consent, the patient will be enrolled and the
      technician will draw the result.

      This trial was known as the Birmingham biventricular pacing in patients unselected for
      dyssynchrony (BIPIDS).
    
  