
    
      The GOSH Top child and adolescent health problems study aims to identify the top health
      concerns that parents/guardians and paediatricians in a tertiary hospital have for young
      people in England. The study will be surveying parents/guardians and paediatricians at Great
      Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH), asking them to review and give their impressions from a list
      of thirty common child and adolescent health issues. Analysis of responses will provide a
      list of problems that are most important and determine if respondents feel that the NHS
      England is adequately addressing these problems.

      The project was designed with public partnership. We conducted literature reviews, and
      adopted with permission, a survey instrument used by the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital
      National Poll in Michigan, USA. We asked some parents to list child and adolescent health
      problems that they deem most important. A consensus meeting with experts was held, to select
      the thirty most common and important public health issues for young people in England, from
      which the study will identify problems with the highest concern. This project and its
      intended outcomes will span medical, nursing, research and voluntary services that will
      improve child and adolescent healthcare provision the UK.

      The State of Child Health (SoCH) Report 2017 highlights indicators of child health problems
      across the four nations of the United Kingdom. There are some polls that were conducted in
      Australia and USA, investigating the top concerns for child health problems and thus
      providing a framework onto which to find solutions. The Royal Children's Hospital Melbourne
      through its National Child Health Poll established that that excessive screen time was the
      greatest parental concern, and that the top ten concerns related to modern lifestyle, mental
      health and child safety. Similarly, the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital National Poll on
      children's health selected a national sample of adults to identify health topics that are a
      "big problem" for children and teenagers. The 2017 report identified bullying/cyberbullying
      as the greatest concern. However there is no available evidence about studies being conducted
      in the United Kingdom to find out what parents/guardians and paediatricians report as the top
      child and adolescent health problems.

      The information would be valuable to the health professionals at the point of care, as well
      as the national healthcare system. This study analyses information from groups on both the
      supply and demand side of child and adolescent healthcare. Understanding the different
      perceptions of child and adolescent health problems between healthcare professionals and
      parents/guardians can lead to improved follow-up care and compliance with advice. Information
      from this study can be used as a basis for the establishment of a UK national poll that would
      further investigate public concerns for child health.
    
  