
    
      Commensal bacteria and other microbial organisms (the microbiota), particularly in the
      intestines, are centrally related to nutrition, metabolism, immunity, inflammation, and
      endocrine balance. As an initial step toward possible establishment of a biobank of feces
      that could be used for prospective studies of the relationship of microbiota to cancer and
      other conditions, we propose a study to evaluate whether fecal microbiota, as well as
      microbial enzyme expression and function, are reproducibly represented in feces that has been
      collected with a device that is widely used for fecal occult blood testing (FOBT-CHEK oc). To
      do so, this study will recruit a convenience sample of 50 volunteers from DCEG and others at
      NIH. From a single stool, each participant will provide 16 aliquots of feces, half collected
      with FOBT-CHEK oc and the rest with a larger Sarstedt device. A urine sample and a brief
      self-administered questionnaire on antibiotics and other medications, serious chronic
      diseases, and major cancer risk factors will also be obtained. The aliquots will be used for
      microbiome pyrosequencing, beta-glucuronidase and beta-glucosidase expression and enzymatic
      activity. Variance within and between collection devices, as well as between individuals,
      will be quantified. This study will provide insight and quantitative estimates that will be
      required for formal studies of the relationship of the fecal microbiome to cancer. Under an
      amendment, to examine the ability of selected antibiotics to stabilize fecal microbial
      populations when they have been stored at 3 or 7 days prior to freezing, 10 of the same
      volunteer participants will be asked to provide aliquots of a second stool specimen.
      Differences between immediate and delayed freezing with or without the antibiotics will be
      tested by analysis of variance. Under an amendment, up to 100 participants will be enrolled
      to examine reproducibility of the microbiota with a used commercial colorectal cancer
      screening device and the stability of the microbiota within individuals over four years,
      participants will be asked to collect specimens during 2014, exactly as was done during 2010.
      Assays and anlyses will be analogous to those performed previously.
    
  