
    
      In rectal cancer, strategies to enhance local treatment responses by expanding neoadjuvant
      regimens are sought to enable organ preservation in more patients. The addition of systemic
      FOLFOX post long course chemoradiotherapy (LCRT) and post short course radiotherapy (SCRT)
      has been reported with encouraging results demonstrating higher rates of complete response
      than with radiotherapy based treatment alone. Immunotherapy using PD-1/ PD-L1 inhibition is
      recognised to be effective in mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer (dMMR). Generally,
      dMMR tumours are characterised by a higher mutational burden, a higher neoantigen load with
      high density T cell infiltrates and increased expression of PD-1/ PD-L1 in the tumour
      microenvironment (TME). Mismatch repair proficient (pMMR) colorectal cancer is not thought to
      be responsive to immunotherapies partly due to the fact they exhibit low levels of tumour
      infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and PD-1/PD-L1 within the TME. Attempts to expand the role of
      anti-PD-L1 treatment to pMMR CRC is likely to rely on provision of conventional DNA damaging
      treatments to increase tumour immunogenicity/ T cell infiltration. At baseline few rectal
      tumours (10-20%) demonstrate moderate-high grade CD3+ responses within the TME, but there is
      evidence that radiotherapy (e.g. SCRT or LCRT) and systemic chemotherapy (FOLFOX) induce
      favourable immune responses. In this phase II trial, the investigators plan to evaluate the
      potential treatment efficacy of anti-PD-L1 systemic anticancer treatment, durvalumab,
      alongside either SCRT or LCRT with FOLFOX in the gap up to post treatment assessment. This
      trial will evaluate rates of complete response in each arm as its primary endpoint in
      addition to safety and toxicity as secondary endpoints. It is a translationally rich trial
      which involves the collection of biospecimens prior to, during and following treatment in
      order to understand the molecular and immunological factors underpinning treatment response.

      An initial 6 patient safety run-in (3 patients in each arm) will be performed treating
      patients with metastatic disease with a locally advanced rectal cancer in situ or patients
      with locally advanced rectal cancer who will never undergo radical surgery due to patient
      choice, in order to establish safety and lack of significant local toxicity due to the
      combination (for example colo-proctitis). Depending on the toxicity observed in the first 3
      evaluable patients in each of the arm, an additional 3 patients may be add to that arm for
      the safety run-in cohort. Following an independent safety review and approval by an
      Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC), the main trial will commence.

      Following the safety run-in, 42 patients with non-metastatic, biopsy confirmed rectal
      adenocarcinoma (cT3b+, N+, EMVI+ based on MRI staging or low rectal tumours requiring
      abdominoperineal resection) will be recruited to the main trial and randomised to one of two
      treatment arms. These patients must have adequate physical fitness and no previous pelvic
      radiotherapy or immunotherapy.

      Recruitment to the Safety Run-in period is expected to take 6 months (based on 6 patients in
      this cohort) with the main trial taking a further 12 months. Recruitment should therefore
      take place over a total period of 18 months. If the safety run-in requires more than 6
      patients, these timelines will be revised. Patients will be followed up for 36 months from
      date of randomisation.
    
  