
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of combining gemtuzumab ozogamicin with idarubicin and
           cytarabine with or without cyclophosphamide with total body irradiation vs busulfan
           followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with previously untreated
           high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or acute myeloid leukemia secondary to MDS.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the antileukemic/anti-MDS activity of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the hepatotoxicity of this regimen, in terms of veno-occlusive disease, in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the severity of pancytopenia and duration of recovery in patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

        -  Group 1 (for patients with no HLA-matched sibling donor): Patients receive
           remission-induction chemotherapy comprising idarubicin IV over 5 minutes on days 1, 3,
           and 5; cytarabine IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-10; and gemtuzumab ozogamicin
           IV over 2 hours on day 7. Treatment continues for a second course in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Group 2 (for patients with an HLA-matched sibling donor): Patients are randomized to 1
           of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive myeloablative consolidation chemotherapy comprising
                cyclophosphamide on days -6 and -5 and total body irradiation twice daily on days
                -4 to -2.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive myeloablative consolidation chemotherapy comprising
                busulfan on days -8 to -5 and cyclophosphamide on days -4 and -3.

      Patients in both arms may alternatively undergo T-cell depletion and/or a reduced-intensity
      conditioning regimen.

      Approximately 4-8 weeks after completion of consolidation chemotherapy, all patients in group
      2 undergo allogeneic bone marrow transplantation or allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantation. Patients in group 2 then proceed to remission-induction chemotherapy as in
      group 1.

      Patients achieving complete remission are recommended for consolidation therapy off study.

      Patients are followed monthly for 6 months, every 2 months for 6 months, and then every 3
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 28 patients will be accrued for this study within 10 months.
    
  