
    
      For each cohort, there will be an open label Safety Lead-in (Part 1) and a placebo
      controlled, randomized, double-blind portion (Part 2). In Part 1, RJX will be administered
      daily for 7 days. In the active treatment arm of Part 2 for both cohorts, RJX will be
      administered daily for 7 days per cycle and patients may receive up to 2 cycles. As detailed
      below, patients will be allowed to receive a second 7 day cycle of therapy based on the
      medical judgment of the Investigator. The total RJX exposure during Part 2 could therefore be
      up to 14 days. Both cohorts will start and enroll in parallel and independently. A safety
      follow-up period will begin at Day 14/Discharge, or when treatment is discontinued, and will
      continue for approximately 60 days post discharge. Part 1 will be conducted at a single site
      and Part 2 will be conducted at multiple sites. The 2 cohorts in this study are:

        -  Cohort 1:

             -  Hospitalized COVID-19 patients ≥18 years without hypoxemia who are either not
                receiving any oxygen therapy OR are receiving supplemental oxygen via mask or nasal
                prongs (namely, clinical status score 4 or 5 on an 8-point ordinal scale).

             -  Patients are required to have the following high-risk characteristics

                  1. Age ≥65 years AND type 2 diabetes or hypertension OR

                  2. Age ≥18 years with abnormal blood tests AND CRP >50 mg/L PLUS at least 1 of
                     the following biomarkers:

                       1. D-dimer >1,000 ng/mL,

                       2. Ferritin >500 µg/L,

                       3. High sensitivity cardiac troponin >2 × upper limit of normal (ULN),

                       4. LDH >245 U/L.

        -  Cohort 2:

             -  Hospitalized COVID-19 patients with hypoxemia without ARDS who are receiving either
                non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) OR high flow oxygen (namely,
                clinical status score 3 on an 8-point ordinal scale).
    
  