
    
      Studies are beginning to surface that indicate that clergy suffer from high rates of chronic
      disease, including obesity (1, 2) and diabetes, arthritis, and hypertension (1). Clergy also
      experience above average rates of depression (3-5) and anxiety (3, 6). High stress is an
      additional common problem for clergy. A review of the literature on clergy stress cites the
      following five stressors as the most salient for clergy: mobility, low financial
      compensation, inadequate social support, high time demands, and intrusions on family
      boundaries (7). Health interventions for clergy are needed, and yet, as far as the
      investigators know, no clergy health interventions have been rigorously tested.

      The investigators seek to design and rigorously test a holistic health intervention for
      United Methodist clergy in North Carolina. Based on the existing epidemiological data, the
      investigators hope to create a health intervention that will reduce Metabolic Syndrome, which
      is a set of risk factors that clusters with obesity and is related to cardiovascular disease,
      diabetes, and death (8, 9). Thus, the investigators seek to reduce rates of hypertension,
      diabetes, large abdominal circumference, high triglycerides, and low HDL. The investigators
      additionally seek to decrease stress, depression, and anxiety in clergy.

      The investigators developed a 23-month intervention called Spirited Life. This intervention
      utilizes a combination of: 1) in-person workshops, 2) online videos, 3) contacts with a
      Wellness Advocate, and 4) small grants. 1) The workshops include the stress management
      program called Williams LifeSkills, which has a strong evidence base [see, for example,
      (10)]. The workshops also emphasize theological reasons to take care of one's health. 2) The
      online videos are the Naturally Slim weight loss and healthy eating program offered by ACAP
      Health. 3) The Wellness Advocates use Motivational Interviewing to work with clergy to set
      goals and check on progress. The frequency of Wellness Advocate contact may vary but is
      intended to be monthly, and generally occurs by phone. 4) The small grants are $500 offered
      during month 13 of the program and may be broadly used to promote health; participants submit
      a short application that must be approved by their Wellness Advocate.

      The investigators will recruit clergy (Elders, Probationary Elders, Deacons, Interim Supply
      Pastors, and Local Pastors) serving a local church, as Bishop or as a District
      Superintendent, or as a campus minister or someone on Conference staff, in either the North
      Carolina Annual Conference or Western North Carolina Conference, as of July 2010. Additional
      inclusion criteria are that clergy must be age 18 or higher, and may be full or part-time
      pastors; student pastors; of any current health status; and non-United Methodist if they are
      serving a United Methodist Church in one of the North Carolina Conferences. The investigators
      will exclude extension ministers other than Conference staff and campus ministers, and the
      investigators will exclude pastors on leave.

      This study employs a randomized multiple baseline research design in which all consenting
      clergy will be randomized to one of three cohorts, which differ in when they will begin
      receiving the 23-month intervention treatment. Cohort 1 will begin the intervention in
      January 2011; Cohort 2 in January 2012; and Cohort 3 in January 2013. As is standard in
      Multiple Baseline research designs, participants in all cohorts will participate in data
      collection throughout the study period, including prior to their initiation of the
      intervention treatment.

      The investigators will collect both survey and health screening data. The survey data cover
      the following constructs: depression, anxiety, stress, life satisfaction, relationship
      satisfaction, hostility, mental and physical health functioning, burnout, spiritual
      well-being, nutrition, and exercise. The health screening data include height, weight,
      abdominal circumference, resting blood pressure and heart rate, fasting cholesterol, and
      hemoglobin A1c.

      The data collection schedule varies by cohort, and both survey and health screening data will
      be sought at each data collection time point. All cohorts will provide baseline survey and
      health screening data in November 2010. During the 23-month intervention treatment period for
      each cohort, the investigators will seek data in months 9, 16, and 23. For Cohort 1, the
      investigators will also seek post-treatment data 6, 12, and 18 months after the end of the
      intervention period to examine the durability of effects. The investigators will do the same
      for Cohorts 2 and 3, dependent upon funding.

      The investigators' primary analysis will be to compare Cohort 1 at the end of treatment to
      Cohort 3, which will provide data while waiting for treatment. Thus, embedded in this
      randomized multiple baseline design is a randomized controlled trial between Cohorts 1 and 3.
      The investigators therefore will seek data from Cohorts 1 and 3 in September 2011, April
      2012, and November 2012. The investigators will also seek data from Cohort 2 in November 2011
      to get updated baseline data before Cohort 2 participants start the intervention treatment.

      If successful in reducing Metabolic Syndrome, stress, depression, and anxiety, the Spirited
      Life intervention could have a major impact in reducing health problems and improving the
      holistic health of clergy.
    
  