
    
      Aims:

      1) To investigate subjective measures, objective measures, functional performance and
      psychological factors for ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation.

      Hypothesis:

      1-a There will be no differences between ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation, and
      return to sport criteria leg symmetry index (LSI ≥ 85%), in functional performance for
      single-hop for distance tests

      1-b There will be no differences between ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation, and
      return to sport criteria leg symmetry index (LSI ≥ 85%), in objective measures of quadriceps
      and hamstring isometric muscle strength tests.

      1-c There will be no differences between ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation, and
      return to sport criteria (LSI ≥ 85%) in subjective measures of self-reported knee function
      (KOOS) and (IKDC)

      1-d There will be no differences in psychological factors for the anterior cruciate ligament
      return to sport after injury scale (ACL-RSI) between ACLR patients at discharge from
      rehabilitation and the cut-off score for return to sport (score ˃ 63).

      1-e There will be no differences in the psychological factors for the Tampa scale of
      kinesiophobia between ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation and the cut-off score of
      fear of movement (score ≤ 37).

      2) To investigate the relationship between self-reported knee function, isometric muscles
      strength, single-hop test and psychological factors post ACL reconstruction.

      Hypothesis:

      2-a There will be a correlation between self-reported knee function and isometric muscles
      strength in ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation.

      2-b There will be a correlation between self-reported knee function and single-hop test in
      ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation.

      2-c There will be a correlation between self-reported knee function and psychological factors
      in ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation.

      2-d There will be a correlation between isometric muscles strength and single-hop test in
      ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation.

      2-e There will be a correlation between isometric muscles strength and psychological factors
      in ACLR patients at discharge from rehabilitation.

      2-f There will be a correlation between single-hop test and psychological factors in ACLR
      patients at discharge from rehabilitation.

      Study Procedure After the participants confirm that they are interested in the study, they
      will be seen again at the rehabilitation class during their regular hospital appointment.
      During the participants' last visit to the rehabilitation department, they will be briefed
      again about the study, and if they agree to partake, they will be asked to sign the consent
      form.

      Self-reported knee function The participants will be asked to complete the Knee injury and
      Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) questionnaire on symptoms, stiffness, pain, function
      daily living, function sport sand recreational activities and quality of life, and The
      International Knee Documentation Committee subjective knee form (IKDC) questionnaire, which
      assesses symptoms, function, and sports activity.

      Psychological factors The participants will be asked to complete The Tampa Scale for
      Kinesiophobia (fear of movement) (TSK) which is a questionnaire that assesses pain related
      fear of movement followed by the Anterior Cruciate ligament Return to Sport after Injury
      (ACL-RSI) scales, which is a questionnaire that measures athletes' emotions, confidence in
      performance, and risk appraisal concerning to returning to sport following an ACL injury. A
      demographics form (age, height and weight) will also be completed.

      Isometric muscle strength To gather isometric muscle strength data on each participant, data
      on isometric muscle strength for both legs will be obtained using two different tests for
      knee extensors and knee flexors muscles, using a hand-held dynamometer (HHD). The
      participants will be asked to wear sports clothing. The strength of both lower limbs of the
      participants will be assessed using the HHD, with peak force measured throughout five seconds
      of muscle contraction. Quadriceps muscles will be measured by first requesting the
      participants sit on the edge of the treatment bed with their knees 90 degrees flexion and
      both feet off the ground. The participants will then be asked to apply maximum force in
      extending the knee joint against the HHD device, which will be fixed using a belt and placed
      in front of the leg proximal to the ankle joint. They will be asked to do so for five
      seconds, and to repeat three times with 30 seconds of rest in between. The maximum peak force
      will be recorded throughout the three trials. To measure hamstring muscles, participants will
      be instructed to sit on the edge of the treatment bed with 90 degrees' flexion in the knee
      with both feet off the ground. Then, participants will be instructed to apply maximum force
      to flex knee joint against the immovable HHD device that will be fixed with a belt and placed
      at the back of the leg proximal to the ankle joint. They will be asked to so for five
      seconds, and this will be repeated three times with 30 seconds of rest in between. Maximum
      peak force will be recorded throughout the three trials.

      Functional tasks Participants will be requested to perform a single-leg hop for distance, and
      this will be assessed using a standard metric tape measure. A 3m strip of tape will be placed
      on the floor, with the start line labelled using a 0.3m strip of tape placed perpendicular to
      the 3m strip of tape. The participants will be performed three practice trials for the hop
      test. After finishing the practice trials, four test trials will be asked to perform a single
      leg hop for distance as described by (Bolgla and Keskula, 1997). Attempts will be classified
      as successful provided the participant hops and lands with full stability on one leg for
      three seconds. The participants will be required to achieve four maximum hop attempts with
      complete stabilisation after landing for three seconds. Attempts will be deemed unsuccessful
      if the participant hops and touches the ground with their other leg during landing, or if
      they fail to hop within the limited marked distance; any failed hops will be counted and
      noted, but not processed. The participant's leg length will be measured while they are lying
      in a supine position before the first test using a standard tape measure to measure from the
      anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) to the distal tip of the medial malleolus. Leg length
      will be used during data analysis to normalise excursion distances.

      The participants will begin with their toe on the starting line, standing on one leg, before
      hopping as far as they can horizontally and landing on the same leg, and the distance hopped
      will be recorded. The hop data will be normalised to limb length by dividing the distance
      covered by the participant's leg length and then multiplying by 100, resulting in a
      percentage value. After completing the test, the participants will be asked to repeat the
      procedure with the other leg.
    
  