
    
      There are more than 1 million cesarean deliveries performed annually in the United States, at
      a rate of 30.2% of all deliveries. Data are limited regarding optimal surgical closure
      techniques to minimize adhesions at cesarean. Adhesions are implicated in pelvic pain,
      infertility, difficult repeat surgery, and bowel obstruction. Practice techniques regarding
      rectus muscle reapproximation vary widely, and there are no data regarding the impact of this
      step on pain, and some data suggesting a reduction in significant adhesions. Given the
      frequency of cesarean deliveries, small changes in surgical technique may yield significant
      benefits.

      We hope to learn 1) whether suture reapproximation of the rectus muscles increases pain, and
      2) the degree to which suture reapproximation of the rectus muscles alters adhesions when
      studied in a prospective, randomized trial.

      All patients undergoing primary cesarean delivery at Lucile Packard Childrens Hospital (LPCH)
      will be offered the study. Once consented, patients will be randomized to one of two
      standardized closure techniques at cesarean: two-layer uterine closure, peritoneal closure,
      fascial and skin closure, and either reapproximation of the rectus muscles with
      three-interrupted sutures, or non-closure. Intra-operative and post-operative pain management
      will be standardized. Subjects will undergo pain assessments while in-house on post-operative
      days 1 and 3, and at the standard post-partum clinic visit after 6 weeks. These assessments
      will require less than 5 minutes of the patient's time. Patients will be shown a pain chart,
      and will be asked to rate their pain on a scale of 0 to 10 at rest. They will then stand up
      and rate their pain again. Pain medication usage will also be assessed.

      The surgeons will know the groups to which the patients are randomized. The patients and
      those collecting data on pain scores will not.

      Primary Endpoint: combined opioid use and movement pain score (Silverman Integrated
      Assessment-SIA) 72 post-operative hours.

      Secondary Endpoint: surgical complications, maternal satisfaction with analgesia.
    
  