
    
      -  this is the randomized double blinded clinical trial to compare the efficacy of these
           two drugs in this clinical setting.

        -  A randomized clinical trial was conducted in the ED of Pamukkale University Medical
           Faculty Hospital

        -  Study personnel (emergency physicians and nurses) were trained before the study.

        -  When intramuscular drugs (Piroxicam, Diclofenac sodium) was being recommended, an
           eligibility checklist was completed by the attending physician.

        -  If there were no exclusion criteria, written informed consent was obtained and baseline
           information, including initial Dysmenorrhea pain severity ratings with VAS were
           recorded.

        -  The need for identification and enrollment of participants by staff with conflicting
           work pressures resulted in recruitment of a convenience sample of patients.

        -  All patients eligible for the study were randomized to one of two groups:

        -  First Group: 20 mg of piroxicam (feldene ampoule -Pfizer-France) intramuscularly (IM)
           was given 200 patients,

        -  Second Group: Diclofenac sodium 75mg (Miyadren drug-ampoule -Yavuz Istanbul)
           intramuscularly (IM) was given 200 patients which determined to be applied as a group.

        -  Drug packs prepared in 5 ml syringes were numbered by an independent nurse, who not
           involved in the study.

        -  Drugs were prepared according to the computer-generated random number sequence to assign
           treatment allocations

        -  The allocation list was kept by the emergency nurse. Patients received the piroxicam,
           diclofenac sodium medication schemes according to their random allocations.

        -  After enrollment and recording of baseline information, the next numbered study drug
           pack was obtained, and administered as a intramuscular.

        -  Randomization was achieved by using computer software to generate random numbers. During
           the intervention, participants were monitored by an oxygen saturation (SpO2) monitor, an
           automatic sphygmomanometer (blood pressure), and a rhythm monitor (heart rate and
           rhythms)

        -  One researcher blinded to patient allocation observed the whole procedure and recorded
           the Dysmenorrhea pain scores.

        -  Patients in both groups received two types of medication in a similar manner, thus
           ensuring double blinding.

        -  Dysmenorrhea pain scores were recorded at 0, 15, 30, 45 and 60 min on a VAS of 1 to 10

        -  Rescue medication (100 mg of tramadol hydrochloride) was given intramuscular to patients
           if pain VAS scores ≥ 5 in forty five minutes after study drug administration.

        -  All other medications required during the study also were recorded.

        -  During the study, pulse rate, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure,
           respiration rate and oxygen saturation (SpO2) were recorded at baseline (0 min), 15, 30,
           and 60 min.
    
  