
    
      Orthodontic miniscrews are intraoral anchorage devices designed to support biomechanics
      during orthodontic tooth movement. Also known as miniscrews, mini-implants, microscrews, or
      temporary anchorage devices, they are made of a head, a neck, and a threaded shank. The head
      may show different designs (bracket-like, rounded with slot, etc.) the threaded shank is
      generally cylindrical, tapered or a combination of the two, and may be self-tapping (i.e.
      requiring a pre-drilled pilot hole) and/or self-drilling (not requiring a pilot hole).
      Because of their small diameter, they may be implanted in a wide variety of anatomic sites,
      such as the alveolar interradicular spaces or the palatal cortical bone, in order to attend
      to treatment anchorage needs. The loading protocol for miniscrews loading can be as immediate
      as delayed; in the beginning in literature was indicated a non-specific period of healing and
      osseointegration before a screw inserted in the mandible could be loaded; the importance of a
      healing period was derived by several studies on Branemark protocol on implants. Further
      experimental studies on orthodontic load were not able to demonstrate loaded implant
      loosening, even when loads were applied immediately, so that an immediate loading protocol
      for orthodontic miniscrews appeared as reasonable. Costa and Melsen studied the tissue
      reaction around the immediately loaded screws in an animal model and suggested the use of
      immediately loaded screws as an intra-oral extra-dental anchorage. Histomorphometric analyses
      have shown that the immediate loading of miniscrew implants may help to activate bone
      remodeling and increase the mineral contents at the loaded region. Compared to traditional
      endosseous implants, orthodontic miniscrews have relatively high failure rates, varying from
      16.4% to 39% ; according to recent reviews, the average failure rate is believed to be less
      than 20%. Many factors have been proposed to be associated to success rate; among these age,
      gender, jaw (maxilla or mandible), placement site, tissue mobility (firm or movable tissue),
      inflammation, distance to the root, insertion torque, loading time, type, length, and
      diameter of the miniscrew. Recently, an experimental study on primary stability found that
      bone properties are more important than the screw geometry in establishing primary mechanical
      retention. Thus the aim of this study is to deeply analyze the bone role related to the
      success of miniscrews analyzing both insertion/removal torque values, both bone
      characteristics by the mean of x-rays.
    
  