
    
      Chronic ulcers affect millions of people, and are a growing clinical problem seen most
      frequently in the elderly. Non-healing or slow healing wounds represent a major health burden
      and drain on resources, contributing to substantial disability, morbidity, and cost. Wound
      healing involves a well-orchestrated, complex process leading to repair of injured tissues.
      Basic principles of good wound care involve removal of necrotic tissue by mechanical,
      surgical or enzymatic debridement, wound bed preparation, and treatment of infection. In
      general, wounds that are being appropriately managed show measurable progress within 2-4
      weeks. However despite delivering good wound care that includes providing the right
      dressings, nutritional support, topical care, and offering top-of-the-line support surfaces,
      wounds often become stagnated. Wounds refractory to treatment for 2-4 weeks are dubbed
      recalcitrant. Such wounds need sometime some stimuli to start the healing cascade.
      Polyheal-1, is thought do be potentially useful in triggering the healing process and can be
      particularly beneficial in stimulating the granulation process in chronic wounds of different
      etiologies e.g. venous, diabetic wounds, decubitus ulcers and post trauma/surgery complicated
      wounds. For instance exposed bones and tendons that are particularly difficult to be treated,
      were previously demonstrated to benefit from stimulation of granulation coverage by
      application of Polyheal 1.

      In this protocol we intent to perform comparative study aimed at comparing performance of
      Polyheal I to Saline in treatment of recalcitrant wounds of different etiology such as venous
      and various post-operative wounds including cases were the exposed bone needs granulation
      coverage. Furthermore, patients with post- operative surgical complications such as sternum
      or partial foot amputation in diabetic patients will also be a subject of present
      investigation. Polyheal 1 will be compared to saline as this is the most commonly used
      treatment intended at keeping the wound moist and enabling progress of granulation and
      epithelization.
    
  