
    
      Material and methods Patients The sample includes volunteer subjects diagnosed with
      fibromyalgia from the Valencian Association of People Affected by Fibromyalgia that were
      submitted to participate in the study.

      Study design It is a quasi-experimental, longitudinal, prospective, controlled, randomized,
      single-blinded research. The sample was divided into 3 groups. Patients signed informed
      consent and then the randomization of subjects to the different study groups was done through
      computer software by an external assistant who was blinded to the study objectives. The study
      was conducted in morning and afternoon sessions.

      All those patients who belong to the experimental group 1 or 2 attend their sessions which
      last 60 minutes and are held 2 times a week every other day. The experimental group 1 attends
      classes in the morning, while the experimental group 2 attends them in the evenings. The
      control group only comes to the evaluation sessions without doing any particular activity.
      The subjects are evaluated in two stages, at baseline and after completion of the study.

      Intervention Group 1 (G1): Low-impact aerobic exercise combined with music therapy.
      Intervention consists in working the muscles which are mostly affected by fibromyalgia
      through group exercises, which are dynamic, smooth and aim functionality.

      Group 2 (G2): Low-impact aerobic exercise. Then intervention is like the previous group but
      with the difference that physical activity is not performed to the rhythm of chosen melodic
      music. Therefore, exercises are done with general chill-out music throughout the session,
      without adaptation of the exercise to the music.

      Control group (CG): With this group no intervention is done, but they are assessed like the
      other groups.

      Evaluation:

      Depression, by Beck Depression Inventory, General discomfort, using the Faces Pain Scale,
      Balance, evaluated by the Berg Scale.
    
  