
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Diagnostic bronchoscopic procedures are commonly performed in patients with various forms of
      pulmonary disorders associated with abnormal chest imaging. During these procedures, the
      vocal cords are intubated using a flexible scope. Patients need sedation and analgesia, and
      conscious sedation is typically administered. Hypoxemia is a potential complication during
      bronchoscopy. Contributing factors in addition to the underlying lung pathology, include
      depression of the respiratory center and decreased upper airway muscle tone that occur during
      conscious sedation [3]. Upper airway obstruction including obstructive apnea is often
      unrecognized during these procedures till hypoxemia is apparent [4]. Propofol, a common drug
      used for conscious sedation, is known to cause respiratory depression, and potentially
      central and/or obstructive apneas with a direct dose-response pattern [5]. Others, including
      benzodiazepines and opiates, can also cause respiratory depression leading to central or
      obstructive events. Respiratory depression is potentiated when any of the above medications
      are combined [6].

      Objectives:

      The objective of the study is to identify the incidence of airflow limitation during
      bronchoscopy under conscious sedation, and further characterize it as obstructive or central.
      The primary endpoint is the incidence of obstructive and central apneic events during
      bronchoscopic procedures. The secondary outcomes include incidence of oxygen desaturation and
      need for escalation of care.

      Study Design:

      After informed consent is obtained, the NOX-T3 monitoring system, a commonly used portable
      sleep device that detects obstructive and central apneas, is placed prior to starting the
      procedure, and remains in place up to 30 minutes following the procedure. The NOX-T3
      monitoring system includes a nasal cannula that sits over the nares, an elastic band that
      goes around the chest, and another one that goes around the abdomen, and a finger probe that
      is placed on the index finger. All subjects undergo bronchoscopy with standard of care
      including the monitoring of blood pressure, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation. All
      subjects have the NOX-T3 applied in addition to standard of care monitoring. Data is assessed
      following the completion of the procedure. Subjects' participation in this study ends at the
      completion of their standard of care visit. All the NOX-T3 studies are scored and interpreted
      by study investigators.

      Data Management:

      This is an observational and descriptive study with an estimated sample size of 30. Data
      collected will be reviewed with a statistician and investigators will report on patients'
      demographics. The study investigators will also present the incidence of apneic respiratory
      events and characterize them as obstructive or centrals. Investigators will further
      differentiate obstructive respiratory events to either apneas or hypopnea. Data on oxygen
      desaturations unrelated to apneic events will also be recorded.
    
  