
    
      Over the past decade, the transradial approach to cardiac catheterization has emerged as the
      preferred method of angiography and intervention. There have been several observational and
      randomized controlled trials which have shown an association between transradial access and
      reduced risk of bleeding and other vascular complications, increased cost-effectiveness,
      improved patient satisfaction, and a mortality benefit in high-risk patient populations.
      However, this technique does carry risks of complications including radial artery occlusion,
      non-occlusive radial artery injury, radial artery spasm, hand ischemia, pseudoaneurysm,
      radial artery perforation, nerve damage, arteriovenous fistulisation, and bleeding. Radial
      artery occlusion is the most commonly noted complication and the clinical impact is unclear.
      In individuals with intact collateral palmar circulation from the ulnar artery, the
      individual is usually asymptomatic and do not require further intervention. However, if an
      individual lacks adequate collateral circulation, that individual is at risk of hand ischemia
      and loss of tissue or function necessitating surgical intervention or, ultimately,
      amputation. Thus, it is common practice to assess competency of the collateral palmar
      circulation prior to transradial cardiac catheterization to mitigate the risks associated
      with this approach.

      The gold standard for assessment of radial artery patency is colour Doppler ultrasound
      imaging of the artery. This gold standard allows for direct, objective assessment of arterial
      patency and competency through direct visualization of blood flow. The use of pre-procedural
      ultrasound remains both labour and resource intensive and hence is not feasible for practical
      use, therefore a physician must rely on clinical assessment of collateral circulation. This
      has been traditionally evaluated through use of the modified Allen's test (MAT), a technique
      performed at the bedside as part of the pre-procedural physical examination. More recently,
      the introduction of plethysmography and pulse oximetry have been utilized to theoretically
      provide a more objective measure of assessing collateral circulation, though these too are
      limited by the available resources. Given the ever increasing prevalence of smart phones,
      this study aims to address the utility and feasibility of an iPhone application in
      determining adequacy of collateral palmar circulation. Should this iPhone application provide
      superior diagnostic accuracy, it could quickly become an alternative method of providing an
      objective measure of collateral palmar circulation rather than relying on the subjective MAT.
    
  