
    
      Using the investigators' experience in digital media, behavior theory, client-centered
      interventions, and family planning, the investigators will develop a digital application
      ("app")-rPlan-to be used in the clinic waiting room prior to a gynecological and/or
      contraceptive visit. The goal of this research is to develop the app and conduct a
      feasibility, acceptability and effectiveness assessment of rPlan.

      This study will develop rPlan, a three-part intervention that includes a precounseling app
      that promotes dual protection, motivational interviewing-informed counseling, and concomitant
      printed educational materials.

      The research will proceed in two phases. In Phase I, the investigators will assemble a
      10-member stakeholder advisory team to enhance the PreCounselor app to focus on dual
      protection, train reproductive health counselors in motivational interviewing, and create
      concomitant printed educational materials. In Phase II, the feasibility, acceptability, and
      effectiveness of the intervention will be assessed. The specific aims are to:

      Aim 1: Develop the rPlan intervention by (1) enhancing the pretested PreCounselor app to
      focus on dual protection, (2) training reproductive health counselors, and (3) creating
      concomitant printed educational materials.

      Aim 2: Conduct a pre/post feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness assessment of rPlan
      to examine improvement in dual protection behaviors, enhancement of contraceptive adherence
      and continuation, increase of condom use, and decrease of STI/HIV infection.

      The primary outcome is engagement in dual protection (either using a condom with another
      effective method, or using a condom alone), which will be measured via patient report at 12
      weeks post enrollment. The secondary outcomes are contraceptive adherence/uptake (measured at
      12 weeks post enrollment), contraceptive decisional balance/self-efficacy (measured at 12
      weeks post enrollment), contraceptive effectiveness knowledge, and STI infection (12 weeks
      post enrollment).

      The research will consist of baseline activities as well as a 12-week in-clinic survey and
      STI test, and a retrospective chart review to capture interceding visits (e.g., initial
      contraceptive method selection, method switching, etc.) and diagnoses (e.g., pregnancy,
      STI/HIV).
    
  