
    
      The increasing prevalence of obesity noticed in recent decades is a major public health
      problem of pandemic nature. According to researches, there will be 2.3 billion overweight
      adults and more than 700 million people suffering from obesity worldwide by the year
      2020.Series of epidemiologic studies has revealed a relative link between morbid obesity and
      metabolic syndrome type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, insulin resistance
      and shorter life span. Dyslipidemia specially when combined with obesity significantly
      increase the incidence of atherosclerosis and its complications and also insulin resistance
      and hence control of diabetic patients. Hyperlipidemia is widely recognized as one of the
      main co- morbidities in severe obesity and major risk factor for development of
      atherosclerosis and then heart related diseases[5-6].Bariatric surgery has become a prominent
      treatment modality after the rapidly increasing prevalence of obesity.

      Surgical treatment of higher obesity levels is the most effective procedure due to its simple
      technique and lower complications with the best outcomes in a long-term perspective. Dramatic
      weight loss leads to improvement of associated co-morbidities as well. Laparoscopic sleeve
      gastrectomy leads to long-term weight and improvement or resolution of hypertension, diabetes
      mellitus type2 and hyperlipidemia.

      Studies reported resolution of hypertension in 58% and resolution or improvement of
      hypertension in 75% of patients following sleeve gastrectomy , resolution of type 2 diabetes
      mellitus in 84 % of patients as well.

      Omana et al. found a greater resolution or improvement of hyperlipidemia with LSG.
      Hyperlipidemia improved in 87% of patients after LSG.

      According to a previous series of studies done before ( 26 studies ) , 11 reported both
      resolution and improvement of dyslipidemia after LSG and 83.5% of the patients had
      experienced resolution or improvement of dyslipidemia. Another 7 studies reported only
      hyperlipidemia resolution and 54% of patients had complete resolution of hyperlipidemia. One
      study reported improvement of hyperlipidemia in 42% of the patients.

      Five studies compared the lipid profile results pre and post-surgery. Only three studies
      showed minimal changes between pre and post operative cholesterol and LDL levels. However,
      the same three studies reported significant changes in triglyceride level and HDL level post
      LSG
    
  