
    
      Depression and anxiety are highly prevalent in IBD, with depression rates almost twice as
      high for those with IBD compared to the general community, and an estimated 30% overall with
      depression or anxiety. Perceived stress is a factor in the development of anxiety and
      depression. These comorbid conditions complicate management of IBD, adversely impacting
      patient outcomes and health, and increasing the resource burden to the health care system.
      However, comorbid depression and anxiety in IBD patients is undertreated, paralleling unmet
      mental health treatment needs in the general Canadian population. Development of alternate
      modes of effective treatment delivery is vital to enhance access, given limited mental health
      service availability. CBT has strong clinical evidence for its effectiveness in treating
      episodes of depression and anxiety as well as in preventing relapses. CBT may be successfully
      delivered as an internet-based intervention. While there are limited data on the efficacy of
      CBT tailored to the IBD population, studies targeting comorbid depression in IBD have
      resulted in significant mental health improvement. A recent study described an internet-based
      CBT for IBD reported modest outcomes (150), but participants were not selected to have
      psychiatric comorbidity and the primary outcomes were not improvement in mood or anxiety
      symptoms. The internet-based program used in this study will involve brief modules focused on
      areas important in managing stress, anxiety and depression including:

      Core Topics: 1. About the Program, 2. IBD and Stress 3. Commitment to Living Life Fully, 4.
      The Brain-Gut Connection, 5. Understanding Anxiety, 6. Overcoming Avoidance, 7. Depression,
      8. Behavioural Activation; Optional Topics: 9. Treatment Options, 10. IBD and the Workplace
      11. Mindfulness

      Procedures: Participants will be recruited with the use of a resources informing possible
      participants about the project. Patients expressing an interest in the program will receive a
      copy of the consent form for the study by email but asked not to sign it. They will be asked
      to schedule a time with the study coordinator to review with consent form, discuss any
      questions about the consent form or the program, and at the end to indicate verbally whether
      or not they provide consent. Those who provide consent will complete a brief psychiatric
      interview with the study coordinator to check for inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      interview used will be the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) for DSM5.
      Those who meet the inclusion criteria for the study will be sent a survey link to complete a
      the baseline measures for the program.Once participants are accepted into the study
      assessments will be completed at baseline, week 6, week 12, and during follow up at week 24.
    
  