
    
      3.2 Study Design/Type

        1. Patient meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria is enrolled up to 24 hours after admission
           for a vasoocclusive episode.

        2. Prior to onset of ketamine infusion, the following information is collected:

             1. Demographic information (age, gender, SCD genotype, past history of SCD-related
                complications) [Obtained from the patient's medical chart]

             2. Opiate utilization/hour since admission [Obtained from the patient's medical chart]

             3. Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) scores since admission [Obtained from the patient's
                medical chart]

             4. Sedation score (University of Michigan Sedation Scale) is obtained [By the nursing
                staff]

             5. Body outline figure of the Adolescent Pediatric Pain Tool (validated down to age 7)
                is administered [By the research staff]

             6. Ketamine Effects Scale (KES) is administered to the patient [By the research staff]

        3. Ketamine infusion is begun at 0.05 mg/kg/hour.

        4. After infusion is initiated:

             1. Vital signs are taken every hour for two hours after infusion begins, then after
                two hours, then every four hours for the remainder of the hospitalization
                [Completed by the nursing staff]

             2. Pain scores are recorded with vital signs if the patient is awake [Completed by
                nursing staff]

             3. Patient is also asked if pain is a lot better, a little better, no change, a little
                worse, or a lot worse than previous assessment [Completed by nursing staff]

             4. Sedation score (University of Michigan Sedation Scale) assessed with pain score
                [Completed by the nursing staff]

             5. Adolescent Pediatric Pain Tool (APPT) body outline figure is completed by the
                patient once per day between 3 pm and 5 pm. [Administered by the research staff]

             6. Ketamine Effects Scale (KES) is administered to the patient once per day between
                3pm and 5pm [By the research staff]

             7. Patient is monitored for side effects including dreams, disorientation, dysphoria,
                agitation, CNS depression, respiratory depression, increasing hypoxia, nausea, or
                vomiting [Completed by the nursing or research staff]

             8. Need for supplemental oxygen is recorded (oxygen saturation <95%) [Completed by
                nursing staff]

             9. Opiate use and NSAID use/6 hours is recorded [Completed by the nursing or research
                staff]

        5. The infusion may be discontinued or decreased at any time due to unacceptable side
           effects as determined by the clinician, patient, parent, or principal investigator.

        6. Agents designed to reduce ketamine side effects [midazolam (Versed), clonidine,
           lorazepam (Ativan), or diazepam (Valium)] may be administered at the discretion of the
           attending physician or the principal investigator.

        7. 4 hours or more after infusion begins, the infusion rate may be increased to 0.1
           mg/kg/hour if the following parameters are met:

             1. patient's pain has not improved to an acceptable range (pain score is still ≥5)

             2. side effects remain acceptable

        8. 4 hours or more after the previous increase the ketamine infusion may be increased to
           0.15 mg/kg/hour per parameters.

        9. 4 hours of more after the previous increase the ketamine infusion may be increased to
           0.2 mg/kg/hour per parameters.

       10. The ketamine infusion will be discontinued at the time of transition to oral pain
           medication, or no more than 72 hours after initiation, or at the request of the
           clinician, patient, parent, or principal investigator.

       11. Pain scores, vital signs, sedation score, opiate use, APPT body outline figure, and KES
           score will be recorded as above for the remainder of the hospitalization.

       12. Total length of hospitalization will be recorded.

       13. Patient will be contacted on a weekly basis for 4 weeks following hospitalization for
           review of potential side effects, pain episodes, or events leading to re-admission.

       14. The patient's medical record will be reviewed to determine duration of previous
           hospitalizations for SCD pain in the previous 24 months and opiate utilization, pain
           scores, and transition to oral opiates during those hospitalizations.

      3.3 Randomization

      This will be conducted as a pilot study; patients will not be randomized.

      3.4 Duration

      The length of the patient's participation in this study is the duration of their
      hospitalization, as well as 4 weeks worth of follow-up phone calls.

      3.5 Discontinuation

      Individual patients will stop receiving ketamine if they develop acute chest syndrome (ACS),
      have a stroke, are transferred to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), if their hemoglobin falls
      below 5 mg/dl, if they experience unacceptable side effects, or at the request of the PI,
      attending, patient, or parent. However, they will continue to be in the study and all data
      will be collected throughout the duration of their hospitalization.

      The entire trial will be terminated when 20 patients have completed the protocol, or if there
      is an unexpected rate of acute chest syndrome or admissions to the pediatric intensive care
      unit (PICU).
    
  