
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Sickle cell anemia (Hb SS) and related hemoglobinopathies involving sickle hemoglobin (HbS)
      had been recognized for many years and numerous clinical and laboratory manifestations had
      been described. However, the clinical course of sickle cell disease was poorly documented.
      The ability to establish concrete interrelationships among signs, symptoms and laboratory
      test results was complicated by the complexity of the interaction of basic disease processes
      with other health related events.

      Comprehensive evaluations of the clinical status of patients were usually carried out only
      during hospitalizations for 'crises' or other acute illnesses. Because of this inconsistent
      nature of the doctor/patient relationships, methods of periodic recording of the patient's
      status needed to be established. Further, the obtaining of comprehensive laboratory data was
      necessary during periods of apparent clinical remissions as well as hospitalizations. A well
      designed, statistically valid, longitudinal study could make a significant contribution to a
      better understanding of sickle cell disease. Information was particularly lacking on the
      clinical course starting at birth. Criteria needed to be formulated that could establish
      classifications of organ involvement and severity of the disease processes. Such
      classifications could ultimately be used in establishing the need for and evaluating the
      efficacy of proposed therapies.

      The source of the idea for the study dates back to 1971 when the Hematology Study Section
      recommended in a position paper a study on the natural history of sickle cell disease. The
      Hemolytic Disease Study Group of the Division of Blood Diseases and Resources developed a
      detailed protocol in 1973. The National Sickle Cell Disease Advisory Committee endorsed the
      idea in 1975. In April 1976, the Red Cell Working Group of the Blood Diseases and Resources
      Advisory Committee recommended initiating the study. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Advisory Council approved the initiative in December 1976.

      Phase I, the Planning Phase, began in 1977. The protocols and Manual of Operations were
      developed in this phase. Phase II, the Enrollment Phase, began in March 1979 and ended in
      March 1981, except for infants younger than 6 months of age, who continued to be enrolled
      after March 1981. In 1983 the study was extended for an additional five years through 1988.
      Beginning in 1989, as a separate initiative, the study follows selected patient groups from
      the original study for an additional five years. The selected groups include the newborn
      cohort and patients surviving beyond age 35.

      In 1981, the NHLBI offered a special competition for the evaluation of cardiac function in
      sickle cell disease patients who were enrolled in the cooperative study of sickle cell
      disease. The original general study protocol required assessment of the lungs, spleen,
      kidneys, eyes, and liver but not the heart. The cardiac function study objectives were: to
      determine cardiac function in a cross-section of sickle cell patients participating in the
      larger study; to determine the incidence, prevalence, and onset of cardiac impairment; and to
      assess changes in cardiac function and correlate the observed changes with other clinical
      data. A total of 300 patients had an entry cardiac evaluation in the third year of the study
      (June 1, 1981 through November 30, 1981) and an exit cardiac evaluation two years later in
      the fifth year of the study which was conducted at four centers.

      Twelve cooperative study of sickle cell disease centers and eleven other clinical
      institutions initiated the Penicillin Prophylaxis in Sickle Cell Disease (PROPS I) clinical
      trial in August 1983. The objective of the trial was to determine whether the regular daily
      administration of oral penicillin would reduce the incidence of documented infection due to
      Streptococcus pneumoniae in children aged 3 months to 3 years with sickle cell anemia. The
      trial was scheduled to end in February 1986 but was terminated eight months early, after an
      average of 15 months of follow-up, when an 84 percent reduction in the incidence of infection
      was observed in the penicillin group as compared to the placebo group.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Baseline data were collected, including demographic and past medical history and clinical and
      laboratory information. Stabilized patients were re-examined every six months. Newborns and
      young infants were re-examined every two to three months. Organ damage to the lungs, spleen,
      kidneys, eyes, and liver was measured at specific entry and exit points to provide
      longitudinal data. Data was also gathered on all acute and chronic complications related to
      sickle cell disease to provide cross-sectional evaluation.
    
  