
    
      Ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a regular, rapid (faster than 100 beats per minute) abnormal
      heart rhythm resulting from aberrant electrical conduction in the ventricles of the heart.
      Coronary heart disease is responsible for the majority of VT cases. Defibrillation and
      antitachycardia pacing, effective means of terminating a life-threatening acute episode of
      VT, can be delivered via implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). ICDs are able to both
      monitor the heart rhythm continuously and deliver therapy in response to tachycardia that
      meets pre-programmed detection criteria. For patients with VT refractory to medical
      management requiring multiple ICD shocks, electrophysiologic mapping may be utilized to
      localize the arrhythmogenic focus, which can be subsequently ablated with cardiac catheter
      radiofrequency ablation. The goal of catheter ablation is to identify (through
      electroanatomical mapping) and then eliminate the channels of surviving myocardium within the
      substrate. Many patients experience continued episodes of VT refractory to both medication
      and multiple catheter ablation attempts. ICD shocks are associated with substantially
      increased risk of hospitalization, quality of life impairment, and death.

      Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is a technique used most commonly as a cancer
      treatment, whereby a precise, high dose of radiation is delivered to a target. For patients
      with VT refractory to medication and catheter ablation, noninvasive targeting of the
      arrhythmogenic substrate with SBRT (in this case termed cardiac radioablation, CRA) is an
      emerging technique demonstrating favorable efficacy.

      Using a protocol similar to that utilized by the phase I/II ENCORE-VT trial (NCT02919618),
      this study aims to replicate previously reported favorable results in a multi-institutional
      setting. Accrued patients will receive CRA to 25 Gy in a single fraction.
    
  