
    
      The ketone bodies acetoacetate, β-hydroxybutyrate (βHB) and acetone are small lipid-derived
      molecules that are produced in the liver under certain conditions such as starvation, very
      low carbohydrate intake and prolonged glycogen-depleting exercise. Ketone bodies serve as an
      alternative energy substrate for the brain and other metabolically active tissues under
      periods of low glucose availability, and can modulate carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.
      Previously, controlled physiological ketosis required a low carbohydrate diet, starvation or
      administration of acetoacetate (AcAc) salts which were all unpleasant or potentially harmful.
      The development of ketone esters provides an alternative method to increase βHB levels, and
      has been shown to be well tolerated in rodents and humans. Two examples are the
      R,S-1,3-butanediol acetoacetate diester and the (R)-3-hydroxybutyl (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate
      ketone monoester. Ingestion of either have been shown to result in short-term (0.5-6 hours)
      nutritional ketosis (βHB >1mM). Nutritional ketosis can therefore be achieved without the
      need for the impracticality of ketogenic dieting or fasting.

      In recent years there has been considerable interest in ketone body food supplements due to
      their potential for improved exercise performance and therapeutic glucose lowering effects in
      people with type 2 diabetes. Exogenous ketone supplements may be of particular interest for
      individuals living with type 1 diabetes by serving as an alternative fuel substrate to reduce
      the reliance on glucose utilisation and spare endogenous glycogen and reduce the risk of
      hypoglycaemia in certain situations, such as exercise. Stubbs et al. (2017) found that drinks
      containing exogenous ketones were a practical and efficacious way to raise blood βHB levels
      with only a modest change in acid-base balance in healthy individuals without diabetes (after
      60 min, blood pH declined from 7.41 to 7.31 following a ketone ester drink). To date, no
      studies have investigated the metabolic effects of ketone in people with type 1 diabetes.
    
  