
    
      Autoinflammatory diseases are illnesses characterized by episodes of inflammation that,
      unlike autoimmune disorders, lack the production of high titer autoantibodies or
      antigen-specific T cells. There is growing genetic and clinical evidence that Interleukin-1
      (IL-1) plays a pathogenic role in several of these diseases. This exploratory study aims to
      examine the utility of the experimental drug candidate, IL 1 Trap (Regeneron Pharmaceuticals,
      Inc.) in the treatment of adult subjects with the autoinflammatory disorders Neonatal Onset
      Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), and Familial Cold
      Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS), Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF), and adult Still's
      disease. FMF is associated with mutations in MEFV encoding Pyrin. NOMID, MWS and FCAS are
      associated with mutations in CIAS1-encoding cryopyrin.

      This pilot study is designed to address: 1) the utility of IL 1 Trap in the treatment of
      subjects with diseases known to respond to IL-1 blockade (NOMID/MWS/FCAS) as shown by
      response to treatment with anakinra [Kineret]; 2) the response to IL-1 blockade of subjects
      with Adult Still's disease and colchicine-resistant FMF once the efficacy of IL-1 Trap has
      been established in NOMID/MWS/FCAS subjects; and 3) the biochemistry and genetics of
      autoinflammatory diseases and IL-1 related inflammation.

      IL-1 Trap is a recombinant fusion protein with picomolar affinity for IL-1 and a half-life of
      approximately 7.5 days in humans. Our result of the FCAS/MWS part of this study and a multi
      center phase III study in patients with FCAS/MWS provided the basis for the FDA approval of
      IL-Trap for the treatment of patients with the CAPS.

      In this study, biochemical, genetic, and clinical correlates of autoinflammatory disease will
      initially be measured at baseline following a withdrawal of any TNF or IL-1 inhibitor
      medications where applicable. Subjects will receive a course of therapy with IL-1 Trap that
      is predicted to provide an estimated 3-4 weeks of anti-inflammatory activity. Clinical,
      biochemical, and genetic correlates of inflammation will be measured at appropriate intervals
      to ascertain response and to further elucidate disease mechanisms. Subjects will be eligible,
      based on clinical response, to enter a 1- year extension phase with IL-1 Trap. Those subjects
      who complete the 1-year extension phase, and maintain improved clinical and laboratory
      parameters compared to baseline values, may continue to receive study medication at their
      current dose.

      Investigator comment:

      This protocol (from the NIH standpoint) is a continuation of the ongoing protocol 05-AR-0014,
      with a new change in study sponsor, the NIH replacing Regeneron as sponsor. This protocol
      therefore still contains background and procedural information that refer to patients with
      FMF and FCAS/MWS and Still's disease, however only patients with Still's disease will be
      newly enrolled from this point on, enrollment for the FCAS/MWS patients has already been
      completed and it has been decided to not enroll any more FMF patients because the number of
      subjects is too low to reach reasonable conclusions, in addition it has been difficult to
      recruit patients that are eligible. Those Adults Still's patients, who complete the extension
      phase, and maintain improved clinical and laboratory parameters compared to baseline values,
      may continue to receive study medication at their current dose. These individuals will have
      their medication supplied by the manufacturing company, Regeneron, until June 2010. At that
      time the subjects' health insurance companies will begin to pay for their medication supply
      or the subjects will begin treatment with Anakinra, another IL-1 blocker. Our follow-up plans
      for all patients who discontinue IL-1 Trap usage will be to monitor for any medication side
      effects or toxicities and collect adverse event data for 3 months post discontinuation. We
      will help our subjects to obtain insurance coverage for IL-1Trap.
    
  