
    
      Tinnitus is a medical term for acoustical perceptions heard in the ear(s) or head, not
      produced by external sound. This sound can be experienced as a ringing, buzzing, whooshing,
      or hissing. Estimates suggest that as many as 50 million people in the United States
      experience tinnitus to some degree. Approximately 12 million of these people experience
      tinnitus bothersome enough to seek medical treatment. Two to 3 million Americans are severely
      affected by their tinnitus to the extent that their ability to function is severely impaired.

      Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) is an established treatment with broad
      applicability to clinical science. MBSR has been scientifically shown to improve well-being
      and health in the treatment of depression (Mason O, Hargreaves I. 2001), anxiety (Kabat-Zinn,
      et al 1992), stress (Kabat-Zinn, et al. 1992), fibromyalgia (Grossman, et al. 2007), chronic
      fatigue (Surawy, et al. 2005), psoriasis (Kabat-Zinn, et al. 2003), treatment of cancer
      (Speca, et al. 2006), multiple schlerosis (Grossman, et al. 2010), and pain (Kabat-Zinn, et
      al. 1985).

      Treatments used for pain management are of particular interest to those studying tinnitus
      because many similarities between individuals suffering with tinnitus and pain can be drawn.
      Both pain and tinnitus patients commonly express a perceived lack of control over their
      symptoms, problems with aspects of attention and focus, maladaptive coping strategies,
      catastrophic thinking, and the use of similar treatment methods (e.g., cognitive coping
      strategies, CBT, relaxation techniques)(Moller, 2000, Tonndorf, 1987). Like intractable pain,
      there is no single identifiable cause of tinnitus, there is no single medical or surgical
      treatment that is effective, there are a wide range of psychological effects, and one's
      lifestyle and general health are particularly affected. One of the first studies looking at
      mindfulness as a means of pain management was conducted by Jon Kabat-Zinn, Lipworth, and
      Burney (1985). They took 90 patients with chronic pain and trained them in a ten-week stress
      reduction and relaxation program. Significant reductions in present moment pain, negative
      body image, inhibition of activity by pain, mood disturbance such as anxiety and depression
      were shown. Significant improvements in activity level and feelings of self-esteem were also
      reported. Reductions and improvements were maintained 15-months post-treatment. Due to the
      success of mindfulness-based interventions with chronic pain, the healing benefits of
      mindfulness are being translated to tinnitus care in this study.

      To date only one pilot study has been conducted using mindfulness meditation as a treatment
      for tinnitus. A study conducted in Wales by Sadlier, Stephens, & Kennedy (2008) used a
      combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and mindfulness meditation to treat 25
      individuals with chronic tinnitus. The subjects were split into two groups. The treatment
      group received four one-hour sessions of CBT and Mindfulness Meditation practice while the
      second group waited 3-months and was then treated with the same intervention. Significant
      reductions in tinnitus post-treatment and at 4 to 6 months follow-up were recorded. The
      proposed MBTR study isolates mindfulness from CBT approaches to tinnitus, and may be an
      important contribution to the clinical literature on the care of tinnitus.

      Introduction and Specific Aims This study aims to determine the efficacy of MBTR in reducing
      symptoms of tinnitus in adults. Primary objectives include: 1) Design and execute an MBTR
      program within the UCSF Department of Audiology for patients with tinnitus. 2) Determine
      patient's benefit from participating in an 8-week MBTR program as measured by a reduction in
      clinical symptoms, if present, and a tinnitus symptom perception shift. 3) Compare the
      responses on study measures to those of the control group. 4) Use the data and patient
      feedback to modify UCSF's Audiology program and guide future programming in regards to the
      treatment and care of patients with tinnitus.

      The above mentioned objectives will be met through testing the following primary hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1a: MBTR + TAU will be more effective than TAU alone in reducing tinnitus symptoms
      (25-item Tinnitus Handicap Inventory [THI]) in adult patients with chronic tinnitus over an
      8-week period.

      Hypothesis 1b: MBTR + TAU will be more effective than TAU alone in reducing tinnitus symptoms
      (25-item Tinnitus Handicap Inventory [THI]) in adult patients with chronic tinnitus at
      3-months follow-up.

      Hypothesis 1c: Reduction in tinnitus symptoms (25-item Tinnitus Handicap Inventory [THI]) in
      the MBTR + TAU will be maintained at 12-months follow-up.

      Secondary hypotheses and analyses are as follows:

      Hypothesis 2: Effect on Functional Status: MBTR + TAU will be more effective than TAU alone
      in reducing anxiety and depressive symptoms, if they exist (17-item Hamilton Anxiety and
      Depression Scale [HADS]) and in reducing additional clinical symptoms, if they exist (90-item
      Symptom Checklist-90-Revised [SCL-90-R]) and enhanced mindfulness (39-item Five Factor
      Mindfulness Questionnaire [FFMQ]).

      Hypothesis 3: Mediators of MBTR Efficacy: The effect of MBTR on tinnitus severity (THI,
      Tinnitus Visual Analogue Scale [TVAS]) and functional status (HADS and SCL-90-R) will be
      mediated by enhanced mindfulness (FFMQ).

      Hypothesis 4: Length of Efficacy: We will assess whether treatment gains in tinnitus severity
      (THI, TVAS), functional status (HADS, SCL-90-R), and mindfulness (FFMQ) are retained at
      3-months and at 12-months follow-up for the experimental group.

      Research Design and Methods Subject Recruitment A chart review of past patients
      (approximately 700) from the UCSF Audiology Clinic who have been seen for Tinnitus Counseling
      (Treatment as Usual-TAU) at least six-months prior to enrollment in the study will take
      place. A list of the inclusion/exclusion criteria are below.

      Inclusion Criteria

      Subject Characteristics

        -  Age > 18

        -  English speaking

        -  Duration of subjective chronic tinnitus > 6 months

        -  Received Tinnitus Counseling (TAU) at the UCSF Audiology Clinic > 6 months prior to
           entering the study

        -  Moderate to strong tinnitus annoyance (Minimum THI score of > 24 per chart review)

      Exclusion Criteria

      Subject Characteristics

        -  Age < 18

        -  Non-English speaking

        -  > Moderate Hearing Loss

        -  Duration of chronic subjective tinnitus < 6 months

        -  Severe depression and/or anxiety (as measured by the HADS)

        -  Recent (within 3-month) history of alcohol or drug abuse or dependence other than
           tobacco or caffeine

        -  No recent (within 3 months) start of new tinnitus treatment

        -  History of psychotic disorders or dementia

        -  THI score < 24

        -  Currently undergoing litigation or legal matters related to auditory disorders

      Three hundred letters will be mailed to those patients from the Clinic's database who meet
      inclusion criteria and have been seen for tinnitus counseling at least six-months prior to
      entry into the study. Patients will respond via postcard as to whether they would like to
      learn more about the study. Patients will be informed in the letter that if no response is
      received via postcard to the Clinic within two weeks, a research assistant will follow up
      with a phone call as a reminder to respond. To prevent over-enrollment/recruitment of
      subjects, letters will be sent out in waves of 100 at a time. Recruitment will stop when 80
      patients respond to participate (a 20% drop out-rate is expected bringing the number down to
      64).

      The 80 patients who express interest in participating in the study and meet inclusion
      criteria per chart review will be invited to take part in a 30-minute individual interview
      with one of the two MBTR course instructors prior to beginning the program. The 30-minute
      individual interview will serve as an orientation to the MBTR program at which time consents
      will be signed. Subjects will be randomly assigned to 2 groups of 32 participants, and at the
      completion of the 30-minute interview a research assistant will administer baseline
      psychometric assessments (see below for the list of measures used).

      Primary Outcome Measures

      • Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI) The THI is a self-report measure that can be used in a
      busy clinical practice to quantify the impact of tinnitus on daily living. The measure is
      brief, easy to administer and interpret, broad in scope, and psychometrically robust.
      Convergent validity was assessed using another measure of perceived tinnitus handicap
      (Tinnitus Handicap Questionnaire). Construct validity was assessed using the Beck Depression
      Inventory, Modified Somatic Perception Questionnaire, symptom rating scales (annoyance, sleep
      disruption, depression, and concentration), and perceived tinnitus pitch and loudness
      judgments. The THI is comprised of 25-item items grouped into functional, emotional, and
      catastrophic subscales. The total scales yield excellent internal consistency reliability
      (Cronbach's alpha=.93).

      Secondary Outcome Measures

        -  Tinnitus Visual Analogue Scale (TVAS) Tinnitus Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) is a
           collection of straight lines 100mm in length anchored at the end with extremes (e.g.,
           not bothersome, extremely bothersome) of the tinnitus sensation, feeling or response.
           The strength of this method lies in the compellation of several measurements (e.g.,
           weekly average of tinnitus annoyance). This method of measuring distress has been
           recommended for use in research (Axelsson, Coles, Erlandsson, Meikle, & Vernon, 1993).

        -  Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) The HADS (Zigmond & Snaith, 1983) was
           chosen as a measure of self-reported depression and anxiety. As compared to the Beck
           Depression Inventory and State Trait Anxiety Inventory, the HADS is a 14 item
           questionnaire and does not tend to overburden or exhaust patients regarding filling out
           measures. The HADS is a more discrete measure that controls for complaints better
           explained by the somatic problem than does the BDI or STAI (Hermann, 1997).

        -  The Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R) The Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R)
           will be used to assess psychological distress (Derogatis 1983). SCL-90-R is a 90-item
           questionnaire measuring psychological distress over the past week. Reliability and
           validity of the measure is found to be high. The Global Severity Index (GSI) is used as
           a measure of overall psychological distress. The SCL-90-R has been used in several
           previous MBSR studies to measure psychological status (Kabat-Zinn, et al. 1992;
           Kabat-Zinn, et al. 1985; Kabat-Zinn, et al.1987; Kaplan, et al. 1993; Miller, et al.
           1995; Majumdar, et al. 2002).

        -  Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ) Five-Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ;
           R. A. Baer, Smith, Hopkins, Krietemeyer, & Toney, 2006), is a 39-item inventory
           assessing five facets of mindfulness.

      The FFMQ has been shown to have strong psychometric characteristics, including adequate to
      good internal consistencies for all facets and significant correlations in predicted
      directions with a variety of other constructs (R. A. Baer et al., 2006, 2008).

      Description of MBTR Course The Mindfulness Based Tinnitus Reduction (MBTR) program is an
      8-week course held one evening per week for 2 ½ hours. Participants will also complete a
      day-long Sunday retreat between the 6th and 7th sessions.

      Modeled after the original Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) program developed by Jon
      Kabat-Zinn, PhD at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, the MBTR course will
      introduce participants to mindfulness practice in the form of sitting meditation, body
      awareness and mindful movement, and informal mindfulness practices of daily life (e.g.,
      eating, communicating, working, coping). Meditation will be introduced in four formats:
      sitting meditation using the breath as an anchor of attention, sitting meditation
      characterized by a state of open awareness, progressive body relaxation, and contemplative
      walking. Participants will be asked to practice at home for 30 minutes 6 days per week
      between sessions, aided by an audio CD. The two MBSR trained co-investigators will co-lead
      the classes. Participants will be provided with a copy of Full Catastrophe Living by Jon
      Kabat-Zinn, PhD. Intervention participants will be asked to document the number of minutes
      spent daily on each practice at home during their participation in the 8-week program.

      MBTR Course Outline

      The course in Mindfulness-Based Tinnitus Reduction (MBTR) takes place over eight weeks.
      Classes are approximately 2-1/2 hours long and are held in the evening once a week. Each
      class consists of guided meditations, gentle movement exercises, lecture, and group
      discussion as mindfulness relates to their experience with tinnitus. The course includes an
      all-day session on a Sunday between the sixth and seventh week. Between classes, subjects
      will enhance their participation through working with meditation CDs, homework assignments,
      and readings from the course materials and textbook. The in-class curriculum includes the
      following components:

        -  Week 1: Introduction to Program ° Foundations of Mindfulness ° More right with you than
           wrong ° Introduction to Body Scan meditation ° Tinnitus Discussion

        -  Week 2: Patience ° Working with perceptions °The Wandering Mind ° The STOP exercise

        -  Week 3: Non-Striving ° Introduction to Awareness of Breathing Meditation ° Mindful Yoga

        -  ° Attention vs. Disattention ° Tinnitus Discussion

        -  Week 4: Non-Judging ° Responding vs. Reacting ° Seeing Our Patterns ° Sitting Meditation

        -  ° Standing Yoga ° Research on Stress & Stress Hardiness ° Tinnitus Discussion

        -  Week 5: Acknowledgment ° Group Reflections on Halfway Point ° Small & Large Groups °
           Sitting Meditation ° Qi Gong ° Tinnitus Discussion

        -  Week 6: Letting it Be ° Skillful Communication ° Avoiding Difficulty vs. Entering and
           Blending° Loving-kindness Meditation ° Walking Meditation ° Tinnitus Discussion

      Daylong Session (see outline below)

        -  Week 7: Sitting Meditation ° Mindful Movement ° Trust & Self-Reliance ° Learning How to
           Practice on One's Own ° Mindfulness in Everyday Life ° Tinnitus Discussion

        -  Week 8: Sitting Meditation ° Mindful Movement ° The Class Never Ends: Practice for the
           rest of Your Life ° Course Review & Group Reflection

      Mindfulness-Based Tinnitus Reduction Daylong Outline

      The Mindfulness-Based Tinnitus Reduction Daylong (9:30am to 4:30pm between the 6th and 7th
      weeks) is part of the course and consists of a day of lead meditations, gentle movement
      exercises, and group sharing. A typical schedule is as follows:

      9:30: Introductions 10:00: Awareness of Breathing 10:15: Yoga 10:30: Body Scan Meditation
      11:15: Walking Meditation 11:45: Sitting Meditation 12:15: Lunch & Rest 1:30: Yoga 2:00:
      Sitting Meditation 2:30: Walking Meditation 2:45: Sitting Meditation 3:10: Walking Meditation
      3:25: Lovingkindness Meditation 3:45: Group Discussion (Check Out) 4:30: Farewell
    
  