
    
      Approximately 20% of patients with spine metastasis present with unstable lesions, which
      represent a common therapeutic dilemma in patients with advanced stage cancer and limited
      survival time. Management necessitates spinal stabilization surgery such as laminectomy,
      vertebroplasty, or kyphoplasty for mechanical back pain control and irradiation for the
      underlying malignant process. Because of the limited survival time of patients with
      metastatic cancer, novel, more convenient treatment concepts to shorten the overall treatment
      time or hospitalization are desirable. We developed a novel approach to combine kyphoplasty,
      a minimally invasive procedure, with a single dose of intraoperative radio- therapy (IORT)
      for the treatment of spinal cord metastases.

      Patients treated with Kypho-IORT will receive a prescribed dose of 8 Gy in 1 fraction from
      The Intrabeam® Photon Radiosurgery System source. The target volume includes only the tumor.
      The technique of the operation and the delivery of radiotherapy has been described and
      published previously. TARGiT Academy training and requisite test cases have been completed
      prior to enrolling subjects on this study. The balloon kyphoplasty, which is an advancement
      of the vertebroplasty, is a treatment option for fractured vertebral bodies which utilizes
      bone cement to provide needed support.

      Outcome measures will include complete or partial pain relief or a stable response at the
      index site requiring no increase in narcotic pain medication. Therefore, patients with
      complete or partial pain relief will be considered responders. Patients with complete or
      partial pain relief at the index site but a progressive response at the secondary site(s)
      will be considered non-responders.

      Quality of Life Measurements. It is hypothesized that quality of life (QOL) will improve
      after Kypho-IORT due to rapid and durable pain control after spine treatment. In the current
      study, we will measure the QOL [EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3)], the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI),
      ambulation , and steroid and narcotic use pre- and post-procedure at 1-week, 3-month,
      6-month, 9-month, 1-year, and 2-year intervals. The involved spine will be imaged at 3-month
      intervals up to one year, and at 2 years post-procedure.

      All the evidence to date supports the description of the Intrabeam as delivering an accurate
      and reliable dose. Physicists on site will be responsible for verifying the miniature x-ray
      source is operational prior to use and setting up the parameters within the control console
      software for treatment delivery. During the procedure, the control console monitors the
      system for safe and accurate dose delivery.
    
  