
    
      Older adults with cognitive problems have a higher risk of falls, with annual incidence of
      around 60-80%; at least twice that of cognitively normal older adults. The consequences of
      falls in this population can be quite serious; fallers with cognitive problems are
      approximately five times more likely to be admitted to institutional care than people with
      cognitive issues who do not fall. They are also at risk of major fall-related injuries such
      as fractures and head injuries leading to increased mortality. Although the reasons for the
      increased fall risk in cognitively impaired people are not completely understood, what is
      known is that these impaired cognitive abilities that can limit their attentional resource
      allocation while walking. As well, since executive function is also an important cognitive
      resource for normal walking performance, impairments in this domain are also associated with
      both dementia and risk of falls. Falls is a major cause of disability and dependence in older
      Ontarians, especially for those experiencing cognitive problems, and through their associated
      costs relating to hospital admissions, provision of treatments, and nursing home placements,
      forms a definite burden for the provincial health care system.

      One approach that can be used to understand the risk of falls in people with memory problems
      is to target them in the early stages of cognitive decline. Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI)
      is an entity that is conceived as a transitional state between benign age-related cognitive
      change and early dementia. Specific diagnostic criteria have been developed and validated to
      diagnose MCI, with the prevalence of the diagnosis being estimated at 19% among older adults,
      increasing to 29% in those over age 85. People with MCI have been found to have a 10 to 15
      times higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as a higher risk of falling
      compared with age-matched controls.

      Although walking has long been considered as primarily an automatic motor task, emerging
      evidence suggests that this view may be overly simplistic. Cognitive function may play a key
      role in the regulation of even routine walking, particularly in older adults. Attention is a
      necessary cognitive resource for maintaining normal walking and there is evidence that
      cognitive and attentional deficits are independently associated with postural instability,
      impairment in performing daily living activities, and future falls. The role of cognition in
      walking is even more marked in people with cognitive dysfunction, whose gait performance is
      affected by any extra cognitive load. A sensitive way to quantify gait performance is by
      assessing the gait variability. Gait variability is defined as the stride-to-stride variation
      in time, and quantifies the automaticity of gait, with greater variability indicating less
      rhythmicity and a more unstable gait pattern. Evaluating gait variability offers an accurate
      methodology to identify subtle changes on walking because of pathological conditions or
      disease. For instance, cognitively normal older adults have low gait variability; however,
      high gait variability has been described in Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer disease, and has
      been associated with high risk of future falls and mobility decline. Additionally, previous
      studies have demonstrated that gait variability may serve as a clinically relevant parameter
      in the evaluation of mobility, and may be a responsive measure for different interventions in
      fall prevention.

      Cholinesterase inhibitors have been tried in MCI individuals with the goal to delay the
      progression to dementia. A recent RCT demonstrated that cognitive enhancers, specifically
      donepezil, might improve cognition in this population; however, the effect was weak and had
      questionable clinical significance. Currently, there is no indication to use cognitive
      enhancers to treat people with MCI with the goal of delaying or preventing further functional
      or mobility decline.

      Recently, it has been suggested that ChEI may improve gait performance through an improvement
      in attentional resource allocation due to the fact that ChEI are known to improve attention
      and executive function. We will expect as a result of our intervention with donepezil during
      a 6 month period, a reduction of gait variability, an important marker of fall risk, through
      an improvement on cognition, namely attention an executive function
    
  