
    
      Gynecologists use paracervical blocks in the office for decreasing pain during office based
      procedures. Paracervical blocks, in the office, work by injecting the cervix with local
      anesthetic, typically lidocaine, at the area of the uterosacral ligaments. The uterosacral
      ligaments contain the uterine nerve, which branches off of levels T12-L2. By injecting the
      uterine nerve with the local anesthetic patients are better able to tolerate the procedure
      and have decreased pain post procedure. In the office, paracervical blocks are performed
      vaginally with injections at the 3 o'clock and 9 o'clock position of the cervix. The use of
      paracervical blocks by Chudnoff et al reviewed the effectiveness of paracervical blocks in
      office based procedures, however no one has evaluated the effectiveness of injecting the
      uterosacral ligaments under direct visualization with the camera that is placed into the
      abdomen during a robotic assisted gynecologic procedure. We propose that by injecting the
      uterosacral ligaments and thus the uterine nerve during robotic assisted hysterectomies with
      Marcaine (Bupivacaine 0.5% with epinephrine 1:200,000) we can offer patients superior pain
      relief. The onset of action with Marcaine is rapid and anesthesia is long lasting. The
      duration of anesthesia is significantly longer with Marcaine than any other commonly used
      local anesthetic. It has also been noted that there is a period of analgesia that persists
      after the return of sensation, during which time the need for strong analgesics is reduced.
      By injecting Marcaine we hypothesize that patients will have decreased pain and need less
      narcotic pain medication. This will allow the patient to return to normal activities of daily
      living sooner.

      This is a randomized controlled double blinded trial in which patients will be assigned to
      receive saline (control group) or bupivacaine 0.5% with epinephrine 1:200,000 (treatment
      group). The randomization will be performed through a computerized system in the pharmacy at
      the pharmacy of the hospital where the study is occurring. The randomization will occur once
      the patient has consented to the study. The treatment arm of the study will receive a total
      injection of 14ml of bupivacaine with 7ml directed into the right uterosacral ligament and
      7ml into the left uterosacral ligament. The control arm of the study will receive a total
      injection of 14ml of normal saline with 7ml directed into the right uterosacral ligament and
      7ml into the left uterosacral ligament. These injections will take place after the uterus and
      cervix have been surgically removed and the vaginal cuff has been surgically closed.

      The maximum dose of bupivacaine with epinephrine is 225mg. The total amount of bupivacaine
      that we have chosen to inject is below the maximum allowable dosing and yet we believe will
      be an adequate amount for providing pain relief.

      Eligible patients will be consented for the study while in the preoperative holding area.
      Once consented the patient will be given a medication diary form that they will take home.
      The form asks the patient to fill in the name of pain medication that they were prescribed
      and the dosage. They will also have an area for them to tally the number of pills they have
      taken since being discharged from the hospital. If they take anything for pain other than
      that prescribed by the physician who performed the surgery the patient will be taken out of
      the study. The Wong-baker faces pain rating scale is included on the form which they will be
      using to rate their pain during the telephone encounters.

      The pharmacy will be notified once consent is obtained that the patient is participating in
      the study. After which, the injectable solution will be sent to the OR labeled "Study Drug."
      The surgical team and the patient will be blinded to which arm they are assigned to. With the
      use of a Bierman needle the solution will be injected into the uterine nerve as it courses
      with the uterosacral ligaments on each side at the level of the vaginal cuff. If the
      uterosacral ligaments cannot be easily identified, the patient will be excluded from the
      study.

      Follow up will take place via telephone encounters.
    
  