
    
      BACKGROUND: Acute gastrointestinal (GI) haemorrhage is one of the most common
      gastrointestinal emergencies. It is an important cause of mortality and morbidity in high,
      middle and low income countries. The most common causes of upper GI haemorrhage are peptic
      ulcer, oesophageal varices and erosive mucosal disease, although the relative frequency of
      the different causes varies in different countries. Acute upper GI haemorrhage accounts for
      around 50,000 hospital admissions each year in the UK and has a case fatality of about 10%.
      The incidence is highest among the most disadvantaged social groups. Lower GI haemorrhage
      accounts for a further 15,000 hospital admissions each year and has a case fatality of
      between 10% and 20%. Upper GI haemorrhage is also a common medical emergency in low and
      middle income countries. Patients are usually young and poor and the source of bleeding is
      more often oesophageal varices. Fibrinolysis may play an important pathological role in GI
      haemorrhage due to premature breakdown of haemostatic plugs at sites of mucosal injury.
      Tranexamic acid (TXA) is a synthetic derivative of the amino acid lysine which inhibits
      fibrinolysis by blocking the lysine binding sites on plasminogen. It is a widely used
      treatment with a known safety profile. There is reliable evidence that TXA reduces blood
      transfusion in surgical patients. A systematic review including 65 trials shows that TXA
      reduces the probability of blood transfusion by 39% (RR=0.61, 95% CI 0.53 to 0.70) compared
      to control. The effect of TXA on the risk of thromboembolic events in surgical patients
      remains uncertain, although there is no evidence of any increase in risk. The CRASH-2 trial
      showed that administration of TXA significantly reduces deaths due to bleeding (RR=0.85, 95%
      CI 0.76 to 0.96), and all-cause mortality (RR=0.91, 95% CI 0.85 to 0.97) in trauma patients
      with significant extra-cranial bleeding, with no increase in vascular occlusive events. A
      systematic review conducted by the investigators of TXA in GI bleeding identified nine
      randomised trials including a total of 1721 patients. Although there was a statistically
      significant reduction in the risk of death in patients treated with TXA (RR=0.66, 95% CI 0.47
      to 0.93), the estimate is imprecise and the overall quality of trials was poor. Furthermore,
      all but three of the trials were conducted before the widespread use of therapeutic endoscopy
      and proton pump inhibitors and even in aggregate the trials were too small to assess the
      effects of TXA on other clinical important outcomes such as thromboembolic events. For these
      reasons, the effectiveness and safety of TXA for GI haemorrhage is uncertain and there are
      currently no formal recommendations for its use as a treatment for GI bleeding.

      AIM: The HALT-IT trial will determine the effect of TXA on mortality, morbidity (re-bleeding,
      non-fatal vascular events), blood transfusion, surgical intervention and health status in
      patients with acute gastrointestinal haemorrhage.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME: The primary outcome is death from haemorrhage within 5 days of randomisation
      (all cause and cause-specific mortality will also be recorded).

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES:

        1. Re-bleeding

        2. Endoscopic, radiological or surgical intervention

        3. Blood transfusion - blood or blood component units transfused

        4. Thromboembolic events (myocardial infarction, stroke, pulmonary embolism, deep vein
           thrombosis)

        5. Other adverse medical events (including renal failure, significant cardiac event,
           respiratory failure, hepatic failure, sepsis, pneumonia, seizure and other reported
           events)

        6. Functional status measured using the Katz Index of Independence in Activities of Daily
           Living

        7. Time spent at an intensive care unit

        8. Length of stay in hospital

        9. Patient status (death, hospital readmission) at 12 months will be ascertained if
           appropriate databases are available in the recruiting country

      TRIAL DESIGN:

      A pragmatic, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled trial among 12,000 patients with
      clinically significant gastrointestinal bleeding

      DIAGNOSIS AND INCLUSION/EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

      Adults with acute significant upper or lower gastrointestinal bleeding. The diagnosis of
      significant bleeding is clinical but may include patients with hypotension, tachycardia, or
      those likely to need transfusion, urgent endoscopy or surgery. The fundamental eligibility
      criterion is the responsible clinician's 'uncertainty' as to whether or not to use tranexamic
      acid in a particular patient with gastrointestinal bleeding. If the clinician believes there
      is a clear indication for, or clear contraindication to, tranexamic acid use, the particular
      patient should not be randomised. There are no other pre-specified exclusion criteria.

      TEST PRODUCT, REFERENCE THERAPY, DOSE AND MODE OF ADMINISTRATION:

      A loading dose of tranexamic acid (1 gram by intravenous injection) or placebo (sodium
      chloride 0.9%) will be given as soon as possible after randomisation followed by an
      intravenous infusion of 3 grams over 24 hours or placebo (sodium chloride 0.9%).

      SETTING:

      This trial will be coordinated from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine Clinical
      Trials Unit (University of London) and conducted in hospitals in low, middle and high income
      countries.

      DURATION OF TREATMENT AND PARTICIPATION:

      The first dose will be given immediately after randomisation and the maintenance dose will be
      given immediately after the loading dose over 24 hours. Participation will end at discharge
      from randomising hospital, death or at 28 days post randomisation whichever occurs first.

      CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION:

      All patients randomly assigned to one of the treatments will be analysed together (regardless
      of whether or not they completed or received that treatment) on an intention to treat basis.
    
  