
    
      Background: Freezing of gait (FoG) is a debilitating symptom for patients with Parkinson's
      disease (PD). FoG not only impairs walking but also significantly increase fall risks and
      decrease quality of life for patients with PD. Despite the critical consequences, the
      mechanisms associated with this phenomenon are not well understood.

      Clinically, FoG often occurs when individuals with PD are approaching a narrow pathway or
      crossing a busy street. This observation leads to the hypothesis that FoG is associated with
      context-dependent motor performance, a phenomenon that an individual demonstrate poorer
      performance if the learned motor task is carried out in an unfamiliar context. Whether the
      occurrence of freezing episodes is a result of context-dependency has not been systematically
      investigated. Moreover, the changes in corticomotor excitability associated with FoG have not
      been well-established.

      Objectives: The objectives of this proposal are to understand the behavioral and
      neurophysiological mechanisms of FoG. The specific aim is to examine the behavioral changes
      in context-dependency and changes in corticomotor excitability associated with FoG.

      Methods: a total of 70 participants, including PD patients with FoG, PD patients without FoG,
      and age-matched non-disabled adults, will be recruited. The participants will undergo
      behavioral and neurophysiological examinations. Behavioral evaluations will include
      context-dependent motor performance, FoG, disease severity, and walking and balance
      functions. Transcranial magnetic stimulation and electroencephalogram will be used to measure
      corticomotor excitability of the participants. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) and regression
      analysis will be performed to compare and determine the relationship between FoG, behavioral
      outcomes, and corticomotor excitability. Statistical significance level is set at p < 0.05.
    
  