
    
      In this study, 50 children between 3 and 12 years old with formally diagnosed autistic
      spectrum disorders (ASD) and also having significant mitochondrial dysfunction will be
      treated for a 3 month period with the Mitochondrial Cocktail, a combination of specific
      nutritional supplements and metabolite intermediates (including anti-oxidants) and bio-energy
      substrates. The Mitochondrial Cocktail is presently widely used as the standard of care for
      clinically treating mitochondrial dysfunction.

      The precise content of the Mitochondrial Cocktail will be:

        -  ubiquinol (liquid form, 150 mg/kg subject weight/day

        -  carnitine, 50 mg/kg subject weight/day

        -  alpha-lipoic acid, 100 mg/ day.

      A series of neurological and psychological evaluations will be conducted by trained
      evaluators/clinicians to evaluate both the severity and the clinical presentation of the
      ASD/mitochondrial dysfunction with each subject at baseline prior to treatment, after the 3
      month treatment and again at 6 months, after another 3 month non-treatment period. In
      addition, laboratory investigations will be conducted at the same time-points to assess the
      mitochondrial dysfunction and cellular biomarkers thought to be associated with autistic and
      mitochondrial disorders. These investigations will include the analysis of samples of blood
      and cheek/buccal swabs collected from each child to assess select biochemical markers of ASD.
      The Mitochondrial Cocktail treatment will be administered at home preferably in the morning
      once a day continuously for a total of 3 months. All the children in the study will be
      treated with the same Mitochondrial Cocktail (an open label study). . Safety will be also
      evaluated based on the occurrence of adverse events either reported spontaneously by the
      subject and/or caregiver or observed by the investigator(s).
    
  