
    
      Dystonia is a movement disorder characterized by involuntary, sustained, often repetitive
      muscle contractions of opposite muscles that lead to abnormal twisting movements or odd
      postures. Essential tremor is a slowly progressive neurologic disorder characterized by the
      appearance of a tremor during the voluntary movement. High frequency stimulation of the
      ventral intermedius nucleus (Vim) of the thalamus, relay for the cerebellar output, is
      successfully used for the treatment of severe essential tremor. It occasionally induces
      adverse event such as balance disorders or cerebellar symptoms. The pathophysiology of
      dystonia or essential tremor is not fully elucidated. Dystonia and essential tremor are
      associated with dysfunction of the sensorimotor basal ganglia-cortical network and
      involvement of the cerebellum and cerebellar pathways has also been recently suggested. It
      seems that dystonia and essential tremor could be the result of basal ganglia or cerebellar
      dysfunction, or from dysfunction of structures controlled at the same time by the cerebellum
      and the basal ganglia.

      methodology: We propose to study 30 patients having a primary dystonia (15 DYT11 genetically
      documented), 15 patients having an essential tremor without deep brain stimulation and 15
      patients having an essential tremor with deep brain stimulation.

      A group of 30 healthy volunteers will be recruited and tested according to the same
      modalities. They will be paired in sex and age. 30 patients having a Parkinson disease will
      be also tested.

      The subjects will be seated in darkness facing a screen located 60 cm before their eyes,
      their chin on a chin strap and their forehead placed against a frontal support. Eye position
      is sampled at 500 Hz with a video-based monocular eye tracker (SMI, Germany). Each recording
      session start with a calibration test in which the subjects looked at nine consecutive
      targets covering the entire visual field, as used during the oculomotor paradigms: four
      experimental conditions: a visually guided saccade task, a pre-test, a backward adaptation
      task, and a post-test. The pre-test and post-test (40 trials each) are performed before and
      immediately after the backward adaptation task, in the same conditions, except that the
      target was extinguished when the velocity threshold (150°/s for 10 ms) is reached, instead of
      jumping to a new location. This avoided any post-saccadic visual feedback that would
      counteract the adaptive mechanism. Saccade adaptation is evaluated as the percentage change
      in the mean saccade amplitude between the pre-test and post-test.

      Expected results:

        -  no or fewer alteration of the performance to the adaptation task in the Parkinson group
           than in the Essential Tremor group/ dystonia group.

        -  abnormal reactive saccade backward adaptation in the Dystonia group and Essential Tremor
           group, providing further neurophysiological evidence of cerebellar dysfunction.
    
  