
    
      US elastography has been used to detect the nature of thyroid nodules, by measuring the
      tissue stiffness non invasively. It depends on tissue deformation strain that is caused by
      external compression.it is complementary to gray scale findings particularly in nodules with
      indeterminate US findings, also US elastography could be used to guide the follow up of
      leisons diagnosed as benign at ( FNA) fine needle aspiration .

      There are two main thyroid elastography methods in clinical practice: strain elastography
      (SE) and shear-wave elastography (SWE) .

      Elastography methods can be classified into different variants based on the excitation method
      (external force, internal force, and acoustic radiation force [ARF]), and how stiffness is
      expressed . (A) strain elastography . SE reqires mechanical stress, which results in axial
      displacement of the tissue Tissue deformation from the stress is measured and visualized on a
      screen. The main limitations of SE are operator dependence for the angle, strength, and
      duration of compression.

      (B) shear wave elastography . The acoustic pulses from the probe stimulate the target tissue,
      creating a shear wave (SW) traveling perpendicular to the conventional US waves. SWs are the
      transverse components of particle displacement that are rapidly attenuated by the tissue (1-
      10 m/sec). This transverse component is tracked and measured as a numerical value
      corresponding to the shear-wave speed (SWS).This speed is closely related to the Young
      modulus formula, in which tissue elasticity can be assessed from the SW propagation.

      US elastography is completely painless for the patient, and only requires a few extra
      minutes, with no separate patient preparation. US elastography has the potential to
      distinguish benign from malignant TNs, offering non-invasive complementary information to
      conventional US.

      It may be particularly useful in patients who have nondiagnostic or indeterminate FNA
      cytology results.
    
  