
    
      Worldwide, intra-arterial therapies are the mainstay of the treatment of patients with HCC in
      the intermediate stage or in the advanced stage because of portal vein invasion. While
      transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the most widely applied intra-arterial therapy, not
      all patients in the intermediate stage are good candidates for this procedure and TACE is
      formally contraindicated in the presence of portal vein invasion. Selective Internal
      Radiation Therapy (SIRT) using yttrium90-loaded microspheres is increasingly used to treat
      such patients that are not good candidates for TACE. SIR-Spheres are resin-made microspheres
      extensively used for SIRT and there is consistent level 2 evidence of its activity in HCC.
      SIRT induces disease control (partial objective remission or tumor stabilization) in the
      majority of patients while progression usually results from the growth of new lesions.

      Nivolumab is under clinical development for the treatment of advanced stage HCC. Preliminary
      data in a population that mostly had progression to other therapies, vascular involvement or
      metastatic disease suggest significant systemic antitumor activity that results in durable
      objective remissions and disease stabilizations. In patients with HCC that has not spread
      beyond the liver, the systemic action of nivolumab may improve the anti-tumor effect of SIRT
      by providing eradication or sustained tumor growth control of residual disease in treated
      lesions and other locations (intrahepatic or extrahepatic micrometastasis). Furthermore, by
      inducing immunogenic tumor cell death, SIRT may have a synergistic effect with immune
      checkpoint inhibitors including nivolumab. Besides, SIRT and nivolumab are by and large well
      tolerated. The sequential use of SIRT and nivolumab could have strong antitumor activity and
      a favorable safety profile and therefore deserves to be tested in patients with intermediate
      to advanced tumor stages.

      The primary objective of the study is therefore to evaluate the safety of nivolumab in
      combination with SIRT using SIR-Spheres. The secondary objective is to evaluate the
      anti-tumor activity of nivolumab in combination with SIRT using SIR-Spheres. Exploratory
      objectives are to evaluate the role of blood and tissue biomarkers in determining the
      anti-tumor activity of nivolumab in combination with SIRT using SIR-Spheres; to evaluate the
      utility of baseline or on-treatment soluble markers that may serve as surrogate markers of
      efficacy; and to explore the role of the ALBI score in predicting patient outcomes.

      SIRT will be performed as a single-day treatment using SIR-Spheres resin microspheres as
      detailed in Gil-Alzugaray et al. 2013. Three weeks after SIRT, patients will start receiving
      nivolumab every 2 weeks until completion of 8 courses of 3 bi-weekly nivolumab doses,
      toxicity, or tumor progression defined using RECIST 1.1 criteria. Patients will be allowed to
      continue nivolumab treatment beyond progression under strict protocol-defined circumstances.
      All subjects will undergo tumor assessments at every q6 week for the first year, and then q12
      week thereafter until radiographic progression. Patients will complete a follow-up Visit 100
      days from the last dose of nivolumab and will then be followed for overall survival.

      Patients with all etiologies could be recruited. Those with chronic hepatitis B will be on
      antiviral therapy per regional standard of care guidelines. Patients with chronic hepatitis C
      may receive treatment for this condition with direct antiviral agents during the treatment
      period as per local practice guidelines.

      A tumor sample obtained before SIRT and blood samples obtained before SIRT and before and
      after nivolumab will be used for correlative biomarker studies.
    
  