
    
      Patients at high risk of having one or more coronary stenosis are evaluated routinely by
      invasive coronary angiography (CAG). Lesions are often quantified by visual assessment of the
      angiogram, but physiological assessment of the functional significance by fractional flow
      reserve has been shown to improve clinical outcome, to reduce number of stents implanted, and
      has obtained the highest recommendation in European guidelines. FFR is assessed during CAG by
      advancing a wire with a pressure transducer towards the stenosis and measure the ratio in
      pressure between the two sides of the stenosis during medical induced maximum blood flow
      (hyperaemia).

      The solid evidence for FFR evaluation of coronary stenosis and the relative simplicity in
      performing the measurements have supported adoption of an FFR based strategy but the need for
      interrogating the stenosis by a pressure wire, the small risks associated hereto, the cost of
      the wire, and the drug inducing hyperaemia has limited more widespread adoption.

      Quantitative Flow Ratio is a novel method for evaluating the functional significance of
      coronary stenosis by calculation of the pressure drop in the vessel based on computation of
      two angiographic projections.

      Two multi-center studies, the FAVOR II Europe-Japan and China studies evaluated the
      feasibility and diagnostic performance of in-procedure QFR, showing very good agreement
      between QFR and FFR.

      The purpose of the FAVOR III Europe Japan study is to investigate if a QFR-based diagnostic
      strategy yields non-inferior 12-month clinical outcome compared to a standard pressure-wire
      guided strategy in evaluation of patients with stable angina pectoris and intermediate
      coronary stenosis.

      Primary hypothesis: A QFR based diagnostic strategy results in non-inferior clinical outcome,
      assessed by a composite endpoint of all cause death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) and
      unplanned revascularization after one year, compared to a strategy of pressure wire-based FFR
      for assessment of physiological significance of intermediate coronary artery stenosis.

      Methods: Investigator initiated, 1:1 randomized, prospective, clinical outcome,
      non-inferiority, multi-center trial performed at up to 40 international sites with inclusion
      of 2000 patients.

      Patients with stable angina pectoris or need for evaluation of non-culprit lesions after
      acute MI are enrolled. At least two angiographic projections are acquired during resting
      conditions. If the angiographic criteria are met, the patient is randomized to either a QFR-
      or an FFR-based diagnostic strategy.

      Revascularization is performed according to best standard by percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).

      Patient follow-up is continued until 24 months.
    
  