
    
      Despite minimally invasive techniques in thoracic surgery, postoperative pain can still be an
      issue for patients. Achieving adequate pain control not only affects a patient's short and
      long term quality of life but is also extremely important in preventing post-operative
      complications. Pain hinders with ambulating earlier and in performing pulmonary toilet hence
      increasing the risk of ensuing complications. While surgeons use multimodal approaches (e.g.,
      epidural, regional anesthesia, NSAIDs, and opioids) to treat the postoperative pain, patients
      may not find relief in the acute period. Additionally, the use of opioids in the
      postoperative period can lead to chronic dependence and misuse. According to the Center for
      Disease Control, nearly 25% of patients chronically dependent on opioids started taking
      narcotics after they underwent a surgical procedure. Every day more than 115 people a day die
      from narcotics, and costing the United States $78.5 billion dollars a year. To prevent the
      need for opioids and their associated side effects, we look beyond medications for
      postoperative pain control.

      The field of neuromodulation has been studying the effects of magnetic field and electrical
      current stimulation of different areas of the body to treat pain. While this has been shown
      to be effective for complex regional pain syndrome, low back pain, migraines and post
      herpetic neuralgia, there have not been studies applying the same concept to patients in the
      acute postoperative period. The goal is to apply the same concept of peripheral nerve
      stimulation to treat post thoracic surgery pain and decrease the need for opioids for pain
      relief.

      The purpose of this investigational device exemption is to study the efficacy of peripheral
      nerve stimulation in treating post thoracic surgery pain and the safety of using these
      stimulation leads in the thoracic cavity.
    
  