
    
      The study is a randomized cross-over controlled trial: the order of the test foods will be
      randomized by an independent internet-based program; each participant will be asked to
      consume all the products; the test food will be compared with a control (in this case 50g
      glucose).

      Suitable subjects will be invited for a screening visit to check for eligibility criteria.
      Body weight and height measurements will be taken as well as a standard biochemical and
      haematological screen. If they are eligible and willing to take part, volunteers will be
      entered into a database and contacted when a GI test becomes available. Volunteers may take
      part in more than one GI testing up to a maximum of 40 visits per year. Volunteers may
      withdraw from the database or the study at any time without giving any reason.

      Subjects will be asked to come for a set amount of visits for each GI test depending on the
      number of product that need to be tested (minimum 3 maximum 12 visits for each testing). The
      volunteers will be informed of the number of visits before they enter the GI testing. For
      each visit, subjects are tested in the morning after a 10-12h overnight fast.

      Three fasting blood samples are taken (-5, -3, -1) 2 minutes apart after which subjects
      consume the test meal or reference food at an even rate over 15 min. All subjects are asked
      to record the time it takes in minutes to consume the test food/reference. Further blood
      samples are taken at 15, 30, 31, 32, 45, 60, 90 and 120 min after the beginning of the meal.
      The test meal and reference food should be consumed with a 250ml drink of water. This remains
      constant for each of the tests in the series.

      Blood is obtained by finger-pricking using disposable Unistix needles. In previous studies,
      capillary blood has yielded less between-subject variation in GI. Instant glucose analysers
      will be used.
    
  