
    
      Twenty four (24) subjects will be enrolled and sequentially assigned to one of the two
      parallel treatment formulations. The study population will be men and women of 19 years and
      older with no allergy or history of allergy to fish. Participants must practice at least 6
      hours of intense physical activity per week as a life habit and must not have taken omega-3
      monoglycerides within the last 30 day prior to study enrollment. Pregnant or lactating women
      will be excluded from the study.

      The objective of this study is to compare the effects of MaxSimil, a combination of EPA and
      DHA monoglycerides with the monoglyceride EPA alone (MAG-EPA). For each group, the primary
      objectives will be to measure the changes in mitochondrial functions (LEAK, RCR and OKPHOS)
      and in the lactate threshold of athletes throughout the study. The program is similar for
      each visit and contains: fasting bood draw, standardized breakfast, health questionnaire,
      vital signs and the lactate threshold test. The latter consists of a standardized exercise on
      a stationary bike during which the blood lactate concentration as well as blood sugar
      concentration will be monitored by capillary puncture at determined time intervals. The
      fasting blood draw will be used for the analysis of mitochondrial functions, the omega-3
      index as well as the quantification of cytokines such as Interleukine-1, Interleukine-6 and
      the C-reactive protein (CRP). All the data collected after 45 and 90 days will be compared to
      the baseline measurements.

      The screening tasks include pregnancy testing for women, collection of demographic
      information and baseline health/ life habits questionnaire.

      Study Medication will be dispensed to subjects at visit 1. Medication will be
      self-administered by the subjects at home. Subjects will be given a diary to fill-out in case
      of missed doses, concomitant medication intake, adverse events or significant changes in life
      habits.
    
  