
    
      Upon signing of informed consent and study inclusion, both eyes will be screened to determine
      which eye is dominant and to ensure that the non-dominant eye meets the visual acuity,
      refraction, and other inclusion criteria. In this investigation, the monovision concept will
      be utilized, e.g. CorVision速 will be implanted in the non-dominant eye to improve near vision
      and the dominant eye is left intact or corrected by a standard refractive surgery to
      emmetropia. In brief, subjects will undergo laser corneal surgery on their non-dominant eye
      to create an anterior stromal pocket into which the investigational device will be implanted.
      Combined antibiotic - steroid eye drops will be instilled for 4 weeks post-implantation.

      The investigational treatment does not introduce foreign cells into the patient, requires
      only a short course of local immunosuppression (4 weeks compared to 12 months or longer for
      some other treatment options), and is reversible as the investigational device can be removed
      later if required. Moreover, should serious intra-operative or post-operative complications
      arise during or following implantation of the investigational device that cannot be treated
      with medications (for example thinning or clouding of the cornea), the CorVision速 device can
      be removed and the patient can undergo standard-of-care for complications after laser
      surgery.

      Following implantation of the CorVision速, postoperative eye examinations will be conducted at
      1 week, 1 month, then at month 3, 6, and 12 and outside of these standard examination times
      on an as-needed basis at any time. Examinations will include corneal tomography, central
      corneal thickness, slit lamp corneal transparency, keratometry, anterior segment optical
      coherence tomography, and general ophthalmic examination including tear break up time,
      refraction, uncorrected and corrected distance, intermediate and near visual acuity, and in
      some eyes aberrometer measurements, defocus curve or contrast sensitivity.

      The proof-of-concept and feasibility to implant CorVision速 by standard surgical methods such
      as a femto-second assisted pocket surgery and postoperative treatment and assessment protocol
      for this new medical device have already been developed via prior pre-clinical evaluations
      and some pilot clinical studies.
    
  