
    
      Oxaliplatin, in combination with 5-fluorouracil plus folinate (or capecitabine), has
      increased survival in stage III colorectal cancer and prolonged life in stage IV patients,
      but its use is compromised because of severe toxicity. Chemotherapy-induced peripheral
      neuropathy (CIPN) is the most problematic dose-limiting toxicity of oxaliplatin. No
      treatments have been clinically proven to prevent CIPN. There is a body of evidence that CIPN
      is caused by cellular oxidative stress. Clinical and preclinical data suggest that the
      manganese chelate and superoxide dismutase mimetic mangafodipir (MnDPDP) and calmangafodipir
      (Ca4Mn(DPDP)5) are efficacious inhibitors of CIPN and other conditions caused by cellular
      oxidative stress, without interfering negatively with the tumoricidal activity of
      chemotherapy.

      This is a Phase 3, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to establish the
      efficacious dose of PledOx in prevention of chronic CIPN induced by oxaliplatin.

      Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), who are indicated for first-line modified
      FOLFOX6 (mFOLFOX6) chemotherapy for at least 3 months, without any pre-planned treatment
      breaks, will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio, stratified by region (Asia, non-Asia) and PK
      sub-study (yes, no), to one of three treatment arms:

        -  Arm A: PledOx (2 µmol/kg) + mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy

        -  Arm B: PledOx (5 µmol/kg) + mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy

        -  Arm C: Placebo + mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy

      Before March 2nd., 2020, the Investigational Medicinal Product, (IMP; i.e. PledOx or placebo)
      was administered by an intravenous infusion on the first day of each chemotherapy (mFOLFOX6)
      cycle. IMP was not to be administered if mFOLFOX6 was not given to the patient.

      If a patient discontinues oxaliplatin, treatment with 5-FU/folinate may be continued.

      The addition of an appropriate biologic therapy (bevacizumab, panitumumab, cetuximab) will be
      left to the discretion of the Investigator.

      As of March 2nd., all patients have to stop IMP but may continue mFOLFOX 6 at the discretion
      of the investigator. The addition of an appropriate biologic therapy is left to the
      discretion of the investigator
    
  