
    
      Background

      - Kidney, prostate, bladder, testis and penile cancer account for 22% of cancers diagnosed in
      the United States and are responsible for 10% of cancer deaths each year in the U.S.
      Understanding the genes and gene pathways that cause genitourinary malignancies will provide
      the foundation for the development of targeted therapeutic agents for patients affected with
      these cancers. Since 1982 investigators in the Urologic Oncology Branch have been studying
      the genetic basis of urologic cancers. The identification of the genes for cancer of the
      kidney has led to the approval by the FDA of a number of new agents for patients with
      advanced disease. It is our goal to study the cancer gene pathways of genitourinary
      malignancies in order to further understand the cancer gene pathways that cause these
      diseases.

      Objectives

        -  Collection of benign and malignant tissue from patients with known or suspected cancer.

        -  Collection of benign and malignant tissue from patients with rare inherited conditions
           associated with an increased risk for kidney cancer.

        -  Determine the molecular genetic differences between normal and tumorigenic tissues.

        -  Investigate the categories of genes/ biochemical pathways such as those that influence
           the cell cycle, angiogenesis, metabolic changes, and metastatic potential.

        -  Examine protein expression and bioimmunoassays investigating potential genetic markers.

        -  Investigate cellular/biochemical response to existing and novel therapeutic agents.

        -  Investigate quality of life in men who have prostate cancer.

        -  Investigate molecular genetic basis of urologic malignancies

        -  Examine cell free DNA and circulating tumor DNA for cancer gene mutations

      Eligibility

        -  Patients with biopsy-proven malignant disease.

        -  Patients suspected of having malignant disease.

        -  Patients with known or suspected inherited urologic malignant disorder

        -  Family members (related by blood) of patients who have or are suspected of having an
           inherited genitourinary disorder or malignancy.

        -  Family members of patients with a DNA variant

      Design

        -  Patients will be screened for eligibility in the Urologic Oncology Branch Clinic.

        -  Blood and urine samples may be obtained.

        -  Normal and malignant tissue may be collected from patients undergoing clinically
           indicated surgical procedures.

        -  Basic scientific research will be performed on collected specimens.

        -  Patients will have the option to be contacted if a result is detected that would affect
           their health and they will be given the opportunity to be evaluated and re-tested on an
           IRB approved protocol if available.

        -  Germline and somatic whole genome exome sequencing may be performed
    
  