
    
      Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) are categorized into groups of abuse, neglect, and
      family/household challenges. This includes psychological, physical or sexual abuse; violence
      against mother, living with household members who were substance abusers, mentally ill or
      suicidal, or imprisoned have been shown to impact long term health in adulthood. Patients
      with a history of ACEs are known to be at increased risk of psychological and medical
      complications including depression, anxiety, low self-esteem and shame, suicidal thoughts.
      Medical health-related risks include obesity, chronic pain, fibromyalgia,and diabetes. The
      Prevalence of ACEs has been evaluated in the general population, however the prevalence in
      the Urogynecologic and Chronic Pelvic Pain Population have never been explored.

      The Urogynecologic and Chronic Pelvic Pain population is a unique population of patients that
      warrants exploration. It is well known that stress levels, anxiety, and depression are
      further increased in patient's with Urgency Urinary Incontinence (UUI )(urinary incontinence
      often times associated with urinary urgency, frequency or nocturia) and overactive bladder
      (OAB) (urinary urgency, frequency with or without incontinence) patients with a childhood
      history of trauma. The investigators long-term goal is to improve treatment in the
      Urogynecologic and Chronic Pelvic Pain population by understanding the contributions to the
      development of their symptomatology. Understanding childhood experiences can help determine
      the challenges and development of symptoms such as OAB or Interstitial Cystitis/Painful
      Bladder Syndrome (IC/PBS) (pain attributed to the bladder in the absence of organic causes
      such as infection, present for 6 weeks) as well as the other Urogynecologic conditions,
      including urinary incontinence or pelvic organ prolapse.

      A key gap in the literature is how childhood experiences such as abuse may be related to
      Urogynecologic symptoms such as OAB or Interstitial Cystitis/Bladder Pain Syndrome (IC/BPS)
      as well as Chronic Pelvic Pain.

      The objective of this research is to describe the prevalence of Adverse Childhood Experience
      (ACES) in patients in the Urogynecologic and Chronic Pelvic Pain population as well as
      relative to the control group. The central hypothesis is that women with Interstitial
      Cystitis and/or OAB as well as Chronic Pelvic Pain will report higher amount of childhood
      exposures than the control group.

      The investigators will test the central hypothesis with the following specific Urogynecologic
      aims:

      Aim #1: To describe the prevalence of ACEs, frequency and type of childhood exposures overall
      in a population of women with pelvic floor disorders, as well as differences in prevalence in
      a control group. Hypothesis: 1a. ACE history, based on the BRFSS-ACE Module, will be
      prevalent in women with pelvic floor disorders and 1b. Specific pelvic floor diagnoses
      (OAB/UUI +/or IC/Bladder Pain) will more commonly be associated with increased ACEs than the
      control group.

      Aim #2: To describe frequency and ACE types/domains relative to pelvic floor diagnoses
      (pelvic organ prolapse, stress urinary incontinence, overactive bladder and Interstitial
      Cystitis/Bladder Pain Syndrome) and in the control group. And to describe their relationship
      with depression/anxiety and symptom severity based on validated questionnaires. Hypothesis
      2a: Women with OAB and/or IC/BPS will more commonly report childhood abuse and will have
      increased numbers of specific ACE events, compared to the control group. Hypothesis 2b:
      Increased numbers of ACEs will be associated with increased anxiety, depression and symptom
      severity in these specific pelvic floor conditions.

      The investigators will test the central hypothesis with the following specific Chronic Pelvic
      Pain aims:

      Aim#1: 1a) describe the prevalence of ACEs in women with chronic pelvic pain. 1b) To compare
      the prevalence of ACEs in chronic pain patients to controls. Hypothesis 1: Chronic Pelvic
      Pain patients have a higher rate of ACEs than controls. Aim #2: 2a) compare the frequency and
      ACE type/domain of controls relative to chronic pelvic pain patients. 2b) Describe their
      relationship to depression/anxiety and symptom severity. Hypothesis #2: Chronic Pelvic Pain
      patients have an increase in ACEs and ACE domains controls, as well as more symptom severity
      in depression and anxiety.
    
  