
    
      Through a progression of research, the PI has developed the central hypothesis that waning
      insulin secretion in the context of insulin resistance is an important cause of low milk
      supply. The specific aim of the research described in this protocol is to enact a small-scale
      randomized placebo-controlled trial (RCT) that will inform a future larger double-masked RCT
      of adjuvant metformin treatment versus placebo for early postpartum low milk supply in women
      with evidence of insulin resistance based on the presence of at least one of the following:
      elevated fasting glucose (FPG, defined as >95 g/dL), history of polycystic ovary syndrome,
      history of gestational diabetes, or current abdominal obesity. The pilot study is designed to
      demonstrate feasibility, obtain variance estimates, and test for an trend in the following
      primary hypothesis: 1) Among eligible women with low milk supply, those randomly assigned to
      4 weeks of metformin treatment will experience a greater increase in milk output as compared
      to the placebo group. The RCT will be preceded by a"process testing phase" in which
      recruitment and data collection logistics will be confirmed by enacting the study protocol,
      except without any drug assignment. Upon completion of the process testing phase, the
      protocol will be amended according to insights gained. Once the revised protocol received IRB
      approval, the RCT phase will begin. During this phase, mothers meeting Stage 1 eligibility
      criteria will undergo baseline measurements of cardio-metabolic health and breast milk
      output. Among mothers meeting stage 2 eligibility criteria, including FPG >95 g/dL, N=30 will
      be randomly assigned to metformin or placebo using a 2:1 allocation, with replacement of
      non-completers. All low milk supply participants will receive the standard guidance for
      increasing milk supply with breast pumping. We will test the following secondary hypotheses:
      2) Mammary epithelial cell transcriptomes within the metformin group, but not placebo, will
      exhibit significantly greater modulation of insulin-stimulated genes between baseline and
      post treatment. Milk fat globules are a rich source of mammary epithelial cell mRNA. We will
      isolate milk fat RNA at baseline and post treatment and randomly select a subset for
      RNA-sequencing. 3) Fasting plasma glucose >95 g/dL will correctly identify low milk supply
      cases with >75% sensitivity; and <95 g/dL will correctly identify abundant milk supply
      (comparator group) with >90% specificity. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) in women with abundant
      milk supply will be derived from 30 consecutively consenting breastfeeding medicine patients
      who meet all RCT eligibility criteria except low milk supply (i.e., diagnoses related to
      infant feeding at the breast such as poor latch, but with abundant milk output). We will
      combine all available baseline FPG data to determine the sensitivity and specificity of FPG
      >95 g/dL as biomarker of low milk supply caused by maternal metabolic impairment. 4)
      Metformin treatment will be safe and adequately tolerated by the lactating mother and her
      breastfeeding infant.
    
  