
    
      [Overview] Investigators will obtain voluntary consent for participation in this study from
      patients with high-risk stage II or stage III colon cancer who require or are planning to
      receive adjuvant chemotherapy after curative resection. Patients who provided written consent
      for using their personal information and who satisfy inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      given a study enrollment number. Among the predefined study-relevant data, available data on
      these patients will be collected in the case report forms (CRF) until the study is completed.

      [Follow-up observation schedule and the scope of data collection] Since this study is an
      observational study, data collection in the CRF will be restricted to the data created only
      from usual treatment practices and there will be no separate test or additional drug
      administration for the study. However, subjects will be asked to complete questionnaire to
      evaluate their quality of life at the following time points: baseline, Month 3 (13 weeks ± 2
      weeks), Month 6 (26 weeks ± 2 weeks), Month 12 (52 weeks ± 4 weeks), Month 24 (104 weeks ± 8
      weeks), Month 36 (156 weeks ± 8 weeks). For subjects who drop out from the study or in case
      of disease event (relapse, metastasis or new primary malignant tumor), the questionnaire will
      be conducted at the time of drop-out or disease event. Survival of all subjects (including
      those who drop out from the study or whose disease event is confirmed) will be checked every
      6 months after adjuvant chemotherapy started. Among the data created from the subjects on
      their visits for treatment, the following data will be collected for the purpose of this
      study.

        -  Demographics of the subjects.

        -  Colon cancer information (diagnosis information, risk factors, surgery information).

        -  Whether or not neoadjuvant chemotherapy was conducted.

        -  Underlying disease.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy information.

        -  Other concomitant medication (drugs administered for prevention and treatment of OXLIPN,
           drugs administered for treatment of Grade 3-4 adverse drug reactions/serious adverse
           drug reactions related to the chemotherapy).

        -  Vital signs, height, and weight.

        -  Performance Status evaluation (ECOG PS).

        -  Geriatric Assessment (KG-7): for subjects ≥ 65 years old.

        -  Quality of Life assessment (FACT-C, FACT/GOG-NTX-12).

        -  Laboratory test results.

        -  Tumor Marker (CEA, CA 19-9) test results.

        -  Molecular genetic test results (MSI [microsatellite instability] and/or MMR [DNA
           mismatch repair gene], immunohistochemistry test for protein, KRAS, NRAS, BRAF etc.).

        -  Colonoscopy/CT results.

        -  Disease event (relapse, metastasis or new primary malignant tumor).

        -  Survival of subjects.

        -  Oxaliplatin-induced Peripheral Neuropathy (OXLIPN): Only when oxaliplatin is
           administered.

        -  Grade 3-4 adverse drug reactions related to chemotherapy (based on CTCAE v.5.0).

        -  Serious adverse drug reactions.
    
  