
    
      Background:

        -  Cancer and its treatment lead to symptoms and side effects. Pain, fatigue, and emotional
           distress are three of the most common and distressing symptoms. Patient report is the
           gold standard for assessing these symptoms and is critical to patient-centered care.

        -  Symptoms are often under-reported or under-treated leading to impairments in quality of
           life, functioning, and treatment adherence. Factors contributing to
           under-reporting/treatment occur within patients (e.g., fear of addiction to pain meds),
           providers (e.g., lack of training), and the healthcare system (e.g., under-insurance).

        -  A limited number of studies suggest that the burden symptoms falls unevenly on certain
           racial/ethnic, socioeconomic status (SES), and insurance status groups.

        -  Despite the importance of symptoms in cancer care, there is no method for systematically
           collecting patient reported data at institutional or national levels. Such a system
           could identify at risk groups, inform intervention, and ultimately improve quality of
           care.

        -  This study uses existing resources to design a cost-effective symptom surveillance
           system. The NCI Community Cancer Center Program (NCCCP) provides the infrastructure for
           efficiently conducting a multi-site pilot in a real-world setting with a diverse sample
           of patients. The Commission on Cancer s Rapid Quality Reporting System (RQRS) will
           automate sampling to minimize burden on the cancer center s staff, facilitate data
           collection during or soon after treatment, and protect patients personal identifiers.
           The survey instrument is based upon previously validated measures.

      Objectives:

        -  To pilot a method for collecting patient reports of symptom-related experiences that
           could be used for surveillance at institutional and, in the future, population levels.

        -  To investigate disparities in symptom burden and management between racial/ethnic, SES,
           and health insurance status groups.

        -  To pilot the use of patient-reported symptom data for quality improvement of symptom
           management at participating cancer centers.

      Eligibility:

        -  Diagnosed with Stage I-III breast or colon cancer as first primary cancer between
           February 2011 and January 2013

        -  Age of 21 years or older

        -  Received cancer care from one of 17 participating NCCCP Cancer Centers.

      Design:

        -  This cross-sectional survey will collect reports of symptoms and related experiences
           from patients 3-12 months after cancer diagnosis via mailed questionnaire. A
           methodological experiment will randomize patients after the second mailing to compare
           telephone follow-up to a third mailing. Data on cost and Cancer Center staff time will
           be collected to provide scalable estimates of overall cost and examine
           cost-effectiveness of telephone follow-up.

        -  The study will provide prevalence estimates for various symptoms and symptom management
           items. More complex, model-based statistics will be used to investigate symptom
           disparities (Aim 2). For these models, outcomes will be either continuous (e.g., pain
           severity) or ordinal (e.g., symptom management items) and will be analyzed using
           Generalized Linear Mixed Models (GLMM) to take into account the two-level structure of
           the data (patients nested within Cancer Centers). We expect to enroll 2,550 patients.
    
  