
    
      Children and adolescents (herein "youths") treated in outpatient mental health care span a
      broad range of problems and disorders, with substantial comorbidity, and their most pressing
      problems and treatment needs may shift during treatment. These challenges may be addressed by
      treatment that is flexible and transdiagnostic (i.e., applicable to multiple mental health
      problems and disorders). A recent transdiagnostic treatment, FIRST, created in collaboration
      with community practitioners and intervention scientists, uses a principle-based approach to
      support efficient learning and implementation by clinicians. FIRST is built upon five
      empirically supported principles of change (e.g., calming, problem solving), each applicable
      to treatment of depression, anxiety/OCD, trauma, and misconduct. Three open benchmarking
      trials of FIRST, using low-cost clinician training and group consultation, have shown steep
      slopes of clinical improvement in youths treated in outpatient clinics.

      This randomized controlled effectiveness trial will provide a more definitive test of FIRST,
      an initial investigation of a candidate mechanism of change, and tests of therapist
      characteristics that may predict and moderate implementation of evidence-based practices. The
      sample will be ethnically and economically diverse youths, aged 8-15, from four community
      clinics-two in greater Boston MA, two in greater Austin TX-all referred by their families and
      all showing elevated depression, anxiety/OCD, post-traumatic stress, or conduct problems.
      Clinicians within each clinic will be randomly assigned to learn and use FIRST or to employ
      Usual Care (UC), and youths will be randomized to treatment by FIRST or UC clinicians.
      Clinical outcomes will include change on standardized measures of mental health and on
      severity of the specific problems identified as most important by each youth and each
      caregiver at baseline. Study measures will include a proposed mechanism-regulation of
      negative emotions- thought to be responsive to treatment and responsible for changes in
      mental health. Analyses will assess whether treatment with FIRST impacts regulation, and
      whether improved regulation accounts for outcomes of FIRST treatment relative to UC. Finally,
      the study will investigate whether clinicians' baseline knowledge of, attitudes toward, and
      motivation to use evidence-based practices predicts or moderates their implementation of such
      practices in psychotherapy. The study will thus provide the first randomized trial of this
      new practice-adapted transdiagnostic treatment, plus an inquiry into the process through
      which it may work and therapist factors that may strengthen or weaken implementation.
    
  