
    
      SME Ambassadors Pilot Project is one of the six Community-based Mental Wellness Project for
      Adolescents and Adults, which aims at enhancing mental well-being of adolescents, adults and
      their families by creating a positive, happy and joyful environment in the community. The
      Project is funded by Health Care and Promotion Fund of Food and Health Bureau.

      SME Ambassadors Pilot Project is organized by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service and led
      by School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong(HKU). The project will organize two
      train-the-ambassador workshops to train 60-80 SME ambassadors on positive thinking and
      understanding of adult mental health problem (in particular the mixed anxiety and depressive
      disorder) and mental well-being.

      The trained SME ambassadors will provide voluntary services and promote mental well-being
      messages to vulnerable groups, such as ex-mental illness people, new arrivals, etc.

      The major subjects of the SME Ambassadors Pilot Project are 60-80 SME ambassadors who aged
      18-59. 10-12 service providers from NGO service units (community partners) and 100-120
      voluntary service recipients will also be involved in the study. Pre- and post-test
      evaluation will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention programme.

      In the study, SME Ambassadors will be invited to complete questionnaires to measure their
      sharing, mind and enjoyment related behavioural indicators and invited to attend the focus
      group interviews to understand their experience during the programme; while community
      partners will be invited to attend individual interviews to collect their feedback and
      components on improving future community-based mental wellness programme.

      Evaluation will be conducted during the programme implementation stage. The effectiveness of
      the intervention, as well as the level of participation and ratings for the intervention will
      also be evaluated.
    
  