
    
      Pre-operatively all patients were advised soft ball arm exercise. Patients were instructed
      not to use the concerned arm for blood sampling. The morning dose of antihypertensive was
      skipped if the patient mean arterial blood pressure was less than 100 mm Hg. Modified Allens
      test was done pre operative to check for the patency of the palmar arch. Preoperative Doppler
      of the concerned limb was done one day prior to the procedure by the consultant radiologist.
      The ulnar artery, radial artery, and cephalic vein diameter were measured at the wrist and
      the forearm. They were imaged in both transverse and sagittal planes at the levels of venous
      stenosis or thrombosis and a venogram was considered. On the day of surgery, patient were
      advised to take light breakfast in the morning prior to the procedure. Patient were shifted
      inside the operation theatre and all American society anaesthesiologist standard monitors
      were attached. This included pulse oxymeter, non invasive blood pressure and
      electrocardiogram. Patients lie supine on the operating table and the arm selected for
      fistula creation was abducted to an angle of 90 degree and kept on an arm rest.

      Under all aseptic precaution 10 ml of local anaesthetic agent (5ml 2% Lidocaine + 5 ml Normal
      saline) was injected just proximal to wrist joint. After waiting for 5 minutes and confirmimg
      its effect, a 2 cm skin incision was made in between the radial artery and cephalic vein in
      the distal forearm. First of all, cephalic vein was dissected free from the surrounding
      structures. The S shaped retractors were used for the proper exposure. All vein tributaries
      were ligated with 4-0 silk. Vein at the distal end of the incision was ligated and divided. A
      20 G cannula was inserted and 10 ml of heparinized saline (1 unit ml-1) was injected into the
      cephalic vein. After this a 5 F infant feeding tube was inserted into the vein and another 10
      ml of heparinised saline was injected. Radial artery is then identified and mobilized from
      the surrounding structures. Around one and half cm of radial artery is exposed. Bull dog
      clamps were applied both proximally and distally to occlude the blood flow. Then using 11
      number scalpel blade an arteriotomy of approximately 1 cm was done. Similarly veinotomy of
      around 1.3 cm was done for cephalic vein using the potts scissor. Then end to side
      anastomosis was done using continuous 7-0 prolene sutures. Posterior wall was done first,
      followed by the anterior wall. After completing the procedure and achieving complete
      haemostatsis, fistula was palpated for the presence of immediate thrill. Tablet amoxicillin
      500 mg with clavulanic acid 125 mg was given to all patients for 5 days and after each
      dialysis. Soft ball arm exercise was also advised till the fistula matures. Immediate
      surgical complications were noted.
    
  