
    
      Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) is used more frequently than open surgery in the
      treatment of kidney stones as it is performed through a smaller surgical incision.
      Postoperative complex pain resulting from the renal capsule dilation and
      nephrostomy-tube-related stress is reported to prolong the recovery time, reduce patient
      comfort, and increase complication rates. Opioids, which are used for controlling Intra and
      postoperative pain, have significant side effects. Multi-modal analgesia regimen and regional
      anaesthesia methods have been reported to decrease the side effects, in addition to providing
      effective postoperative pain control.

      The use of an intraoperative local anaesthetic or peripheral blocks as an analgesic has been
      reported for pain control in PCNL but only as analgesia not anaesthesia except loco-regional
      like spinal and epidural anaesthesia with limitation of time or cardiopulmonary side effects
      that usually in favour of general anaesthesia that is usually considered the most convenient
      and prudent way for providing anaesthesia for this operation in spite of its drawbacks.

      The quadratus lumborum muscle block (QLB) was first described by Blanco in 2007 as a local
      anaesthetic injection into the anterolateral junction of the quadratus lumborum muscle (QLB
      type 1). QLB does not only stop somatic pain but also it inhibits visceral pain due to the
      spread of the local anaesthetic to the paravertebral space.

      Some modifications of this technique were subsequently introduced: injection into the
      posterior segment of the quadratus lumborum muscle (QLB type2), injection between the
      quadratus lumborum muscle and the fascia of the psoas muscle using the trans muscular
      approach (QLB type 3), and injection into the quadratus lumborum muscle (QLB type 4) itself.
      It is evident that this block is effective in providing analgesia from T7 to L1 dermatomes,
      it is not only providing analgesia from the anterior abdominal wall but also it can reduce
      visceral pain.

      Although the efficacy of QLB in abdominal surgery has been demonstrated in the literature,
      its use as an anaesthesia technique not ever reported.

      In this study, the investigators introduce a new protocol in providing anaesthesia mainly by
      fascial peripheral block. It is considered new as it is the first time to our knowledge to
      use a fascial block as a main component of anaesthesia for PCNL and the investigators think
      that it may be used as a solo anaesthesia. This will lead to decreasing patient stay in the
      hospital, decreasing time for patient ambulation and regaining vitality and hemostasis that
      will all be in line with early rehabilitation after surgery (ERAS) protocol that is the aim
      of all health care services in modern medicine. Also, it will be the base for further
      research in more risky patient groups that may decrease the detrimental effect of general
      anaesthesia in these patient group which already have associated comorbidities and for more
      operation especially if unilateral.

      In this study, the investigators will evaluate the efficacy and safety of ultrasound-guided
      QLB as an anaesthetic method in patients undergoing PCNL.

      Adult patients who will undergo elective unilateral PCNL will be included. Low dose spinal
      anaesthesia will be done at L3-4 lumbar vertebrae. Then, ultrasound-guided QLB (QL 1,2,3)
      will be performed on the ipsilateral surgical side, using a low-frequency convex transducer.
      The total volume of injectate will not exceed 0.4 ml /kg of (bupivacaine 0.5%).

      The success of the procedure, procedure-related complications, Intra- and post-operative
      hemodynamics, pain score, overall surgeon and patient satisfaction will be evaluated.
    
  