
    
      The investigators first provided evidence that human pancreatic cancer (PC) cells can undergo
      EMT during local invasion, and that EMT transcription factors (i.e.Twist family basic
      helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 (TWIST1)) are increased in the blood of PC patients.
      In addressing the relevance of EMT in the metastatic process, the prognostic role of M-like
      cancer cells entering into the circulation remains to be determined.

      Currently, the notion that cancer disseminates via the circulation led to increased attention
      on the identification of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in blood samples ("liquid biopsy";
      LB), so far exclusively based upon epithelial (E) markers. However, an un-biased evaluation
      of CTCs, providing meaningful information for cancer diagnosis up to therapy, cannot exclude
      cells with M features. LB data show that circulating TWIST1, zinc finger E-box binding
      homeobox 2 (ZEB2) and E-Cadherin (CDH1) messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNA) are significantly
      and steadily increased in the blood of PC patients.These findings indicate that high levels
      of EMT players in the circulation efficiently discriminate PC patients, irrespectively of
      tumor resectability.

      The present study is aimed at detecting and measuring mRNA levels of genes involved in
      epithelial to mesenchymal transition in biological samples, i.e. in peripheral blood samples
      of tumor patients, to determine the presence of disease, its progression and risk of
      recurrence.

      Aim of the study is to depict the molecular profile of EMT-Transcription factor (EMT-TFs)
      variations in the blood of patients with early, intermediate or advanced PC, with respect to
      disease progression and delivered treatments.

      Primary endpoint: to determ the stage, the remission or the progression of a pancreatic
      cancer in a pancreatic cancer affected subjects. This end-point comprising the step of
      assaying a biological sample from said subject for the presence of a panel of mRNAs encoding
      for transcription factors involved in epithelial to mesenchymal transition.

      Secondary endpoint: to identify biomarkers suitable for the selection of patients amenable of
      responsiveness to medical and surgical treatment.
    
  