
    
      The SPIN Cohort currently currently includes over 1700 patients from 36 sites in Canada, the
      USA, France, and the United Kingdom. It is anticipated that the Cohort will grow to
      approximately 2,000 patient by the end of 2017. SPIN Cohort patients complete outcome
      measures via the internet upon enrolment and subsequently every 3 months. SPIN utilizes the
      cohort multiple RCT (cmRCT) design as a framework for conducting trials of interventions.
      SPIN Cohort patients consent to allow personal data to be used for observational research, to
      assess intervention trial eligibility and, if eligible, be randomized. Patients also consent
      that if eligible and randomized to usual care, the patient's data can be used to evaluate
      intervention effectiveness without the patient being notified that the patient has been
      randomized to the usual care group and not offered the intervention. Thus, in SPIN trials,
      trial status is masked for patients in the control arm, who are not aware that they are in
      the trial, but not patients in the intervention arm. The investigative team does not interact
      with patients for care provision or outcome assessment, which are done automatically via the
      internet.

      The SPIN-HAND feasibility study is embedded in the SPIN Cohort and will evaluate the
      feasibility of conducting full-scale RCT on the SPIN-HAND exercise program. Investigators
      will randomize 36-40 SPIN Cohort patients with at least mild hand function limitations and an
      indicated interest in using an online hand exercise program to be offered the hand exercise
      program or usual care only.

      Randomization will occur at the time of patients' regular SPIN Cohort assessments. Eligible
      patients, based on questionnaire responses, will be randomized automatically using simple 1:1
      randomization, using a feature in the SPIN Cohort platform, which provides immediate
      randomization and complete allocation sequence concealment.

      Feasibility outcomes include patient eligibility and recruitment and numbers and percentages
      of patients who do not respond to follow-up measures. Use of the internet intervention will
      be described by presenting the frequency of logins and time spent on the SPIN-HAND program.
      Analysis of outcome measures will include the completeness of data and presence of floor or
      ceiling effects. Descriptive statistics will be used to provide means and standard deviations
      for the measures. Qualitative information and information related to management and usability
      of the SPIN-HAND program will inform any necessary changes to the intervention or trial
      procedures.
    
  