
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of radiation delivered via PRIT using BC8-SA
      (BC8 antibody-streptavidin conjugate) when combined with fludarabine (FLU) (fludarabine
      phosphate), 2 Gy total body irradiation (TBI), cyclosporine (CSP), mycophenolate mofetil
      (MMF), and allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) in patients who have advanced acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), or high risk myelodysplastic
      syndromes (MDS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate rates of immune reconstitution, engraftment, and donor chimerism resulting
      from this combined preparative regimen.

      II. To estimate rates of disease relapse, acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), and day-100
      disease-free survival in patients receiving PRIT using BC8-SA combined with FLU, 2 Gy TBI,
      CSP, MMF, and allogeneic HCT.

      III. To assess biodistribution, serum half-life, urinary excretion, tissue localization, and
      clearance of BC8-SA conjugate and DOTA-biotin.

      IV. To assess the feasibility of yttrium y 90 (90Y)-DOTA-biotin to bind to BC8-SA conjugate
      localized to hematolymphoid tissues.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo pretargeted radioimmunotherapy comprising a test dose of BC8-SA conjugate
      intravenously (IV) on day -22 and indium In 111(111In)-DOTA-biotin IV on day -20, followed by
      a therapy dose of BC8-SA conjugate IV on day -14 and 90Y-DOTA-biotin IV on day -12. Patients
      receive fludarabine phosphate IV on days -4 to -2. Patients undergo TBI and then peripheral
      blood stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients with matched related donors receive
      cyclosporine IV on days -3 to 56 and taper to day 180 and mycophenolate mofetil orally (PO)
      twice daily (BID) on days 0-27. Patients with matched unrelated donors receive cyclosporine
      IV on days -3 to 100 and taper to day 180 and mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice daily (TID) on
      days 0-40 and taper to day 96.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months,
      and then annually thereafter.
    
  