
    
      Background

      In general anesthesia propofol or volatile anesthetic are usually combined with opioids and
      the synergy between hypnotics and opioids is used to reduce the dose of each component in
      order to minimize side effects and to allow a rapid recovery. Current pharmacodynamic
      interaction models allow to estimate the potency of combinations of propofol and opioids,
      volatile anesthetics and opioids or propofol and sevoflurane respectively. In these
      interaction models the potency of the drug combinations is expressed as probability that
      motor response to laryngoscopy is suppressed (= tolerance of laryngoscopy, PTOL). The potency
      of the hypnotic drugs is represented by the concentration preventing motor response to
      laryngoscopy in 50% of the population (Ce50 hypnotic). Conversely potency of the opioids is
      represented as concentration reducing the Ce50 of the hypnotics by 50%.

      The data of the three previous studies on propofol-remifentanil, propofol-sevoflurane and
      sevoflurane-remifentanil interaction were pooled and reanalyzed. The result was a triple
      interaction model of sevoflurane, propofol and remifentanil where sevoflurane and propofol
      were additive and either propofol or sevoflurane were synergistic with remifentanil. In
      contrast to the previous studies the response surface of the propofol-remifentanil and
      sevoflurane-remifentanil derived from the pooled re-analysis had a similar shape, which is
      reflected by a common C50 remifentanil and a common slope parameter. This means that
      remifentanil is equally synergistic to propofol and sevoflurane. The next step is to validate
      this interaction model with other stimuli than laryngoscopy and with other responses to
      stimulation that movement.

      In clinical practice not motor response but hemodynamic response (heart rate and arterial
      blood pressure increase) upon surgical stimulation is used to titrate anesthetics and
      opioids.

      In laparoscopic surgery after a small skin incision, carbon dioxide is inflated into the
      abdominal cavity to maintain an intraabdominal pressure of 14 mmHg. Recently the sevoflurane
      concentration preventing a heart rate or blood pressure increase greater than 20% upon
      installation of pneumoperitoneum (MAC BAR pneumoperitoneum) has been determined: The MAC BAR
      pneumoperitoneum (95% CI) of sevoflurane was 4.6 (4.3-4.9) without opioids and 2.4 (2.2-2.6)
      and 1.7 (1.4-2.1) vol% with an effect site remifentanil concentration of 1 and 2 ng
      ml-1.These values all correspond to 90% probability to tolerate laryngoscopy (PTOL) according
      to our triple interaction model (Hannivoort, BJA 2016), which indirectly supports our model.

      The main purpose of this randomized controlled study is to validate our
      sevoflurane-propofol-remifentanil interaction model using skin incision and carbon dioxide
      insufflation (pneumoperitoneum) as stimulus and blood pressure and heart rate response as
      endpoint.

      Objective

      To determine the C50 remifentanil preventing a 20% increase of heart rate or mean arterial
      pressure upon installation of pneumoperitoneum at equipotent concentrations of sevoflurane or
      propofol To determine the C50 of sevoflurane and propofol preventing a 20% increase of heart
      rate or mean arterial pressure upon installation of pneumoperitoneum at a standardized
      concentration of remifentanil

      To determine the C50 of propofol or sevoflurane preventing a 20% increase of heart rate or
      mean arterial pressure upon installation of pneumoperitoneum at standardized concentrations
      of remifentanil plus sevoflurane or propofol respectively.

      Methods

      Patients will be randomly assigned to six groups with different propofol sevoflurane and
      remifentanil target concentrations for skin incision: Two groups with be given
      propofol-remifentanil, sevoflurane-remifentanil and sevoflurane-propofol-remifentanil
      respectively. The up-and-down method will be applied to determine the C50ies. During surgery
      primarily remifentanil and secondarily sevoflurane or propofol are titrated to maintain mean
      arterial pressure and bispectral index within predefined limits.
    
  