
    
      Liver cirrhosis-or scarring of the liver-occurs with a worldwide prevalence approximating
      4.5-9.5%, affecting hundreds of millions of people. Cirrhosis results in 2% of all global
      mortality, approximating 1 million deaths per year, and affects more than 600,000 persons in
      the United States. Variceal hemorrhage (VH) from gastroesophageal varices (GEVs) is a leading
      cause of mortality in patients with liver cirrhosis. Gastric varices (GVs) occur in 5-33% of
      patients with cirrhotic liver disease and have a bleeding incidence of 25% within 2-years of
      development, 36% within 3-years, and 44% within 5-years. GVs are associated with high
      mortality rates approximating 25% at 2-years. First-line therapy in patients who have not
      bled includes preventative pharmaceuticals, while acute bleeding is typically treated with
      vasoconstrictive agents and endoscopic variceal ligation or sclerotherapy. In cases of acute
      hemorrhage, refractory bleeding, or high risk GVs, Interventional Radiology (IR) guided
      transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) creation is recommended to decompress
      varices and divert blood flow through a controlled synthetic conduit. In the modern era, TIPS
      is associated with initial GV bleeding control in greater than 90% of cases. However, GV
      rebleeding rates after TIPS are non-trivial, widely ranging between 13-53%. Moreover, GVs are
      widely thought to remain patent and sustain bleeding at low portosystemic pressure gradients
      (PSGs), as is the case after TIPS. In addition, TIPS can also contribute to high rates
      hepatic encephalopathy (HE) due to increased portosystemic shunting. Recently, transvenous
      obliteration techniques-including balloon-occluded retrograde (BRTO) and antegrade (BATO)
      transvenous obliteration as well as more recent adaptations including coil- (CARTO) and
      plug-assisted (PARTO) retrograde transvenous obliteration-have been developed with the intent
      of directly eradicating GVs. While obliteration techniques are associated with high technical
      success rates approximating 91-100% and low rebleeding incidence less than 5%, the worsened
      portal hypertension that follows from GV closure results in adverse side effects, including
      aggravation of esophageal varices (EVs) in 33% of patients, development of new or worsening
      of ascites in 10% of patients, and formation of difficult to treat ectopic varices.

      Traditionally, TIPS and transvenous obliteration have evolved in relative isolation as
      different philosophical strategies to address VH. TIPS is more commonly utilized in North
      America and Europe, where portal decompression with or without adjunctive embolization of
      varices has been a mainstay of endovascular strategy. Conversely, transvenous obliteration
      evolved in Asia as a direct treatment of VH by obliterating GEVs (particularly GVs) via
      sclerosis. These approaches were previously viewed as in conflict with one another as
      obliteration closes GVs but aggravates portal hypertension, whereas TIPS is designed to
      reduce portal hypertension. Increasingly, however, TIPS and transvenous obliteration are
      viewed as complimentary procedures that can be combined to reduce bleeding risk and
      ameliorate sequelae of portal hypertension. Performed together, TIPS and transvenous
      obliteration result in the elimination of high flow GVs that are at risk for life threatening
      hemorrhage, with replacement by a man-made endovascular created portosystemic shunt that is
      not at risk for rupture as well as reduction the risk for post-obliteration EV aggravation,
      ascites formation, or development of ectopic varices.

      Yet, despite a strong mechanistic basis for their combination, there are few studies
      investigating the effectiveness of combined TIPS plus transvenous obliteration. Thus, the
      overarching goal of this single center prospective pilot study is to assess the effectiveness
      and safety of combined TIPS creation plus transvenous obliteration for the treatment of GVs.
    
  