
    
      The role of the proteasome in carcinogenesis and cell survival has been well established, and
      its inhibition associated with an accumulation of pro-apoptotic proteins and cell death.
      Proteasome inhibitors, such has bortezomib, have been extensively studied and are widely used
      as effective therapy in the treatment for hematologic malignancies, such as multiple myeloma
      where circulating proteasome levels have been correlated with survival. Carfilzomib, a novel
      irreversible proteasome inhibitor which specifically targets the chymotryptic site of the
      proteasome has shown more potency than bortezomib and may be able to overcome bortezomib
      resistance. Response rates between 25-54% were seen in patients with previously treated
      myeloma in the phase 2 setting.

      Given the effectiveness of proteasome inhibition in multiple myeloma, the role of proteasome
      in solid tumors is under active investigation. Previous trials of bortezomib in breast,
      prostate, lung, and pancreatic cancer have shown little activity of this agent in these
      diseases. Whether the lack of activity may be mechanistically related (bortezomib inhibits
      chymotrypsin-like and peptidyl-glutamyl peptide-hydrolyzing (PGPH)-like activities of the
      proteasome), or a lack of potency in target inhibition, is unknown.

      In a phase Ib/II study of 14 patients (phase I) and 51 patients (phase II) with advanced
      solid tumors, Rosen and colleagues noted single-agent activity with carfilzomib. Carfilzomib
      was dosed on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16 of a 28 day cycle to a maximum of 12 cycles, with
      20-36 mg/m² noted as the recommended phase 2 dose based on DLT data. A PR in both renal and
      small cell lung cancer, and stable disease > 16 weeks in mesothelioma, ovarian, renal, and
      non-small cell lung cancer was observed. The treatment was tolerable with the most common
      adverse events (AEs) including fatigue, headache, diarrhea, nausea and constipation.

      Given the activity of carfilzomib seen in selected solid tumors, and unpublished data to
      suggest weekly dosing may result in a similar pharmacokinetic profile including AUC, the
      investigators propose to study the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and anti-tumor
      activity of carfilzomib monotherapy given on a weekly dosing schedule. Weekly dosing has the
      advantage of patient convenience, and if acceptable toxicity and pharmacokinetics, it allows
      for easier integration of this schedule into subsequent combination therapy clinical trials.
    
  