
    
      Infective endocarditis (IE) is associated with an overall in-hospital mortality rate of
      15-25% and a high incidence of embolic events (20-50%). Leading causes of mortality are heart
      failure (HF) resulting from valve dysfunction, and stroke caused by vegetation embolization.
      The rate of symptomatic embolic events occurring after antibiotic initiation is around 15%.
      Valve surgery benefit has been clearly demonstrated in patients with periannular
      complications and moderate to severe HF resulting from acute valve regurgitation. Indications
      of valve surgery for prevention of embolic complications are less clearly defined. Potential
      complications of valve surgery and of implanted permanent prosthetic valve are to be balanced
      against their potential benefits in terms of prevented embolism and improved survival. The
      timing of surgery to prevent embolism is critical since the risk of new embolic event is
      highest during the first weeks of antibiotic treatment. The points in favor of early valve
      surgery (EVS) in patients with high embolic risk include the following 1) patients with high
      risk of embolism are identified by transesophageal echocardiography (TOE); 2) advances in
      surgical management of IE dramatically lowered postoperative mortality; 3) 2015 European ESC
      IE guidelines state that valve surgery should be performed in IE with vegetation above 10 mm
      AND an embolic event occurring while patients are receiving antibiotic (grade I/B) and should
      be considered in IE with vegetation above 30 mm (Grade IIaB ) and may be above 10 mm and
      severe valve regurgitation.

      The primary objective is to compare clinical outcomes of EVS (as soon as possible within 72
      hours of randomization) with those of a conventional management based on current 2015
      European ESC guidelines in patients with native left-sided IE and high risk of embolism.

      The primary assessment criterion is a composite of all-cause death and clinically symptomatic
      embolic events within 6 weeks from randomization in all included patient.

      208 patients (104 patients per arm) will be included in a national multicenter (19 centers)
      prospective randomized open blinded end-point (PROBE) sequential superiority trial.
    
  