
    
      This study is to demonstrate that chronic disease patients receiving collaborative care with
      ICT-based self-management and educational program can improve clinical outcomes and overall
      health status, including quality of life and health habits.

      In addition to the economic burden, people with chronic disease experience various
      psychosocial crises such as anxiety and depression, which causes the deterioration of overall
      quality of life and increases social burden. The collaborative care management based Chronic
      Care Model (CCM) have provided coaching by a medically supervised nurse, working with each
      patient's physician. However, standard CCM have limitations in that they do not provide
      self-management strategies of the patient in detail. Therefore, to improve the effectiveness
      of the CCM model, it is required to propose a new approach to the utilization of IT-based
      self-management program that is currently being developed to increase accessibility and
      efficiency of health care service.

      Primary outcomes of this study are as follow: Improvement of depression in patients with
      osteoporosis, chronic respiratory disease and chronic arthritis.

      Participants in this study will respond a baseline questionnaire about depressive mood,
      health habits, health behavior patterns and quality of life, diet, exercise, etc. After that,
      participants will be allocated equally into three groups - the intervention group 1,
      intervention group 2 and the control group. The intervention group 1 will receive S Healthing
      and a tele- coaching program conducted 12 times (one time for one week), and more than 20
      minutes each by a trained nurse. The intervention group 2 will receive S Healthing while the
      control group will receive basic educational material on the disease. Coaching content
      consists specifically of: 1) evaluation, 2) facing and accepting the health crisis, 3)
      setting up new goals, 4) making decisions and plans, and 5) practice. "S Healthing" is based
      ICT- program and includes educational contents and self-management program based on Smart
      Management Strategy for Health (SMASH). The intervention group 1, 2 will conduct
      self-management for 3 months through smart phone application and web program. Participants
      will receive a questionnaire about the quality of life and health habits with the clinical
      examination 3 months after baseline survey was conducted. The result from two questionnaires
      (baseline, 3 months post-intervention) and clinical outcome of baseline and 3 months will be
      compiled and be compared with others.
    
  