
    
      Background:

      In recent years, treatment of metastatic melanoma has changed significantly, which has led to
      improved prognosis and greater expectations for the future. However, new concerns in relation
      to health-related quality of life and coping with disease in everyday life have emerged.
      Patient-reported outcome measures (PROM) is a promising tool to strengthen patient
      involvement. By systematically reporting real time PROM to the physician prior to a
      consultation, it may generate a continuous feedback loop, by which the patient physician
      dialogue can focus on what is most important to the patient.

      Hypothesis:

      The aim of the study is to investigate the potentials of using PROM as a dialogue-based tool.
      We hypothesize that PROM as a dialogue-based tool can:

        -  Improve patients' knowledge, skills, and confidence for managing their health and
           healthcare

        -  Reduce the perceived burden of physical symptoms and emotional dysfunction

        -  Improve the quality of the patient-physician interaction

      Material and methods:

      In this prospective study patients (N=282) will be included from three highly specialized
      hospitals in Denmark. At Aarhus University Hospital, patients will complete electronic PROM
      before the consultation and systematically participate in a dialogue about their
      self-assessments for a duration of one year (intervention group). At Herlev Hospital and
      Odense University Hospital, patients will not complete PROM (control group). In addition to
      baseline, self-reported measurements will take place after three, six and 12 months.

      To address the patient perspective, patients with melanoma are involved in the project
      management. A steering group with scientists and patient representatives has been
      established. This group have chosen the relevant PROM, determined primary objectives and
      given feedback on the written information material for the intervention by looking at
      relevance and readability. Moreover the group will ensure optimal implementation if results
      are promising. In addition, a patient focus group will be established to discuss how PROM
      should be used in the consultation and how patient involvement is expressed in practice. The
      recruitment of patients to these groups will be made in cooperation with the association for
      patients with melanoma and clinical practice where the patients are treated.

      Perspectives If results are positive, the intervention will be easy to apply to routine
      settings and in a slightly adjusted form in other groups of cancer patients too.
    
  