
    
      Project 1: This project will work to understand why women are affected by pulmonary arterial
      hypertension (PAH) so much more often than men. This observation is true in heritable,
      idiopathic and associated forms of PAH. While males and females have some similar hormone
      levels, certain hormones exist at higher levels in each gender. For example, estrogen levels
      are much higher in females, and thus seemed the most sensible place to start looking for
      differences that may be affecting disease. In a small, early study of our heritable patients,
      we found differences in how patients break down estrogens as compared to healthy control
      subjects. Now, we want to confirm that what we found is true in a much larger group of
      patients that includes idiopathic and associated forms of PAH. We will also look to see if
      testosterone and other androgenic hormones are somehow protective for males. If the
      observation holds true in the larger group of patients, then we may try to "fix" the hormone
      imbalance in a mouse model of PAH with a drug therapy, and see if it helps improve the mouse
      pulmonary hypertension without bad side effects to the animals. If the animal drug studies
      work, then we may be able to try this drug in patients to see if it will work as a human
      treatment.

      Project 2: Despite major advances in understanding PAH in recent decades, safe, effective and
      tolerable therapies remain elusive. The metabolic syndrome (central obesity, insulin
      resistance, high blood pressure and hyperlipidemia-fats in the blood) has been implicated in
      PAH. Treating the downstream consequences of insulin resistance in the pulmonary vasculature
      is a new approach to effective intervention against this highly mortal disease. This project
      will study the role of insulin resistance in pulmonary arterial hypertension and determine if
      therapies to treat insulin resistance will improve pulmonary arterial hypertension.

      Project 3: In Project 3, we are working on the theory that PAH can be treated by fixing
      cell-cell junctions in blood vessels with a drug called recombinant ACE2(angiotensin
      converting enzyme 2). This is the only approach so far that has worked to reverse disease in
      mouse models of heritable PAH, but we need to better understand how it is working and make
      sure it has long term safety in animal models before starting human trials, hopefully within
      a few years. Definition: Cell-cell junctions-all of our organs and body structures are made
      from cells. Normally, these cells (think of a balloon filled with water) line up right next
      to each other so that the cell membranes touch each other. Materials can flow from one cell
      to the next. In PAH patients it is believed that the cells in the linings of the small
      arteries are not able to line up together as they should.
    
  