
    
      This is a multi-country, multicentre, observational prospective data collection cross
      sectional study of patients with stable COPD in Latin America. Primary objective is to
      describe prevalence, severity and interrelationship of early morning, day and night-time
      symptoms in patients with stable COPD in Latin America (LatAm). Secondary objectives are to
      evaluate the relationship between early morning, day and night-time symptoms and 2013 GOLD
      classification, adherence to respiratory treatment (TAI and Morisky Medicaction Adherence
      Scale - MMAS-8), level of dyspnea (mMRC), disease severity (BODEX), comorbidities (COTE) and
      physical activity (IPAQ) as well direct costs by assessing health resources utilization (HRU)
      and exacerbations during last 12 months and respiratory treatment of last 2 months. Study
      population are patients of 40 years and older, smokers or ex smokers of >= 10 pack/years with
      previous COPD diagnosis, attending outpatient specialists consults in Argentina, Chile,
      Colombia, Uruguay, Costa Rica, Guatemala and Mexico. Sample size is targeted to 900 enroled
      patients in order to ensure 860 patients to achieve statistical power to primary objective.
      Data source and study conduct: site staff will retrospectively collect the necessary
      information from the patient's medical record to determine eligibility. Consecutively,
      patients with diagnosis and stable COPD will be screened and, if eligible, consented and
      enrolled. There will be only one study visit. For each patient, the physician will collect
      the following data at visit (from medical records or interviewing in study visit): social
      demographics, health insurance system, lifestyle, smoking history, comorbidities, level of
      dyspnea, disease severity, COPD prescribed treatments including therapeutic class, device,
      modality (rescue/maintenance) and posology during last past 2 months, exacerbations history
      and healthcare resources utilisation during last 12 months. In addition, the patient will be
      asked to provide data on disease-related symptomatology assessed during 24 hs day (early
      morning, daytime and night time symptoms), adherence to inhalers, health-related quality of
      life (HRQoL) and physical activity. AstraZeneca will develop Data Management Plan (DMP) and a
      website database platform for the purpose of this study. Data will be registered by PI
      directly in a website data platform. The LASSYC study is an observational cross sectional
      study which does not involve or study a specific medicinal product. Because of the
      non-interventional nature of this study, a simple monitoring plan is required. 100% of source
      data verification (SDV) of 10% of total enrolled patients, estimating that one site per
      country would be enough.The Non-Interventional Study will be performed in accordance with
      ethical principles that are consistent with the Declaration of Helsinki, International
      Conference on Harmonization (ICH)and Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable
      legislation on Non-Interventional Studies.
    
  