
    
      Investigators and developers of electronic health records from both academe and industry have
      come together to form the Clinical Decision Support (CDS) Consortium. Members of the CDS
      Consortium are intimately involved in creating and providing CDS tools and services in
      electronic health records used in both academic settings as well as community-based physician
      office practices. These investigators share a common interest and goal of enhancing the
      wide-spread adoption of CDS tools and services to improve the delivery of healthcare both
      domestically and world-wide.

      Our approach to the project is iterative and cyclical: we will begin with a survey of the
      knowledge management lifecycle and supporting infrastructure (such as knowledge management
      systems, terminology services and data standards) at the participating clinical sites. We
      will then work together to define best practices for translating knowledge into a
      multi-layered array of human readable knowledge artifacts and public web services. At each
      point in this process, we will conduct careful evaluation, documenting lessons learned from
      each site. The ultimate work products will fall into three main categories:

      First, tangible, actionable knowledge artifacts such as the shareable, human-readable and
      computable forms of clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) under study, public web-services for
      CDS demonstrations, and a CDS Knowledge Portal and Repository to facilitate widespread
      adoption of these artifacts.

      Second, detailed guidance and recommendations, based on what we learn from our combined
      efforts, for external parties such as the Certification Commission for Health Information
      Technology (CCHIT), the Health Information Technology Standards Panel (HITSP), and the
      clinical practice guideline developer community.

      Third, a set of knowledge and best practices, such as methods for the knowledge management
      lifecycle, development of both human readable knowledge artifacts and machine-interpretable
      knowledge, and management of decision-support related organizational change. We will share
      this knowledge through a variety of channels, such as presentations and academic papers.
    
  