
    
      PTSD is a difficult illness to treat and there is a lack of interventions that effectively
      reduce it. In recent years, attention has focused on treating PTSD patients by including a
      sleep-focused intervention since those with PTSD, such as military personnel, almost always
      report some form of sleep disturbance (Neylan et al. 1998; Lewis et al. 2009). In fact, since
      sleep disturbance is so prevalent in PTSD, it is considered a hallmark of PTSD diagnosis
      (Ross et al. 1989). Two classical PTSD symptoms, hyperarousal and re-experiencing the
      traumatic event, comprise sleep difficulty and nightmares, respectively (Lamarche and De
      Koninck 2007). Preliminary evidence suggests that interventions targeting sleep may be
      beneficial in the treatment of PTSD (Germain et al. 2007; Swanson et al. 2009; Nakamura et
      al. 2011).

      This study will evaluate the effectiveness of mind-body bridging (MBB) as a primary group
      psychotherapy treatment for reduction of PTSD symptoms among veterans. MBB is an awareness
      training program,(Block and Block 2007) which has been recently developed into a workbook
      specifically for PTSD (Block and Block 2010). MBB has been used successfully at the George E.
      Wahlen Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) for more than 5 years as an adjunctive
      treatment. MBB is well accepted by veterans and anecdotally has been reported to improve mood
      as well as PTSD and other anxiety symptoms. Furthermore, published pilot studies have
      provided preliminary evidence of its benefits.(Tollefson et al. 2009; Nakamura et al. 2011).
      In particular, Nakamura et al.(2011) tested a brief sleep-focused MBB intervention program in
      a randomized controlled trial, which demonstrated improved sleep and decreased PTSD symptoms.
      Our clinical experience and these preliminary studies indicate that a pilot feasibility study
      of MBB as a specific treatment for PTSD is warranted.

      The proposed, non-randomized single-group study of MBB will serve as a pilot feasibility
      study investigating a 10-week MBB program offered to veterans who are clinically diagnosed to
      suffer from PTSD. In this pilot study, we determine whether MBB is a beneficial intervention
      program for PTSD and co-morbidities, including insomnia, depression, etc., based on
      self-report measures and clinical evaluations.
    
  