
    
      Switzerland has the highest rate of new melanomas in Europe (19.2 per 100,000). Melanomas
      have the worst prognosis of all skin cancers. The current treatment depends on the
      histological diagnosis after a biopsy and is primarily related to the tumor thickness
      (Breslow Score), the tumor cells in division (mitosis rate), the substance defect of the skin
      (ulceration), the occurrence of regression, and the age of the patients. The initial
      treatment is performed by surgical removal with a safety margin of macroscopically healthy
      skin around the tumor. If the tumor thickness is more than 1 mm or more than 0.7 mm
      associated with a high mitosis rate in younger patients, ulcerations, regression or Clark
      Level IV / V, then current melanoma guidelines suggest that the patient undergoes sentinel
      lymph node biopsy (SLKB) as this is most likely the first site where metastases spread.
      Merkel cell carcinoma is a very aggressive, neuroendocrine skin tumor with a mortality rate
      of about 33% after 3 years. Due to the frequent lymphatic metastases, SLNB is highly
      recommended in all patients in order to better assess their prognosis. The gold standard
      technique to identify SLKs is to inject the radioisotope Technetium-99m around the primary
      tumor into the skin. The patient is then scanned to determine the position of the SLK after
      approximately 30 and 120 minutes. Other teams have attempted to identify transcutaneous SLK
      with ICG and NIRFI, but have concluded that ICG fluorescence technique is not reliable in
      patients with high BMI or a primary tumor with lymph drainage in the axillary lymph node
      region. This study aims to evaluate a medical device that uses an improved technology
      compared to previous studies (stereoscopic 3D high definition for both fluorescence and
      visible light imaging). The investigators hope is that by applying similar principles SLKs
      can be identified through the use of transcutaneous fluorescent dye injections and NIRFI.
    
  