
    
      The study will test continued long-term intervention effectiveness into adolescence of very
      early born US preterm infants, who participated in a randomized Newborn Individualized
      Developmental Care and Assessment Program (NIDCAP) trial, conducted by the principal
      investigator, while the infants were cared for in the NICU for the first three months after
      their very premature births. All adolescents to be studied participated as newborns and were
      assigned either to control care (standard NICU care available at the time), or to
      experimental care (NIDCAP developmental care, with weekly bedside observations and with daily
      NIDCAP developmental specialist support to parents and staff), from NICU admission until 2
      weeks (w) after expected full-term due date ('corrected' age [CA]).

      The strongly brain-based theory underlying the approach to earliest intervention described
      here has been tested in several experimental studies, which are designed to investigate the
      effects of planned purposeful modification of experience for very early born infants, who
      spend the third trimester of gestation in the NICU. NIDCAP is based on an approach which
      utilizes close observation of each infant's thresholds of moving from organization to
      disorganization and stress, as exhibited by the infant's behavior. Care and environment are
      then continuously dynamically adjusted, with the goal to increase the infant's
      self-regulation and organization and decrease the infant's stress. This individualized model
      of NICU care provides an opportunity to investigate the modifiability of very early born
      infants' brain function and structure and the possibility of reducing or altogether
      eliminating the disruption and disturbance of fetal brain development in the NICU. The
      randomized scientific trials to date, conducted by the PI and by independent investigators at
      other settings after formal training show consistent significant neurobehavioral and
      neurophysiological improvements for the experimental groups across sites and studies.

      All the adolescents to be studied were evaluated comprehensively at 2wCA and 9 months (m) CA
      in terms of not only the commonly measured demographic, medical background and severity of
      illness variables, but more importantly in terms of comprehensive neurobehavioral and EEG
      outcome measures, analogues of later developmental competence and disability.

      The design of the current study of adolescents is that of a randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      with two parallel groups (control and experimental), with the question of the independent
      variable 'group effect' on two dependent measures (adolescent physical growth and cognitive
      development). In addition to group status, the contribution of four additional independent
      measures on outcome will also be evaluated: Parent socioeconomic status, parent cognitive
      function, adolescent physical function and adolescent psychosocial function. The outcome
      examiners will be blind to subject group status throughout. The design assures a true
      experimental test of the NICU intervention effects in adolescence.

      The significance and importance of the study lays in the unique opportunity to evaluate
      comprehensively in adolescents the long-term neurodevelopment, learning and adaptive outcomes
      due to developmental care intervention received in the earliest stage of development. This
      will be the first study to test the long-term effectiveness of modification of experience in
      the NICU in a brain-protective, learning-enhancing model for very high-risk, very early-born
      preterm infants. The importance of the study lies in its potential to contribute
      significantly to the understanding of preterm brain development in relationship to long-term
      mental and adaptive functional outcomes in adolescence for the highly jeopardized and growing
      group of very preterm children. The results are expected to be of key importance in decision
      and policy development for the evidence-based targeting of sparse special education
      resources.
    
  