
    
      Traumatic soft tissue defects of the hand and upper extremity are common and may be
      challenging to the reconstructive surgeon, especially when they are severe and associated
      with exposed vital structures such as tendons, nerves, bones, and joints. Although these
      defects are rarely lethal; they are invariably resource demanding, and a source of
      significant long-term disability. Several reconstructive procedures have been described to
      cover hand and upper extremities soft tissue defects, including local, regional, distant, and
      free flaps. Traditionally, pedicle abdominal flaps, whether axial or randomly based, have
      been considered the standard for successful upper limb reconstruction.

      With the introduction of microsurgery in the seventies of the last century, microsurgical
      free tissue transfers have become the gold standard for upper extremities functional
      reconstruction. Free flaps and other microsurgical techniques have been used to achieve
      early, functional, custom-tailored reconstructive solutions for upper limbs injuries.
      However, despite the superiority of free flaps, this option may not be always accessible
      especially in developing countries, owing to the high cost and technical demands. Moreover,
      they may be contraindicated in certain circumstances. In these situations, pedicle abdominal
      flaps may once again come into the light as an alternative option for safe and effective
      upper extremities reconstruction.

      At Jordan University Hospital, with limited microsurgical facilities, the investigators have
      been using random pedicle abdominal flaps in patients with different traumatic hand and upper
      extremities defects. The aim of this retrospective study is to report the investigator's
      experience in using this technique, in regards to the indications, complications, outcomes,
      and evaluating factors affecting flap survival rate.
    
  