
    
      High neonatal mortality rates accounts for a substantial early loss of lives in Malawi; and
      has thus been a hindrance for Malawi to eradicate child deaths. From 2000 to 2011, Malawi
      achieved an overall reduction of 23% in under-five child mortality. The reduction was more
      substantial between the second and the fifth year of life, being 28%. However, in the
      neonatal period the reduction was half, at 14%. Neonatal deaths in developing countries are
      due to prematurity or low birth weight, neonatal infections, birth trauma related conditions
      and congenital anomalies.

      Being of low birth weight increases the risk of death four fold in the neonatal period. Even
      when low birth weight infants survive, their poorly developed immune function exposes them to
      increased morbidity in early life. Maternal nutrition represents by far the greatest
      influence among pregnancy environmental on birth weight in low income countries. There is
      strong evidence that health and dietary counselling is effective in improving child nutrition
      outcomes. Thus we propose to test the effectiveness in improving birth weight by a low cost
      intervention, community based health and nutrition counselling delivered to mothers during
      pregnancy in Malawi.

      On the other hand, in the Malawian context offering individualized dietetic counselling could
      be impeded by the healthcare workforce short fall. Currently the health workforce does not
      include dieticians . The use of lay health workers (LHW) has been identified as one of the
      effective strategies to meet the health workforce shortage challenges in low resource
      settings.

      It is on this basis that a study was planned, aimed at developing lay health worker delivered
      community based nutrition counselling to mothers during pregnancy and measuring its
      effectiveness in improving birth weight in the Malawian context. The study was comprised of
      an initial i) formative study, followed by ii) a cross-sectional survey. Findings of these
      two sub-studies were utilized to develop a nutrition counselling intervention. Finally iii) a
      cluster Randomized Controlled Trial (cRCT) aimed at measuring the effect of the intervention
      on birth size (weight, length, arm and abdominal circumferences) will now be conducted which
      is being elaborated in this protocol.

      Three hundred pregnant women, at ≥12 weeks but ≤ 16 weeks of gestation, will be recruited
      from Nankumba Traditional Authority (TA) area, in Mangochi district. They will be offered
      community based dietary counselling aiming at improving dietary intake to meet their
      nutritional needs.

      Measurement of study outcomes will be as follows: Infant birthweight will be collected at the
      end of the study while as dietary intake (including dietary perceptions), anthropometric
      status, and biochemical nutrition status will be assessed at enrollment, and two additional
      time points before the end point.
    
  