
    
      Primary Objective of the Master Protocol (LUNGMAP)

      The primary objective of this screening study is to test patient specimens to determine
      eligibility for participation in the biomarker-driven and non-matched sub-studies included
      within the Lung-MAP umbrella protocol.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Screening Success Rate Objective

           To evaluate the screen success rate defined as the percentage of screened patients that
           register for a therapeutic sub-study. Screen success rates will be evaluated for the
           total screened population and by the subset of patients screened following progression
           on previous therapy or pre-screened on current therapy.

        2. Translational Medicine Objectives

             1. To evaluate circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and compare to the FMI Foundation tissue
                molecular profiling results in patients who submit a new biopsy for screening.

             2. To establish a tissue/blood repository.

      Ancillary Study S1400GEN Objectives

      The Lung-MAP Screening Study includes an ancillary study evaluating patient and physician
      attitudes regarding the return of somatic mutation findings suggestive of a germline
      mutation. Participation in this study is optional.

        1. Primary Objective

           To evaluate patient attitudes and preferences about return of somatic mutation findings
           suggestive of a germline mutation in the Lung-MAP Screening Study.

        2. Secondary Objectives

             1. To evaluate Lung-MAP study physician attitudes and preferences about return of
                somatic mutation findings suggestive of a germline mutation in the Lung-MAP
                Screening Study.

             2. To evaluate Lung-MAP patients' and study physicians' knowledge of cancer genomics.

             3. To evaluate Lung-MAP patients' and study physicians' knowledge of the design of the
                Lung-MAP Screening Study.

             4. To explore whether physician and patient knowledge of cancer genomics and attitudes
                and preferences about return of genomic profiling findings are correlated.
    
  