
    
      Background and Rationale: Cerebral desaturation has previously been shown to be associated
      with significant morbidity in cardiac surgery postoperatively. As such, previously reported
      efforts have been aimed at treating intraoperative desaturation events, with early evidence
      suggesting that this may reduce the incidence of these adverse events. Our previous study,
      NIRS ICU (B2011:110) has demonstrated that significant cerebral oxygen desaturation [measured
      using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) derived cerebral oximetry] frequently occurs in the
      intensive care unit (ICU) within the first 24 hours following cardiac surgery. To date, no
      studies have addressed the early postoperative period (i.e. in the ICU) with respect to
      treating (and/or preventing) these desaturation events.

      Specific Aims and Experimental Design: The specific aim of this pilot prospective
      interventional trial is to determine the feasibility/efficacy of treating cerebral oxygen
      desaturation in the ICU following cardiac surgery. Two groups of patients will be studied.
      Both groups will have cerebral saturation measured continuously both intraoperatively and
      postoperatively. The control group however, will have these measurements blinded to the
      intraoperative and postoperative caregivers. The interventional group will have the cerebral
      oximetry measurements available to the intraoperative and postoperative care team allowing
      them to intervene when a desaturation event occurs. If a cerebral desaturation occurs,
      defined as a decline in saturation of 10% from the patient's preoperative baseline, then a
      previously utilized interventional algorithm, normal cerebral oxygen saturation (NORMOSAT)
      (B2012:005), will be instituted to reverse the decrease in cerebral saturation, ideally
      preventing it from becoming a clinically meaningful desaturation (previously defined by
      others as saturation decline of 25% from the baseline). The algorithm used addresses many of
      the known causes of desaturation, including low arterial oxygen content (both saturation and
      hemoglobin) and cardiac output influences on cerebral blood flow. As such, if a desaturation
      occurs, the patient will first have the partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) increased by
      increasing the inspired oxygen content. The partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) will
      also be normalized by adjusting the ventilator settings. The cardiac output will be optimized
      and the blood pressure will be increased with standard ICU protocols to administer
      phenylephrine. If remaining low, the patients will be transfused to standard of care
      hemoglobin levels.

      In this pilot trial, a convenience sample of 50 consecutive consenting patients undergoing
      cardiac surgery employing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) will be studied. After obtaining
      consent, bilateral cerebral oximetry sensors will be placed on the forehead of patients prior
      to the induction of anesthesia. Baseline (breathing room air) regional cerebral saturation
      will be recorded. Following this, induction of anesthesia will occur and continuous NIRS
      measurements will be collected during the surgical procedure with continued monitoring
      occurring for the first 24 hours (or until discharge) within the ICU. In the control group,
      conventional anesthesia and ICU standards of care will be carried out throughout the study
      period. In the interventional group, an algorithm based on the modification of previously
      defined important physiologic variables will be initiated to reverse the desaturation
      (beginning when the saturation drops at least 10% from the baseline) that occurs in the
      operating room (OR) and ICU.
    
  