
    
      Malnutrition remains one of the most common causes of morbidity and mortality among children
      throughout the world.

      Malnutrition is a pathological state resulting from a relative or absolute deficiency or
      excess of one or more essential nutrients it may be clinically manifested or detected by
      biochemical ,anthropometric measurements In 2009, the World Health Organization (WHO)
      estimated that 20 million children under 5 years suffered from severe acute malnutrition
      (SAM) worldwide, which is associated to more than half of their deaths each year in
      developing countries.

      Severe acute malnutrition is defined by a very low weight for height ( below -3z scores of
      the median WHO growth standards ,by visible severe wasting or by presence of nutritional
      edema It diminishes immune function and prevents the host from mounting an adequate
      protective response to infectious agents. In turn, infections alter nutrient status and can
      create a deficiency state. Thus, malnutrition and infection often act synergistically to
      increase morbidity and mortality, particularly among infants and children The usual signs of
      infection are absent or nonspecific in children with acute severe malnutrition (SAM),
      Furthermore, laboratory diagnostic capacity is often limited in regions with the highest
      burdens of malnutrition.

      Malnourished patients maintain the capacity to release inflammatory markers such as CRP &
      Interleukin-6 which can be considered favorable for combating infections.

      Malnourished patients maintain the capacity to release inflammatory markers such as CRP which
      can be considered favorable for combating infections.

      (CRP) as a diagnostic tool of infection in children by the fact that SAM, particularly
      edematous malnutrition, can be associated with reduced levels of acute phase proteins.

      Malnutrition results in various changes in the body including changes in haematologic profile
      of the body. White cell changes seen in protein energy malnutrition varies and such changes
      have been attributed to various factors.

      These include the synergist relationship which protein energy malnutrition has with
      infections and thymic atrophy seen in children with PEM also platlet count and function
      affected in SAM Various authors correlate blood platelet activation with infections and
      concluded that Platelet destruction occurs in infection and hypercoagulable state . Moreover,
      blood platelet has immunological functions and participate in the interaction between
      pathogens and host defenses . Other studies revealed that some platelets functions (ADP and
      collagen - induced platelets aggregations) have been decreased in protein energy malnutrition
      .
    
  