
    
      This research will study

      1) probiotic-induced changes in visceral hypersensitivity and immune activity The effects of
      probiotic therapy will be assessed in a randomised placebo-controlled study. Subjects will be
      recruited prospectively from outpatient clinics. A flow chart of the study is shown in
      appendix 1 of the protocol. Patient selection. IBS patients will be selected according to
      inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Disease severity will be determined at enrolment with a validated IBS symptom questionnaire.

      Questionnaires to exclude psychiatric illness: The well-validated Hospital Anxiety Depression
      Score (HADS)questionniaire will be used to identify patients with anxiety and depression. A
      SCL-90 questionnaire will also be used to assess the psychological profile of patients as
      this may have an impact on the response to therapy.

      Probiotic therapy. Patients will be randomised to receive either VSL#3 (450 billion
      lyophilized bacteria/sachet) twice daily for 4 weeks or a placebo powder containing starch
      but no bacteria. VSL#3 was selected for use in this study because (a) it contains three
      different Bifidobacteria strains (in addition to lactobaccilli and streptococci) and the
      limited evidence available Bifidobacteria as the most effective probiotics in IBS 10; (b)it
      induces IL-10 production by intestinal DC 27 and, in pouchitis studies, stimulated IL-10
      production in vivo 38; IBS has been associated with a deficiency in IL-10 production; (c)
      studies from one group have yielded promising results with this particular probiotic
      preparation.

        1. Assessing the clinical response to therapy

             -  Physiological response to probiotic therapy: Rectal sensitivity will be assessed at
                baseline and at day 28 of therapy. Rectal sensitivity to pressure and pain will be
                assessed with Barostat device and electrical stimulation respectively. Barostat
                device has been used in many other studies as a measure of sensation to pressure.
                Electrical stimulation is currently used in clinical practice. Equipment for both
                tests is currently in use at out physiology laboratory.

             -  Symptomatic response to probiotic therapy: IBS symptom scores will be made at
                baseline and at d28 of therapy. The three symptoms of IBS will be assessed to
                determine response to therapy: abdominal pain/discomfort, bloating/ distension and
                bowel movements, each scored on an ordinal scale (Likert scale; maximum score 7)
                and on a 100mm visual analogue scale (VAS; maximum score 100). A composite score
                with the sums of the 3 cardinal symptoms will also be calculated for each patient
                (Likert scale maximum score 21) (VAS; maximum score 300).

             -  Quality of life (QOL) with probiotic therapy: The SF-36 Heath-related QOL
                questionnaire, and the IBS QOL questionnaire will be administered at baseline and
                at day 28. This will assess the impact of IBS symptoms on the QOL and any changes
                following probiotic therapy. Follow-up: Patients will be contacted at 6 months to
                reassess symptom scores and QOL and determine longer-term impact of therapy.

        2. Assessing Immunological response to probiotic therapy. Venepuncture will be performed
           for collection of blood immune cells at baseline and day 28. Colonic biopsies will be
           collected via a flexible sigmoidoscopy at entry baseline and at day 28 following the
           physiological tests. The biopsies will be use for analysis of cytokine production and to
           a limited phenotypic analysis of colonic immune cells (DC) with markers to be selected
           on the basis of data from an on-going cross-sectional study looking at DC in IBS
           compared to controls. Full analysis of blood DC will be performed at each time point.
           Changes in DC populations and cytokine production will be secondary endpoints of the
           study.
    
  