
    
      Background It has for many decades been a discussion whether the proportion of hours of
      physical activity should be increased in the Norwegian primary school. In light of the
      evolution of inactivity, overweight and obesity, both internationally and in Norway, it is
      now time to implement measures that can provide improved health and preventing lifestyle
      diseases among children and adolescents. Until now, one in Norwegian society based on the
      fact that children are active enough in their spare time, with sport as an arena. This
      assertion has had its validity, but not with the tendency of children are significantly more
      sedentary than their parents were in their infancy. Thus, the community must take more
      responsibility. One of the measures is to increase the physical activities offered in primary
      schools. Then all the children get the opportunity to form healthy habits with regular
      physical activity.

      HOPP Learning will be implemented in elementary schools in the Horten municipality and will
      assess the effect of a combined pedagogical approach, active learning, on a large student
      population. Students are to increase their amount of physical activity, during a school day
      by one hour. To evaluate the effect of HOPP Learning Horten municipality contacted University
      College of Health Sciences - Campus Kristiania.

      Aims The primary aim is to chart and assess the effect of active learning through analysis of
      dietary intake (Ungkost 2000 questionnaire), quality of life (ILC questionnaire), cognitive
      tests (computer based measurements of reaction time using Flanker and Stroop test), academic
      performance (grades in national tests) and physiological factors as activity level
      (accelerometer measurements), aerobic capacity (Andersen shuttle run test and oxygen uptake),
      balance (Balance Y-test) and strength (Jamar handgrip). In addition medical variables as
      blood pressure, peak expiratory flow and blood work (total cholesterol, HDL, iron, feritin,
      CRP, blood sugar, Hb, Hematocrit, RBC).

      Sample The project has a prospective clinical controlled study design and involves seven
      elementary schools in Horten Municipality with the estimated number of children in 1-6 grade
      being 1,822. The 12 year olds in the current schools will not be tested when they go over to
      their respective secondary schools in 2016 so will not participate in the intervention.
      Similarly, those children who start 1st grade in 2015 not be included in the intervention as
      they are enrolled in kindergarten during the first round of tests in Spring 2015.
      Consequently there will be a calculated "drop off" of one school grade per year based on the
      selection from the initial testing during spring 2015, and from the second round of testing
      in 2016. Based on an analysis of socioeconomic status between municipalities in Norway,
      Loerenskog and Baerum municipality has a socioeconomic composition as Horten. Given health
      inequalities in children are directly related to parents' socioeconomic status, and in
      particular education, Loerenskog and Baerum municipality were chosen as the control
      population. Two elementary schools were contacted and agreed to participate as control
      schools, ca. 500 pupils at each school. Similarly calculated dropout rates will occur at the
      control school. The total inclusion sample is approximately 2,800 pupils. Inclusion criteria:
      Students from Grade 1-6 from all elementary schools in Horten municipality and from two
      control schools. Exclusion criteria: Students with psychological or physical disabilities
      that prevent them participating in the tests, students afflicted with sickness/disease during
      the testing period and students who do not wish to participate in the test.

      Implementation of the intervention A large activity learning library within reading,
      mathematics and english within the academic guidelines for grades 1-7 has been established.
      There is thus a total of 32 sites where it is 510 activities within each step. This means
      that it is unique exercise sets distributed on grades and subjects the individual teachers
      will have at least one hour per class they are responsible for every day. The range of
      exercises are based both on the teachers' own ideas, proposals from the Education directorate
      and www.skolesekken.no. Horten Municipality has distributed this exercise library to the
      individual schools. The activity is organized as different activity programs of 15 minutes
      for each subject they wish to teach.

      Combining physical activity and learning (basic subjects) exercise sets are stored in boxes
      with the accompanying learning tools: a crate for english 1st grade, a crate for English 2nd
      grade, etc., thus making it easy to begin a lesson by simply bringing a box to each class.
    
  