
    
      Current diagnostic aids used in treating ADHD are currently expensive, time intensive, and
      provide little information about accessory movements in response to a stimulus. One in ten
      children, ages 5 to 17, has been diagnosed with ADHD.

      Tests such as the Conners' Rating Scale require subjective responses from parents and
      teachers, making coordination difficult. The computerized Conners' Continuous Performance
      Test (CPT) provides objective data in regards to inattention and impulsive patterns of
      response. However, it does not provide data regarding accessory movements such as
      restlessness, hyperactivity, and other inappropriate movements. If the subject taking the
      exam has a reading disorder, it will impair his or her ability to respond accurately and it
      will increase response time. The T.O.V.A. is another computer based test used as a diagnostic
      aid for ADHD, which uses a microswitch to record responses. It does utilize auditory and
      visual stimuli, which removes the reading level limitation. However, it is unable to measure
      to measure accessory movements that may be contributing to reaction time and errors of
      omission and commission.

      Because of these limitations, a new company called CogCubed has created a new game based on
      the Sifteo Cube (http://www.sifteo.com) platform. These new hands-on digitized cubes are
      unique, motion-sensitive wireless blocks that contain multiple sensors that can interact with
      one another. CogCubed is providing the data for this study. The game will be played in a 30
      minute sessions by subjects ages 6-17. Subjects recruited to play the game will be those with
      ADHD and those without, matched by gender and age. Those with comorbidities of developmental
      delay, mental retardation, psychosis, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and substance use
      disorders will be excluded, as well as any physiological disability that affects upper limb
      movement and/or coordination. Informed consent will be obtained from parents and patient
      prior to administering the game. Parents will fill out a Conner's Brief Rating Scale and a
      Conner's Brief Rating Scale, Teacher's version will also be supplied to be filled out at
      school.

      The hypothesis is that by analyzing data generated from this new gaming platform named Sifteo
      for which a game was created, which uses auditory and visual stimuli and distracters, the
      investigators expect that they will be able to provide a more accurate profile of impulsivity
      and inattention. The investigators expect that inattention will have more errors of omission
      and less tilt movements than control and impulsivity will be represented as more commission
      and greater tilting movements than control. This trial builds on the previous results of our
      phase 1 trials used to create the predictive algorithms to analyze the data and predict the
      likelihood of ADHD diagnosis based on patterns of game play behavior.
    
  