
    
      Postpartum predictors of type 2 diabetes incidence in women with GDM are pregnancy weight
      retention and postpartum weight gain. By promoting physical activity and appropriate diet
      during pregnancy and soon after delivery, and preventing excessive pregnancy weight gain and
      postpartum weight retention, the postpartum incidence of obesity and type 2 diabetes might be
      reduced or delayed in GDM women. We are implementing and evaluating a lifestyle intervention
      of diet, physical activity, and breastfeeding among women with GDM. The diet and physical
      activity elements of the intervention are similar to the DPP-Follow-up study. All
      participants have GDM by plasma glucose levels measured during a standard 100-g, 3-h OGTT
      according to the ADA and the ACOG criteria and have no contraindications to participating in
      a diet and physical activity program. At study entry, eligible women are randomly assigned to
      life-style intervention or usual medical care. The intervention starts during pregnancy and
      continues for one year postpartum. It consists of structured, individually tailored,
      in-person sessions and telephone calls with a lactation consultant and a life-style coach.
      The goals of the intervention during pregnancy are to help GDM women comply with the
      Institute of Medicine guidelines for weight gain by following the ADA and ACOG
      recommendations for physical activity and diet. After pregnancy, the goals of the
      intervention are to help women exclusively breastfeed for at least six months and reach their
      pre-pregnancy weight. For those women who were overweight or obese prior to pregnancy, the
      additional goal of a reduction in weight of at least 5% of their pre-pregnancy weight is also
      set. For the maintenance phase of the intervention, beginning at 8 months postpartum, the
      intervention women receive tailored written materials in the mail and telephone calls
      reinforcing the positive changes they have adopted. All participants have follow-up clinic
      visits at 8-week, 8-month, 12-month, 18-month, and 24-month after delivery. Data analyses
      will be by intent-to-treat. Demographics, psychosocial and behavioral factors that may be
      related to success at achieving the postpartum weight goals and the secondary postpartum
      outcomes will be examined.
    
  