
    
      Some studies have shown that posterior capsule tightness can be related with shoulder
      dysfunctions and kinematics alterations. This study will be divided in two studies. The
      purpose of study 1 will be to assess the scapular and humeral kinematics, the strength of the
      shoulder external rotators and the pressure pain threshold in subjects with posterior capsule
      tightness with and without shoulder pain. Study 2 will verify the effects of two different
      treatments in subjects with posterior capsule tightness and shoulder pain on the same
      variables of study 1. One-hundred subjects will participate in the first study and will be
      divided in 4 groups: Group 1 - 25 subjects with shoulder pain and posterior capsule
      tightness; Group 2 - 25 subjects with no shoulder pain and no posterior capsule tightness;
      Group 3 - 25 subjects with shoulder pain and no posterior capsule tightness; and group 4 - 25
      subjects with no shoulder pain and no posterior capsule tightness. All subjects will complete
      the DASH and Shoulder Pain and Disability Index questionnaires. External and internal
      rotation range of motion, strength of the external rotators, scapular kinematics and humeral
      translations during arm elevation, and pressure pain threshold will be measured. For the
      second study 50 subjects with shoulder pain and posterior capsule tightness will be
      recruited. The subjects will be randomly divided in 2 groups: experimental group or control
      group. The experimental group will receive glenohumeral posterior mobilization, stretching of
      posterior capsule and strengthening of the shoulder external rotators. The control group will
      do ultrasound;, stretching for the upper trapezius and scapular squeezing. Both groups will
      receive intervention for 3x/week/4 weeks. All subjects will be supervised for one
      physiotherapist and same variables from study 1 will be analyzed at pre and
      post-intervention.
    
  