
    
      The pathophysiology of ascites is complex and various mechanisms have been proposed.
      Splanchnic and systemic vasodilation related to excess nitric oxide has been associated with
      systemic hypotension and increased portal flow.(8-10) This is associated with hemodynamic
      compensatory mechanisms, including activation of the renin-angiotension aldosterone system
      (RAAS), sympathetic nervous system (SNS), and non osmotic release of anti-diuretic hormones
      (ADH).(11, 12) These ultimately result in renal dysfunction, associated with sodium and fluid
      retention.(13) Several studies have shown reversal of HRS and decreased circulatory
      dysfunction when vasoconstrictors are administered. Various vasoconstrictors (noradrenaline,
      teleperessin, octreotide and midodrine) have been used in the management of hepato renal
      syndrome (HRS). (14-17) Midodrine appears to have some advantages, including the benefit of
      being an oral medication. (18) The beneficial effects have been noted as early as 6 hours
      after the use of midodrine in patients with ascites with or without HRS (2) with decreased
      plasma renin activity (PRA), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), nitrite and nitrate activity (NOx),
      increased renal plasma flow (RPF), glomerular filtration rate (GFR), increased urine sodium
      concentration (UNa) and volume, increased mean atrial pressure (MAP), decreased heart rate
      (HR) and cardiac output (CO). There was also decreased aldosterone in non-azotemic cirrhotic
      patients with or without ascites in patients studied for 7 days. (3) The renal function
      improvement was not substantiated in other studies. In patients treated for a month along
      with octreotide there was no significant improvement of renal function but marginal
      reversible liver dysfunction with decreased body weight (paracentesis adjusted weight),(19) A
      similar significant weight reduction was also noted in another study.(7) Midodrine has been
      shown to be safe and effective in patients when used to prevent dialysis induced hypotension,
      and has improved systolic pressure, without a significantly increased volume of fluid
      filtered by dialysis and no change in body weight in patients studied.(20, 21) The beneficial
      effects have been attributed to its modulating effects on autonomic function and increasing
      peripheral vessel resistances.(22) The drug has been found to effective and safe in acute and
      chronic use (21, 23) with minimal side effects.(24)

      Vasoconstrictors in patients with ascites and hydrothorax In non azotemic cirrhotic patients
      with ascites, the addition of octreotide improved diuresis and decreased renin, increased
      MAP, decreased CO and improved renal function by increasing GFR, increased urine sodium and
      volume excretion.(25) In patient with massive hydrothorax with mild ascites and no azotemia,
      addition of midodrine to octreotide improves MAP, increases GFR, RPF and urine sodium and
      volume; and prevents recurrence of hydrothorax. Vasoconstrictors have been recommended as
      treatment for hydrothorax (4-6)and has been found beneficial in refractory ascites.(26)

      Significance Vasoconstrictors like midodrine have been shown to be beneficial, with
      improvement of circulatory dysfunction in various groups of patients including patients with
      HRS type 1, type 2, non azotemic patients and in patients requiring hemodialysis. There are
      suggestions of decreased body weight in some of these patients. In patients with hydrothorax,
      addition of vasoconstrictors has helped in relieving the symptoms. The investigators suggest
      that midodrine could also benefit patients with refractory ascites. By decreasing the rate of
      ascitic fluid accumulation, it may be possible to decrease the volume of ascites drained or
      lengthen the interval between paracentesis, giving comfort to the patients. The beneficial
      effect on portal pressures and ascites could be due to other mechanisms (such as autonomic
      function) rather than their effect on renal hemodynamics as they are not sustained. There are
      no studies where this has been systematically analyzed.
    
  