
    
      1. Hypothesis: The VSELs might be mobilized in the situation of cardiac ischemia in CAD
           patients. In addition, the benefits derived from Atorvastatin administration in CAD
           patients may be related to VSELs via sCD40L-SDF1/CXCR4 signal pathway.

        2. The number and function of peripheral blood VSELs in CAD patients compared with the
           controls.

             1. Included patients: including 200 CAD patients receiving coronary angiography (CAG)
                as positive subjects, 100 as control who are negative for CAG.

             2. The IRB approve and all subjects sign the informed consent.

             3. All subjects will receive the detection and analysis of the peripheral blood VSELs,
                including VSEL number, immigration capability after sCD40L administration.

             4. All subjects will receive the follow-up for 1 year, and the MACE (major adverse
                cardiovascular events) are recorded including angina, repeat myocardial infarction,
                repeat revascularization, major organ dysfunction, and death.

             5. the association between VSELs and MACE in CAD patients will be statistically
                analyzed.

        3. Atorvastatin administration improves the prognosis of CAD patients through exerting
           impacts on VSELs

             1. Included patients: including 200 CAD patients receiving coronary angiography as
                positive subjects, 100 as control who are negative for coronary angiography.

             2. The IRB approve and all subjects sign the informed consent.

             3. Fifty CAD subjects will receive intensive Atorvastatin administration and 50 CAD
                patients receiving the routine Atorvastatin administration as controls.

             4. All subject will receive the follow-up for 1 year, and peripheral blood VSELs,
                SDF-1/CXCR4 are tested, and the MACE (major adverse cardiovascular events) are
                recorded including angina, repeat myocardial infarction, repeat revascularization,
                major organ dysfunction, and death.

             5. the Intensive Atorvastatin protocol indicates that 80mg Atorvastatin will be
                administrated before CAG, and then are followed with 20mg Atorvastatin during the
                entire study period.

             6. the Routine Atorvastatin protocol indicates that 20mg Atorvastatin daily during the
                entire study period.
    
  