
    
      TRIP Design This is an exploratory research project. It aims to develop the TRIP model in
      preparation for a phase 3 clinical trial with random assignment of geographic areas to
      intervention versus control conditions. Since TRIP itself is exploratory, design elements may
      vary. And there are multiple outcomes..

      TRIP has three arms: 1. The Recent infection network tracing (primary) arm; 2. the Contact
      tracing of HIV+' who are not recently infected comparison arm; and 3. the HIV negative
      comparison arm. Before the investigators start the main part of the intervention, and during
      the intervention as well, the investigators will use all available means to educate at-risk
      communities about the nature of acute and recent HIV infection and about the reasons not to
      stigmatize those who have recently been infected.

        1. The Recent infection network tracing (primary) arm This is the primary arm of the
           intervention. It will include index subjects of two kinds: a. people who are tested and
           screened who turn out to have recent HIV infection (LAg+). b. People who are referred to
           us by clinicians as having recent or acute HIV infection. It will also include
           network/venue members of these index subjects. These will consist of 1. People who are
           in the social and/or risk networks of people who have recently become infected with HIV;
           and 2. People who go to their "venues"-i.e., places where people who have recently
           become infected with HIV say they sometimes go in order to engage in drug taking or
           sexual risk behaviors or to meet people with whom to take risks. Network tracing will
           recruit not only direct contacts of Index Cases but also the network/venue members of
           these contacts. (The investigators may continue to the third network ring if this seems
           warranted as part of the exploratory nature of the project).

           Network/venue members will be tested for recent and acute HIV and perhaps for other
           diseases. Each time a network/venue member is found to have recent or acute HIV
           infection the investigators will then (for network/venue tracing purposes) treat them as
           if they were an index case in the sense that the investigators will trace their
           network/venue contacts.

           Participants in the primary arm of the intervention who test HIV+ will all be referred
           for medical evaluation and treatment.

           People who have recent or acute infection will receive expedited scheduling of doctor
           appointments and will receive direct assistance in getting to doctor's offices if they
           need it. They will also get extra assistance in receiving social assistance.

           Whenever the investigators find an acute or recent infection, with their assistance the
           investigators will distribute oral and written "community alerts" that warn people in
           their networks and venues to be super-careful in their behaviors for the next 6 months
           because their social environment includes people who are highly infectious; that tells
           them how to be safer; and that repeats the importance of assisting rather than
           stigmatizing anyone they suspect has recently become infected.

        2. Contact tracing of HIV+ people who are not recently infected comparison arm This
           comparison arm will start with 50 subjects in each city who are HIV tested as part of
           the screening process and who are antibody positive but LAg negative-and who report that
           have just learned their HIV antibody status at this time. the investigators will recruit
           their sexual and injection partners, and other risk environment contacts, for two steps,
           as in Arm 1. If the investigators get a recent/acute in that set, the investigators will
           follow another two steps. (In analysis, the investigators will also study the subset of
           those the investigators would have recruited via more conventional contact tracing-i.e.,
           those who would have been recruited if the investigators had stopped following the
           network whenever the investigators came to someone uninfected.) In each case, one key
           comparison will be the numbers of recents & acutes found in contact tracing vs. in the
           networks of recents. In addition, the investigators will compare this comparison group
           of non-recent HIV+ and their network members with the TRIP group of recently-infected
           people and their networks on behavior change and on adverse/supporting events.

        3. HIV negative comparison arm This comparison arm will consist of 150 uninfected people in
           each city whom the investigators screen in the course of testing. The key comparisons
           here are on two of the central variables: adverse/supportive events and behavior change.
           This comparison arm will help mitigate social desirability effects that can lead to
           inaccurate reporting and/or Hawthorne effects and related processes that can lead to
           behavior changes simply based on the interview. Participants in this arm will be matched
           on age (within five years), risk group, and gender with an Arm 1 member.

      Assays by category of subject

      Negative screenees (HIV-):

      N=150 Baseline: They will have been tested for HIV antibodies by the Aristotle project
      (HIV-).

      Follow up: They will be tested for HIV antibodies by the TRIP project. If HIV-, no more
      tests. If HIV+ confirmed by WB (seroconverters), they will also be tested using LAg and HIV
      RNA by TRIP.

      If HIV+ confirmed by WB (seroconverters), the investigators presume they are recently
      infected (the investigators look for LAg and HIV RNA but this does not change how the
      investigators treat them. That is, the investigators treat them as seeds for finding more
      recents. However, analytically, it is possible that their first negative test was negative in
      error, so the investigators analyze this later).

      Long-term positive screenees (HIV+, LAg-):

      N=50 Baseline: They will have been tested at baseline for HIV antibodies (HIV+) by the
      Aristotle project and for LAg (they will be negatives-LAg-) by TRIP.

      Follow-up: No test. HIV RNA data can be obtained by their clinical records, if available.

      Contact tracing:

      All traced contacts will be tested for HIV antibodies by TRIP. HIV positives (HIV+, confirmed
      by WB): They will be tested for LAg by TRIP. HIV positives (HIV+, confirmed by WB) who are
      also LAg positives (LAg+): They will be tested for HIV RNA by TRIP.

      HIV positives (HIV+, confirmed by WB) who are LAg negatives (LAg-): No further test.

      HIV negatives (HIV-): No further test (store in freezer for possible HIV RNA test in the
      future).

      Follow-up of network/venue members of long-term positive screenees:

      Long-term positives at baseline (HIV+ confirmed by WB, LAg-): HIV RNA info collection by
      clinical records.

      Recently infected at baseline (HIV+ confirmed by WB, LAg+ and/or HIV RNA+): HIV RNA info
      collection by clinical records.

      Negatives at baseline (HIV-): HIV test. If they are HIV positive (HIV+ confirmed by WB), then
      LAg test and HIV RNA by TRIP. If HIV-, the investigators stop.

      If HIV+ confirmed by WB (seroconverters), the investigators presume they are recently
      infected (the investigators look for LAg and HIV RNA but this does not change how the
      investigators treat them. That is, the investigators treat them as seeds for finding more
      recents. However, analytically, it is possible that their first negative test was negative in
      error, so the investigators analyze this later).

      Recently infected screenees (HIV+, LAg+):

      N=unknown Baseline: They will have been tested at baseline for HIV antibodies by the
      Aristotle project (HIV+), for LAg (they will be positives-LAg+); and once known to be LAG+,
      they will be tested for HIV RNA (+) by TRIP.

      Follow-up: HIV RNA by TRIP or collect info by clinical records. Then the investigators stop.

      Network/venue members:

      All will be tested for HIV antibodies by TRIP. HIV positives (HIV+ confirmed by WB): They
      will be tested for LAg by TRIP. HIV positives (HIV+ confirmed by WB) and LAg positives
      (LAg+): They will be tested for HIV RNA by TRIP.

      HIV positives (HIV+ confirmed by WB) and LAg negatives (LAg-): No further test. HIV negatives
      (HIV-): They will be tested in pools using HIV RNA (batch testing) by TRIP.

      Follow-up of network/venue members:

      Long-term positives at baseline (HIV+ confirmed by WB, LAg-): HIV RNA info collection by
      clinical records.

      Recently infected at baseline (HIV+ confirmed by WB, LAg+ and/or HIV RNA+): HIV RNA info
      collection by clinical records.

      Negatives at baseline (HIV-, LAg-, HIV RNA-): HIV test. If they are HIV positive at follow-up
      (HIV+ confirmed by WB), then LAg test and HIV RNA by TRIP. If HIV-, the investigators stop.

      If HIV+ confirmed by WB (seroconverters), the investigators presume they are recently
      infected (the investigators look for LAg and HIV RNA but this does not change how the
      investigators treat them. That is, the investigators treat them as seeds for finding more
      recents. However, analytically, it is possible that their first negative test was negative in
      error, so the investigators analyze this later).
    
  