
    
      Hearing impairment is one of the most common health issues among adults in Western countries.
      Socioeconomic status and level of family support are known to influence help-seeking among
      older hearing-impaired individuals. Although hearing loss can have significant adverse
      effects on an individual's quality of life, these effects have been found to be reversible
      through the use of hearing aids. Even short-time use has been found to improve the emotional
      and social experience of hearing impaired subjects. Unfortunately, of the approximately 200
      000 people who have been provided with hearing aids in Norway, it is estimated that as many
      as 20-40% seldom or never use them. Lack of follow-up support and low motivation may explain
      why hearing impaired people do not use their hearing aids, but few research studies have
      addressed these issues.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate two approaches for increasing hearing aid use, to obtain
      objective estimates of actual hearing aid use, to identify factors barriers to regular use
      and to study hearing aid use related to age and gender. The study will examine the extent to
      which follow-up appointments motivate use of hearing aids among people with hearing loss. A
      randomized controlled design will determine whether hearing aid users who are informed in
      advance of a follow-up appointment have a different pattern of hearing aid use than a control
      group that is not preinformed of the follow-up appointment. For decades, the use of hearing
      aids has been estimated using questionnaires. In the present study, hearing aid use will be
      objectively measured in hours pr.day using the hearing aid's datalogging. In addition, the
      study will develop, implement and evaluate a specialized counseling program for hearing aid
      users. Difficulties with and barriers to hearing aid use will be documented and analyzed.
    
  