
    
      The investigators will conduct a type 2 hybrid effectiveness-implementation study to test
      both the effect of and the implementation process of a WeChat-based integrative family
      intervention (WIFI) program. The program will include three core components: 1)
      psycho-education through WeChat Official Account (WOA), 2) peer support through WeChat chat
      group, and 3) professional support through WeChat video chat. A rigorous stepped wedge
      cluster randomized trial will be used to evaluate the implementation, effectiveness, and cost
      of the WIFI program. The WIFI program will be implemented in 12 communities affiliated with
      the Changsha psychiatric hospital through the free medicine delivery process in the 686
      Program. 20 families of schizophrenia will be selected from each community. The 12
      communities will be randomized to one of four fixed sequences every two months during an
      8-month intervention period in four clusters of 3 communities each. All clusters will receive
      the usual financial benefit of the Reward Policy as the control condition, and then
      successively and in random order, will cross over to the WIFI program at 2-month intervals
      until the study ends. Outcomes will be assessed for both family caregivers and the family
      member with schizophrenia. Family caregivers will be assessed for their knowledge and skills
      about caregiving, social support and coping, perceived stigma, caregiver burden, family
      functioning, positive feelings, and psychological distress. Schizophrenia individuals will be
      assessed for their symptoms and functioning, quality of life, recovery and
      re-hospitalization. Cost data such as costs of the intervention, health care utilization, and
      costs associated with lost productivity will also be collected. In addition, the
      investigators will collect process data including fidelity and quality of program
      implementation as well as users' attitudes will also be collected. Treatment effects will be
      estimated using generalized linear maximum likelihood mixed modeling (GLMM) with clusters as
      a random effect and time as a fixed effect. Cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed
      from the societal perspective using incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
      Qualitative analysis will use the grounded theory approach and immersion-crystallization
      process. All statistical analyses will be conducted according to the intention-to-treat
      principle.
    
  