
    
      Background:

        -  Cutaneous leiomyomas are smooth muscle tumors that may arise sporadically or in
           association with an inherited cancer-related genodermatosis.

        -  Leiomyomas may be severely painful, and current management is generally unsatisfactory.

        -  Studies demonstrate increased nerve density within and around leiomyomas as well as
           increased acetylcholinesterase staining of associated nerves.

        -  Botulinum toxin-A has been used in the treatment of pain syndromes.

        -  Based on the known mechanisms of action of botulinum toxin-A, treatment with botulinum
           toxin-A (BOTOX; Allergan, Inc.), may ameliorate the severe paroxysmal pain of
           symptomatic cutaneous leiomyomas.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary: To assess change in worst lesional pain in the past week based on Brief Pain
           Inventory (BPI) from Week 0 to Week 4 in treated patients versus controls.

        -  Primary: To assess improvement in pain based on Visual Analog Scale (VAS) after
           application of ice at Week 4 compared to baseline in treated patients versus controls.

        -  Secondary: To assess change in magnitude and in frequency of painful episodes based on a
           weekly patient diary in treated patients versus controls.

        -  Secondary: To assess persistence of pain control at Weeks 12 based on the BPI and VAS.

        -  Secondary: To assess the frequency of rescue pain medication use in treated patients
           versus controls during the 24 week study period.

        -  Secondary: To determine the impact of leiomyoma treatment on quality of life.

        -  Secondary: To assess change in patient s condition based on the Patient Global
           Impression of Change.

        -  Secondary: To evaluate the immunohistochemical staining of nerve fibers and muscle in
           cutaneous leiomyomas in control and treated lesions following the conclusion of the
           study.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects greater than or equal to18 years with at least 1 symptomatic cutaneous
           leiomyoma.

        -  Pain symptoms must occur at least once a week and be characterized as greater than or
           equal to 5 out of 10.

      Design:

        -  A 12-week double-blind placebo controlled pilot study of 18 subjects with symptomatic
           leiomyomas will include initial assessment with BPI, photography, and skin biopsies,
           followed by treatment of subjects who initially received placebo.

        -  Cutaneous leiomyomas will undergo intralesional injection with botulinum toxin-A.

        -  Subjects will return at Weeks 4 and 12 for repeat assessment using pain and quality of
           life questionnaires and photography. Skin biopsies will be performed at week 12.
    
  