
    
      Normal functioning of cardiovascular system are controlled by autonomic nervous system.
      Stress causes autonomic imbalance which increases sympathetic activity. Loss of limb is
      potentially stressful change in one's life resulting in vast physical, occupational and
      psycho-social changes. Amputation is the removal of any part of body, when all other
      reconstructive strategies have failed. Lower limb amputation caused by diabetes annually
      costs between $30,000 to $60,000 and throughout life costs half a million dollar. It was
      estimated in 2012 that lower extremity wound and diabetes in U.S medicare program cost about
      $41 million dollar which is almost estimated as ~1.6 of all medicare health spending (1-4),
      however in U.K national health care spent almost an amount of £639 and 662 million on foot
      ulcers, which was approximately £1 in every £150 spent by the National Health Service.

      Other studies done on cost of diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) in Belgium showed Us $10,572 and in
      Sweden total cost for healing was US$24,965/patient with no amputation while they were US
      $47,518 and US$42,858 with amputation with minor and major surgeries respectively. Amputation
      due to congenital deformity is les common and present in only 1% of total amputation done.
      Acquired amputations include Peripheral vascular disease, trauma, malignancy, metabolic and
      infection. 2 million people or even more in US are living with loss of limb, and accounts for
      10 times more amputation in people with diabetes in comparison with those who don't have
      diabetes according to World health organization.

      Musculoskeletal imbalances or pathologies often develop into secondary physical conditions or
      complications that may affect the mobility and quality of life of people with lower limb
      amputation. Using one or more prostheses causes people with amputation to alter the
      biomechanics of their movement. For example, people with lower-limb amputation often favor
      and stress their intact lower limb more during everyday activities.

      This can lead to degenerative changes such as osteoarthritis of the knee and/or hip joints of
      the intact limb. Since people with amputation spend less time on their residual limb,
      osteopenia and subsequent osteoporosis often occur secondary to insufficient loading through
      the long bones of the lower limb. A proper prosthetic fit increases the probability of equal
      force distribution across the intact and prosthetic limbs during ambulation, thus decreasing
      the risk of osteoarthritis. People with limb loss commonly complain of back pain, which is
      linked to poor prosthetic fit and alignment, postural changes, leg-length discrepancy,
      amputation level, and general deconditioning. We review the literature on secondary
      complications among people with lower limb loss who are long-term prosthesis
      wearers.(outcomes of amputation) Secondary complications are of great importance in patients
      who have undergone traumatic amputation, main 2 systems that are effected are musculoskeletal
      and cardiovascular system. Mostly hospitalized patients acquire lying position which include
      spine, prone or right and left side lying position, change of position after every 2 hours is
      recommended to avoid contractures or bed sores, positioning is also required for good oxygen
      saturation and drainage of secretion, recumbency causes accumulation of secretions. Number of
      people having paraplegia and other disorders related to Central nervous system (CNS) are
      increasing due to metabolic disorder and increased blood pressure and most patients with CNS
      disorder are bed bound.

      Estimation of pulmonary functions in various body postures they concluded that body position
      has a significant effect on spirometric measures like forced vital capacity (FVC), Forced
      expired volume in 1 second (FEV1) and FEV1%, generally. The standing position has highest
      lung volume and chair sitting to the second highest lung volumes. In recumbent position,
      factors causing impaired lung function include external compression of chest wall,
      compression of abdominal contents on diaphragm, compression of airway and blood vessels by
      heart.

      Progressive muscle Relaxation Technique (PMRT) is one of the non pharmacological
      interventions to overcome these problems. It decreases stress through its effect on mental
      and physical conditions, mood, depression, and anxiety. Relaxation methods are very powerful
      tools for dealing with stress, depression and anxiety by giving the body/mind the chance to
      make its own healing.

      Effect of of progressive muscle relaxation technique on Chronic Obstructive pulmonary Disease
      (COPD) patients and concluded that PMRT demonstrates an effective intervention approach for
      improving pulmonary function by reducing COPD-related fatigue and sleep quality.

      Meta analysis on for collecting the evidence of effectiveness of relaxation techniques on
      pulmonary function of patients with COPD. They concluded that relaxation techniques improve
      oxygen saturation and heart rate therefore improving pulmonary function.

      Randomized controlled trial on seventy two individuals with lung or gastrointestinal tumours
      to determine the effectiveness of relaxation techniques. It was concluded that progressive
      relaxation training is effective in improving fatigue and physical performance of cancer
      patients.

      Prolong immobilization due to amputation badly effect pulmonary function, previously no study
      was done to know the effect of PMRT on pulmonary function. Effect of relaxation was seen in
      asthmatic children, asthma is a condition in which airway is narrowed, swell and produce
      extra mucus. For more than a period of 10 years it has been common place for physician and
      other dealing with asthmatic patients to ask them to relax at the onset of asthmatic attacks,
      there is no empirical data available but patient report and clinical experience suggested
      that relaxation can improve wheezing.
    
  