
    
      This is a non-randomized, open label, multicenter, phase I/IIa, therapeutic-exploratory, dose
      escalation, prospective study, involving a single injection of Temferon, an investigational
      ATMP consisting of autologous CD34+-enriched HSPCs exposed to transduction with a 3rd
      generation lentiviral vector driving myeloid-specific IFN-alpha2 expression, which will be
      administered to up to 21 patients affected by GBM who have an unmethylated MGMT promoter. The
      study will recruit and follow-up patients at a specialist neurosurgical and neuro-oncology
      units in Italy. Administration of Temferon and hematological follow up will take place at
      specialist hematology and bone marrow transplantation units.

      Potentially eligible patients will be identified immediately after surgical resection of GBM
      once the MGMT promoter methylator status is known. Once written, informed consent is
      obtained, and screening procedures have been completed, harvesting of HSPCs will occur. A
      standard of care regimen lasting approximately 6 weeks, will then take place . During this
      time, Temferon manufacturing will occur. Following completion of radiotherapy, patients will
      be admitted for receipt of a conditioning regimen consisting of BCNU and thiotepa (Cohorts
      1-4) or busulfan and thiotepa (Cohort 5). This will be followed by administration of
      Temferon. In-patient monitoring will occur until hematological recovery occurs. Thereafter,
      regular follow-up of patients will occur up to 2 years (+720 days) with the majority of
      assessments and procedures. At the +720 day visit, patients will be invited to participate in
      a long term follow-up study which will last for an additional 6 years.

      In Part A of the study, 5 cohorts of 3 patients will receive 3 escalating doses of Temferon.
      On completion of Part A, a conditioning regimen and single dose of Temferon will be selected
      to be studied in up to a further 6 patients in Part B. Criteria for study eligibility are the
      same for both Part A and Part B.

      In the event that GBM disease progression occurs, patients will be managed with second line
      therapies including second surgery, TMZ, BCNU, fotemustine or any other approved therapy for
      GBM.
    
  