
    
      FC Patch Low is a transdermal contraceptive patch applied once a week for three consecutive
      weeks followed by a break of one week (21/7). One patch contains 2.1mg gestodene and 0.55mg
      ethinyl estradiol, which is equivalent of releasing 0.06mg gestodene and 0.013mg ethinyl
      estradiol per 24 hours. The most relevant adverse clinical outcome that has been linked to
      the use of COCs is venous thromboembolism (VTE). Data from randomized clinical trials did not
      show any serious health concerns for FC Patch Low. However, the statistical power to detect
      rare adverse events is limited in these studies.

      EURAS-CORA is a large, prospective, controlled, long-term active surveillance study to
      investigate the safety of FC Patch Low with regard to the outcomes of interest. This study
      follows the European Active Surveillance (EURAS) design methodology with some modifications
      due to country- and product-specific characteristics. The outcomes of interest will be
      validated via the attending physicians. A multi-faceted follow-up procedure will ensure a low
      loss to follow-up rate. This study will involve women from Europe who will be followed for up
      to 2 years. Data analysis will include multivariable techniques such as Cox regression.

      The study has been terminated:

      On 10th October, 2016 Gedeon Richter Plc initiated a recall of the FC Patch Low based on
      stability data provided by Bayer AG (licensor). Under certain conditions the stability tests
      showed out of specification results. Data from in vitro dissolution tests have shown altered
      dissolution profile for the gestodene component. Furthermore, visually observable quality
      defect of crystallization due to the progesterone component (gestodene) had been detected.
      The clinical relevance of the quality issue is currently not proven. Based on the company's
      safety database, no increase in the frequency of reported adverse events or in the number of
      unwanted pregnancies were observed in association with the quality issue of the patch. The
      Pearl Index calculated based on this post-marketing data and taking into account the possible
      under-reporting (Pearl Index: 0.50) is considerably lower than the Pearl Index based on the
      data from clinical trials (Pearl Index: 1.19).

      The competent authorities were informed about the quality issue and Gedeon Richter Plc took
      the precautionary measure to stop marketing and commercializing the product. Wholesale
      partners were asked to recall the affected product batches currently on the market from
      pharmacies.

      Study investigators were officially informed of the recall and study suspension on 17th
      October, 2016. The suspension of network expansion activities in Spain and France was
      immediate. Physician recruitment in Italy had not formally commenced at the time of the study
      suspension. All relevant ethics committees, including the EMA PAS register, were informed of
      the study suspension by 21st October, 2016. The maximum duration of contraceptive use for
      current FC Patch Low users is 10th October 2016 + 3months (or 10th January 2017). Therefore,
      all women currently enrolled in EURAS-CORA were followed up until January 2017.

      On 22nd May 2019, ZEG Berlin were officially notified by Gedeon Richter Plc that FC Patch Low
      had been withdrawn from the European market.
    
  