
    
      Daratumumab is a humanized antibody against CD38 which is expressed on myeloma cells.
      Daratumumab exhibited single agent activity in myeloma and is a promising new treatment.
      Recently, 2 phase 1 / 2 studies establishes the dosing regimen for Daratumumab and impressive
      single agent activity of about 30% response rates in patients who relapse after prior
      lenalidomide and bortezomib. Daratumumab also appear to be well tolerated. The most common
      toxicity is infusion-related and almost all confined to the first cycle. On the whole these
      are manageable with early intervention, concurrent corticosteroids and anti-histamines as
      well as slowing infusion rate. More recently, early results from 2 randomise study comparing
      Daratumumab plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone compared to lenalidomide and dexamethasone,
      and Daratumumab plus bortezomib and dexamethasone compared to bortezomib and dexamethasone,
      showed that the addition of Daratumumab significantly improved response and progression free
      survival, including a high minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rate of more than 20% in
      the relapse myeloma populations.

      In addition, the use of immunomodulatory drugs, such as thalidomide and lenalidomide, has
      been shown to augment NK cell activity. NK cells are important mediator of antibody dependent
      cellular cytotoxicity, which is an important mechanism of action for Daratumumab.
      Furthermore, in the studies using another antibody target SLAMF7, Elotuzumab, the addition of
      dexamethasone greatly improve efficacy. Furthermore, thalidomide plus dexamethasone
      combination have a long history in myeloma and is relatively well tolerated and
      cost-effective. We therefore propose to add Daratumumab to thalidomide and dexamethasone, as
      this combination will be relatively easy to deliver in the Asian population because of
      availability and there is good rationale that such a combination will be synergistic and
      well-tolerated

      Patients will be assessed every 28 days (+/-10 days). Patients shall receive the treatment
      until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity as determined by treating physician,
      withdrawal of consent or mortality (whichever occurs first). After disease progression, the
      treating physician should provide long-term follow-up data on disease status and survival.
      For patients who discontinued treatment before disease progression occurred, disease
      assessment measurements shall be performed once every 28 days (+/- 10 days) until disease
      progression. After patients have documented progression of disease, they will be followed for
      survival every 3 months (+/-10 days) until study closure or until patients withdraws consent,
      is lost to follow-up or until death, whichever comes first. For any patient who is lost to
      follow-up, the study site shall attempt to ascertain survival information via public database
      search.
    
  