
    
      Twenty nine percent of the 700,000 strokes that occur yearly nationwide are among stroke
      survivors. Blacks, both nationally and among Harlem residents, have a twofold increase in
      recurrent strokes. Harlem Latinos have a threefold increase in risk relative to Whites.

      Primary risk factors for recurrent stroke include hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and under use
      of anti-thrombotic agents. Controlling risk factors can be particularly challenging for
      low-income, minority populations who lack the resources needed to adhere to necessary
      therapies. In Harlem, 72% of adults studied six months post stroke did not have these three
      risk factors treated adequately.

      We propose to determine if participation in a recurrent stroke prevention educational
      intervention, versus usual care, can activated stroke survivors to at reduce primary risk
      factors for recurrent strokes while providing an effective, low-cost, sustainable recurrent
      stroke prevention program in neighborhoods like Harlem, whose residents bear a
      disproportionate burden of suffering from strokes. Specifically, we propose:

        1. Recruit 600 adults who sustained a stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) within the
           past five years by working with Harlem community leaders, local clinical sites including
           the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Institute for Family Health, and the Visiting
           Nurse Service of New York;

        2. To conduct a randomized, controlled trial to determine if participation in a peer-led
           stroke prevention program activates stroke and TIA survivors to improve their knowledge
           and self-management strategies and treatments related to stroke prevention; and

        3. To rigorously compare the impact of the intervention with usual care (delayed
           intervention), on increasing the proportion of individuals with strokes and TIAs who are
           appropriately treated to reduce the risk of recurrent events, specifically through
           control of hypertension (blood pressure ≤ 140/90mmHg), hyperlipidemia (LDL
           cholesterol≤100 mg/dl) and use of anti-thrombotic medicines.
    
  