
    
      Currently, only 20% of American adults attain the minimum 150 mins/week of MVPA recommended
      by the 2018 PA Guidelines for Americans. The low levels of PA are associated with the rising
      prevalence of obesity and T2D. Individuals who are overweight/obese need a higher volume of
      PA (~200-300 mins of weekly MVPA) to mitigate cardiometabolic risk, but they face complex
      multifaceted barriers that decrease their engagement in PA. Multiple studies exploring
      barriers and facilitators of PA among these individuals have emphasized the need for
      interventions that address weight-related impediments (e.g., stigma, fitness) and
      environmental barriers such as limited access to fitness facilities. In the last 2 decades
      web-based PA programs have been developed to address these barriers and to provide more
      interactive resources than those typically mailed to participants in home-based programs. In
      a recent analytic review of web-based PA interventions, 44 out of 72 studies reported
      significant increases in PA. However, 10 out of 13 studies focusing on adults who are
      overweight/obese reported no significant improvements in PA. Most of these studies employed
      interventions that are typically used in the general population (e.g., learning modules,
      email feedback, chat sessions) without adapting them to address barriers that are unique to
      individuals who are overweight/obese. Formative studies and social cognitive theory supports
      the need for PA interventions that feature individuals who are overweight/obese engaging in
      PA to motivate action and demonstrate success. In recent years, Internet ubiquity and
      creation of YouTube has enabled fitness experts across the globe to develop and share a wide
      variety of high quality workout videos designed to make PA convenient and enjoyable for all
      demographics. The investigators leveraged these resources and the aforementioned preference
      data to design an action-oriented PATH program tailored for individuals who are
      overweight/obese. The workout videos curated on PATH website were vetted by the study team
      and stakeholders. The investigators contribution in this project is expected to be a detailed
      understanding of how open sourced resources in interventions like PATH are received and
      utilized by overweight/obese adults.
    
  