
    
      Dengue continues to spread and threaten approximately 3.6 billion people. It is crucial to
      adequately recognize dengue and start early intervention. Dengue virus (DENV) infections are
      typically confirmed by virus isolation and nucleic acid detection, both of which require
      trained personnel and advanced facilities that are limited in developing countries. Detection
      of antibodies serves as a viable and cheaper diagnostic alternative, and one method of doing
      so is through oral fluid. Detecting DENV antibodies in oral fluid has been accomplished. The
      utility of oral fluids is attractive as specimens can be acquired in a faster, non-invasive
      manner that is suitable for children and needle-phobic adults. One challenge of using oral
      fluid for dengue diagnosis is that typically, oral fluid contains the same analytes found in
      blood, albeit in lower concentrations, thus there is a need for protein concentration if oral
      fluid will be used for diagnosis.

      A device capable of collecting oral fluid is the Sani-Sal® oral fluid collector, used
      successfully in rapid diagnostics of HIV. It is a unique device that claims to concentrate
      oral fluid proteins, decrease oral fluid viscosity, and stimulate salivation. These
      properties make the Sani-Sal® potentially valuable in the diagnosis of DENV in the field by
      concentrating antibodies to identify early infection.

      Furthermore, dengue is commonly misdiagnosed or undiagnosed given varying clinical
      manifestations, lack of patient health seeking behavior, and lack of incentives for
      physicians to confirm and report cases. Knowledge on the health-seeking behaviors of dengue
      patients remains limited. The project will also assess patient and practitioner perceptions
      regarding dengue diagnostics, care, and reporting while considering the utility of this novel
      diagnostic technology. Lastly, the study will seek to understand the role of governance in
      communicable disease surveillance, reporting and information flow.

      This application seeks approval to pilot a study which will seek to determine whether the
      SaniSal® can be useful in DENV diagnosis by concentrating DENV IgM antibodies and NS1
      antigens. The study will also like to explore the knowledge, attitude, practices and health
      seeking behaviors of patients, while understanding dengue training, diagnosis and reporting
      amongst practitioners. The study will be conducted in partnership with the Instituto Nacional
      de Diabetes (INDEN) and Dr. Roberto Reid Cabral's Children's Hospital in Santo Domingo,
      Dominican Republic-where dengue is endemic.

      The utility of oral-fluid in diagnostics is promising: it can serve as efficient tools for
      point-of-care practices and as an alternative to blood-draw. If this study shows that saliva
      can be equally effective in the detection of DENV as blood on an ELISA confirmatory test,
      then the investigators can mitigate the limitations of serum testing. This can result in
      increased rapid diagnostic confirmation of suspected cases, improving on patient comfort and
      care while assisting in targeted vector control. This coupled with insights on policies,
      perceptions and behaviors surrounding DENV can help improve point-of-care diagnostics,
      reporting and surveillance, and community education efforts during epidemics in endemic
      countries of the Caribbean region.
    
  