
    
      Background:

      Secretory otitis media (SOM) or middle ear effusion is the most common cause of hearing
      impairment in children. Hearing loss occurs due to the accumulation of fluid in the middle
      ear. In most of the cases, SOM follows acute otitis media (AOM). In cases when the SOM is
      bilateral and persists for more than 3-6 months, operation with grommet insertion under
      general anaesthesia is indicated. 10000 children with SOM are operated with grommet insertion
      every year in Sweden. In cases of unilateral hearing loss caused by SOM, grommet insertion is
      rarely indicated if the duration of symptoms is less than one year. Some patients develop
      persistent perforation in the eardrum after extrusion of the tympanostomy tube.

      A new method of middle ear pressure equalisation has been developed at the Sahlgrenska
      University Hospital. 45 children in the age of 2-8 years with SOM that persisted for more
      than 3 months had been treated with this new method under the waiting period for grommet
      insertion. 80% of these children had been cured with regaining of normal hearing and avoided
      operation. No complication/side effects were noticed and the compliance was good.

      Aim of the study:

      To assess the effectivity of the new nonsurgical treatment method for equalisation of middle
      ear pressure in rapid regaining of hearing after acute otitis media in 2,5-7 years old
      children.

      Study design:

      Quantitative

      Hypothesis:

      Can the new nonsurgical method rapidly normalise hearing in children with middle ear
      effusion/secretory otitis media after acute otitis media.

      Material and Method:

      80 children in the age of 2,5-7 years will be offered, directly after completed treatment of
      AOM, inclusion in the study. All the patients will undergo during the first visit microscopic
      examination of the ears, audiogram and tympanogram. The children will be randomised
      thereafter into two groups. The first group is treated with the new method for one week.
      While the other group is not actively treated and will act as a control. Both groups undergo
      one week after randomisation new examination with microscopic examination of the ears,
      audiogram and tympanogram. These examinations are repeated after one and three months.

      Intervention:

      The first group with verified middle ear effusion after AOM is treated with the new
      nonsurgical method of middle ear pressure equalisation. A face mask is connected to a tube to
      which a coloured balloon is attached. The tube is also connected to balloon. A safety valve
      is used to prevent too high air pressure. A balloon is hidden in a green soft toy in the form
      of frog. The parent and the child hold the face mask against the mouth and the child blows
      the balloon. On need, mainly in the beginning of treatment course, the parent presses the
      frog's abdomen in order to fill the balloon with air. On the first day, a low pressure
      balloon is used, then it is changed to a balloon with higher pressure. If no effect is
      noticed, (the child should experience clicking sound in one or both ears) on the third day,
      the balloon is replaced with a new balloon with additionally higher pressure. Full compliance
      for the treatment is defined as 20 blows (5 minutes) in the morning and evening for one week.

      Expected results and importance:

      The investigators expect that the study will show that the new treatment method of SOM
      secondary to AOM can rapidly and effectively improve hearing of the affected child. This can
      be of great significance from medical, social and economic point of view. Hearing impairment
      in the paediatric age group has a great negative impact on speech development and are not
      only disadvantageous to the child and the parent but also for the whole society.
    
  