
    
      In this pilot study, investigators will use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to
      determine the effects of high calorie visual food cues [i.e. images of foods that are high in
      both sugar and fat (HS/HF), such as ice cream] on activation of appetite and reward pathways
      in the brain following long-term (6 months) exercise. Obesity rates are high among US adults
      with 33.8% of adults having a BMI of 30 or greater (1). The prevailing belief is that
      homeostatic systems are in place to monitor energy homeostasis.

      With aerobic physical activity, appetite is affected because a theoretically positive
      coupling between energy intake and expenditure is thought to occur (2, 3). During exercise
      days, short term studies have demonstrated that there are no differences in appetite except
      for a transient decrease 15 minutes post exercise after very hard exercise(4). Short term
      exercise does not result in appetitive differences (5-7). However in the medium term, there
      is a variable (mixed) response (5). Over the long-term it is thought a loose coupling exists
      between exercise and appetite response (5).

      Our preliminary data strongly support a positive coupling between exercise and appetitive
      responses because in previous studies the amount of weight loss that is achieved following
      aerobic exercise is less than expected. Specifically, studies by Tim Church have previously
      found that hypertensive overweight postmenopausal women did not lose ~2.6 kg but instead 1.4
      kg (8). This is a 46% difference between how much weight should be lost due to energy
      expended with exercise compared to the actual amount. Another study examined 4 months of
      moderate intensity aerobic exercise of 16KKW (9) and again about 2.7 kg of weight loss was
      expected but only 1.1 kg was achieved. This suggests a 59% difference. Both studies had very
      low dropout rates. Based on the results of the highest dose of exercise in these two studies,
      the discrepancy grows with an increase in exercise dose. The participants were instructed not
      to change eating habits and physical activity outside of the intervention and these were not
      significantly altered. These body weight responses mirror the majority of aerobic exercise
      intervention studies. King et al. performed a supervised aerobic exercise study (10). 58
      persons completed 500 kcal/d of exercise induced energy expenditure for 5 d/wk over 12 weeks
      with a 28% dropout rate. Overall an average of just 3.2 kg of body weight was lost. Over 50%
      of persons failed to lose the expected amount and 15% of persons gained weight (11). Four out
      of ten studies in a review found exercise did not even result in a body weight difference
      between the exercise and control groups(12). This differential response in energy balance is
      thought to be driven by increased energy intake. Stubbs et al. performed a randomized
      crossover study with 3-7 day exercise treatments. The exercise treatments were no exercise,
      then medium exercise (~1.9 MJ/day) and lastly high exercise (~ 3.4MJ/day). Energy expenditure
      increased in the no exercise (9.2 MJ/day), medium exercise (11.0 MJ/day) and high exercise
      conditions (12.1 MJ/day), respectively. A statistically significant increase in energy intake
      with exercise was found (no exercise 8.9 MJ/day, medium exercise 9.2 MJ/day, and high
      exercise 10.0 MJ/d). Thus based on body weight and these energy intake data from Stubbs et
      al. investigators feel there is a biological drive to increase energy intake following
      exercise. Investigators seek to determine the neural mechanism of this appetitive response in
      the proposed grant.

      Previously 2 aerobic exercise studies examining for the neuronal response to images have been
      performed. Ours are similar and will provide PBRC with pilot data for further investigations.
      Evero et al. previously found that reward pathway neuronal cues were reduced following
      aerobic exercise (13). Cornier et al. found that chronic exercise alters the neuronal
      response to food cues. However this study was confounded due to significant weight loss which
      as stated above does not generally happen with aerobic exercise trials. The results suggested
      the insula may be particularly important in exercise induced weight loss and weight loss
      maintenance (14). This study hopes to examine the neuronal responses to aerobic exercise
      without weight loss.

      Obesity Women were shown food picture cues of high energy foods. The high energy foods
      produced significantly greater activation in the brain reward regions in obese compared to
      normal weight control women (15). Differences between groups included ACC, VTA, nucleus
      accumbens (NAc), amygdala, ventral pallidum (Vent Pall), Caudate, and Putamen (15). Postmeal,
      obese individuals, but not normal weight individuals, increase activation of the putamen
      (part of striatum) and amygdala suggesting these regions may play a role in overeating (16)
      which is why these regions are incorporated into the current study hypothesis. These
      cross-sectional studies are important as previously Murdaugh et. al (17) found that obese
      individuals that were not successful at short term weight loss or longer term weight loss
      maintenance had greater activation of reward pathway brain regions. While speculative,
      artificial sweeteners may reduce cravings by not activating reward pathways especially in
      obese persons. This grant will help provide pilot data to further elucidate this important
      question.
    
  