
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent malignancies in China, and
      approximately 90% of the patients with HCC are also infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV).
      Until now, no standard therapy has been established for treatment of hepatocellular
      carcinoma. For patients with unresectable disease, the goal of palliative treatment is to
      control symptoms and prolong survival. Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) using iodized
      oil and chemotherapeutic agents combines the effect of targeted chemotherapy with that of
      ischemic necrosis induced by arterial embolization. It can be administered repeatedly and can
      prolong survival in patients with unresectable hypervascular HCC. The long-term prognosis,
      however, remains guarded because of frequent development of locoregional tumor recurrence,
      which, together with concomitant hepatic decompensation, is the main cause of death.
      Recurrence in the liver remnant may originate from metastasis from the primary tumor or
      multicentric new primaries in a cirrhotic liver.

      Adefovir works by blocking reverse transcriptase, an enzyme that is crucial for the hepatitis
      B virus (HBV) to reproduce in the body. It is approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis
      B in adults with evidence of active viral replication and either evidence of persistent
      elevations in serum aminotransferases (primarily ALT) or histologically active disease. The
      main benefit of adefovir over lamivudine (the first NRTI approved for the treatment of
      hepatitis B) is that it takes a much longer period of time before the virus develops
      resistance to it. Adefovir dipivoxil contains two pivaloyloxymethyl units, making it a
      prodrug form of Adefovir.

      Based on these results, the investigators conducted a randomized controlled trial to test the
      hypothesis that adefovir treatment would reduce or postpone the recurrence rate and improve
      the overall survival rate in patients after TACE treatment of HBV-related unresectable HCC.
    
  