
    
      Rationale: We hypothesize that our newly developed dual-hormone insulin-glucagon closed-loop
      system (DCL) is safe, efficient and superior to our single-hormone insulin-only closed-loop
      system (SCL). The study aims to compare the glucose control achieved by DCL with our SCL.

      Design: A randomized single-blinded placebo-controlled cross-over 33-hour in-clinic study of
      glucose control achieved with DCL versus SCL in adults and adolescents with type 1 diabetes.

      Participants: 13 insulin-pump treated T1D participants will be included, if they are 15-80
      years old, have T1D for ≥ 3 years, use insulin pumps with FiAsp®, and have an HbA1c≤ 8.5% (69
      mmol/mol).

      Procedures: In this two-phase study 1) we test the operability of our closed-loop systems and
      2) compare glucose control by DCL with SCL. The two studies are identical except for the
      blinding procedures. In the first phase (pilot study), four participants are included, and
      the glucagon/saline pump is not masked. In the second phase (main study), 13 participants are
      included, and are as well as the investigators blinded for the content in the glucagon/saline
      pump.

      Two days prior to study visit, a CGM (Dexcom® G6) is place on the participant's abdomen. At
      study visits, participants arrive in the evening at our research unit and get their insulin
      pump disconnected. Two study pumps (Dana Diabecare RS®, SOOIL) are attached: one pump infuses
      insulin (FiAsp®, Novo Nordisk) and the other infuses either glucagon (GlucaGen®, Novo
      Nordisk) or saline. Once a sampling cannula is placed in an antecubital vein, the study is
      initiated and the closed-loop system (DCL vs SCL) takes over the glucose control for the next
      33 hours. Except from the control algorithm (SCL vs DCL), the study days are identical.
      Participants can move around freely in the clinic for 33 hours but will perform a 45-min
      moderate (50% VO2max) exercise session, consume three meals with variant carbohydrate
      content, and sleep during two overnight periods. Participants will be monitored frequently
      with blood samples (drawn from the antecubital vein), blood pressure, pulse, and VAS scale
      for nausea.
    
  