
    
      Since Dec 2019, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory
      syndrome coronavirus 2(SARS-CoV-2) has resulted in considerable morbidity and mortality
      throughout the world. On April 21 2020, Italy and US have registered over 187,000 and 855,000
      cases of confirmed COVID-19 disease respectively, with one of the highest death rates in the
      world, which stands at more than 25,000 individuals in Italy and 47,000 in US. Epidemiologic
      modeling from multiple groups indicate the scope of the problem, with a potential for over
      200,000 deaths in the U.S. alone, with large percentage of the population infected. Mortality
      from COVID-19 is associated with the presence of severe respiratory illness, although recent
      studies indicate 20%-30% of patients have evidence of COVID-19 associated cardiac injury
      defined as decline in ejection fraction or troponin I elevation (1,2). Anecdotal evidence
      suggests the presence of abnormal EKG findings compatible with myocardial ischemia but
      whether this is from epicardial coronary thrombosis, myocarditis, or microvascular thrombosis
      remains uncertain although all have been postulated (3). Regardless, patients with cardiac
      injury have higher mortality than those without, and sudden cardiac death has been described
      in some of these patients (1). Two thirds of patients with cardiovascular history were more
      likely to develop cardiac complications (4). Isolated reports have described fulminant
      myocarditis in the setting of high viral load with autopsy findings consistent with
      inflammatory mononuclear infiltrates (5). However, no systematic autopsy studies of patients
      dying from COVID-19 have ever been conducted. The Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital, Bergamo had
      treated about 2000 patients with COVID-19 and performed systematic cardiac autopsies from a
      series of 60 patients who died or presented with/without a picture of cardiac injury and were
      COVID-19 positive. Detailed clinical data on all these patients are available.

      Background Much about the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 and the heart remains unknown.
      Angiotensin (AT) converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is known as the cellular receptor for both
      SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 but also as an endogenous counter- regulator of the renin-angiotensin
      system (RAS). ACE2 is ubiquitously expressed with the highest levels detected in the
      cardiovascular system (cardiomyocytes, cardiac fibroblasts, vascular smooth muscle cells and
      endothelial cells) as well as gut, kidneys and lungs. In general, loss of ACE2 increases
      susceptibility to cardiovascular disease such as myocardial infarction and hypertension while
      gain of function ACE2 has shown protective roles in various models of cardiovascular disease
      (6). The bifunctional role of ACE2 as a receptor for SARS-COV-2 but also as a protective
      factor against cardiovascular disease means careful understanding of the role of ACE2 during
      SARS-CoV-2 is needed. In this proposal investigators will examine cardiac tissues from
      patients dying of COVID-19 and examine the effect of infection on the expression of ACE2 on
      various cardiac cells. Investigators will also evaluate and validate this hypothesized
      mechanism of viral entry by ACE2 and trans-membrane serine protease which promotes entry of
      SARS-COV-2 into cells through a separate mechanisms.

      Study Aims:

        1. Describe the cardiac pathological findings from series of 60 patients dying from
           COVID-19 using cardiac samples sent to CVPath Institution from Papa Giovanni XXIII
           Hospital, Bergamo, Italy to study the correlations between clinical risk factors and
           myocardial findings and difference from other viral myocarditis;

        2. Understand the relationship between viral load in cardiac tissues and the extent of
           damage seen on myocardial histological sections; and

        3. Co-localize the SARS-CoV-2 using RNAscope in situ hybridization, with its entry receptor
           ACE2 and serine protease TMPRSS2 (type II transmembrane serine protease) in different
           cell types found in the heart, such as endothelial, smooth muscle, myocardial,
           fibroblastic and inflammatory cells, to better understand the pathogenesis of the
           disease.

      Methods:

      The study was approved by ethical committee at Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital and the CVPath
      Institute IRB (Institutional Review Board).

      All specimens are fixed in 10% buffered formalin. Hearts will be shipped to CVPath in
      accordance with all international shipping regulations and U.S. CDC (Centers for Disease
      Control and Prevention) guidelines (www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/guidance-postmortem
      specimens.html). The sample is given a unique identifier and the hearts are weighed after
      blood clots have been removed from the cavities, and the heart ventricles are sliced parallel
      to the posterior atrioventricular junction to determine absence of any necrosis or fibrosis.
      Pulmonary emboli and any right ventricular abnormalities are assessed to rule out any
      attributable cause of death. The heart is weighed and radiographed and if any calcification
      is observed the epicardial coronary arteries are removed intact away from the heart and
      segments decalcified according to the extent of calcification. The rest of the arteries are
      submitted for paraffin embedding at 3-4 mm intervals to rule out any significant
      atherosclerosis (75 % cross-sectional area stenosis) or any thrombosis.

      In total six sections of myocardium (anterior, posterior, and lateral LV (left ventricle),
      ventricular septum, anterior and posterior wall of the right ventricle) are routinely taken
      transversely, embedded in paraffin, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) for
      histologic evaluation. If specific pathology is observed, additional sections will be
      submitted to determine the etiology of the findings. Histologic examination is performed to
      rule out any infiltrative or inflammatory process or any myofiber disarray of the myocardium,
      intramyocardial small vessel disease of interstitial or focal fibrosis. Presence of any
      cardiomyopathic process will be ruled out by gross and histologic examination. If the
      post-mortem interval is short, transmission electron microscopic (TEM) examination will be
      performed to determine the presence of virus and the cell type harboring the virus.

      Correlations with autopsy findings will be made with available anonymized clinical data
      including EKG, echocardiography and cardiac catheterization (where available). The cardiac
      pathological characteristics of COVID-19 will be compared to 60 viral myocarditis cases that
      have previously been collected in CVPath Registry. A RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase
      chain reaction) specifically designed for SARS-CoV-2 will be conducted on RNA extracted from
      myocardial samples to quantitate the amount of virus in myocardium for each sample. RNA
      samples will also be taken from coronary arteries as well. Calculated viral load will be
      correlated with the myocardial injury scores including myocardial necrosis, myocardial
      infarction, myocarditis, inflammatory cells numbers, type, etc.

      RNAscope In-situ hybridization. In situ detection of SARS-CoV-2 with ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in
      endothelial (VE-cadherin), myocardial (Cx43 and Myh6), smooth muscle cell (SM22 alpha) and
      lymphocytes (CD3, CD4, CD8) will be performed using an RNAscope assay with RNAscope
      Probe-V-nCoV2019-S-sense and Probe-V-nCoV2019-S (Advanced Cell Diagnostics) following the
      manufacturer's protocols. Correlation will be made with specific cell types mentioned by dual
      immunofluorescence as previously described (7) .

      This study will result in a greater understanding of the pathology of cardiac injury in
      patients with COVID-19. Doing so will open the door to develop new therapeutic options to
      treat these patients during an epidemic of unparalleled size and scope.
    
  