
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare bladder intact event-free survival (BI-EFS) for concurrent chemoradiation
      therapy (CRT) with and without atezolizumab in localized muscle invasive bladder cancer
      (MIBC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival between the two arms. II. To compare modified bladder intact
      event-free survival including cancer related death between arms.

      III. To compare complete and partial pathologic response between arms at 3 months after
      completing chemoradiation therapy.

      IV. To estimate metastases-free survival by arm. V. To compare the qualitative and
      quantitative adverse events from each arm. VI. To estimate the rate of non-muscle invasive
      bladder cancer recurrence by arm.

      VII. To estimate the rate of salvage cystectomy and reasons for cystectomy by arm.

      VIII. To compare mean patient-reported global quality of life (QOL) at week 54 using the
      European Organization for Research and Treatment (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire
      (QLQ)-Core (C)30 Global Health Status (GHS) subscale score between patients with localized
      muscle-invasive bladder cancer randomized to chemoradiation with versus (vs.) without
      atezolizumab.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To test the hypothesis that a panel of validated biomarkers of concurrent CRT involving
      nuclear MRE11, impaired deoxyribonucleic acid damage response (DDR) function and tumor
      subtyping will be prognostic for BI-EFS among patients receiving either concurrent CRT or
      chemoimmuno-radiotherapy (CIRT) of the primary tumor.

      II. To test the hypothesis that tumor total mutation burden, neoantigen burden, infiltrating
      immune response, PD-L1 expression and T cell response are associated with augmented response
      after concurrent CIRT.

      III. To bank urine specimens for future use.

      PATIENT-REPORTED OUTCOMES (PROs) OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare mean patient-reported global QOL as measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Health
      Status subscale scores at week 54 between patients with localized muscle-invasive bladder
      cancer randomized to chemoradiation with versus without atezolizumab. (Primary) II. To
      compare mean patient-reported bowel symptoms at each assessment time by arm using the Bowel
      Domain of the Expanded Prostate Index (EPIC- 26) short form, the bladder-specific supplement
      to the QLQ-C30, the EORTC QLQ-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (BLM30), the Physical
      Functioning subscale of the EORTC QLQ-C30, and overall health status using the EuroQol Five
      Dimension Five Level Scale (EQ-5D-5L). (Exploratory) III. To compare longitudinal change over
      time by arm in patient-reported global QOL using the EORTC QLQ-C30, the Bowel Domain of the
      Expanded Prostate Index (EPIC-26) short form, the bladder-specific supplement to the QLQ-C30,
      the EORTC QLQ-BLM30, the Physical Functioning subscale of the EORTC QLQ-C30, and overall
      health status using the EQ-5D-5L. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo radiation therapy (RT) (3 dimensional [D] CRT or intensity-modulated
      radiation therapy [IMRT]) Monday-Friday for up to 7 weeks. Patients also receive chemotherapy
      based on physician's choice of gemcitabine intravenously (IV) twice weekly for 6 weeks, or
      cisplatin IV weekly for 6 weeks concurrent with RT, or fluorouracil IV on same days as doses
      1-5 and 16-20 of radiation therapy, and mitomycin IV on day 1 of radiation therapy in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo RT (3DCRT or IMRT) Monday-Friday for up to 7 weeks and receive
      chemotherapy based on physician's choice as in Arm I. Patients also receive atezolizumab IV
      over 60 minutes on day 1 of chemotherapy. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 6
      months (9 doses total) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  