
    
      This study is a six week, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study. Thirty participants,
      aged 35 to 60 years, who have been previously diagnosed by their healthcare provider with
      refractory hypertension, will be recruited by means of purposive sampling. Adverts will be
      placed at the University of Johannesburg (UJ) Doornfontein campus and the Soweto satellite
      clinic Nanga Vutshilo Community Centre.

      Potential participants that respond to the advert will attend an initial consultation and
      will be requested to sign a Participant Information and Consent Form once they agree to
      participate in the study. The medical history and physical examination (including vital
      signs, fundoscopic exam, cardiovascular exam, respiratory exam and urinalysis) will be
      recorded on a Case Form. Blood pressure (BP) readings will be taken on each arm with a manual
      BP cuff, according to standard operating procedures, on the first three consecutive days to
      confirm inclusion into the study. Individuals with secondary organ damage from hypertension
      will be excluded from the study.

      Those participants that qualify for the study will be placed into two groups. One group will
      receive a 50ml bottle of the homoeopathic complex and the other group a 50ml bottle of
      placebo. Participants will receive an Intake Diary, to be completed daily, recording
      compliance and any adverse symptoms or aggravations that may be experienced. Follow-up
      consultations will take place every 7 days and participants will be requested to bring with
      their medication bottles for further assessment of compliance; BP readings will be recorded
      on a data collection form. All participants will be given the Dietary Approaches to Stop
      Hypertension (DASH) eating plan at the end of the study to help control their hypertension.
      Additionally, participants will be given an information leaflet to give to their healthcare
      provider, detailing the study.

      Data will be analysed using the non-parametric methods: inter-group analysis will be
      conducted using SPSS v18 with the Mann-Whitney U-test; intra-group analysis will be done
      using the Friedman and the Wilcoxon-Signed Ranks tests.

      A possible outcome of this study is that the homoeopathic complex will have a normalizing
      effect on BP readings compared to placebo. Regardless of the outcome, this study will
      contribute to our knowledge on the use of homoeopathic complex remedies in the treatment and
      management of refractory hypertension.
    
  