
    
      On their scheduled day, participants will be instructed to come to the clinic after an
      overnight fast of a minimum of 8 hours (subjects can drink water). The participants will be
      asked to refrain from drinking alcohol for a period of 24 hours before the study days and to
      not perform strenuous exercise for a period of 48 hours before the study days. The
      participants will be directed to avoid alcohol and strenuous exercise for the duration of the
      study.

      On days 1 and 3 of the study period, participants will be checked into the clinic. A physical
      examination, including height, weight and waist circumference, and finger-stick glucose will
      be performed. A 75-g OGTT will be performed with venous samples for measurement of glucose,
      insulin and C-peptide levels obtained at 0, 30 and 60 minutes starting immediately after the
      ingestion of the 75 g glucose solution. After samples are collected on day 1, participants
      will be administered their first dose of steroid, prednisone 40 mg, and be given a packet of
      two additional doses for the rest of the study period. The investigators may only give 1
      additional dose to them and have the participants take the last dose in clinic on day 3 two
      hours before the OGTT. Subjects will take prednisone 40 mg once daily for three days to be
      consumed around 8:00am on days 2 and 3. This dose was chosen as a typical high-dose
      glucocorticoid regimen. On the third day, the participants will again visit the clinic after
      an overnight fast of a minimum 8 hours and undergo a physical examination and OGTT just as on
      day 1.

      Participants will be instructed to check pre-prandial (before breakfast, lunch and dinner),
      and bed time (around 10:00 pm) blood glucose (BG) levels and to record all values for a total
      of five days (three days while on prednisone and for two days after the second study visit).
      A member of the study staff will call each participant daily around 7:00 pm to obtain BG
      values. Compliance with the study protocol will be assessed at this time as well. Any subject
      not compliant with study medications will be excluded from the study.
    
  