
    
      SARS-CoV-2, a plus-sense single-stranded RNA virus, is the etiologic agent of COVID-19. After
      an incubation period, which typically lasts for 5-6 days, COVID-19 patients present with a
      mild illness that lasts for a few days. Common symptoms are reminiscent of the flu, and
      include fever, dry cough and dyspnea. A large percentage of patients resolve the infection
      whereas others progress onto adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) which impedes gas
      exchange between the alveolar space and the bloodstream and creates the need for assisted
      respiration. Acute eosinophilic pneumonia (AEP) is an acute respiratory illness of varying
      severity that includes presentation as ARDS with fatal outcomes. AEP pathology results from
      an uncontrolled inflammatory response characterized by excessive recruitment of lung
      eosinophils and production of inflammatory cytokines. Former smokers are at a particularly
      high risk for developing ARDS and constitute a disproportionately higher burden for scarce
      intensive care unit (ICU) beds. At first glance, several studies from China and the US CDC
      show a low smoker prevalence among hospitalized COVID-19 patients. However, parsing of the
      smoker subset for example from the CDC, shows that former smokers actually constitute a
      significantly higher percentage of patients moving from "Hospitalized non-ICU" to
      "Hospitalized ICU" status (73%) as compared to other single underlying condition (44%)
      patients, and a much higher percentage than Current Smokers (22%). Possible explanations for
      former smokers being at much greater risk of ARDS disease progression than current smokers
      include:

        -  The continued presence of nicotine in current smokers and its known anti-inflammatory
           protection

        -  Ongoing smoking down-regulates angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which the
           SARS-CoV-2 uses to invade host cells.

        -  In inflamed airways due to allergy or infection, cigarette smoke significantly
           attenuates inflammatory eosinophilia, eosinophil trafficking and activation of B cells
           in the bronchoalveolar lavage.

      Changes in smoking pattern triggers interstitial injury patterns mediated via recruitment and
      inappropriate persistence of myeloid and other immune cells, including eosinophils,
      especially after cessation of smoking. The adjacent image shows a Computed Tomographic (CT)
      of the lungs of a former smoker 2 weeks after resuming smoking following several years of
      abstinence. It is surprisingly similar in presenting the same bilateral patchy ground-glass
      opacities seen in COVID-19 patients.

      Uncontrolled eosinophil production in lung epithelial cells plays a critical role in the
      destruction of the respiratory epithelium and rapid development of ARDS, particularly in
      former smoker patients. The pulmonary inflammation leads to cardiac impairment and
      intravascular coagulation, kidney insufficiency and liver damage. The scope, intensity and
      rapidity of the host COVID-19 response in former smoker patients strongly advocates for a
      therapeutic strategy that aims to prevent rather than reverse progression from mild to severe
      disease. It is estimated that between 5-10% of asthma patients do not respond to
      steroid-based therapies and require higher doses of medication to achieve control of their
      disease, or have asthma exacerbations, persistent symptoms and airway obstruction despite
      greater medication use. These steroid-resistant asthmatics typically have greater morbidity
      and disproportionately require 50-80% of asthma-related health care costs. Similar to former
      smoker patients, eosinophil presence in the lung is believed to be a major pro-inflammatory
      effector cell in the pathogenesis of asthma. Further, in the United States, chronic lung
      disease (primarily asthma) was the second most prevalent underlying condition in those
      admitted to hospital for COVID-19 infection in adults ages 18-49.

      CARDIO is a safe, natural, salmon oil based, eosinophil effector function (EEF) reducing,
      softgel formulation. Fish oil, inclusive of salmon oil, or marine-derived omega-3 supplements
      have been established as cardioprotective. CARDIO has been studied in human clinical studies
      for the treatment of cardiovascular disease, and as an antioxidant, with an excellent safety
      record. CARDIO has demonstrated therapeutic potential for the treatment of allergic and
      inflammatory conditions, particularly those involving eosinophil effector functions.
      Specifically, CARDIO at 100 ug/ml inhibited eosinophil response to chemoattractant CCL11 in a
      Shape Change assay; inhibited eosinophil response to chemoattractant CCL11 in an integrin
      (CD11b) surface upregulation assay; and significantly enhanced apoptosis, in eosinophils
      sourced from immuno-modulated individuals.

      In vitro and animal dosing studies have been completed for therapeutic dose determination for
      an accelerated Phase 2 trial application. It is hypothesized that CARDIO may reduce morbidity
      and mortality in former smoker patients by protecting respiratory epithelium and alveolar
      pneumocytes from eosinophil-mediated damage. In light of the mechanism of action outlined
      above, it is possible that CARDIO could be used as a therapeutic for COVID-19, particularly
      in former smoker patients with mild illness, with the goal of preventing progression into
      severe disease.

      The population being investigated are patients who are not eligible for hospital admittance
      and are at home following the guidance from public health, all with mild to moderate
      respiratory distress due to COVID-19. Though the age has a reasonably wide range to
      facilitate recruitment, the exclusions in place provide the required guidance measures to
      ensure patient safety and address associated comorbidities. Each participant will be assessed
      on a case-by-case basis by the Qualified Investigator to ensure all inclusions and none of
      the exclusions are met, and that the safety of their participation in the study is critically
      evaluated. The requirement of mild to moderate COVID-19 will be assessed using the most
      up-to-date National Institutes of Health (NIH) Treatment Guidelines for the Clinical
      Presentation of People with SARS-CoV-2 Infection. Using the NIH guidelines for clinical
      presentation of COVID-19 and identification of mild and moderate disease severity will ensure
      potential patients are evaluated based on the most up-to-date information in the ever
      changing COVID-19 research landscape. The safety of patients will be assessed at each
      assessment day, a Data and Safety Monitoring Board will be established, and an interim
      analysis is planned to guide safe continuation of the study.

      The objectives of this randomized, open-label study is to investigate the safety and efficacy
      of CARDIO plus best standard-of-care in reducing the need for mechanical respiratory support,
      alleviating respiratory symptoms and reducing mortality in patients with COVID-19 infection
      in patients who are following the guidance from public health.
    
  