
    
      Healthy oral tissues enable the child to eat, speak and socialize which contributes to
      general wellbeing. Dental caries during childhood is a major public health problem and
      throughout the 20th century, the dominant practice patterns of managing dental caries relied
      on the purely surgical approach of G.V Black such as the concept of "extension for
      prevention". One of the drawbacks of this approach is an unnecessary removal of healthy oral
      tissues.

      Comprehensive knowledge of dental cariology, advances in dental restorative materials and
      modern diagnostic devices are changing pediatric restorative dentistry.

      minimal intervention dentistry (MID) is a modern medical approach that aims to maximize
      preservation of healthy dental tissues based on individualized patient care of early
      detection of disease, risk assessment diagnosis, and prevention. When operative intervention
      is required it is as minimally invasive as possible.

      There is insufficient information about knowledge and practice of modern dental approaches
      including minimal intervention dentistry among dental interns in Egypt. Available studies
      concerned with this subject were not done in Egypt.

      Due to this shortage of information, the application of MID in the Egyptian society cannot be
      fully assessed, and problems associated with its practice cannot be identified and solved.
      This shortage of information may also deprive children of getting benefits of MID.

      Thus; this study will assess the knowledge of a group of dental interns regarding minimal
      intervention dentistry in Egypt, and whether this knowledge is translated into positive
      attitude and practice among them.

      Knowledge, attitude, and practice (KAP) surveys can be used to identify knowledge gaps and
      culturally related misconceptions of new health approaches or interventions. They can
      determine factors influencing behaviors that are not known, and how and why people practice
      certain health behaviors.

      KAP surveys can be also used to identify needs, problems and barriers, as well as solutions
      for improving quality and accessibility of health services by studying factors and possible
      determinants influencing treatment decisions.

      This study aims to identify deficiencies (if present) in knowledge, attitude, and practice of
      MID among a group of dental interns in Egypt.
    
  