
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of methylphenidate plus physical activity (MP) compared to
      placebo plus physical activity (PL) in reducing cancer-related fatigue (CRF) in patients with
      metastatic cancer on anti-PD1 immunotherapy, as measured by changes in Functional Assessment
      of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) subscale scores after 2 weeks of intervention.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the effect of MP on anxiety (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale [HADS]),
      depressed mood (HADS), cancer symptoms (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), physical
      activity (mean day time activity as measured by actigraphy), and serum levels of inflammatory
      cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-1 RA, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-8, IL-10, and MCP1), before and after
      treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the frequency and factors associated with CRF as assessed by FACIT-F,
      Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Fatigue (PROMIS-F), Multidimensional
      Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form (MFSI-SF), actigraphy, Edmonton Symptom Assessment
      System (ESAS), and serum levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-1 RA, IL-6,
      TNF-alpha, IL-10, IL-8, MCP-1), before and during 4 initial doses of Immunotherapy.

      II. To explore the effects of MP on percentage (%) of patients with dose reduction and/or
      discontinuation anti-PD1 immunotherapy due to CRF.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive methylphenidate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for up to 2 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also complete physical
      activity consisting of walking and resistance exercise over 25-40 minutes once daily (QD) 4
      days a week. After 2 weeks, patients may continue methylphenidate at the discretion of the
      treating physician for up to 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive a matched placebo PO BID and complete physical activity as in Arm I.
    
  