
    
      Participants that take part in this experimental treatment will receive six HUCBP infusions
      over a six month period, with a final check-up occuring six months after the last infusion.
      Blood samples will be collected before receiving each HUCBP infusion, and at the last
      check-up. Participants will also be asked to complete a medical questionnaire (SF 36) prior
      to the first infusion, and prior to each subsequent infusion. The medical questionnaire is
      four (4) pages in length and includes comprehensive questions about previous medical health
      and history.

      Participation in the experimental treatment will involve monitoring by the Principal Doctor
      for a period of twelve months after the initial infusion of HUCBP. A second infusion is
      planned for one month after the initial infusion, a third infusion is planned for two months
      after the initial infusion, a fourth infusion is planned for three months after the initial
      infusion, a fifth infusion is planned for four months after the initial infusion,and a sixth
      infusion is planned for five months after the initial infusion. Participants will be asked to
      undergo the same blood tests and physical examinations performed at the time of the initial
      infusion at each of the five subsequent infusions (i.e. at one, two, three, four, and five
      months after the initial infusion). Twelve months after the initial infusion participants
      will be asked to attend for final blood tests and physical examinations. There will be no
      HUCBP infusion at the twelve-month visit.

      Assessment criteria for the study include: (1) Short Form (36) Health Survey (SF 36); (2)
      Biomarkers of inflammation, oxidative stress, and growth factors; (3) Adrenal cortical
      hormone levels; (4) Telomere length; (5) Hand grip strength; (6) Body fat measurement; (7)
      DNA damage; and (8) Overall safety of intravenous administration.
    
  