
    
      The management of normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is challenging due to diagnostic
      uncertainties and high treatment risks. To date, there are no evidence-based treatment
      standards for this disorder. Our long-term goal is to improve the outcome of NPH improving
      our understanding of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) hydrodynamics. The Specific Aims are to 1)
      determine the value of a high volume tap test, and 2) determine whether intracranial
      hemo/hydrodynamic variables, measured before a shunt operation, support the tuned-dynamic
      absorber model of intracranial pressure dynamics.

      The study's Aim relates to modeling the complex hydro- and hemodynamics of intracranial
      physiology-pathology. We hypothesize that current hydrocephalus models are over-simplistic
      and that shunt-induced hydrodynamics are better modeled based on ICP waveform characteristics
      and the application of novel dynamic models. Much of the data for this Aim will be passively
      recorded during the routine care of the patient. In essence, we are only adding noninvasive
      MRI studies and TCD (transcranial Doppler) studies.

      The experimental methodology is aimed at altering the intracranial compartment compliance by
      placing the patient in various positions so that these phase differences can be detected. The
      simplest way to alter intracranial compliance is to make postural changes. When a patient is
      in the Trendelenburg position, venous outflow out of the brain is hindered resulting in an
      increase in ICP and presumably a reduction in compliance. Conversely, raising the head of bed
      to 60 degrees will result in the opposite effect. The second mechanism of altering compliance
      (and ICP) will occur as a result of treating the hydrocephalus with a CSF shunt. Because we
      are able to study hydrocephalus patients prior to shunting as part of their diagnostic
      workup, we create a new state with the shunt that will allow us to further characterize the
      intracranial system.
    
  