
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has increased dramatically throughout the world over the past
      decades despite the availability of several different treatment options. Current
      pharmacologic treatments include insulin, thiazolidinediones, sulfonylureas, metformin,
      dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors, and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) mimetics. A
      number of these treatments are associated with clinically important side effects such as low
      blood sugar (hypoglycemia), weight gainflud retention, exaggeration of pre-existent heart
      failure, and gastrointestinal side effects. These side effects and the disadvantages
      associated with many of the currently available antidiabetic agents can reduce compliance and
      limit their long-term use.

      Insulin is a hormone that is produced by the body to regulate blood sugar (glucose). In
      individuals with T2DM, the insulin produced by the body does not effectively control the
      amount of sugar in the bloodstream. If not properly managed, T2DM may cause elevated blood
      sugar levels (hyperglycemia) and ultimately result in serious health problems.

      In response to this problem, Takeda is developing TAK-875 (an investigational drug) as an
      addition to diet and exercise to improve blood sugar control in patients with T2DM. TAK-875
      may affect the production of insulin and may improve how the body uses the sugar in the
      blood.

      The aim of this study is to find out if TAK-875, when taken for approximately 2 years in
      combination with current diabetes medicine (called metformin), is safe and effective at
      helping people with T2DM control their high blood sugar when compared to glimepiride (a type
      of medication called a sulfonylurea). The study is being done to find out if the combination
      of TAK-875 plus metformin works as well as the combination of glimepiride plus metformin.

      Approximately 2430 patients worldwide aged 18 or over with T2DM, will take part in this study
      and will be involved in the study for up to 110 or 120 weeks.

      TAK-875 is being developed at Takeda Global Research and Development, Inc. as an adjunct to
      diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in participants with T2DM.

      This study will investigate TAK-875 in participants with type 2 diabetes mellitus whose blood
      sugar level is inadequately controlled with metformin monotherapy.

      Due to potential concerns about liver safety, on balance, the benefits of treating patients
      with fasiglifam (TAK-875) do not outweigh the potential risks.

      For this reason, Takeda has decided voluntarily to terminate the development activities for
      fasiglifam.
    
  