
    
      Competency-based medical education and milestones: Given the increasing emphasis on quality
      metrics and competency in health care, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical
      Education (ACGME) recently announced plans to replace their current reporting system in 2014
      with the Next Accreditation System (NAS). This reporting system focused on: 1) ensuring that
      milestones are reached at various points in training, 2) ensuring that competence is achieved
      by all trainees, and 3) making certain that these assessments are documented by their
      programs.

      Learning curves and competence in EUS: EUS is a vital tool in the diagnosis and staging of
      gastrointestinal and certain non-gastrointestinal malignancies and diseases. EUS is operator
      dependent and training in EUS requires the development of technical and cognitive skills
      beyond that required for standard endoscopic procedures. It is intuitive that the quality of
      EUS in provision of patient care is directly proportional to the training, skill and
      experience of the endosonographer. Unfortunately, the intensity and length of training and
      minimum number of procedures required, requisite curriculum and extent of theoretical
      learning, and methodology to define competence are not well defined. There are limited data
      on learning curves in EUS imaging.Based on expert opinion, the American Society of
      Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) recommends a minimum of 150 total supervised procedures, 75
      of which have a pancreatobiliary indication and 50 cases of fine needle aspiration (FNA) (25
      of which are pancreatic FNA) before competency can be determined.

      Similar guidelines were recently proposed by the British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG)13
      and the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. However, these guidelines have not
      been validated. This does not account for the different rates at which people learn and in
      fact, many experts believe that the majority of trainees will require double the number of
      proposed procedures to achieve competency in EUS.

      Learning curves and competence in ERCP: ERCP is an effective modality in the evaluation and
      management of pancreatobiliary diseases. This procedure can be technically demanding and
      associated with a wide range of adverse events. Technically failed ERCP may result in
      complications, need for additional procedures and their associated costs. Similar to EUS,
      ERCP is operator dependent and requires acquisition of certain technical and cognitive
      skills. There are limited data on learning curves and competence in ERCP, a cannulation rate
      of >80% (with some suggesting >90%) has been considered a surrogate for trainee competency.
      The ASGE recommends a minimum of 180 total procedures, the majority of which are therapeutic
      before competency can be achieved. However, this threshold is based predominantly on biliary
      cannulation success rate and does not take into account procedure complexity and the
      different rates at which people learn. It is also important to note that none of the previous
      studies have evaluated learning curves and competency in other quality indicators such as
      successful stone extraction, traversing and dilating a stricture, stent placement to name a
      few.

      Competency assessment tools: Previous competency assessment tools have focused primarily on a
      limited number of motor skills involved in EUS and ERCP with no procedure-related cognitive
      skill assessment. The investigators have designed a prospective comprehensive competency
      assessment tool using validated benchmarks to define competency thresholds. The EUS and ERCP
      Skills Assessment Tool (TEESAT) can be used in a continuous fashion throughout the duration
      of training to grade technical and cognitive skills in EUS and ERCP in a balanced manner.

      Significance, Innovation and Impact on Training and Education with the launch of the ACGME's
      NAS, advanced endoscopy training programs should utilize competency based medical education
      and demonstrate that advanced endoscopy trainees (AETs) have attained the technical and
      cognitive skills required for safe and effective unsupervised practice in advanced endoscopy.
      Based on the investigators research, the investigators can draw two conclusions: a)
      individuals in training in any technical procedure acquire skills at different rates and
      emphasis needs to be shifted away from the number of procedures performed to performance
      metrics with defined and validated competency thresholds of performance and b) current
      guidelines of performing 150 EUS and 180 ERCPs are inadequate to achieve competence in EUS
      and ERCP, respectively. With the expanding indications and applications of EUS and ERCP and
      establishment of a number of "third tier" training programs in advanced endoscopy,
      standardization of the performance of EUS and ERCP and definition of competence and training
      among AETs is of paramount importance. The potential impacts of this study's results are
      multifold: i) facilitate the ability of training programs to evolve with the new ACGME/NAS
      reporting requirements, (ii) help program directors/trainers and trainees identify specific
      skill deficiencies in training and allowing for tailored, individualized remediation, (iii)
      create a centralized national database that would allow generation of "on-demand" detailed
      reports on how individual trainees are progressing compared with their peers across the
      nation, (iv) establish reliable and generalizable standardized learning curves (milestones)
      and competency benchmarks that national GI societies and training programs can use to develop
      credentialing guidelines.

      APPROACH AND RESEARCH STRATEGY Setting and Subject Recruitment: Program directors and AETs at
      all advanced endoscopy programs registered with the ASGE will be invited to participate in
      this study and will be considered as study participants. AETs will complete a questionnaire
      to determine baseline characteristics and prior experience with EUS and ERCP. AETs' prior
      experience with EUS and ERCP will not be an exclusion criterion for this study.

      Competency assessment tools: Previous competency assessment tools have focused primarily on a
      limited number of motor skills involved in EUS and ERCP with no procedure-related cognitive
      skill assessment. The investigators have designed a prospective comprehensive competency
      assessment tool using validated benchmarks to define competency thresholds. The EUS and ERCP
      Skills Assessment Tool (TEESAT) can be used in a continuous fashion throughout the duration
      of training to grade technical and cognitive skills in EUS and ERCP in a balanced manner.

      Learning curves during independent practice and Quality Indicators in EUS and ERCP: The ASGE
      and ACG Task Force on Quality in Endoscopy recently published documents highlighting quality
      indicators in EUS and ERCP. Impact of structured feedback on learning curves, specifically
      related to quality metrics, during the first year of independent practice for AETs has not
      been evaluated. This is an important component of construct validity for the proposed
      assessment tool and novel web-based comprehensive data collection and reporting, was
      identified as a priority research question by the Task Force. The defined performance targets
      and quality metrics will serve as benchmarks for analysis during training and first year of
      independent practice.
    
  