
    
      Material & methods

      2.1 Ethics The author follows the ethical standards in this clinical-scientific study and
      complains with the Declaration of Helsinki [7, 8]. The local Institutional Review Board (IRB)
      was consulted with the study protocol and informed consent. Based on the Declaration of
      Helsinki, Section C, entitled "Unproven Interventions in Clinical Practice," the study was
      excluded from an IRB formal process. IRB advised referencing the Helsinki Declaration [7, 8].
      All subjects had been furnished with informed consent in writing before enrollment. The
      cadaver study was approved by the local university Ethics Committee (no. AKBE 146/12).

      2.2 Preoperative Evaluation The Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) was used to determine the
      severity of dyspareunia, and the subject's report was incorporated in evaluating other
      symptoms. All study participants were furnished with the standardized self-reported (NPRS)
      form. The numeric formula ranging from 0 to 10 (0, no pain; 1- 4, mild pain; 5 -7, moderate
      pain; 8-10, severe pain). Patients' dyspareunia severity was recorded based on the woman's
      real pain experience during vaginal intercourse.

      The lateral vaginal walls were assessed from fornix to the exterior vaginal introitus,
      site-specific defects were identified and recorded, and photos were taken. Deep dyspareunia
      was reproduced during a clinical vaginal evaluation by poking a defective lateral vaginal
      wall. Induced surrogate pain was the endpoint for actual in-depth deep dyspareunia
      evaluation. In each follow-up visit, the author determined the objective cure rate with
      patient assistance. For this purpose, Extra-Absorbent Large Tipped Applicators with Plastic
      Handle (Puritan Medical Products, Guilford, ME 04443-0149, USA) were used. Patients reported
      the severity of pain, and the author charted pain. The protruding part of the LVW into the
      vaginal canal was evaluated by direct visualization. The prolapsing part was measured from
      the base of LVW to the most protruded portion of the lateral vaginal. This evaluation was
      applied preoperatively and during each follow-up visit.

      2.3 Data Collection and Analysis Objective data were collected during a one-on-one interview
      performed by the author with every subject. Subjective data collected before and after
      surgery and yearly intervals until the completion of the follow-ups. Findings were compared
      with preoperative results, follow-up visits, and recorded.

      2.4 Literature Search Zotero - reference manager, and PubMed, and other non-indexed studies
      were used for electronic medical literature searches regarding the lateral vaginal wall
      anatomy, site-specific defects within this structure, and surgical reconstruction. The
      Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) applied to gather relevant articles. Conference Proceedings
      and specializing website included in searches. Keywords were used: Vaginal wall anatomy;
      Vaginal wall surgical anatomy; Vaginal wall defects; Vaginal introitus; Vaginal tightening;
      Vaginal introitus; Vaginal walls; Lateral vaginal wall defects; Lateral vaginal wall defect
      repairs; Vaginal colporrhaphy.

      2.5 Informed Consent Every subject in the before enrollment received written informed
      consent, which is presented in the present study. At the time of pre-surgical consultation,
      all patients were educated, in understandable terms, on the lateral colporrhaphy. The formal
      inform consent is included in the supplemental file.

      2.6 Local Anesthesia All lateral colporrhaphy performed under local anesthesia. One-hour
      before the operation, a mixture of Lidocaine/Prilocaine (2.5%/2.5%) cream would be applied by
      the patient to the vaginal canal, the posterior perineum, the vaginal vestibule. Thirty
      minutes before the surgery, orally, Valium 2.5-5 mg and Phenergan 12.5 mg rectal suppository
      for light conscious sedation was administered. Bupivacaine 0.5 % with epinephrine solution
      (Hospira, Inc., Lake Forest, IL USA) used for vaginal wall infiltration if a patient was not
      sensitive to this agent (a skin test would be done before a surgical intervention).

      2.7 Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria The consecutive corpses who demised within 24-hour and
      did not undergo a preservation process were included for the study and rehearsal. Those alive
      women who presented with lateral vaginal defects prolapsing into the vaginal canal and
      affiliated with moderate to severe deep dyspareunia were included. Anteverted uterus,
      anterior or posterior, colporrhaphy, and intact paravaginal suspension were prerequisites for
      inclusion. No concomitant procedure was performed during lateral vaginal wall repair. Women
      who presented with anterior or posterior vaginal wall defects (cystocele or rectocele),
      paravaginal defect, lateral vaginal defect, and did not have a prior surgical treatment for
      those conditions were excluded. Retroverted uterus, pregnancy, current infection of the lower
      genital tract, general illnesses, and inflammatory disorder constituted reasons for subjects
      being excluded from the study. Additionally, women who underwent a prior hysterectomy,
      bilateral oophorectomy, or had the diagnosis of vaginal dryness, endometriosis, prolapse,
      myofascial pain were excluded. A total of eight patients were excluded from the study.

      2.8 Cadaveric Rehearsal Stratum-by-stratum anatomical cadaveric dissection was performed to
      verify the gross anatomy on one side of the same subject to identify the lateral vaginal wall
      and its supportive/suspending structures. On the other side of the same corps, rehearsal of
      the newly developed lateral vaginal wall colporrhaphy concept was exercised according to the
      narrative description of this surgical intervention, which is described below.

      2.9 Surgical Intervention The surgery on live subjects was performed under x 3,5-4.0
      magnifying loupe. A small vertical incision was made approximately 0.5 - 1.0 cm from the
      inner hymeneal ring on the lateral vaginal mucosa (between 2 and 3 o'clock on the left and 8
      and 9 o'clock on the right side). The incision continued until after the full thickness of
      the vaginal wall was exposed. A traction suture, without tying, placed on the distal edge of
      the incision. The full thickness of the vaginal wall was dissected-off from vaginal
      inner-lateral defect. Approximately 1.0 cm above the proximal defect, another traction suture
      placed, without tying, and lateral sub-vaginal anatomical defect(s) was exposed. Both
      traction sutures were stretched, and scarification of defect edges was carried out until
      fresh oozing blood was observed. Edges of defects were approximated with a simple interrupted
      2-0 delayed absorbable suture on a tapered, small needle. Site-specific defects
      reconstructions were completed in layers; the vaginal mucosa was trimmed and closed with a
      single interrupted 3-0 delayed stitch on a taper needle. Meticulous hemostasis was achieved.
      The overall procedure duration was measured in each case from the first incision to the
      operation's completion. The follow-up study was conducted at a one-year interval for 3 years.
    
  