
    
      Specific Aims. The objectives of this study are two-fold: (1) To test the feasibility of a
      low intensity, home-based exergaming intervention in individuals with advanced HF/MCC prior
      to left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation or orthotopic heart transplantation
      (OHT), and (2) To examine the effectiveness of delivering a low intensity, home-based
      exergaming intervention to decrease frailty and fatigue and improve affective well-being,
      functional capacity, and immune function in individuals with advanced HF/MCC prior to
      receiving an LVAD or OHT.

      Other surgical populations who were deconditioned, fatigued, and frail before surgery have
      benefited from the use of pre-surgical fitness interventions (prehabilitation).3-5 Innovative
      interventions strategies, like the Nintendo Wii Fit exergaming system, have been successful
      at engaging seriously ill adults in low-intensity physical activity6,7. However, exergaming
      interventions have not yet been applied in individuals with advanced HF as prehabilitation
      prior to LVAD implantation or OHT. The investigators propose that a home-based,
      prehabilitation exergaming intervention will not only enhance pre-surgical outcomes but will
      also augment postoperative outcomes.

      The investigators will conduct this study in two phases. Phase 1 is designed as a feasibility
      study in a smaller sample (5 participants and 5 informal caregivers) to allow initial
      evaluation of the intervention including troubleshooting the technological components and
      evaluating study recruitment, retention, and intervention safety prior to initiating the
      larger, two-group randomized study. Phase 2 will enroll a convenience sample of 40
      participants with advanced HF/MCC who are being evaluated for LVAD implantation or OHT at
      Nebraska Medicine and their 40 informal caregivers for a total sample of 80 enrollees (n=40
      exergaming, n=40 usual care).

      In both phases, the exergaming group will participate in a low-intensity exergaming
      intervention and additional investigator-developed educational modules (e.g. symptoms while
      exercising, exercising with heart failure) that will be delivered via the Nintendo Wii U
      exergaming system. Investigator-developed modules are designed to promote self-efficacy,
      self-regulation, and activation. Individuals with advanced HF/MCC will be expected to
      participate in the exergaming intervention and the investigator-developed modules. Caregivers
      will be asked to be present for all training sessions and participate in the
      investigator-developed modules. The investigators will evaluate pre- and post-surgical
      frailty, fatigue, affective well-being, and immune function as primary outcomes in the
      individuals with advanced HF/MCC. The investigators expect that participation in low
      intensity exergaming will improve these primary outcomes pre- and post-surgically, and
      decrease post-surgical complications and health care utilization. Relationships will be
      examined among self-efficacy, self-regulation, and activation scores over time, and adherence
      to the intervention to test whether self-management mechanisms were effective in promoting
      adherence. Additionally, post-intervention qualitative interviews will be conducted to assess
      participant and caregiver experiences with the intervention.

      Specific aims of this study are the following:

      Aim 1 (Phase 1): Evaluate the feasibility of the home-based, low intensity exergaming
      intervention in individuals with advanced HF/MCC prior to LVAD implantation or OHT and their
      informal caregivers by assessing recruitment, enrollment, acceptability, adherence, subjects
      perception of barriers and facilitators, and implementation (delivery, fidelity, and
      procedures for data collection).

      Aim 2 (Phase 2): Evaluate the impact of home-based, low intensity exergaming on pre- and
      post-surgical outcomes: frailty, fatigue, affective well-being, immune function, and
      biomarkers of co-morbid conditions at baseline, 4 weeks, and 1 and 3 months post-surgery
      compared to usual care (All subjects with advanced HF/MCC).

      H1. Subjects in the exergaming group will have decreased frailty and fatigue and improved
      affective well-being and immune function compared to usual care.

      Aim 3 (Phase 2): Evaluate the impact of home-based, low intensity exergaming on post-surgical
      complications (death, infection, bleeding, and rejection) and health care utilization
      (emergency department visits, unplanned hospital admissions) compared to usual care (both
      groups of subjects).

      H2.a. Subjects in the exergaming group will have fewer post-surgical complications compared
      to usual care.

      H2.b. Subjects in the exergaming group will have fewer emergency department visits and
      hospital admissions compared to usual care.

      Aim 4 (Phase 2): Explore relationships among self-efficacy, self-regulation, and activation
      scores over time, intervention adherence, and pre- and post-surgical outcomes (Exergaming
      group participants and caregivers only).

      There is a critical need to address deconditioning, fatigue, and frailty in individuals with
      advanced HF/MCC prior to LVAD implantation or OHT. This innovative exergaming intervention
      incorporates the use of an interactive, home-based technology to improve pre-and
      post-surgical outcomes
    
  