
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the efficacy of CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone)
      with or without rituximab in patients with previously untreated HIV-associated non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma.

      II. Determine the efficacy of rituximab as maintenance therapy following remission induction
      with CHOP in these patients.

      III. Determine the effect of rituximab on the immune system and HIV viral load in these
      patients.

      IV. Determine the relationship between EBV load and the presence of EBV in lymphoma tumor
      cells of these patients.

      V. Compare the effect of CHOP with or without rituximab on EBV load in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study.

      Patients are stratified by extent of disease (stage I/II vs III/IV). Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

      Arm I: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 3 and
      oral prednisone on days 3-7. Patients receive rituximab on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3
      weeks for a minimum of 4 courses or 2 courses beyond complete response in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stage I, stage IE (including
      bulky), or nonbulky stage II or IIE disease receive 3 courses of chemotherapy with rituximab
      followed by radiotherapy beginning 3 weeks after completion of the third course. Patients who
      achieve partial response for a minimum of 28 days or complete response receive maintenance
      rituximab IV beginning on day 28 of the final course of chemotherapy. Maintenance rituximab
      treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 courses.

      Arm II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 1 and
      oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for a minimum of 4 courses or 2
      courses beyond complete response. Patients with stage I, stage IE (including bulky), or
      nonbulky stage II or IIE disease receive 3 courses of chemotherapy. Patients receive
      radiotherapy beginning 3 weeks after completion of the third course of chemotherapy.

      Both arms: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 4 and
      continuing through day 13 of each chemotherapy course or until blood counts recover.

      Patients are followed every 4 weeks for 1 year and then every 2 months until death.
    
  