
    
      Advances in characterization and diagnosis of type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) led to the
      identification of a rapidly growing number of individuals who fall under a 'gray zone' of
      disturbed yet non-diabetic fasting or post-prandial glucose levels, termed pre-diabetes,
      impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), or simply individuals with fasting or post-prandial glucose
      levels in the upper-normal range. All of these poorly characterized groups are at substantial
      risk for long-term medical complications. Consequently, categorization of glucose levels into
      'healthy', 'pre-diabetic' or 'diabetic' is increasingly seen as artificial, and both glucose
      levels and risk of diabetes are considered as continuous variables. In the past three
      decades, glucose levels have been rapidly increasing in the overall population in developed
      and developing countries alike, resulting in a sharp incline in the prevalence of both
      pre-diabetes and IGT. In the U.S. alone, the estimates are that 79 million people have been
      affected by 2010, and the projections suggest that 472 million people will be affected
      worldwide by 2030. Up to 70-90% of those individuals with IGT or pre-diabetes proceed to
      develop full-blown T2DM. Furthermore, most micro and macrovascular complications, including
      chronic renal disease, sensory and autonomic neuropathy and diabetic retinopathy, may be
      present already at the pre-diabetic stage. In addition, pre-diabetic hyperglycemia is linked
      to multiple manifestations of the metabolic syndrome, such as obesity, hypertension and
      hypertriglyceridemia, and is an independent risk factor for major macrovascular events such
      as coronary heart disease and total vascular mortality. Despite these serious risks, and in
      striking contrast to overt diabetes, hyperglycemia, pre-diabetes and IGT are fully
      reversible, with up to 55- 80% of individuals reported to revert to normoglycemia and
      normoinsulinemia upon life-style modifications. Thus, maintaining normal blood sugar levels
      is crucial for the prevention and control of diabetes and the various other consequences of
      the metabolic syndrome. The glycemic index (GI), which quantifies the glycemic response to
      particular foods, was developed for this purpose, but low GI diets have poor predictive value
      for T2DM development in both the healthy and pre-diabetic settings. This limited success of
      the GI index may be an inherent problem to any method that assigns a single value to a given
      food, since individuals vary greatly in their glycemic response to the same food, and even
      the nature of variation is currently poorly characterized. Along these lines, emerging data
      from our group and others strongly suggest that proper control and modulation of the glycemic
      response to foods relies on person-specific factors and thus, only interventions that are
      individually tailored can achieve proper glycemic control. Although variations in
      host-related genetic factors affect the normal and post-prandial glycemic response, these
      factors are estimated to account for only ~10% of the metabolic phenotype. This low estimate
      is reinforced by the growing incidence of diabetes in recent years. In contrast, increasing
      importance in glucose homeostasis is being attributed to environmental factors such as the
      composition and function of the cumulative intestinal microbiota. This immense and poorly
      understood ecosystem of over 1500 species of bacteria, fungi, and their viruses are modulated
      by diet, and in turn, profoundly regulate host metabolic processes. Evidence for this
      host-microbiota interplay includes a distinct microbiota composition found in T2DM patients;
      and numerous alterations in the microbiome composition and expression of major metabolic
      pathways found one day after switching from a plant polysaccharide-based diet to a sugary
      "western" diet in germ-free mice inoculated with a human microbiota. Furthermore,
      microbiota-induced local gut inflammation was recently linked to a propensity for glucose
      intolerance, which was reversible upon antibiotic treatment. In this study the investigators
      will characterize the blood glucose responses and microbiota of healthy individuals, aiming
      to assess the influence of food intake on gut microbiota and the influence of gut microbiota
      on glycemic responses.
    
  