
    
      The primary purpose of this three arm randomized clinical trial is to determine if apical
      transvaginal mesh placement is non-inferior to sacral colpopexy for anatomic correction of
      post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse and to determine if mesh reinforced repairs
      performed by abdominal or vaginal approach are superior to native tissue vaginal repair. This
      trial has the following primary aims:

      1. To determine if Apical Transvaginal Mesh is non-inferior to Sacral Colpopexy for anatomic
      correction of post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse at time points through 3 years.

      1A. In the case where Apical Transvaginal Mesh is shown to be statistically significantly
      non-inferior to Sacral Colpopexy for anatomic correction of post-hysterectomy vaginal vault
      prolapse at time points through 3 years, to determine if Apical Transvaginal Mesh is superior
      to Sacral Colpopexy for anatomic correction of post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse at
      time points through 3 years.

      2. To determine if Sacral Colpopexy is superior to Native Tissue Repair for anatomic
      correction of post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse at time points through 3 years.

      3. To determine if Apical Transvaginal Mesh is superior to Native Tissue Repair for anatomic
      correction of post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse at time points through 3 years.

      Additional secondary aims include:

        1. Evaluate the development of a valid and reliable Global Composite Outcome that balances
           adverse events and patient-centered outcomes to anatomic definitions of failure and
           success.

        2. Determine the impact of preoperative frailty and mobility on surgical treatment outcomes
           and postoperative complications of older women following surgical correction of apical
           pelvic organ prolapse.

        3. Evaluate the patient's perspective about adverse events and their role in patient
           decision-making outcomes. The aims include comparing patient versus surgeon rankings of
           complication grade, outcome, expectedness and seriousness, to estimate the association
           between patient rankings of adverse events (AEs) with decision-making and quality of
           life outcomes and to determine if their perspective about AEs changes over time.
    
  