
    
      Vascular or venous invasion in patients with rectal cancer has been considered a significant
      prognostic factor for over half a century. Interest in understanding the mechanisms that
      govern tumour spread from the rectum to distant sites such as the liver has driven the study
      of lymphatic and vascular invasion by malignant cells. Venous invasion has traditionally been
      identified on histological analysis of resection specimens but there remains variability
      between pathologists. Inconsistencies in the histological methods used in identifying venous
      or vascular invasion have led to difficulties in interpreting the actual incidence or
      prevalence; the literature reports prevalence ranging between 9-61%. None-the-less EMVI is
      considered an independent prognostic factor and as such has been recognised by the Royal
      College of Pathologists in the UK by including it in the minimum dataset for reporting
      colorectal cancers.

      More recently, the increasing accuracy of high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      has meant that prognostic factors such as extra mural venous invasion can be confidently
      identified on imaging. The literature has shown that EMVI can be well identified using MRI.
      mrEMVI has also been shown to be an independent prognostic factor for disease recurrence
      following chemoradiotherapy. Furthermore MRI can identify additional cases of EMVI when
      compared to routine histopathology and the degree of improvement of mrEMVI on post-CRT scans
      is associated with improved disease-free survival.

      Circulating cell-free tumour DNA (ctDNA) can be detected in the blood of patients with both
      metastatic and primary carcinoma. By virtue of the presence of EMVI, it is likely that tumour
      cells and DNA fragments are more likely to be shed, and a higher blood circulating % mutation
      frequency will be seen as compared to patients who are mrEMVI negative.

      These tumour fragments may then act as microemboli to other sites and potentially increase
      the risk of developing metastases. Furthermore intra-operative manipulation of the tumour
      itself may lead to greater release of tumour cells into the mesenteric circulation suggested
      by wedge shaped defects in the liver after surgical resection due to portal vein thrombi.

      There are several ways in which to identify cell free tumour DNA. Studies using polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR- a way to concentrate the amount of ctDNA to become a meaningful
      measurable amount which can then be used to assess for aberrations) also showed ctDNA to be
      associated with increased risk of disease recurrence and worse survival outcomes. There is no
      standard technique and confounding factors are present in each step of the analysis of ctDNA,
      which can lead to sampling errors and inconsistencies. This lead to development of several
      techniques to try to increase the isolation of the DNA such as fast spin columns so that
      ctDNA only binds to a silica gel and then eluted by using water or a buffer system.
      Polymerase chain reaction can be used to quantify the tumour ctDNA. Other techniques include
      double spinning and the use of phenol-chloroform, amplification methods or rapid spinning to
      retrieve small DNA fragments. Early studies measured and quantified the total amount of
      circulating DNA and found that higher amounts of overall cell free DNA was associated with
      tumour. ctDNA from tumour cells can be distinguished from normal ctDNA by examining its
      profile in relation to size and fragmentation however debate arose on whether longer or
      shorter fragments were associated with tumour resulting in unclear conclusions. Circulating
      tumour DNA has been hypothesized as arising from tumour, normal tissue or tumour-associated
      stromal cells, however, tumour derived ctDNA tended to be more fragmented and exhibit a
      greater variation in size although overall were larger than ctDNA arising from normal tissue.

      Investigation into whether there is a spike in the intra-operative phase would be of
      interest. A further study shows that recurrent disease is related to ctDNA increases and is
      higher in patients with metastatic disease and furthermore those patients with higher ctDNA
      levels and metastases have a poorer prognosis. The challenge with this type of analysis is
      that the cell-free DNA may or may not be directly related to tumour and so more recently
      focus has been turned on tumour specific cell free tumour DNA as defined by known mutations
      such as kras and p53 (tumour p53 is termed tp53).

      In colorectal cancer the majority of patients have non-hypermutated tumours on histology. Of
      the hyper-mutated tumours TP53 and KRAS make up 60% and 43% of mutations respectively. The
      investigators will screen blood-based ctDNA for p53 and KRAS. When the investigators take the
      blood they will get a certain amount of circulating DNA which could be tumour or normal and
      then they analyse this to see if it has the mutations and if it does then the investigators
      can call it ctDNA (circulating tumour DNA). If there is no mutation this does not necessarily
      exclude ctDNA because there is a sensitivity and specificity associated with the analysis
      methods of the mutations (i.e KRAS and tp53) and not all tumours will have the KRAS or p53
      mutations. In some reports from colorectal cancer the pick-up rate for these mutations in
      blood correlates to 100% of those tumours found to have the same mutation on histology.
      Furthermore plasma or serum sampling may be more sensitive and so in a cohort of 100 patients
      the pick-up rate of tumours may be up to 70% for one or the other mutations (kras and TP53).
      In other cancers such as lung cancer, the investigators pick up 65% of mutation in the blood,
      therefore on average the investigators can expect to detect 0.65 x 60 = 39% of patients to
      have detectable mutations in the blood. For this study it is likely then that the pick-up
      rate will lie between 39 - 70%. In this group, the investigators will be able to compare the
      ctDNA profile between EMVI positive and negative tumours after neoadjuvant long course
      chemoradiotherapy and determine if the ctDNA profile changes intraoperatively.
    
  