
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) is a syndrome that is characterized by generalized musculoskeletal pain,
      fatigue, unrepairable sleep, cognitive alterations, depressive and neurovegetative symptoms,
      whose neurobiological process is multiple and complex. Although it is of great relevance to
      the individual and to society, this pathology often does not receive the necessary attention
      by the organs that define the priorities of health care. Population prevalence, according to
      the criteria of the American Society of Rheumatology, reaches 5.4%, and the costs of care,
      taxes and early retirement due to disability are estimated at more than the US $ 29 billion
      per year in the United States. It is known that conventional pharmacological therapies
      produce insignificant responses in more than 50% of patients. It is postulated that these
      high rates of failure are due in part to a lack of knowledge about pathophysiological
      mechanisms. What is known so far is that the peripheral mechanisms contribute to the FM
      picture, but dysfunction in central neurobiological pathways surely commands the process,
      perpetuating the dysfunctional process that includes central sensitization (CS). CS comprises
      the symptoms of fibromyalgia syndrome that culminates in a state of hypersensitivity that
      expresses the imbalance of the excitation/inhibition processes that sustain this condition of
      non-pathological pain. Functional alterations of the motor cortex and its connections with
      subcortical structures that constitute the neuromatrix of pain have now been demonstrated.
      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), using the resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI)
      technique, has also demonstrated that high intrinsic functional connectivity (IFC) is related
      to pain intensity on FM.

      Considering the central component of FM, the focus of research on current therapeutic
      approaches has been techniques that may modify the dysfunctional neuroplasticity process,
      such as transcranial direct current (tDCS) stimulation in order to counteract the dysfunction
      responsible for triggering and maintain the symptoms of FM. Although this technique is
      gaining space in research and in the clinical scenario, many questions remain to be answered,
      such as time of treatment, place to be stimulated and neurophysiological clarification of the
      mechanisms involved.

      Based on the presented scenario, the present project was organized, being a double-blinded
      parallel randomized controlled trial with 20 female patients with FM diagnosed according to
      the criteria of the American Society of Rheumatology (2010 - reviewed in 2016) between 19 and
      65 years of age, randomized to receive active or simulated anodic pole over the left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) (10 patients in each group). Twenty 20 minute
      sessions, with a current intensity of 2 milliampere, will be performed.

      In order to respond to the objectives of this study, the IFC will be evaluated before and
      after the intervention, through rs-fMRI using seed-based correlation analysis (SCA). The
      investigators have a secondary objective to correlate structural connectivity through the
      technique of diffusion tensors imaging (DTI) with measures of pain, functional capacity,
      depressive symptoms and catastrophism to pain.

      The hypothesis is that in FM there is a syndrome of dysfunction in basal IFC and that the
      tDCS has a neuromodulatory effect capable of reducing connectivity between brain areas
      related to chronic pain and other neuropsychiatric components of FM, such as the
      ventrolateral thalamus, cortex motor, prefrontal cortex, insular cortex, hippocampus,
      periaqueductal gray matter, among others. The investigators believe that a higher
      cortico-thalamic IFC and between regions with high density of opioid receptors have a
      positive predictive response in the treatment of tDCS.

      If the hypothesis is proven, the IFC data may serve as a biological marker associated with
      the perception of pain and its clinical presentation, and consequently, open the possibility
      of including IFC as a diagnostic parameter and therapeutic response. In addition to the
      possible contribution to knowledge production, this project aims to transfer the technology
      acquired and developed to the community, and thus benefit millions of people suffering from
      chronic FM pain with limited diagnostic and therapeutic perspectives, as well as extending
      the knowledge acquired for other neuropsychiatric disorders, such as depression.
    
  