
    
      This is a dose escalation study that utilizes a constant incremental dose increase of 50
      mg/m2 per cohort. Patients will be enrolled in cohorts of three patients each, and escalation
      of dose to the next cohort will be determined based on dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in the
      previous cohort. DLT is defined as any adverse event (AE) of severity grade 3, 4 or 5
      (including serious or life-threatening) considered possibly, probably or definitely related
      to L-NDDP (CTCAE v3.0), which occurs during cycle 1, excluding those events that occur and
      are completely resolved within 4-6 hours of the first dose of L-NDDP (infusion-related
      reactions). This study also aims to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intravenous
      L-NDDP, defined as the dose level at which no more than one out of six patients has any DLT.
      Once the MTD has been determined, an additional four patients will be enrolled at that dose
      level (for a total of 10 patients at the MTD dose level). While the MTD is determined based
      on safety data from each cohort's first cycle of L-NDDP therapy only, patients may continue
      treatment with additional cycles of L-NDDP at the same dose as their starting dose until
      documented progression, unacceptable toxicity or another off study criterion is met. Patients
      who have not met any of the off study criteria and continue to receive L-NDDP therapy at the
      time when MTD is determined may be allowed to change L-NDDP dose to the MTD dose level. The
      study will also determine the pharmacokinetic profile of L-NDDP administration through whole
      blood, plasma, and urine samples drawn before, during, and after L-NDDP administration.
      Clinical activity of L-NDDP in solid tumor patients will be assessed as tumor response using
      the RECIST criteria. Clinical activity of L-NDDP in B-Cell lymphoma patients will be assessed
      using the International Working Group Recommendations.
    
  