
    
      To test the hypothesis, state-of-the-art techniques for a comprehensive assessment of liver
      disease severity and metabolic function will be employed. NAFLD severity and treatment
      effects will be evaluated on the basis of liver fat content (MR spectroscopy), liver enzymes,
      liver-specific inflammation and fibrosis markers and fibrosis (fibroscan). Metabolic function
      will be investigated by basal and insulin mediated whole-body glucose, fatty acid and VLDL-TG
      turnover, postprandial insulin secretion and clearance (mixed meal test in conjunction with
      oral minimal modeling). Body composition (total fat mass, leg fat and fat free mass) will be
      assessed by DEXA-scanning; visceral and upper-body subcutaneous fat by MR-imaging, and fat
      content of skeletal muscle and liver by MR-spectroscopy. All outcomes will be assessed at
      baseline, after 4 wk on a eucaloric diet (weight maintenance), and after an additional 20 wk
      on a hypocaloric diet (5% weight loss), in 54 patients with NAFLD and obesity (BMI ≥30 kg/m2)
      but without diabetes. Subjects will be block randomized to one of three treatment groups
      (WPI, MCI, or standard diet, n=18 in each group). A biobank of serum/plasma/DNA including fat
      and skeletal muscle biopsies will be established for mechanistic analysis in a planned future
      work-package. Patient related outcomes will include specific questionnaires (CLDQ-NAFLD,
      SF-36).

      All subjects will be phone-contacted on a regular basis by study personnel to monitor
      progress, resolve problems with the diets, and reinforce compliance; and meet in person with
      the study dietitians weekly during the weight maintenance phase and biweekly during the
      weight loss phase to have their body weight measured and receive dietary counselling. Before
      study initiation, the research teams will put together standardized procedures for patient
      contact and nutrition counselling, including creating nutrition information leaflets specific
      to each randomization arm, to ensure uniformity between the study centers. In practice,
      dietary guidance will be tailored to the individual patient to ensure weight maintenance
      within 2% of baseline body weight during the first phase (weight stability), and a weight
      loss of 0.25% per week to reach the target 5% weight loss after 20 weeks during the second
      phase (weight loss); energy intake will be adjusted as necessary by adding or removing
      carbohydrate to meet the desired goals. Three-day diet records will be collected before and
      every 2 weeks during the interventions to evaluate energy and macronutrient intakes. A 3-hour
      urine sample will be collected during the mixed meal test at baseline, after 4 and 24 weeks
      in order to monitor dietary protein intake. Participants will be instructed in how to do the
      sampling and storing the sample cool during the collection.
    
  