
    
      Major depression has become a health crisis of epidemic proportions in the modern world. The
      prevalence of major depression has risen over the last several generations in every country
      examined, and age of symptom onset has decreased. Currently the fourth leading health burden
      worldwide, major depression will rank second after cardiac disease as a cause of
      international medical morbidity by the year 2020. One in six individuals in the United States
      will experience an episode of major depression in his or her lifetime, and the risk of
      subsequent episodes rises dramatically once a person has been depressed. Indeed, depression
      is now recognized to be a highly chronic and recurrent illness. On average, patients with
      major depression are symptomatic 60% of the time, even when receiving community-standard
      antidepressant treatment. Recent estimates place the economic burden of depression in the
      United States at 83 billion dollars a year.

      Depression is associated with greater disability than are most other chronic illnesses and is
      a risk factor for mortality. Suicide ranks among the top ten causes of death in the United
      States, and best estimates suggest that 60-70% of people who kill themselves are clinically
      depressed. Between 10-15% of severely depressed people eventually commit suicide. In
      addition, many studies indicate that depression significantly increases all-cause mortality
      independently of suicide. Depression predicts the later development of a number of medical
      conditions, including cardiac and cerebrovascular disease, hypertension,diabetes,obesity and
      the metabolic syndrome,dementia, and cancer. Depression also markedly increases mortality in
      patients who are medically ill and has been associated with decreased responses to
      pharmacological treatments for cancer and hepatitis C.

      Unfortunately, most patients with depression do not experience a complete resolution of
      symptoms with antidepressant treatment and 10-20% of patients are refractory to all currently
      available modalities, including electroconvulsive shock (ECT) therapy. ECT is often effective
      in patients who have failed adequate trials of multiple antidepressants, but is associated
      with the risk of anesthesia and with significant short term memory impairment. Responses to
      ECT are short-lived, and many patients who respond subsequently relapse, even when on
      maintenance antidepressants. In addition to efficacy issues, many patients are unable to
      tolerate side effects associated with antidepressants or ECT. The risks of not responding to
      (or tolerating) treatment have been highlighted by recent studies documenting that
      partial-but incomplete-response is associated with an increased risk of full symptomatic
      relapse (even when on therapy) and a worse long term disease course, as well as with
      significantly impaired quality of life. Treatment resistance also results in a six times
      increase in direct health care costs. These factors highlight the tremendous need to identify
      novel treatment strategies, especially for depressed patients who are unresponsive to
      conventional therapies.

      One possible mechanism that may contribute to treatment resistance is increased
      proinflammatory cytokine production and release. Several lines of evidence indicate that
      proinflammatory cytokines participate in the pathophysiology of major depression and may thus
      represent a novel target for the pharmacological treatment of the disorder. First, a high
      percentage of patients who receive cytokine therapies (such as interferon-alpha for malignant
      melanoma or hepatitis C infection) develop depressive symptoms, and many patients meet full
      criteria for major depression. Interferon-alpha-induced depressive symptoms can be
      ameliorated by pre-treatment with an antidepressant and respond to antidepressants once they
      have emerged. Second, many studies report that, as a group, medically healthy patients with
      depression exhibit elevated measures of proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-6. Moreover, a positive relationship between
      serum concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines and severity of depressive symptoms has
      been recently reported. Third, antidepressants have been shown to have anti-inflammatory
      activity and may work-at least in part-by reducing inflammatory activity, given evidence that
      clinical response is associated with reductions in cytokine levels. These data raise the
      possibility that cytokine antagonists, such as the chimeric anti-TNF-alpha antibody
      infliximab, might have antidepressant efficacy. Of special relevance to this proposal,
      patients who are treatment resistant have been shown to exhibit increased inflammatory
      activity (as reflected by increased plasma concentrations of interleukin [IL]-6 and the
      soluble IL-6 receptor [sIL-6R]), suggesting that cytokine antagonists might be especially
      effective in these patients.

      Providing care to patients with inflammatory bowel disease has given us the clear clinical
      impression that infliximab rapidly improves mood and energy levels in many patients prior to
      any demonstrable changes in bowel pathology. This impression is in line with a growing body
      of evidence suggesting that TNF-alpha antagonists improve emotional functioning and fatigue
      in patients receiving these agents for rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease.
      These findings in patients with inflammatory diseases are consistent with the notion that
      TNF-alpha antagonists such as infliximab might provide acute symptomatic relief for medically
      healthy patients with treatment-resistant major depression and that symptom improvement might
      result from decreased inflammatory activity. Moreover, medically healthy depressed patients
      with increased inflammatory activity may be most likely to benefit from anti-TNF-alpha
      therapy.
    
  