
    
      The outbreak of the new coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) has become a public health emergency of
      international concern that has not only threatened people's physical health but has also
      affected mental health and psychological well-being. Among the several symptoms can be
      observed an affected sleep quality, symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder, anxiety,
      depression, and complicated grief, among others.

      To provide treatment in such conditions where face-to-face sessions are not possible, and the
      number of patients surpasses the number of available therapists it will be implemented an
      online intervention based on positive psychology. positive Psychology has been defined as the
      scientific study of positive experiences, positive individual traits, the institutions that
      facilitate their development, and the programs that help to improve the quality of life of
      the individuals while preventing or reducing the incidence of psychopathology.

      The online intervention system Mental Health Platform COVID-19 will be delivered in 15
      modules interconnected, implemented one per session. The objective of this study is to assess
      the efficacy and moderators of change of an intervention program based on the Positive
      Psychology approach for the reduction of anxious and depressive symptoms, increase of
      positive emotions and sleep quality during and after the contingency by COVID-19 by means of
      a telepsychology.

      This study will have two intervention groups, one that will receive the online intervention
      plus a chat added element. The chat service will be provided by clinical therapists through
      the Tawk application where participants can receive help if they have questions about a
      module and its activities or a technical problem, in addition to other functions. The
      comparison group will receive the same intervention however will not include the chat
      service. In both conditions, the participants will be measured pre and post. The subjective
      measures will include the following psychometrics:

        1. Scale of Post-traumatic Stress Traits in the Mexican Youth Exposed to Social Violence.

        2. Widespread fear Scale.

        3. State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI).

        4. Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item (GAD-7) scale.

        5. Beck Depression Scale (BDI-II)

        6. The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index

        7. Suicidal Thoughts Scale.
    
  