
    
      Midline incisional hernia is reported from 0,5 to 11% after abdominal operations. Discomfort,
      pain, body image alteration and diminished quality of life influences functional well being.
      Alteration in pulmonary function, risk of visceral incarceration or cutaneous complications
      are potential medical complications. Primary repair without mesh reinforcement is almost
      abandoned because of high recurrence rates (24 to 46%). Recurrence rate with prosthetic
      repair in published series vary from 4% to 29%. Different techniques for mesh placement and
      variety of mesh and fixation material explains this wide range of recurrence rate
      nevertheless, large series with standardized techniques report less than 4% of recurrence
      rates.

      Laparoscopic repair for incisional hernia is first published in 1993. Following reported
      large personal series in recent years and evolution of adapted materiel, this technique
      gained popularity.

      The main difference between open and laparoscopic techniques is the reconstruction of the
      abdominal wall. In all open techniques, abdominal wall is reconstructed (hernia edges brought
      together) with reinforcement of the abdominal wall by a mesh inserted onlay, sublay or inlay.
      In laparoscopic repair, the fascial defect is left in-situ but reinforced with a mesh,
      overlapping largely the edges of hernia.

      Advocated advantages of laparoscopy are: less abdominal wall dissection (less surgical
      complications), tension-free mesh repair (no suturing), less postoperative pain, less
      respiratory complications, shorter hospital stay, faster return to professional activity.
      Disadvantages attributed to laparoscopic repair are the steep learning curve, high material
      cost, longer operation times and rare but serious complications.

      Large series and meta analyses confirmed the value of laparoscopic repair as at least equal
      if not better compared with open repair. Most of the trials are focused on recurrence,
      complication rate, hospital stay and sick leave. Only recently, quality of life and pain
      started to be evaluated. No valuable data exists on chronic pain or persistent neuralgia,
      body image, cosmesis or neuroticism neither after open nor the laparoscopic repair.

      Chronic pain or persistent neuralgia has been recognized as a complication after inguinal
      hernia repair but was reported in the 1980s as a rare and infrequent condition. Studies from
      the mid 1990s have reported a higher frequency, with up to 50% of patients reporting pain
      after hernia repair more than 1 year after surgery. Chronic pain after hernia repair can be
      disabling, with considerable impact on quality of life. The natural history of postoperative
      pain, including its prevalence, etiology, duration, associated disability and it's social and
      economical impact remain undefined.

      We know from our experience in inguinal hernia that chronic pain needs to be investigated
      scrupulously to be identified. 20 to 27% chronic pain is associated to open repair in series
      without specific questionnaires. Overall frequency of chronic pain is higher in studies with
      specific measurements, where pain is the primary outcome of interest. Preoperative
      psychological state of patient (depression, dependencies, drug consumption etc.) or history
      of chronic pain with previous surgery or accident may be a predicting factor.

      The definition of "chronic pain" by the International Association of the Study of Pain is
      "pain lasting for 3 months or more". There is no a consensus on neither in the definition,
      nor the severity grades of CSPOP in the literature. In our study chronic pain is defined as a
      minimal score > 4 using the quadruple visual analogue scale (VASQ) 3 months after procedure.

      Somatic, and neuropathic chronic pain syndromes are described. Neuropathic pain usually
      develops in the sensory distribution of an injured nerve. Chronic residual neuralgia occurs
      as a result of surgical handing of sensory nerves. The nerve trauma can be due to partial or
      complete division, stretching, contusion, crushing, electrical damage, or sutures
      compression. Secondary nerve damage can occur due to irritation or compression by an adjacent
      inflammatory process such as granuloma. Neuropathic pain described as pulling, tugging,
      tearing, throbbing, stabbing, shooting, numbing, and dull. The onset of neuropathic pain is
      often delayed, occurring after a latent period of days to weeks. Pain is often aggravated by
      ambulation and sexual intercourse. Once chronic pain is installed, it does not change without
      a radical treatment. Preoperative psychological state of patient (Depression, dependencies,
      drug consumption etc.) or history of chronic pain with previous surgery or accident may be a
      predicting factor.

      The definition of ''Body image'' is given as person's perception of, satisfaction with, and
      attitudes toward his or her body in general and to particular areas of the body. Little is
      known about the subjective feelings and cosmetic consequences of scarring in patients who
      undergo either conventional or laparoscopic abdominal surgery. Few data has been reported
      about body image in patients with cancer, particular after mutilating operations such as
      mastectomy. Three papers on ileocolectomy, proctectomy and live donor nephrectomy are
      published by Dutch groups, comparing laparoscopy and laparotomy. Body image in presence of an
      incisional hernia is certainly degraded before the surgery, unfortunately no baseline data
      exists to date. Therefore, an hypothetic, relative, significant improvement in body image by
      laparoscopic treatment compared to open repair needs to be evaluated.

      The standard open technique in our institution has two declinations, the first technique is
      retromuscular sublay and the second, open onlay mesh repair. In both techniques the fascial
      defect is closed by suture repair with mesh reinforcement. Superiority of one of these
      techniques compared to another is not proved, properly done, both achieve low recurrence
      rates. Laparoscopic technique needs to meet widely accepted good-practice principles:
      complete adhesiolysis between abdominal wall and viscera, use of specific bilayer mesh (non
      adherent on the visceral surface), coverage of totality of the previous scar length with at
      least 5cm overlap, adequate fixation.
    
  