
    
      The current research builds on previous research targeting heavy drinking among college
      students. A large volume of research has provided an impressive data base supporting one type
      of individually-focused alcohol intervention for this population (i.e., personalized
      feedback). The success of this paradigm has probably contributed to the dearth of
      consideration of alternative paradigms. Expressive writing is one such alternative, which has
      received extensive support in other domains but has only recently been considered as a
      potential intervention for heavy drinking. The preliminary data examining this approach is
      promising and provides a firm foundation for this efficacy trial. Further, this research
      incorporates novel theoretical constructs including the specific focus on guilt in expressive
      writing content as well as "change thought," as an analogue to the mechanism presumed to
      underlie motivational treatments for alcohol and other substance use disorders. The
      investigators plan to employ similar methods which have been used successfully in other large
      NIAAA funded trials evaluating brief interventions for heavy drinking college students.

      This research consists of an intervention study to evaluate expressive writing as a brief
      intervention in reducing drinking and improving psychological well-being among college
      students. Participation in the study involves completion of a screening assessment, a
      baseline assessment, the intervention procedure, post-intervention assessment, and follow-up
      assessments at 1-, 3-, 6-, and 12-months. Heavy drinking college students (N = 600) will be
      randomly assigned to one of six conditions based on the 2 (alcohol vs. distress topics) × 2
      (guilt vs. no guilt focus) + 1 (neutral control) + 1 (personalized normative feedback)
      design. Before completing the baseline survey, students will be randomly assigned to one of
      six study conditions, five of which involve writing during three sessions over the course of
      one month. Specifically, participants will be assigned to write about a heavy drinking event,
      a heavy drinking event that elicited guilt, a distressing event, a distressing event that
      elicited guilt, or their first day of college (neutral control condition).

      Participants randomly assigned to the PNF condition will receive traditional personalized
      normative feedback regarding how their drinking compares with other students of the same
      gender at the university. The norms will come from a large recently completed alcohol survey
      conducted at the University of Houston examining social norms and alcohol prevention
      (R01AA014576). To maintain consistency across conditions, participants in the PNF condition
      will still come into the lab three times. They will receive feedback during the first
      intervention session and will be asked to complete the same narrative prompts as the neutral
      control condition for their second and third session. For individuals in the expressive
      writing conditions, there will be three narrative prompts to complete every week for three
      weeks, the first of which will occur following the baseline assessment. All baseline
      assessments, narrative intervention assignments, and immediate post-tests for all conditions
      will be conducted in-lab. All other assessments including screening and follow-up assessments
      will be completed remotely by web. The rationale for including a personalized normative
      feedback condition is to be able to compare the efficacy of expressive writing interventions
      with existing brief alcohol interventions. Thus, the present design allows not only for
      evaluation of efficacy relative to a control condition but also will evaluate comparative
      efficacy relative to an existing empirically-supported brief alcohol intervention.

      Aims will be evaluated using multi-level regression analyses, often referred to as
      Hierarchical Linear Modeling (HLM) or mixed-effects modeling. With respect to evaluating main
      effects of experimental conditions on drinking, each participant will provide baseline,
      post-intervention, 1-month, 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month follow-up data. Hypotheses will be
      tested using specific contrast vectors, using a general linear hypothesis framework. The
      study consists of a (2×2+1+1) design, represented as a factorial design with the addition of
      a control group that will write about their first day of school and a computer-based PNF
      comparison group. Hypotheses will be tested with contrasts corresponding to the questions of
      interest. The first two hypotheses represent contrasts between the alcohol narrative
      conditions and the neutral control condition (H1a) and between the guilt narrative conditions
      and the neutral control condition (H1b). In examining these hypotheses, the investigators
      will construct two dummy coded variables reflecting alcohol versus non-alcohol narratives
      conditions and between guilt and non-guilt narrative conditions with the reference group
      being the neutral control condition. Thus, the PNF group will not be included in the tests of
      these two hypotheses. Dependent variables will include alcohol outcomes for H1a and
      psychological well-being for H1b. For these analyses each participant will provide up to 5
      repeated measures (i.e., baseline, 1-month, 3-months, 6-months, and 12-months), yielding up
      to 3000 Level 1 cases (repeated-measures) across 600 Level 2 cases.

      The investigators will also evaluate mediators of intervention effects. Additionally, the
      investigators will follow procedures to assess mediation. Mediation will test indirect
      effects using the AB products method where A will represent effects of intervention contrasts
      by time interactions on mediators (expression of guilt and change thought). B will represent
      the associations of mediators on subsequent drinking outcomes. Both A and B paths will
      control for baseline outcomes. Evaluation of hypotheses regarding the moderation effect will
      test whether individual differences in guilt-proneness interact with intervention contrasts.
      These will be tested by expanding the above model to add main effects and product terms of
      proposed moderators with intervention contrasts.

      Power analyses focus on estimating a sample size large enough to detect "true" effects,
      thereby avoiding Type II errors. Sample size estimates were obtained for intervention
      contrasts. Necessary sample sizes were assessed via sample size and power equations for
      normally distributed outcomes. Effect-sizes and variance components were based on preliminary
      studies, and power was set at 0.80 for all estimates. Power was estimated using the Optimal
      Design software program. The investigators anticipate intervention effects relative to the
      neutral control condition on drinking to be in the range of delta =.30-.40). Based on the
      proposed sample size of 500 (~PNF not included in H1a and H1b), given five assessment points,
      the investigators anticipate the ability to detect main effects of intervention contrasts
      with power=.80. Considering maximum anticipated attrition rates of 20% the investigators will
      have .80 power to detect effects sizes of delta = .28 and greater.
    
  