
    
      Auto-titrating CPAP (APAP) using algorithms based on detection of flow limitation and snoring
      have been developed. Auto-titration devices adjust nasal pressure to the minimum pressure
      needed to maintain airway patency at any point in time and can accommodate a range of
      background states that affect airway collapsibility and hence CPAP pressure requirement
      including sedation, alcohol, airway inflammation, body position and sleep state.

      Compumedics Limited has developed an APAP device (Somnilink SPAP based on the new algorithm
      technology of characterising breaths and determination of inspiratory flow limitation. The
      objectives of this new technology are to enable accurate detection of inspiratory intervals
      for irregular breathing patterns that are likely to occur during REM sleep, sleep onset and
      wakefulness as well as to provide correct characterisation of inspiratory flow limitation.
      These features could translate in delivery of superior treatment because of improved
      sensitivity and specificity of respiratory event detection and earlier pressure response to
      inspiratory flow limitation. Demonstration of superiority of the Somnilink SPAP device
      relative to existing APAP treatment devices will be subject of future clinical trials (beyond
      the scope of this protocol). An early clinical trial of a pre-production version of Somnilink
      SPAP with the pressure control algorithm identical to the production version established
      non-inferiority for AHI relative to a reference APAP (Resmed Autoset Spirit) with the
      differential AHI estimate of -0.91 [-2.80; 0.91] (Mean [95%CI]). The Somnilink SPAP device is
      now available as a production version (CE and TGA approved) and the purpose of the current
      study is to establish its non-inferiority compared to an existing APAP device (Resmed Autoset
      S8).

      The treatment will be administered on the two nights of polysomnographic studies (PSG) by
      means of continuous air pressure delivery under the variable pressure levels determined by
      the APAP device to maintain the upper airway patency.

      The population of adult patients newly diagnosed with OSA after undergoing a diagnostic PSG
      study in the sleep laboratory with no previous CPAP treatment experience and complying with
      the eligibility criteria (as outlined below) will be studied.
    
  