
    
      Objectives: The investigators objective is to provide pilot data addressing whether the
      ∆9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) analogue nabilone is a pharmacological option for managing
      agitation, a particularly difficult to treat neuropsychiatric symptom (NPS), as well as
      having benefits for pain, weight and overall NPS, and gather double-blind information on
      tolerability and safety. This group of symptoms is particularly prevalent in patients with
      moderate to severe AD.

      Rationale: The high prevalence and impact of agitation in patients with moderate to severe
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) makes this neuropsychiatric symptom (NPS) a key determinant of
      decreased quality of life. Associated with agitation are weight loss, and pain, both of which
      lead to additional loss of quality of life. Agitation frequently necessitates use of
      antipsychotics, which, while well-studied, have modest efficacy and severe side effects
      including increased mortality. With the development of synthetic THC analogues, the
      therapeutic potential of cannabinoids can now be evaluated. Cannabinoids can be prescribed as
      capsules to treat anorexia and pain in certain patient groups. In addition to these
      potentially beneficial effects on appetite and pain, a recent study suggested positive
      effects of nabilone on agitation in dementia. Importantly, in addition to psychotropic
      effects, emerging evidence suggests neuroprotective (inhibit Aβ-induced microglial activation
      and excitotoxicity) and anti-inflammatory abilities, which can decrease oxidative stress, in
      stark contrast to the negative effects of antipsychotics. As such, this system is of high
      potential relevance in agitated patients with AD.

      Research Plan: This will be a randomized cross-over study comparing 6 weeks of nabilone and
      placebo, with a 1 week placebo washout preceding each treatment phase in Long-term care (LTC)
      patients, and outpatients with moderate to severe AD and agitation. Study outcomes will be
      measured at baseline and end of treatment for each treatment phase. The primary outcome
      measure will be the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI). The secondary outcomes will
      be the weight (kg), overall NPS (Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI)), NPI agitation/aggression
      subscale, nutrition (Mini Nutritional Assessment - Short Form (MNA-SF), body mass index
      (BMI), skin fold thickness), pain (The Pain Assessment In Advanced Dementia (PAINAD)),
      cognition (Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE); Severe Impairment Battery (SIB)) and
      clinical significance (Alzheimer's Cooperative Study-Clinician Global Impression of change
      (ADCS-CGIC). Safety (heart rate, blood pressure, and adverse events) will also be assessed at
      every visit.
    
  