
    
      Hypothesis/Objectives

      Nosocomial infections are common in critically ill, mechanically ventilated patients and
      remain a source of morbidity and mortality in this vulnerable patient population. Multiple
      potential etiologies for the increased susceptibility to nosocomial infections have been
      posited including instrumentation for monitoring and treatment, alterations of immunological
      function, replacement of normal gastro-intestinal (GI) flora with pathogens and increased
      permeability of bowel mucosa. Current preventive measures are only partially effective but
      the most studied and most efficacious preventive measure for nosocomial infections is
      selective decontamination of the digestive tract (SDD) with antimicrobial therapy although it
      is rarely used secondary to concerns over the development of antimicrobial resistance. There
      is a need to study and utilize novel measures for SDD which maintain the benefits of SDD but
      minimize the negative consequences of increased antibiotic use driving antimicrobial
      resistance. Lactoferrin, a molecule which is part of the innate immune system has many
      properties that would make it the ideal agent for the prevention of nosocomial infections. It
      maintains GI integrity, has antibacterial properties, improves immune function, and has
      beneficial effects on the bacterial flora in the GI tract. As a result, the overall
      hypotheses and objectives of this research program are as follows:

      OVERALL HYPOTHESIS: The administration of oral and nasogastric Lactoferrin to critically ill
      mechanically ventilated patients will reduce nosocomial infections, reduce antibiotic usage,
      result in improved outcomes and improve survival.

      HYPOTHESIS for PHASE 2 Study: A Phase 2 randomized controlled trial to determine the
      effectiveness of Lactoferrin for the prevention of nosocomial infections will demonstrate
      that the utilization of Lactoferrin results in increased antibiotic free days and is
      supported by the biomarker and mechanistic data obtained.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. Objective 1: The primary objective of this Phase 2, multicenter, randomized controlled
           trial (RCT) is to determine the effect of Lactoferrin on antibiotic free days. These
           data will inform a future large scale Phase 3 RCT powered on clinically important
           outcomes such as mortality.

        2. Objective 2: The second objective will be to assess the feasibility of conducting a
           future large scale Phase 3 RCT powered on clinically important outcomes.

        3. Objective 3: To obtain information on the effect of Lactoferrin on clinical outcomes
           including antibiotic utilization, nosocomial infections, length of stay, measures of
           organ dysfunction and mortality. This study will not be powered for the detection of
           clinically important differences but will inform power calculations for the definitive
           Phase 3 trial.

        4. Objective 4: To determine the effect of treatment with Lactoferrin on inflammatory
           biomarkers, immunological function, gastro-intestinal integrity and tracheal
           colonization.
    
  