
    
      Adolescent men who have sex with men (AMSM) are disproportionately affected by HIV. They
      account for almost 70% of HIV diagnoses among all young people and are the only risk group
      with an increasing number of HIV/AIDS diagnoses. Despite this disproportionate burden,
      current HIV prevention programs focus primarily on adults and heterosexual youth. As such,
      there is an urgent need for evidence-based HIV prevention programs targeting AMSM. Because
      issues affecting sexual health decisions among AMSM are unique, intervention programs cannot
      be translated from heterosexually focused interventions. Instead, they need to be designed
      from the ground up to ensure appropriately tailored content that resonates with the target
      population. Evidence-based HIV prevention programs targeting AMSM are urgently needed.

      The Guy2Guy (G2G) intervention is a text messaging-based HIV prevention program designed for
      the specific needs of adolescent males who self-identify as gay, bisexual, or queer (GBQ) and
      are between the ages of 14-18 years. The intervention will be tested in a randomized
      controlled trial against an attention-matched control group which receives text messages
      about healthy lifestyle (e.g., exercise, nutrition). A total of 300 GBQ adolescent males will
      be into the study using an online recruitment strategy. The study is being conducted by
      researchers at the Center for Innovative Public Health Research and Northwestern University.

      The primary efficacy outcome measures are unprotected sex acts and abstinence at 3-months
      follow-up. The investigators hypothesize that those in the G2G intervention will be
      significantly more likely to be engage in HIV preventive behavior (e.g., use condoms when
      having vaginal/anal sex) at 3-months follow-up compared to the attention-matched control
      group. Secondary efficacy outcomes include unprotected sex acts and abstinence at 3-month
      follow-up by sexual experience groups (i.e., ever had sex versus never had sex at baseline),
      HIV testing rates, and unprotected sex acts and abstinence at intervention end (5 weeks post
      enrollment) for those in the intervention versus control groups; and for participants who
      were sexually experienced and inexperienced at baseline, separately.

      If effective, G2G has promise to be quickly and cost-effectively implemented to scale to help
      to curb the spread of HIV infection among AMSM long into adulthood.
    
  