
    
      In this study, the investigators will take 30 stroke survivors and have them participate in a
      3-month study consisting of screening, assessments, goal setting, health coaching, EMA
      surveys, and feedback on how to improve the study for a future expanded study.

      After the research team consents and enrolls participants, participants will be randomized
      and complete screening, assessment, and training on the video conferencing system, training
      on the Status/Post and SMS. The screening measures and assessments that will be performed
      are: Participation Strategies Self-Efficacy Scale, PROMIS Self Efficancy, Stroke Impact
      Scale, Activity Card Sort, Reintegration to Normal Living Index, PHQ-9, PROMIS 29+2, Light
      House Test, Boston Naming Test, and Short Blessed Test form are all assessments that will be
      performed online through REDCap via a secure link over the phone or email. The last three
      tests are screening instruments. The investigators can perform all assessments online through
      REDCap via a secure link over the phone or email. All data collected will be directly entered
      into REDCap. Participants will receive an iPod touch if they do not have an iPhone which will
      be mailed to them to use for the next 14 days. Participants will complete the EMA assessment
      prototype 5x/day for 14 days via the Status/post-application. Goals will also be set that the
      participant would like to achieve. If participants do not have a phone or mobile device
      capable of using the video conferencing system and SMS, the investigators will mail them an
      iPad to use for the study duration.

      The 15 MyIPASS participants will engage in video conference sessions between the pre and post
      visits. A health coach will collaboratively work with the participant to practice treatment
      strategies and set goals in weekly individual sections. In addition, all participants will
      engage in weekly group sessions with a health coach in order to learn and practice specific
      self-management skills and strategies in a group context. In addition, MyIPASS entails using
      an interactive SMS to provide ongoing support and self-monitoring of behavior change goals.
      The SMS is programmed to "touch" participants daily; the SMS system prompts participants to
      report their daily activities and progress in achieving goals via "check-in" messages and
      sends immediate, tailored feedback about their progress. If a participant is making progress
      toward their goal, the SMS system will suggest a change to the participant's goal between
      visits.

      The 15 attentional control group stroke survivors will receive phone calls over the 12-week
      intervention checking in with them on how they are doing in their everyday life. They will
      also receive stroke education materials, but they will not receive the same MyIPASS
      intervention as the intervention group.

      A pre-selected time will be scheduled for the participant to complete their post-assessments,
      and complete an interview after the 12 weeks via the phone. The assessments will be
      administered the same as they were in the pre-test, given a link over the phone or email to a
      secure RedCap site which will include the following assessments: Client Satisfaction
      Questionnaire (CSQ), Healing Encounters & Attitudes Lists - Patient-Provider Connection
      (HEAL-PPC), PROMIS Self Efficancy, Stroke Impact Scale, Activity Card Sort, Reintegration to
      Normal Living Index, PHQ-9, PROMIS 29+2, Acceptability of Implementation Measure (AIM),
      Appropriateness of Implementation Measure (IAM), and Feasibility of Implementation Measures
      after the intervention. The investigators will ask them to mail the iPod back to the lab when
      they are finished with their 14-day surveys with a prepaid envelope. If participants used an
      iPad, they will return it to the lab via mail in a prepaid envelope.

      At the conclusion of the trial, the investigators will ask the 30 stroke survivors, the
      investigators will conduct the feedback questions during the follow-up phone appointment. All
      interviews will be facilitated by a moderator. Moderators will be trained with the interview
      guide and Computer Usage Questionnaire. Sessions will be audio/video recorded to allow for
      transcription and analysis. Participants may share as much as they would like or feel
      comfortable.

      Data from participants will be collected from screening measures, assessments, and the SMS
      prototype. Please refer to the attachment for knowing what coded data will be extracted from
      the SMS dashboard. During the data collection process, members of the research team may
      photograph the participant doing a variety of tasks if given permission.
    
  