
    
      Background:

      Approximately 1/3 of first-time mothers (nulliparous women) undergoing induction of labour
      deliver by cesarean. Cesarean delivery can have negative consequences to the initial and
      subsequent pregnancies. Women who have a cesarean in their first pregnancy are more likely to
      have a cesarean in their following pregnancies and this group is the largest contributor to
      the overall cesarean delivery rate. Therefore, targeting interventions that prevent cesareans
      in nulliparous women undergoing induction of labour will have a substantial impact on the
      overall cesarean delivery rate.

      Adequate ripening or preparing the cervix before induction has been found to decrease the
      risk of cesarean. This can be done by a variety of methods, such as prostaglandins (a
      chemical messenger) or a Foley filled to a moderate volume of fluid. These methods have been
      found to be equal regarding the risk of cesarean delivery. However, a meta-analysis by our
      team discovered a trend towards a decreased risk of cesarean when cervical ripening is
      undertaken with Foleys filled to a high volume of fluid (80cc) compared to those filled to a
      low volume (30cc).Most Canadian Obstetricians use prostaglandins for cervical ripening. To
      assess if 80cc Foleys result in a lower risk of cesarean, they need to be compared to the
      Canadian standard of prostaglandins. Therefore a randomized controlled trial is required.

      The Greater-Toronto-Area Obstetric (GTA-OB) Network is a group of hospitals committed to
      facilitating research and will be the setting for the planned large scale trial. The large
      scale trial will aim to demonstrate a difference in the rate of cesarean from 38% to 31%,
      which will require the enrollment of 1442 women. It has been estimated that there are 5,437
      women who will meet entry criteria in the GTA-OB network each year, if ½ are approached, 20%
      will need to consent to complete the trial in 3 years. Therefore, this pilot study will
      determine if this recruitment rate is potentially achievable and will inform design
      strategies to ensure its success.

      The discovery of a simple, non- pharmacological, cost effective manner of cervical ripening
      that decreases the risk of cesarean would change clinical practice and significantly improve
      safety for the 33,000 Canadian women and their babies who undergo cervical ripening each
      year. This pilot trial is a crucial step towards this discovery.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective for this pilot trial is to determine the probability that an eligible
      woman will agree to be randomized into the trial comparing 80cc Foleys to prostaglandins for
      cervical ripening. This study aims to assess if it is possible to obtain a recruitment rate
      of 20%.

      The secondary objective will be a systematic evaluation of the pilot trial process to guide
      full-scale study design.
    
  