
    
      Appendectomy is the most frequent intra-abdominal operation performed, accounting for the
      majority of admissions in a general surgery unit. Appendectomy has always been considered the
      cornerstone in the treatment of acute appendicitis.Nevertheless, the idea of a conservative
      treatment using antibiotics is not that recent. Current practices have proven the efficiency
      of antibiotic therapy in treating certain infectious abdominal conditions including:
      appendicular mass with or without periappendicular abscess and acute diverticulitis. This
      success has prompted the researchers to consider the exclusive use of antibiotic therapy in
      the treatment of non complicated appendicitis.

      In patients with clinical suspicion of acute appendicitis (localized abdominal tenderness,
      inflammatory reaction...etc) a CT scan will be performed to confirm the diagnosis of non
      complicated appendicitis. This diagnosis is confirmed on the CT in the absence of any sign of
      either localized peritonitis, and/or perforation (extraluminal gas, appendicular abscess, or
      phlegmon).

      After a thorough explanation of this study, the patient will be obliged to sign a written
      consent. Patients will be randomly assigned to either one of the two therapeutic modalities :
      an appendectomy,or an antibiotic treatment consisting of amoxicillin and clavulanate
      potassium.

      This therapy will be continued until the normalisation of leucocytic count and C reactive
      protein are achieved. In order to demonstrate equivalent conclusive results comparing the two
      treatment modalities, the statistical consultant estimated the inclusion of at least 200
      patients in the study. However, after considering the possible loss of a number of patients
      following their inclusion for a variety of reasons, it was decided that a total of 250
      patients will be enrolled.

      Rate of intra abdominal infections in both therapeutic strategies is the first endpoint to be
      compared. Duration of pain, diet, hospitalisation, absence from work will also be compared.
      In the group of patients treated by antibiotics, the rate of persistant and recurrent
      appendicitis after treatment will be evaluated. Recurrent appendicitis is not considered a
      complication as long as the recurrence of the appendicitis is uncomplicated. During the
      followup period of one year, long-term complications will be observed including: abdominal
      hernia, adhesive intestinal occlusion, and others.
    
  