
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the immunogenicity of WT1 peptide (WT1 126-134 peptide vaccine) emulsified in
      Montanide (Montanide ISA 51 VG) in elderly patients with AML.

      II. To determine whether toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) agonist (poly-L-lysine and carboxymethyl
      cellulose [poly ICLC]) could be a potent immunologic adjuvant, and increases the frequencies
      of WT1-specific T cells following vaccination.

      III. To determine whether depletion of regulatory T cells occurs upon administration of the
      anti-cluster of differentiation (CD)25 monoclonal antibody Basiliximab, and whether this is
      associated with increased frequencies of WT1-specific T cells following vaccination.

      IV. To assess whether WT1 vaccination +/- TLR3 agonist (poly ICLC) combined with Basiliximab
      results in decreased levels of WT1 transcripts in peripheral blood cells compared to WT1
      vaccination +/- TLR3 as measured by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
      reaction (qRT-PCR).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the safety and gain preliminary information on efficacy of WT1 peptide
      vaccination +/- TLR3 agonist (poly ICLC) combined with Basiliximab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive WT1 126-134 peptide vaccine emulsified in Montanide ISA 51 VG
      subcutaneously (SC) on day 0 and then once every 2 weeks.

      ARM B: Patients receive WT1 126-134 peptide vaccine emulsified in poly-ICLC SC on day 0 and
      then once every 2 weeks.

      ARM C: Patients assigned to Arm C receive basiliximab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on
      day -7 and WT1 126-134 peptide vaccine as in Arm A or Arm B, whichever had a superior
      cellular immune response.

      In all arms, treatment continues for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may then receive 6 additional monthly vaccinations.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.
    
  