
    
      The uterine leiomyoma is the most common benign tumor of the female genital tract. The myomas
      are usually clinically apparent in 25% of patients. Among the latest possible therapeutic
      options, UPA has proved to be most effective for the medical management of fibroids. Its
      advent in the clinical practice will probably modify the surgical approach, since UPA could
      possible place as a preoperative adjunct to surgery but also as medical therapy to avoid
      surgery. Very recently, the results of the first study on long-term intermittent (18 months)
      therapy with 10-mg UPA were published, demonstrating that this regimen (four courses of 3
      months) maximizes the effect of UPA by inducing a very high rate of amenorrhea and reducing
      fibroid size.

      Long term treatment, however, call in question safety issue that need to be explore. In
      patients treated by UPA, Estradiol under 5-mg and 10-mg doses remained at midfollicular
      levels after the first course of therapy, avoiding menopausal symptoms, as frequently
      observed in the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH-) agonist group. No data have been
      published about Estradiol levels at the end of second, third and fourth courses of UPA.
      Moreover, no data have been published about the effect of UPA on FSH or AMH levels nor on
      ovarian antral follicle count (AFC) or vascularization indexes during and after treatment.
      Considering that in young women of reproductive age (under 40 years old), desiring pregnancy,
      UPA has been proposed to avoid or postpone surgery, also in a long-term administration
      program, data about its effect on women ovarian reserve are urgently needed.

      For these reasons, data on biochemical (AMH, FSH and E2) and 3D ultrasonographic (VI, FI,
      AFC) parameters of women treated by UP are needed to assess the effect of the drug in terms
      of ovarian reserve modification.
    
  