
    
      Pancreatic cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related death. It has a poor 5-year
      survival rate of around8-9%. This is primarily because of most patients with pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma progress to either metastatic or locally advanced disease while in the
      asymptomatic phase. However, if pancreatic cancer is detected in the early stage (i.e., less
      than 2.0 cm), it has a relatively better prognosis.

      Traditionally, transabdominal ultrasound or computed tomography CT scanning are used to
      diagnose pancreatic lesions. However, transabdominal ultrasound is limited because it cannot
      be used to visualize the entire pancreas due to intervening fat or air. Endoscopic
      ultrasonography (EUS) is currently an essential emerging tool for the work-up of
      pancreaticobiliary neoplasms. (EUS) is an ultrasound (US) technique in which the tip of the
      endoscope is equipped with a high-frequency transducer. High-resolution images of the
      pancreas can be obtained through the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum, without the disrupting
      effects of intervening gas, fat, and bone. EUS is now regarded as the most sensitive imaging
      modality for the detection of even a very small pancreatic lesion. Endoscopic ultrasound
      (EUS) elastography is a novel non-invasive technique that is used for the evaluation of
      pancreatic tissue which was first reported in 2006 and can be used for distinguishing benign
      from malignant pancreatic masses. Therefore, accurate detection of small cancers is important
      for reducing the mortality rate from pancreatic cancer. The equipment can be coupled with
      conventional EUS without the need for additional devices. There are two types of EUS
      elastography, strain and shear wave. Strain elastography estimates the stiffness and
      elasticity of the target tissue by measuring the degree of strain produced in response to
      compression. Shear wave elastography involves the emission of focused ultrasound from the
      probe to the target tissue, the so-called 'acoustic radiation force impulse' (ARFI), and the
      stiffness of the target tissue is then estimated by measuring the propagation speed of the
      shear wave. Only strain elastography is so far available for EUS. EUS elastography is used to
      characterize pancreatic masses and lymph node metastases of pancreatic cancer as well as to
      judge the severity of chronic pancreatitis with the evaluation of lesion elasticity
      EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) has been generally used for the sampling of
      pancreatic tissues since it was first reported in 1992. In general, 19G-25G caliber needles
      are inserted under EUS guidance for the pathological diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and lymph
      nodes and/or hepatic focal lesions. The overall complication rate of EUS-FNA is including
      complications such as pain, bleeding, and pancreatitis.

      EUS FNA remains the gold standard in diagnosing pancreatic lesions and pancreatic cancer via
      tissue acquisition with a sensitivity of 80-85% and a specificity of 100 %, however, the
      diagnostic accuracy of EUS guided FNA is limited and EUS FNA can be associated with risks and
      complications. Many pre-procedural and procedural considerations must be assessed before
      performing EUS guided FNA. The location of the lesion, lack of adequate visualization, lack
      of experience of the endoscopist, lack of onsite pathology, and lack of adequate sampling are
      all limitations in diagnostic yield. False negatives can also occur in up to 40% of cases. In
      our multi-center experience, we are going to focus on the use of EUS elastography to direct
      the site of fine-needle aspiration in tissue acquisition of solid pancreatic lesions and its
      effect on the accuracy of diagnosis and detection of solid pancreatic lesions.
    
  