
    
      Aim: To analyse tiny cancer cell fragments called extracellular vesicles isolated from blood
      samples for their ability to identify patients with tumours that are relatively
      oxygen-starved and expected to be resistant to ionising radiation and many chemotherapy
      drugs.

      Participants: 16 patients with proven cancer plus 4 healthy volunteers who give written
      informed consent to participate will be included in the study.

      Recruitment: Eligible patients will be identified in the Outpatient Department at The Royal
      Marsden in Sutton or London and given a copy of the Information Sheet describing the study in
      detail. Dr Somaiah's team will call these potential volunteers at least 24 hours after they
      have received written information about the study to answer any questions. The same consent
      process will be followed for staff members who agree to participate as healthy volunteers.
      Research subjects who offer verbal agreement to participate will be asked for written consent
      and will be allocated a study ID. This will be used on all trial documentation and blood
      samples together with their initials and date of data/sample collection.

      Pimonidazole administration: This well-established drug has the valuable property of binding
      exclusively to oxygen- starved tissues in a form that can be detected as a colour change in
      cell fragments released into the blood stream. A single oral dose of pimonidazole 500 mg/m2
      will be prescribed and administered in a Royal Marsden outpatient clinic after confirmation
      of eligibility and completion of written informed consent. A member of the research team will
      monitor subjects to ensure that the prescribed drug is successfully taken (swallowed with
      water) before leaving the hospital (or going back to work/home in the case of healthy
      volunteers).

      Blood sample: A peripheral venous blood sample of 20 ml will be collected from each
      participant the day after administration of pimonidazole, since it takes several hours for
      the drug to be absorbed and to bind to proteins and other molecules in oxygen-starved cells.
      A second sample will be collected 14 ±5 days later in order to confirm that all coloured cell
      fragments have disappeared from the circulation.
    
  