
    
      1. BACKGROUND:

           At present, embryo selection in embryonic laboratories at various reproductive centers
           continues to follow conventional morphological assessments based on the time period
           provided by the 2016 Expert Consensus Guidelines for Laboratory Operations (revised from
           the Istanbul consensus) (discussion board), after insemination of the 1th-6th day
           (except the 4th day) to observe the specific time points of embryonic morphology, static
           observation, score, select the embryo. This method of observation of embryonic
           development is not comprehensive enough, and the lack of quantifiable recognized
           indicators .

           EmbryoScope Time-lapse culture system is the latest development of human assisted
           reproductive embryo from fertilization to blastocyst development. The time-lapse imaging
           system (TLI) is used to record the embryonic development process from fertilization to
           blastocyst formation. The timing of change plays a key role in the developmental
           potential of the embryo, such as the time of emergence and disappearance of pronucleus,
           the time of early cleavage, cleavage pattern and so on. At present, the latest 2016
           Laboratory Operation Expert Consensus Guide (discussion board) provides a grading
           standard that does not objectively reflect specific information on morphological
           changes, such as cleavage patterns, the specific time of morphological changes, and so
           on for embryonic development and post- Determine the fate of embryos play a vital role.
           Due to the clinical diagnosis and treatment of the center of the standard, laboratory
           culture system, and the difference between the laboratory standard operation
           procedure,and embryonic development speed differences. Therefore, it is desirable to use
           the EmbryoScope Time-lapse culture system to find out the best timing of morphological
           changes of embryos in accordance with the laboratory culture system on the basis of the
           expert consensus time period. To establish an evaluation model of embryo morphology
           kinetics suitable for our laboratory. Embryology time-of-flight monitoring Morphological
           kinetics evaluation model is suitable for patients with in vitro fertilization/
           intracytoplasmic sperm injection , especially for infertile women in assisted
           reproduction, women with repeated transplantation failure, women with fertility
           disorders requiring egg activation, Single embryo transfer of patients, effectively
           avoid multiple pregnancy, reduce the risk of multiple pregnancy. Selection of embryos
           with developmental potential for transplantation, improve embryo quality, improve the
           accuracy of embryo selection, contribute to successful pregnancy. But also can alleviate
           this part of the patient's mental stress, but also contribute to successful pregnancy.
           At the same time, for laboratory embryologists to provide more data reference, more
           human embryonic development information.

           At present, several large-scale centers are undergoing their own embryo laboratory
           kinetics of the scoring model. Shanshan Wang et al suggested that the cleavage pattern
           of embryos and time parameters combined to establish a new embryo screening model for
           single embryo transfer embryo, to obtain an ideal pregnancy outcome.

           EmbryoScope Time-lapse culture system and embryo selection, compared to the traditional
           culture system and the static morphology of the embryo selection, EmbryoScope Timelapse
           selection of transplanted embryos, the clinical pregnancy rate [3], EmbryoScope
           Time-lapse culture system, Significantly improved. The literature of N. Basile and P.
           Vime [4] suggests that blastocyst culture [10] plus the choice of embryo morphology
           kinetics may be the best treatment for improving clinical outcomes. Studies have been
           reported , time difference imaging system does not interfere with embryonic culture
           conditions in the case of interval 20 min, 5 min or 1 min to shoot images, and continued
           to the first 3 days or 5 days. In addition, the TLI image acquisition system can exclude
           some of the abnormal cleaved embryos that are considered to have "normal" developmental
           potential in static assessment. A number of studies have shown that the TLI culture
           system combined with the morphological scoring method to select the embryos obtained
           after transplantation compared with the purely morphological method of the choice of
           static embryos can be more satisfactory to patients with pregnancy outcomes .

           In this study, we compared the clinical outcomes of patients with two different culture
           routes, analyzed the advantages of TLI combined with morphological scoring methods, and
           established the model of embryonic time difference morphology kinetics in our
           laboratory. The aim of this study was to prospectively select embryos for selective
           single embryo transfer, advanced infertility women and patients with repeated graft
           failure to improve the clinical pregnancy rate and reduce the occurrence of multiple
           births.

        2. Trial design:

           Samples were selected according to the inclusion criteria, and groups A and B were
           grouped according to the random number table, with 40-50 patients in each group. The
           random number table is attached. In order to avoid the withdrawal of patients or other
           reasons not suitable for inclusion in the trial, the researchers increased the sample
           size, the random number table increased to 150. A group of patients with oocytes
           injecting human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) 38-40 hours intracytoplasmic sperm
           injection (ICSI), and then into the ordinary three-gas incubator, conventional
           fertilization 4hours ,the demolition of eggs into the ordinary three-chamber, after
           insemination .The embryos were evaluated and selected by the current morphological
           scoring method. The oocytes of Group B were taken ICSI after infecting HCG 38-40 hours .
           And then be placed in the Time-Lapse. The ovaries were placed in the Time-Lapse after
           4Hhours fertilization, and the embryos were evaluated by time-lapse imaging (TLI). The
           cleavage pattern and time parameters for marker embryo development were recorded daily
           after insemination. (1) The rate of high-quality embryos (cleavage and blastocyst
           stage), clinical pregnancy rate and embryo implantation rate in group A and group B; (2)
           The cleavage pattern and time parameters of embryo in group B were analyzed
           retrospectively, And the quality of blastocysts were analyzed. Logistic regression
           analysis was used to establish the criteria of embryo selection.

           (Age> 38 years), patients with recurrent graft failure (number of cycles ≥ 3), the
           development of embryos in this part of the patients were observed by TLI.Results: (1)
           Embryonic development , Select high-quality embryos for transplantation, observation of
           pregnancy outcome.

        3. Statistical methods: The data were expressed as mean ± standard deviation (x ± s) or
           rate (%), and the data were analyzed by Statistical Package for the Social Sciences 23.0
           software. The quartile method was used to classify the time parameters, and the
           advantage period of each parameter was calculated with the outcome of pregnancy and high
           quality blastocyst formation. Logistic regression analysis of clinical variables
           (cleavage patterns and time parameters) and the relationship between high-quality
           blastocysts, the rate of each group were compared using χ 2 test, P <0.05 for the
           difference was statistically significant.

        4. Quality control and quality assurance Patients will managed by the listed investigators
           who have adequate experience in managing assisted reproduction treatments.A Trial
           steering committee will be formed which will oversee the conduct of the trial.

        5. Data Handing and record keeping All data will be stored for three years. A desighnted
           research nurse will be responsible for data management including data coding,monitoring
           and verification.
    
  