
    
      This study will focus on long-term survivors as defined by the America Cancer Society, that
      is surviving the initial diagnosis for more than 5 years. Previous research has investigated
      long-term Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia,
      however, this will be the first research conducted to investigate long-term HRQOL outcomes in
      patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).

      The potential late effects of cancer treatment can include second malignancies or other
      chronic conditions affecting physical and emotional well-being. Therefore, there has been an
      increasing interest worldwide in evaluating the longer-term impact of cancer and its
      treatment. Currently large cohort of patients enjoys disease-free survival of 5 years or
      longer. However, a disease-free status is not synonymous with a life free of physical and
      psychological health related to the cancer and/or its treatment. Research shows that cancer
      related health concerns persist long after initial treatment and this has been shown in
      several cancer populations including prostate, testicular, breast cancer and lymphoma
      patients. Long-term cancer survivors can experience treatment-induced morbidity (e.g.
      cardiovascular damage due to chemotherapy or radiotherapy; infertility and second tumors),
      chronic disease and treatment-related symptoms, functional impairment, psychosocial problems,
      and practical problems.

      Since the introduction of the vitamin A derivative all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) as
      front-line therapy for APL, the outcome of this acute leukemia subtype has changed from the
      state of a most frequently fatal leukemia to the condition of a highly curable disease. The
      Italian cooperative group GIMEMA designed in 1993 the AIDA (Atra plus IDArubicin) trial for
      newly diagnosed APL. Results on over 800 patients showed a complete remission (CR) rate > 90%
      and an overall survival of 76% and confirmed that the concomitant administration of ATRA and
      chemotherapy is more effective than the sequential administration. Following the
      identification of distinct prognostic categories among APL patients, the GIMEMA group
      designed a new trial (AIDA2000) in which the intensity of post-remission treatment was
      adapted to the relapse risk and 498 patients were enrolled since January 2000. The results
      recently published showed a CR rate >90% with molecular remission rate after third
      consolidation of 98%. The new schedule allowed a Disease Free Survival (DFS) of 86% and
      showed that a risk-adapted strategy including ATRA for consolidation provides an outcome
      improvement in newly diagnosed patients. As reported by an international panel of experts,
      simultaneous ATRA and anthracycline chemotherapy schedules such as those used in the AIDA
      protocols represent the state of the art therapy for newly diagnosed APL.
    
  