
    
      Background

        -  Metastatic HPV associated malignancies (cervical, anal, oropharyngeal cancers, etc.) are
           often incurable and poorly palliated by standard therapies.

        -  HPV-positive (p16+) oropharyngeal cancers are the most common HPV-associated malignancy
           in the United States and are increasing in incidence.

        -  Stage II and III HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer is primarily treated with definitive
           therapy.

        -  Although the prognosis for stage I HPV+ oropharyngeal cancer is favorable, about 20
           percent of patients with stage II disease and 35 percent of patients with stage III
           disease will die within four years.

        -  Attempts to de-intensify treatment of HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer by replacing
           highdose cisplatin with cetuximab concurrent with radiotherapy have failed.

        -  Induction and neoadjuvant immunotherapy are an area of active study in this type of
           cancer. The aims of induction immunotherapy are to induce antigen-specific immunity
           prior to definitive therapy and to reduce the risk of disease relapse for patients with
           stage II and III disease.

        -  Therapeutic vaccines targeting HPV alone or in combination with M7824 (dual PD-L1 and
           TGF beta inhibitor) have demonstrated induction of HPV antigen-specific responses and
           tumor growth inhibition in multiple pre-clinical models of HPV-positive malignancy.

        -  In clinical studies done in the CCR, M7824 as monotherapy has produced a notable
           objective response rate (35-40%) for metastatic HPV + cancers including Oropharyngeal
           Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC) and preclinical studies support the addition of an
           investigational HPV vaccine with therapeutic intent (PRGN-2009, a gorilla adenoviral
           based vaccine) to further increase anti-tumor efficacy.

      Objectives:

      Phase I in participants with recurrent/metastatic HPV positive cancer:

      -Primary objective: To determine the safety and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of PRGN-2009
      (HPV vaccine) alone or in combination with M7824 administered at RP2D of 1200 mg q2w.

      Phase II in participants with newly diagnosed stage II/III p16-positive oropharyngeal cancer
      and patients with newly diagnosed operable stage II/III/IVA/IVB/HPV + sinonasal squamos cell
      cancer:

      -Primary objective: To determine if either HPV vaccine alone (Arm 2A) or in combination with
      M7824 (Arm 2B) is able to result in a ^3 2-fold increase in CD3+ tumor infiltrating T cells
      post treatment compared with pre-treatment in p16-positive oropharyngeal cancer.

      Eligibility:

      Phase I:

        -  Men or women of age >= 18 years old.

        -  Subjects with cytologically or histologically confirmed locally advanced or metastatic
           HPV associated malignancies:

             -  Cervical cancers;

             -  p16+ Oropharyngeal cancers;

             -  Anal cancers;

        -  Vulvar, vaginal, penile, and squamous cell rectal cancers;

        -  Other locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors (e.g. lung, esophagus) that are known
           HPV+.

        -  Prior first line systemic therapy is required unless the participant declines standard
           treatment after appropriate counseling has been provided.

      Phase II:

        -  Men or women of age >= 18 years old.

        -  Subjects with newly diagnosed stage II or III p16-positive oropharyngeal squamous cell
           carcinoma (OPSCC) or stage II/III/IVA/IVB HPV-SNSCC planned for definitive therapy.

      Design:

      Phase I: Recurrent/metastatic HPV associated cancer:

        -  A 3+3 dose escalation design will be used which will evaluate PRGN-2009 (HPV vaccine) at
           two dose levels (1x10 to the 11th power and 5x10 to the 11th power viral particle (VP)
           units) given as monotherapy followed by a third dose level evaluating the RP2D dose of
           PRGN-2009 in combination with 1200 mg (RP2D) of M7824. In addition, the combination of
           PRGN-2009 at RP2D with 1200 mg of M7824 will be expanded to a total of 10 evaluable
           participants to gauge the preliminary efficacy of the combination of PRGN-2009 and M7824
           in participants with advanced disease.

        -  There will be a 4-week DLT evaluation period for each dose level.

        -  It is expected that up to 22 participants may enroll in 6 months.

      Phase II:

      Newly diagnosed stage II/III p16-positive oropharyngeal cancer:

        -  Sequential two-arm evaluation of HPV vaccine alone (Arm 2A) or HPV vaccine plus M7824
           (Arm 2B) as neoadjuvant/ induction therapy before definitive standard of care therapy
           (20 participants each arm).

        -  Participants will receive neoadjuvant/ induction immunotherapy at NIH Clinical Center
           and then be referred back to their home institution for definitive standard of care
           therapy.

        -  It is expected that up to 40 participants may enroll in 2 years.

        -  Newly diagnosed stage II/III/IVA/IVB HPV-SNSCC:

        -  Enrollment and treatment will occur similarly as participants with p16+oropharyngeal
           cancer for exploratory correlates to advise possible future trials. Up to 4 participants
           may enroll in this group.
    
  