
    
      Thirty patients will be treated using the principles of guided bone regeneration utilizing a
      full thickness flap for ridge preservation. Fifteen test patients will receive an intrasocket
      demineralized and mineralized combination putty allograft (MinerOss Putty, BioHorizons)
      covered with a regenerative tissue matrix membrane (AlloDerm GBR, BioHorizons). The positive
      control group of fifteen patients will receive an intrasocket demineralized putty allograft
      (Puros, Zimmer) covered with a regenerative tissue matrix membrane (AlloDerm GBR,
      BioHorizons). Approximately, four months post-surgery, a trephine core will be taken from the
      grafted site immediately prior to implant placement and submitted for histologic processing.

      Prior to surgery, each patient will receive a diagnostic work-up including standardized
      radiographs (periapicals), study casts, clinical photographs, and a clinical examination to
      record attachment level, probing depth, recession, and mobility of teeth adjacent to the
      extracted sites. Customized acrylic occlusal stents will be fabricated on the study casts to
      serve as fixed reference guides for the measurements. Detailed oral hygiene instructions will
      be provided.

      For histology, trephine core specimens will be evaluated to determine percent vital bone,
      non-vital bone, and trabecular space. Step serial sections will be taken from each
      longitudinally sectioned core. The sections will be stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Ten
      slides per patients will be prepared with at least 4 sections per slide. For each patient, 6
      of 10 slides will be assessed. The mean percentage of vital and nonvital bone, and trabecular
      space will be determined for each patient.

      Soft tissue thickness will be measured prior to the procedure. The surgical procedure will
      consist of a full-thickness papilla preservation flaps performed on the buccal and
      palatal/lingual to expose the alveolar ridge and the tooth to be extracted. Following the
      extraction, vertical measurements will be taken with the acrylic occlusal stent in place, and
      horizontal measurements with a specially designed digital caliper. Both groups will receive
      an intrasocket graft covered by a regenerative tissue matrix membrane. The control group will
      receive a demineralized putty allograft. The test group will receive a combination
      mineralized and demineralized putty allograft. The surgical procedures will be documented
      with clinical photographs of teeth and/or intraoral structures.

      Post surgical management includes all patients will be seen every 2 weeks until 8 weeks
      post-surgery. Patients will then be seen monthly until month 4 for the final examination and
      trephine core collection for histological analysis and implant placement. Patients will take
      doxycycline 100 mg qd for two weeks, Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen 5/325mg q4-6h as needed for
      pain, and naproxen 375mg q12h for one week for inflammation reduction. Postoperative visits
      will consist of supragingival plaque removal, and oral hygiene reinforcement Any patient who
      develops any significant post-operative complications or adverse reaction to the materials
      used or shows attachment loss greater or equal to 2 mm on teeth adjacent to the experimental
      site will be exited from the study and will receive appropriate treatment.
    
  