
    
      Pneumonitis is the most common entity within the spectrum of treatment-induced lung injuries,
      which can progress to irreversible pulmonary fibrosis. In the last year, the prevalence
      registered at the National Cancer Institute in Mexico increased up to 70% in those who
      receive radiotherapy (RT), increasing symptoms and reducing lung function, quality of life
      and survival.

      Since the development of pneumonitis is multifactorial, it has not been possible to identify
      or reduce the risks of presenting lung injury. However, many studies have been conducted in
      search of prognostic and preventable risk factors. At the moment, there is no preventive
      treatment that reduces the severity of the presentation of the disease. Several publications
      have described the loss of lung function after RT secondary to lung parenchyma injury
      adjacent to the radiation site.

      Currently, the benefit of prophylactic treatment with inhaled steroids in patients receiving
      RT is unknown. We expect that its use protects against the onset of pneumonitis or decreases
      the degree of lung inflammation after the administration of concomitant chemo or target
      therapy and radiotherapy treatment (CCRT). The improvement in the patient's respiratory
      symptomatology and lung function reflects the reduction in the degree of inflammation. With
      this work, the investigators intend to demonstrate a decrease in the incidence of
      treatment-related pneumonitis, an increase in survival and quality of life without modifying
      the response to treatment with the use of inhaled steroids.

      Methods: It is a randomized clinical trial assessing the effect of prophylactic inhaled
      Budesonide in the prevention of the development of pneumonitis in non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) patients with unresectable stage III/IV tumors, who receive CCRT with chemotherapy or
      targeted drugs and thoracic radiation. Patients are recruited in the Lung Cancer Unit at the
      National Cancer Institute in Mexico. They are stratified according to the given treatment
      (chemo plus RT or targeted drugs plus RT) and randomized to the control group (without
      intervention) or the experimental group (use of inhaled Budesonide at 400 mcg given twice a
      day) and followed for one year. Demographic, biochemical, lung function (spirometry with
      bronchodilator inhaler, Diffusion lung capacity measurement, Fraction of exhaled nitric oxide
      measurement and impulse oscillometry), quality of life and respiratory symptoms variables are
      evaluated at baseline, at 6, 12, 24 and 48-weeks post-RT. The patients in the experimental
      group receive an inhaler monthly and a diary to register its use at every control visit. The
      presence of symptoms and computed tomography evaluation using the Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) identify the development of Pneumonitis.

      Sample size: To determine the sample size, the investigators considered the proportion of
      patients with radiation pneumonitis reported in the literature (0.7) and the percentage of
      patients with pneumonitis that required systemic corticosteroids treatment (0.27). It
      requires 31 patients at the inhaled Budesonide group and in the control group, plus 20% of
      loss gives us a total of 36 patients per group, with a power of 90% and an α of 0.05.
    
  