
    
      PURPOSE

      The purpose of this study is to determine the preliminary efficacy of an 8-week exercise and
      education intervention on musculoskeletal health of young adults with a previous
      sport-related knee injury that are at high risk of post-traumatic osteoarthritis. In
      addition, the purpose is to determine the feasibility of the study methods and procedures. In
      addition, the longitudinal changes in health-related factors in participants who are
      recruited from a previous cohort study will be described, as well as the estimated cost of
      healthcare utilization during one year in a population of young adults with history of
      sport-related knee injury.

      METHODS

      Study design and participants

      This is a pilot randomized controlled trial stepped-wedge design. Participants will include
      40 men and women, age 21 to 33 years, who sustained a physician-confirmed youth (≤ 18 years
      of age) sport-related intra-articular knee injury 5 to 16 years ago.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to the intervention group (n=20) or the control group
      (n=20) in permuted blocks of varying size and stratified during randomization by sex. To
      ensure allocation concealment, the trial biostatistician, who is not involved in participant
      recruitment or baseline testing, will generate the randomization sequence. After the
      participant has been tested at baseline, the study physiotherapist will open the envelope and
      informed the participant about allocation to intervention or control group. If a participant
      expresses that they are unable to participate in the group they were allocated to, they will
      not be excluded from this pilot study. Instead, they are permitted to participate in the
      group that is suitable to them. The number of these cases will be recorded and reported.

      All participants will undergo baseline testing at the same time. Intervention group will then
      complete the 8-week intervention, while the control group will not begin the intervention
      until 8 weeks after their baseline measurements. Intervention group will complete a 16-week
      maintenance period while control group will complete eight weeks of maintenance. All
      participants will undergo functional (i.e. balance and strength) tests, body composition
      measurements, 7-day physical activity monitoring and fill self-report tools (i.e. Knee Injury
      and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, knee self-efficacy) at four time points: baseline, 8-weeks,
      16-weeks and 24-weeks.

      Experimental Intervention: the SHRED Osteoarthritis program

      Exercise Component:

      Previous research on the effects of neuromuscular training after knee injuries and on
      patients with knee OA, research on neuromuscular control, exercise training principles and
      the research group's clinical experience were considered when designing the exercise
      component of the SHRED Osteoarthritis program. The SHRED Osteoarthritis program consists of
      an an 8-minute warm-up, 42-minute circuit training through seven exercise stations, 5 minutes
      of specialized skill and control exercises and 5-minute cool down inclusive of flexibility
      exercises.

      The SHRED Osteoarthritis program will be delivered through two 60-minute group exercise
      classes per week for 8 weeks (16 classes). In addition, participants will complete a
      30-minute home exercise session once a week (8 sessions). The SHRED Osteoarthritis exercise
      classes will be lead by a study physiotherapist assisted by kinesiologists, kinesiology
      students or physiotherapy students with a supervision rate of one instructor for every four
      participants.

      The 30-minute home exercise sessions will consist of a warm-up (8 min) and four exercises
      from the SHRED Osteoarthritis program. The physiotherapist leading the SHRED Osteoarthritis
      classes will assign specific exercises to each participant, based on individual needs and the
      program will be revised weekly.

      Education Component:

      Patient education is embedded into the 16, one-hour supervised group exercise classes.
      Education components will include the causes and course of knee pain, identification of a
      flare-up, management and first aid for self-management of knee pain or flare-ups, appropriate
      imaging, exercise progression and treatment options (conservative vs. surgical). This content
      was built from clinical practice guidelines, expert recommendations, patient interviews and
      theoretical frameworks that outline patient needs, modifiable risk factors, proposed change
      objects and performance objectives.

      Maintenance Component:

      After the 8-week intervention has been completed, participants will enter a maintenance
      stage. During this time (16 weeks for intervention group, 8 weeks for control group), the
      participants will be asked to complete an individualized home exercise program twice a week.
      During the maintenance period, participants have the opportunity to contact the study
      physiotherapist via phone or email to discuss their progression and possible changes to their
      program. In addition, drop-in times will be available twice a week. During these times,
      participants can come to discuss their program with the study physiotherapist.
    
  