
    
      This is a cluster randomised trial conducted in 22 clinics (clusters) in two provinces of
      Afghanistan. Clinics in Afghanistan have a number of community health workers (CHWs) who are
      residents of villages near to the clinic. The clinic provides them with their supplies of
      drugs and other items (e.g. family planning interventions) and the CHW provides a range of
      services in the community including treatment of acute episodes of fever. Currently, the CHW
      has no way of diagnosing malaria, except based on the presenting signs and symptoms of the
      patient. With this method is it likely that many patients who do not have malaria, but have a
      fever, are treated with antimalarial drugs and some patients with malaria are likely not to
      be treated with an antimalarial drug.

      The use of Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDT) for malaria could potentially provide the CHW with an
      easy and safe way of diagnosing malaria based on the presence or absence of parasites in the
      blood. However, use of tests is not straightforward. They need to be applied correctly,
      following a strict protocol, to be accurate. There is now much interest in widespread
      deployment of these tools which are recommended by the World Health Organisation for all
      fever patients in malaria endemic areas. However, evidence for their effectiveness when used
      by CHWs is patchy and there are no randomised trials that have been conducted in Asia. Since
      they represent a considerable cost, examination of their effectiveness is required.

      In Asia (unlike most of Africa), malaria is caused by two species - Plasmodium vivax accounts
      for the majority of cases and P. falciparum for the minority. Treatments differ between the
      species because of differing drug resistance patterns. Therefore accurate diagnosis is
      important for providing accurate treatment for the different types of malaria and also for
      treatment of cases of fever who do not have malaria with alternative treatments. In areas
      where health services are restricted by short opening hours, insecurity, or inaccessibility
      due to distance or terrain, the CHW should be able to use RDTs and apply the correct
      treatment for both a positive and a negative test at the village level.

      This study will randomise 22 clinics (and their constituent CHWs) to receive either an RDT
      for use by the CHW in diagnosing malaria in patients with fever, or no intervention (the
      current situation) where CHWs base their treatment decisions on symptoms alone (i.e. there is
      no parasite based diagnosis). The RDT group will be given the standard national training for
      use of RDTs and management of malaria and the standard supplies. The non-RDT arm will have
      training on management of malaria and a short introduction to RDTs. The study will measure
      the accuracy of treatment applied by the CHW in the RDT vs. the non-RDT arms, and examine the
      accuracy of the RDT itself when it is applied in the field under operational conditions. The
      accuracy will be measured by collecting filter paper blood spots from the patients which will
      be tested by PCR for malaria. A variety of comparisons will be made between the two groups,
      but the main aim is to measure and difference in accurate treatment of the patients according
      to the reference (PCR) diagnosis.

      In phase II of the study the non-RDT arm will be discontinued and the clinics will be
      re-randomised to different interventions. One group of clinics will have the standard RDT
      roll out continued, as previously, and the second group will get additional training and a
      range of supportive interventions to assist in their practice. The second phase will use the
      same methods of assessing the study outcomes. The aim of the second phase is to see whether
      additional training (and cost) results in improved practice by CHWs.
    
  