
    
      Study aims: This study will test which of two pain treatment strategies is better for
      managing pain and helping patients improve safety of opioid medication. For patients on high
      opioid doses who want to reduce, this study will also test whether offering an extra option
      for tapering (buprenorphine-naloxone) helps them succeed. Finally, the study will examine
      patients' and clinicians' experiences with the interventions.

      Study description: The study will compare two treatment strategies among patients with pain
      who are taking long-term opioid pain medications prescribed by VA healthcare facilities
      across the country. Patients who wish to enter the study will be assigned by chance to
      telecare collaborative management (TCM) or integrated pain team (IPT). TCM involves a
      pharmacist and supervising physician working together to find the best medication options for
      each individual patient. In IPT, a team of clinicians focuses on non-medication pain
      management options, in addition to pain medication.

      All participants will be asked to stay in the study for 12 months. Patients for whom it would
      be unsafe to participate will not be invited to join. With either treatment strategy, TCM or
      IPT, participants will have individualized pain care tailored to their needs and preferences.
      Participants on high opioid medication doses who want to reduce their opioid medication dose
      will be assigned by chance to get either a regular step-wise taper or a choice between a
      regular taper or switching to a different medication (buprenorphine-naloxone).

      At the end of the study, the two treatment strategies will be compared to see which worked
      better to (1) decrease pain severity and (2) reduce opioid medication dose. Other outcomes
      important to patients will also be tracked. These include quality of life, sleep, fatigue,
      depression, anxiety, and side effects.
    
  