
    
      Background: Persistent depressive disorder (PDD) is a prevalent disabling disorder. Given its
      high degree of treatment-resistance (TR), comorbidity, and suicidality, this patient group
      constitutes a massive health problem. The Cognitive Behavioral Analysis System of
      Psychotherapy (CBASP) was specifically developed for the outpatient treatment of PDD showing
      superiority to active control groups in some studies. However, non-remission and relapse
      rates of CBASP are relatively high, which might be caused by the fact that within the
      original CBASP-concept the frequent comorbid disorders are not sufficiently addressed. Thus,
      an optimized personalized short and intensive CBASP-concept (CBASPersonalized) was
      established including the interpersonal CBASP-strategies while adding evidence-based
      intrapersonal strategies being tailored to the specific comorbid problems. In this study, the
      investigators will evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of CBASPersonalized. Patients
      will receive a six-week inpatient treatment followed by a six-to-twelve-week
      blended-online-aftercare (CBASPersonalized@home) in combination with standardized
      pharmacotherapy in a routine clinical inpatient setting.

      Methods: In the proposed prospective, mono-site study, 100 PDD patients with childhood
      maltreatment will be included. The study addresses the primary research question: Is an
      intensive six-week inpatient CBASPersonalized treatment feasible and effective in a clinical
      sample of PDD patients? It is hypothesized that six weeks after admission, CBASPersonalized
      will evoke significant reduction in depressive symptomatology (according to the 24-item
      version of the Hamilton Rating Scale of Depression, HRSD). The feasibility (acceptance and
      subjective experience) is assessed on the basis of the dropout rate and a self-assessed
      questionnaire, which measures satisfaction with and subjective effectiveness of the specific
      treatment components.

      In addition, moderator, process and long-term analyses will be conducted for differential
      insights. Primary and secondary outcome will be analyzed using analysis of covariance
      (ANCOVA) controlling for pre-treatment scores. Moderator and process analyses will be
      performed using multiple regression and linear mixed models.

      As a specific secondary research question, we will examine the associations between childhood
      maltreatment (CM), depression severity, and potential psychological mechanisms of this
      associations (emotion regulation, self-compassion, empathic distress, interpersonal problems)
      at the beginning of treatment. In addition, we will explore which changes in the potential
      psychological mechanisms are particularly closely related to changes in depressive symptoms.

      As another additional research question, we will examine the associations between the
      state-like therapeutic alliance, trait-like alliance, and depression severity. We want to
      explore these associations as a possible effect mechanism and specify a possible transfer to
      CBASP specific mechanisms of actions.

      Finally, the analyses of the outcomes at the end of the six-to-twelve week blended
      online-aftercare and the follow-up survey 6 months after end of treatment will provide
      important results on the blended after-care program as well as longterm treatment outcome. Of
      note, we will evaluate the online continuation treatment CBASPersonalized@home regarding
      feasibility. Therefore, patients' expectations towards the intervention, their adherence
      (completed modules and exercises), acceptance and satisfaction with the intervention as well
      as the perceived fit and perceived effectiveness and usability of the intervention will be
      analyzed. Depression severity at the beginning of CBASPersonalized@home, expectations,
      satisfaction and therapeutic alliance will be analyzed as possible predictors of adherence. A
      possible relationship between changes in depressive symptoms in the course of the
      continuation treatment and adherence will be explored.
    
  