
    
      This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of perioperative mFOLFOX plus Pembrolizumab
      combination regimen in participants with potentially resectable adenocarcinoma of the GEJ and
      stomach.

        -  The study is a non-randomized, open-label, single-arm phase II study.

        -  The enrolled participants will receive neoadjuvant combination of mFOLFOX every 2 weeks
           for 4 doses (on Days 1, 15, 29, 43) and Pembrolizumab every 3 weeks for 3 doses (on Days
           1, 22, 43).

        -  Serious adverse events (SAEs) will be assessed on an ongoing basis using CTCAE v4.0, and
           the Thall, Simon, and Estey's design to monitor the efficacy and toxicity continuously
           together.

        -  Repeat PET-CT will be obtained approximately 2-3 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant
           combination therapy.

        -  If no evidence of metastatic disease on PET-CT, participants will undergo potentially
           curative surgical resection 4-6 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant combination
           therapy. This will be followed by adjuvant combination therapy (to be started 6-8 weeks
           after surgery) consisting of mFOLFOX every 2 weeks for additional 4 doses (total 4
           months of therapy) plus Pembrolizumab every 3 weeks for additional 12 doses (total 1
           year of therapy). If there is evidence of metastatic disease on PET-CT, participant will
           come off the study (i.e., will not undergo surgical resection and adjuvant therapy).

        -  Participants will continue to receive treatment until either one of the following
           occurs: completion of adjuvant therapy, development of radiographically confirmed
           progression, participant withdraws consent, intercurrent illness that prevents further
           administration of treatment, or sponsor-investigator decides to withdraw the
           participant.

        -  Efficacy outcomes during the adjuvant chemotherapy phase will be determined by
           radiologic measurements by CT using RECIST v1.1. Assessment of response will be
           performed every 3 months for the first year and as per the standard institutional
           guidelines thereafter.
    
  