
    
      Polymorphisms of Protease Activated Receptor 1 and adverse pregnancy outcomes Protease
      Activated Receptor 1 (PAR1), the main thrombin receptor on vascular cells (Coughlin,1999),
      plays a critical role in orchestrating human placentation based on temporally and spatially
      constrained PAR1 expression in the normal invasive trophoblasts (O'Brien et al, 2003) and its
      overexpression in pathological invasive trophoblast (Even-Ram et al, 2003).

      Various proteases of the PAR family as well as matrix metalloproteinases have been implicated
      in ancillary regulation of cancer metastases and tumor-related angiogenesis. PAR1 in
      particular has been proposed to be involved in invasive processes of various cancers (Ruf &
      Mueller, 2006; Boire et al, 2005). Similarly, it might be surmised that remodeling of the
      placenta microenvironment as well as the requisites of trophoblast invasiveness may be PAR1
      sensitive (Grisaru-Granovsky et al, 2005). Therefore, one might hypothesize that PAR1 gene
      variability may be involved in early placentation and that adverse pregnancy outcomes of the
      "placental syndromes" may have their origin in PAR1 dysregulation.

      Study Design: This is a prospective case-control pilot study. Subject enrolment and data
      collection will be performed via the Admission Service of the Division for Maternal & Fetal
      Medicine in a large tertiary obstetrics department in Jerusalem, Israel. Demographic data
      including maternal characteristics, past reproductive history, and information about previous
      complications during pregnancy, delivery and the neonatal period will be culled. The blood
      samples will be collected at routine admission after obtaining informed consent by the
      physician on the floor.

      Four groups are described: patients with spontaneous preterm delivery of a singleton before
      35 weeks of gestation; patients with a singleton pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia
      diagnosed according the Working Group Criteria (2000); patients who deliver a small for
      gestational age (SGA) singleton defined as a birth weight below the 10th percentile for the
      gestational age according to the Israeli growth curves (Dollberg et al, 2005); and for
      comparison, patients who deliver a singleton at term with appropriate size for gestational
      age. Patients who suffer delivery with intrauterine fetal demise and/or neonates with
      malformations will be excluded.

      Maternal and umbilical cord blood samples (in 0.11mol/l sodium tri citrate) will be paired.
      DNA will be prepared from white blood cells by standard techniques and subsequently stored at
      -4°C for batched analysis. The laboratory staff will be blinded as to the clinical status of
      the samples.

      Polymorphism analysis will be performed for the following polymorphisms of the PAR1 gene:
      [-1426CT], [506 insertion of 13 bp],[IVS-14A/T]: as per standard PCR techniques using
      appropriate restriction endonucleases (Arnaud et l, 2000).
    
  