
    
      Treatment of psychotic disorders consists primarily of antipsychotic medications, which are
      associated with metabolic side effects such as overweight/obesity, diabetes, and
      dyslipidemia. Expert consensus and evidence-based recommendations have been developed for
      assessment and management of these conditions; however, research studies show deficits and
      delays in metabolic monitoring for patients prescribed antipsychotics. This purpose of this
      study is to test a quality improvement intervention to enhance implementation of
      recommendations for assessing and managing metabolic side effects in patients prescribed
      antipsychotic medications.

      Study Objectives are:

        -  Objective 1: To test the effect of an Evidence-Based Quality Improvement/Facilitation
           (EBQI/F) intervention as an augmentation to a national implementation initiative on
           rates of monitoring for metabolic side effects of antipsychotics in sites likely to
           encounter greater challenges to implementation.

        -  Objective 2: To test the effect of the EBQI/F intervention as an augmentation to the
           national implementation initiative on management of metabolic side effects of
           antipsychotics in sites likely to encounter greater challenges to implementation.

        -  Objective 3: To assess the direct costs of the EBQI/F intervention, and explore
           potential variations in costs of the EBQI/F intervention in sites with lower versus
           higher organizational challenges.

      Methods This study employs a cluster randomized design with eligible study sites including VA
      Medical Centers with 300 patients receiving a new antipsychotic prescription in the first six
      months of Fiscal Year 2008. Twelve sites have been recruited and matched according to level
      of organizational readiness-to-change. Randomization to intervention or control group was
      conducted within each of the six site-pairs. Study participants include VA employees involved
      in the monitoring and management of patients treated with antipsychotics at participating
      sites. The intervention involves researchers partnering with clinical stakeholders, offering
      tailoring in local implementation strategies to address barriers to metabolic side-effect
      monitoring and management. External facilitation to support, problem-solve and refine
      implementation will be provided for a six-month implementation phase. The effectiveness of
      the EBQI/F intervention combined with the ongoing national quality improvement initiative at
      six sites (intervention sites) will be compared to six matched comparison sites exposed to
      the national quality improvement initiative alone (control sites).
    
  