
    
      Thirty pregnant women (12-16 weeks gestation) with a pre-pregnancy BMI of ≥35 kg/m2 will be
      recruited from "My Clinic" and normal obstetrical care.

      "My Clinic" is a new outpatient obstetrical care clinic being initiated at London Health
      Sciences Centre for obese women. Women in early pregnancy (12-16 weeks) will be recruited
      through family physicians' offices from Southwest Ontario to participate in "My Clinic" if
      their BMI is > or = 35 at the initiation of pregnancy. The clinic will integrate various
      professional groups currently fractured in their provision of care, including ultrasound,
      nutrition, social work and obstetrical care to assess and provide care for this group of
      women, while providing the patients a group atmosphere for regular counselling during their
      scheduled antenatal visits. The clinic will also offer group counseling sessions for patients
      covering various topics relating to lifestyle choices including diet and exercise.

      Each woman will be screened for medical comorbidities of obesity, including blood pressure
      measurements and a fasting oral glucose tolerance test to screen for gestational diabetes.
      Once medically pre-screened with no contraindications to walking regularly, each woman will
      be approached by a member of the research team. Each woman will record for 3 consecutive days
      (including one weekend day) a food intake diary and also record the number of steps taken
      during that same time period, using a pedometer with instructions on how to wear it and
      record her daily steps. Once these have been returned, the women will be randomized into one
      of three groups by computer generated model. The order of randomization will be kept in the
      clinic in opaque envelopes and selected by the research assistant after inclusion in the
      study is confirmed. The three groups are as described;

        1. The NELIP group (N=10) with full intervention (1) will be introduced to a walking
           program in which they walk for 25 minutes, 3 to 4 times per week, adding 2 minutes each
           week, until 40 minutes is reached and then maintained until delivery. Each woman will be
           given a pedometer and log sheet to keep track of daily steps and to initiate
           self-monitoring behaviour. The dietary program will mimic the gestational diabetic meal
           plan: a) individualize total energy intake with a minimum of 2000 kcal/day (8360
           kilojoule/day), taking into account the usual energy intake as indicated by each dietary
           assessment (including 3-day food intake records) with a restriction of not more than 33%
           total energy intake; b) adjust if necessary the total carbohydrate intake to 40-50% of
           total energy intake, distributing carbohydrate intake throughout the day with three
           balanced meals, and three snacks per day emphasizing complex carbohydrates and low
           glycemic index foods; c) adjust the total fat intake to 30% of total energy intake
           (substituting monounsaturated fatty acids for saturated and trans-fatty acids), with the
           remaining 30% dedicated to protein intake; and d) meet all micronutrient and fluid needs
           recommended during pregnancy (2).

        2. In order to tease out the effectiveness of the full NELIP, the second group (N=10) will
           only be given the exercise component (ELIP) of NELIP. Once dietary intake has been
           assessed, this group will not be given any dietary intervention but will be encouraged
           to eat a healthy, balanced diet.

        3. The third group (N=10) will only be given the nutrition program (NLIP) of NELIP. They
           will be encouraged to be more active but will not be given an exercise intervention.

      A control group (N=30) will also be recruited from the "My Clinic" and other women undergoing
      care through the obstetrical program at London Health Sciences Centre. The women will be
      matched by pre-pregnancy BMI, maternal age and parity, with no intervention, but will attend
      the clinic for standard obstetric care and follow-up.

      Women in groups 1-3 will have weekly weight gain recorded until delivery. Infant gender, body
      weight, length, neonatal morphometrics (birth weight:length ratio, BMI, newborn skinfolds,
      and circumferences) and placental weight (placenta:birth weight ratio) will be recorded in
      all women within 6-18 hours of birth. Any interventions or complications at birth will also
      be recorded. At 6 and 12 months post partum, all maternal-infant pairs (including controls)
      will be invited to return to the clinic for follow-up. Breast feeding status, maternal weight
      retention, infant weight/length/BMI/skinfolds/girths and growth patterns will be assessed and
      compared to the WHO Child Growth Standards for infants based on gender (see above).

      All women will complete the Kaiser Physical Activity Questionnaire at entry, 34-36 weeks of
      gestation and at each follow-up appointment to track changes in physical activity.
    
  