
    
      Objective

      Dystonia is a disabling movement disorder that manifests with sustained co-contraction of
      agonist and antagonist muscles, giving rise to abnormal twisted postures and overflow of
      muscle activity. Abnormal neurophysiologic parameters of the somatosensory and motor cortex
      have been demonstrated, although it is unclear how these changes lead to the predominant
      motor manifestations. In normal voluntary movement, communication between sensory and motor
      cortices is important and these interactions may be dysfunctional in dystonia. Coherence is a
      powerful method used to assess brain communication and has been instrumental in demonstrating
      the interregional interactions involved in normal movement. Inappropriate connectivity in
      terms of the duration of communication or the extent of spread over sensorimotor areas may
      give rise to the involuntary overflow of movements that characterize dystonia. We propose to
      examine changes in coherence associated with disorganized movements to yield insight as to
      the brain networks involved in the development and expression of the disease.

      Study population

      Patients with focal hand dystonia and normal volunteers will take part in the study.

      Design

      In this study, EEG/MEG coherence analysis will be used to investigate corticocortical and
      corticomuscular interactions during voluntary hand movements in focal hand dystonia patients
      and normal subjects. Power spectral changes in the beta and alpha frequency range over the
      hand sensorimotor cortex will be studied using a 28-channel EEG montage while subjects
      perform various tasks involving the hand. The interregional coherence between sensory and
      motor, premotor and motor, and interhemispheric cortices will be assessed for changes between
      study populations.

      Outcome Measures

      Comparison of interregional coherence changes will be performed between dystonia patients and
      normal volunteers as well as between affected and unaffected sides. Furthermore, coherence
      changes will be compared between rest and during task performance.
    
  