
    
      All the subjects in the study will be randomized and their participation is completely
      voluntary. Patients recruited to join the study will not receive any monetary compensation
      for participation.

      This research will include 100 female subjects, ages 21-45, undergoing medicated frozen
      embryo transfer (mFET). The subjects will be randomized into treatment and the non-treatment
      groups. The non-treatment group will undergo the medicated uterine preparation for FET
      according to the fertility clinic's protocol.

      Subjects in the treatment group will receive four electro-acupuncture (EA) treatments in
      addition to the mFET protocol, starting after the 1st Ultrasound measurement which
      constitutes as a baseline, until the start of the progesterone administration. Endometrial
      thickness will be measured using ultrasound and estrogen (E2) levels will be measured by
      blood samples as a standard measure to assess the time of P4 (progesterone) supplementation.
      This step will be done by the participant's fertility clinic according to the clinic's
      protocol.

      Acupuncture points of LI-4, LV-3, SP-6, Zi Gong, CV-3, CV-4, ST-36 will be needled.
      Electro-stimulation will be applied to acupoints SP-6, Zi-Gong, CV-3 and CV-4 at low
      frequency. The needle retention with electro-stimulation will last for 25 minutes. After the
      25 minutes, the needles and the electro-stimulation will be removed and the patients will be
      dismissed.

      Ultrasound results measuring endometrium will be obtained from the subject's fertility
      clinic. US and bloodwork will be performed at baseline, and before the progesterone
      administration according to the fertility clinic. This US measurement and bloodwork results
      will be used for statistical analysis to compare endometrial lining of the two groups. The
      final discussion will be presented according to the findings.
    
  