
    
      Purpura fulminans is the clinical manifestation of disseminated thrombosis in dermal and
      systemic microcirculation. This rare disease is frequently associated with multiple organ
      failure and represents a life-threatening condition with mortality exceeding 50 %. In the
      vast proportion of cases, the condition has been shown to emerge secondary to acquired
      Protein C deficiency associated with severe sepsis, mostly of meningococcal or pneumococcal
      origin.

      A consistent therapeutic approach to sepsis-associated Purpura fulminans (SAPF) has not been
      established yet. With exaggerated pro-coagulant activity being confirmed as the key
      pathogenic aspect, several treatment modalities aiming at the balance restoration in the
      coagulation cascade have been considered.

      SAPF causality might have been substantially altered in the wake of widespread meningococcal
      and pneumococcal vaccination. There are neither evidence-based treatment guidelines nor
      comparative evaluation of the efficacy of different therapeutic approaches.

      The present registry aims at a) large-scale data accumulation and comprehensive evaluation of
      the incidence, causality and current treatment strategies of SAPF, b) comparative assessment
      of treatment strategies including or not including protein C supplementation c)
      identification of patient subgroups of particular eligibility for Protein C treatment, as
      judged by established criteria of disease severity assessment, d) feedback of aggregated data
      to registry contributors, thus permitting quality management and standard updates, e)
      dissemination of data evaluation summaries and recommendations for the use of Protein C
      formulations in clinical routine, f) elaboration of a framework for SAPF treatment
      recommendations and guidelines.

      The registry comprises prospective, multicentric open-label data collection on the current
      state of incidence and management of SAPF, regardless of the etiopathogenic background. It
      will include comprehensive records on diagnosis, morbidity and management of SAPF, supplied
      in the form of electronic case report forms (eCRFs) by the participating centers over a
      period of three years.
    
  