
    
      Physician wellness is a hot topic today. Fatigue and alertness are common challenges faced
      during long work hours. Virtual reality is an immersive technology which has been
      demonstrated to distract people from pain, stress, and anxiety. Guided relaxation and
      meditation can impact alertness. There is no literature reporting the impact immersive
      technologies like VR sessions could have on alertness, a critical area of concern in health
      care today which impacts physician wellness, quality of care, and duty hours.

      The investigator's long-term goal is to develop solutions that can be used across industries
      to improve human alertness. To solve this problem, the investigator proposes to test the
      feasibility of using an immersive virtual reality experience as a scheduled break and measure
      the interventions effect on post-break alertness, stress, and anxiety. Previous work at our
      Institution has demonstrated that VR experiences can reduce pain, stress and anxiety in
      patients presenting to the emergency department.

      Hypothesis: Short immersive VR breaks are expected to increase alertness and reduce stress
      and anxiety in residents, physicians, and medical students working on shifts as compared to
      unstructured breaks.

      Aim 1 will establish a biometric footprint of activities relating to the shift of a resident,
      physician, medical student, or nurse. Understanding how biometric parameters change when
      performing different activities will establish a baseline for comparing the effect of
      immersive VR breaks.

      Aim 2 will seek to tag the activities a resident, physician, medical student, or nurse is
      performing during the shift to add context to the biometric data

      Aim 3 will be to evaluate metrics for alertness, stress and anxiety of a resident, physician,
      medical student, or nurse during their shift and specifically determine how they change with
      immersive VR intervention

      The proposed study will establish a new model for managing physician alertness, stress and
      anxiety and provide insights into viable and effective interventions to improve these
      parameters for other occupations. The expected improvement in alertness and reduction in
      stress and anxiety could be highly impactful in creating a safer workplace. These methods
      will also help derive biometric maps of physician activities that could be used for a variety
      of physician wellness interventions. The impact of this study could be wide reaching in
      occupational health.
    
  