
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Secondhand tobacco smoke (SHS) exposure increases asthma morbidity in children. Efforts to
      reduce exposure have had mixed results. This study is a randomized controlled trial of an
      exposure reduction intervention, with objective feedback to parents on the child's exposure
      based on urine cotinine measurement, and counseling tailored to the child's specific exposure
      sources/locations and parental readiness to take specific actions to reduce exposure from
      each source/location. This trial involves 350 SHS-exposed children with persistent asthma,
      3-12 years of age, receiving care from the Kaiser Health Care Program in Northern California.
      Primary outcomes over the 18 months of follow-up will be asthma acute care utilization and
      urine cotinine/creatine ratio. Changes in controller medication adherence will be evaluated
      using a pharmacy-based dispensing index.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Primary objective: To evaluate the efficacy of a behaviorally-based,
      cotinine-feedback-and-monitoring program designed to reduce SHS exposure in an 18-month
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 350 children with persistent asthma, 3-12 years of
      age, in comparison with usual medical care.

      Secondary objectives: 1) to investigate the behavioral mechanisms that mediate between the
      intervention and associated improvements in asthma outcomes, and 2) to determine the
      influence of initial caregiver stage of change with regard to smoking practices on response
      to the intervention.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Disease outcomes: A behaviorally-based, individually-tailored intervention that
           emphasizes SHS exposure reduction, provides sequential feedback to the parent on the
           child's urine cotinine level, and is tailored to the parent's stage of change with
           regard to smoking practices will be associated with decreased asthma crisis care
           utilization and improvements in secondary disease outcomes over an 18-month follow-up
           period when compared with usual medical care.

        2. ETS exposure: The SHS reduction intervention will be associated with lower SHS exposure
           at follow-up (assessed by urine cotinine/creatinine ratio), compared with usual medical
           care.

        3. Mechanism: Decreases in urine cotinine/creatinine ratio will be instrumental in
           intervention-associated improvements in asthma crisis care utilization.
    
  