
    
      Study design. This academic investigator - initiated trial will resolve the key issue
      whether, and if yes, to what extent and variability, the treatment with lumacaftor in
      combination with ivacaftor (Orkambi®) will reverse the p.Phe508del CFTR - mediated basic
      defect in p.Phe508del homozygous subjects with cystic fibrosis (CF) under real life
      conditions.

      Each p.Phe508del homozygous subject will function as his own control. Baseline measurements
      will be performed within a 4-week interval prior to the start of oral treatment with
      lumacaftor + ivacaftor. According to the phase 3 study results by week 4 the gain of FEV1
      levels off, drug levels are in steady state and all reversible initial reductions of lung
      function are resolved. Thus the second assessment will be performed during the initial steady
      state at a day 10 - 14 weeks after the initiation of oral treatment with lumacaftor +
      ivacaftor. At both days of investigations the basic defect will be assessed by Gibson-Cooke
      pilocarpine iontophoresis sweat test, nasal transepithelial potential difference measurement
      (NPD) and intestinal current measurement (ICM). Moreover lung function will be measured by
      spirometry. The plasma concentrations of lumacaftor, ivacaftor, and their metabolites will be
      determined and the safety of the oral treatment with Orkambi will be assessed according to
      the prescribing information.

      Study participants will be requested to record the administration of Orkambi® by date and
      time for 7 days before the scheduled visit to perform functional CFTR assays. Orkambi® should
      be administered within 30 minutes of consuming fat-containing food according to the
      FDA-approved patient labeling and the prescribing information. Subjects will be given a diary
      to record the time and doses of administration of Orkambi® for seven days before the
      scheduled visit.

      Measures against recruitment bias. The local patient databases at the three sites will be
      searched for all subjects who fulfil the inclusion criteria. After all subjects have been
      removed from the list who fulfill one or more exclusion criteria, the eligible subjects will
      be randomly assigned to rank numbers. Subjects will then be contacted in the sequence as they
      appear in the rank number list.

      Statistical analysis. The sample size estimate is based on the absolute change from baseline
      of the cumulative chloride secretory ion current response to forskolin/Isobutyl methyl
      xanthine (IBMX) and carbachol in ICM as outcome measure of CFTR function. Assuming a nominal
      type I error of 0.05 and a power of 0.8, 125 or 33 subjects are needed to demonstrate a
      treatment effect of 5% or 10%, respectively. Thus even modest changes in the basis defect can
      be demonstrated in a recruited cohort of 125 subjects and incomplete data sets in up to half
      of all subjects.

      To evaluate changes in lung function and CFTR biomarkers prior and during treatment with
      Orkambi® , Student's t test, paired Student's t test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be
      performed as appropriate. Relationships between CFTR biomarkers will be first assessed by the
      Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient and in case that the whole data set will be
      explored by canonical correlation analysis. Furthermore the sensitivity and specificity of
      the CFTR biomarkers in detecting treatment effects will be determined. The biostatistician
      from the Koordinierungszentrum für Klinische Studien (KKS) Heidelberg will assist in the
      statistical evaluation.

      Ethical considerations. Orkambi® has been approved for treatment of subjects with cystic
      fibrosis, homozygous for the p.Phe508del mutation. Drug handling and safety controls will be
      executed according to the Bundesinstitut für Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte
      (BfArM)-approved patient labeling and full prescribing information.

      Study protocol and informed consent forms were approved by the ethics committees. Prior to
      any investigation patients and their parental guides (if applicable) will be informed about
      the background, objectives, schedule and assessments of the study. Each adult aged 18 years
      or older must sign and date the study-specific informed-consent form before any
      study-specific procedures can be performed. Subjects aged 12 - 17 years must assent to
      participate in the study and the subject's parent or legal guardian must sign and date the
      study-specific informed-consent form before any study-specific procedures can be performed.

      Sweat test and NPD are safe procedures. Burns during iontophoresis, injuries by placement of
      the subcutaneous electrode for NPD or diuresis induced by swallowing of amiloride in younger
      subjects during nasal superfusion have not been observed at the three sites.

      The collection of rectal biopsies is principally a safe and painless procedure. ICM has been
      performed at Hannover Medical School. since 1995. During these 20 years bleedings have been
      observed in five subjects one of whom required hospitalization. Haemorrhoids and abnormal
      bleeding times are contraindications for ICM and are exclusion criteria to participate in the
      study. Hence, with the exception of the low bleeding risk associated with the collection of
      rectal biopsies study participants are not put at risk.

      There is no direct benefit for study participants, however, the decision whether or not
      Orkambi® should be prescribed can be based on solid data.

      Quality assurance. Sweat test, NPD, ICM and sampling (blood, serum, plasma) will be performed
      according to harmonized Standard Operating Procedures based on protocols of the Clinical
      Trials Network of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society and/or the Therapeutics Development
      Network Coordinating Center of the US Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and/or the Hannover Unified
      Biobank. Pre-study hands-on meetings have been organized to compare on-site the execution of
      the protocols including sweat test, NPD, ICM, lung function testing and sampling, processing,
      storage of serum and plasma specimens. Sweat testing is subject to domestic quality control
      trials. Local and central reading will be performed for all NPD and ICM tracings. The sites
      have long-standing expertise in CFTR biomarkers and have trained numerous domestic and
      European sites in NPD and ICM. - Subjects will be educated in drug dosing. A diary with drug
      dosing (date and time) will be filled out during the 7 days prior to the day of assessment.
    
  