
    
      1.0 BACKGROUND: Noise in the operating room (OR) is common whether it be related to surgical
      equipment, anesthetic monitors, or conversations between health care providers and patients
      regarding the procedure or patient status. In particular, certain periods can be louder than
      others, such as during induction and emergence of anesthesia, with preparation and
      conversations as the major sources of noise during induction. Noise at this time has been
      shown to lead to deleterious patient outcomes, as staff are unable to hear subtle or even
      significant changes in monitors, or have difficulty focusing during a critical time of
      induction. It has also been demonstrated that poor postoperative outcomes in pediatric
      patients and increase in stress levels in surgeons. While anecdotal, what is not elucidated
      in the literature is whether or not excess noise during induction affects a patient's
      perioperative satisfaction. Induction is often a distressing time for patients and extraneous
      noise may have a significant impact on their overall experience. This study is the first to
      explore the impact of noise at induction on patient satisfaction investigate whether a
      reduction in noise on induction can improve patient satisfaction. A secondary outcome is to
      achieve a decrease in noise level in non-cardiac operating rooms at this facility, promoting
      the concept of a 'sterile cockpit' (silence during induction) as borrowed from the aviation
      industry.

      2.0 JUSTIFICATION: Studies have demonstrated that excessive noise in the operating room can
      be associated with critical error. Additionally, it has been shown that for
      Anesthesiologists' excessive noise can lead to increased. However, the effects of noise in
      the OR at the time of induction on patient experience remains unclear. While other validated
      questionnaires regarding patient satisfaction during the perioperative period have been
      established, these do not include questions regarding noise levels. Thus, this study will be
      the first to examine how noise during induction will affect patients' perioperative
      experience.

      This tertiary care facility, St. Paul's Hospital, located in Vancouver, British Columbia,
      does not have a specific protocol or mandate with respect to noise in the operating room at
      any time. The recommended decibel levels in OR's is <45 decibels.

      3.0 STUDY PURPOSE:

      The purpose of this study is to:

        -  Collect data regarding noise levels in the OR at the time of induction

        -  Collect patient satisfaction survey during phase 1

        -  Complete noise-reduction strategies (phase 2) to reduce levels of noise in the operating
           room during the time of induction

        -  Repeat patient satisfaction survey during phase 3 to determine if patient satisfaction
           improves with reduction of noise during induction

        -  Collect data on Anesthesiologist satisfaction survey during phase 1

        -  Repeat anesthesiologist satisfaction survey during phase 3 to determine if this improves
           with reduction of noise during induction

      4.0 HYPOTHESIS:

      The null hypothesis is:

      • There is no improvement in patient satisfaction with the reduction of noise at the time of
      induction.

      5.0 OBJECTIVES:

      The objectives of this study are to:

        -  Collect preliminary data regarding noise levels in the OR during induction

        -  Determine if noise-reduction strategies and education during induction decreases noise
           levels in the operating room

        -  Determine if noise-reduction strategies and education improve patient satisfaction in
           the perioperative period

        -  Determine if noise-reduction strategies and education improve Anesthesiologist
           satisfaction during induction

      6.0 METHODS & STATISTICS: 6.1 Research Design Overview: Questionnaire Study

      This study will take place over three phases.

      Phase I:

      Measure baseline characteristics of designated non-cardiac, elective operating rooms
      requiring a general anesthetic as primary mode of anesthesia. This will act as the control
      group for the study. Data collection will be performed by the attending Anesthesiologist
      using a portable decibel-meter and a smart phone with a decibel-meter application placed by
      the patient's head during induction. The Anesthesiologist will use the devices to determine a
      baseline noise level (maximum and mean decibel levels) in the OR from the time that patient
      enters the OR to when the patient is successfully intubated. The Anesthesiologist taking the
      measurement will conceal the devices from the others in the OR (including OR staff and
      patients). The investigators have received approval from the OR to use this concealed device.
      The same Anesthesiologist will then fill out a questionnaire regarding patient demographics
      (e.g. type of procedure, age, anxiety, significant hearing impairment, cognitive impairment)
      and observed noise in the operating room.

      Patient participants will be recruited post-operatively in the postoperative care unit (PACU)
      and Surgical Day Care (SDC) if they are being discharged home on the same day or on the
      post-surgical wards if they are being admitted to hospital after surgery. The investigators
      will recruit patient participants post-operatively so as not to bias their experiences
      pre-operatively. They will be approached by the perioperative Anesthesiologist when deemed of
      appropriate mental capacity, to ask if they are willing to hear about the study. If they
      agree, the perioperative physician will alert a study team member of the eligible patient and
      they will approach the patient to discuss the study and seek consent. The recruiter will not
      be involved in the patient's direct care as to ensure patients that their care will not be
      influenced by whether they decide to participate or not. When recruited, they will complete
      an anonymous, self-administered questionnaire that will assess their satisfaction or
      dissatisfaction of care, using a Likert scale questionnaire designed specifically for
      extraneous noise during the time of induction. A Likert scale questionnaire is used as this
      has been most validated for perioperative satisfaction in multiple validated questionnaires.

      Phase II:

      This involves an educational intervention in the form of a didactic teaching session for the
      surgical teams, Anesthesiologists, Anesthesia Assistants, Perioperative Nurses, and Patient
      Care Aids The education will be focused on the importance of noise reduction during
      induction, specifically highlighting its potential positive effects on improving patient
      outcomes (and potentially patient satisfaction) and impact on surgical teams and
      Anesthesiologists. This will include formal presentations for each group of OR staff and
      daily prompts prior to the start of the day slate.

      Phase III:

      This will be conducted following education of perioperative health care professionals.
      Exactly the same as phase I, but after education. This involves repeating participant
      recruitment and data collection, with the Anesthesiologist completing the questionnaire and
      collecting noise level data, as well as patient participants completing self-administered
      questionnaires as a repeat of the protocol described above in phase I.
    
  