
    
      The development of innovative, safe and effective therapeutic options for the treatment of
      obese patients is both desirable and necessary. Gastric bypass operations are usually
      effective both short- and long-term but are also not available to or desired by many obese
      people for a variety of reasons. Gastric banding procedures are also available but have been
      reported to be less effective than gastric bypass operations. Diets, exercise programs and
      pharmaceutical agents offer short-term effectiveness for some obese patients but are all too
      often ineffective in the long term. The ever increasing impact of obesity on morbidity,
      mortality and accelerating healthcare resource utilization in most developed countries is
      well documented.

      Activation and up-regulation of the efferent and afferent fibers of the intra-abdominal vagal
      nerve trunks is a pivotal physiological mechanism for food ingestion, mechanical processing,
      enzymatic digestion and calorie absorption. EnteroMedics' Maestro™ System is designed to take
      therapeutic benefit from these physiological principles by reversibly and controllably
      down-regulating/blocking both the anterior and posterior intra-abdominal vagal trunks in
      order to: (1) reduce food intake by reducing gastric volume; (2) initiate early and prolonged
      satiation by delaying gastric emptying; and, (3) decrease calorie absorption by
      down-regulating pancreatic exocrine secretion and digestion. This multi-modal mechanism is
      implemented in order achieve predictable and controllable loss of body weight.

      This is a prospective, open-label, multi-center, clinical trial with the subjects' baseline
      parameters as the control. Subjects implanted laparoscopically with the Maestro System were
      followed from 6-months to two years.

        -  Implantable components: two flexible leads (including one electrode each for the
           anterior and posterior intra-abdominal vagal nerve trunks) that are connected to an
           implantable neuroregulator placed subcutaneously on the abdominal wall below the costal
           margin (a minimum of two or three finger widths below), or a location determined by the
           surgeon and consistent with device operation.

        -  External components:

             -  For the Maestro System using a neuroregulator with an internal rechargeable
                battery: one mobile charger for the implanted neuroregulator, which is connected
                via a small, flexible cable to a cutaneous transmit coil that is positioned over
                the implanted neuroregulator when charging the device or determining the status of
                the device; a software program on a laptop computer that transmits information to
                the neuroregulator and uploads data from the neuroregulator, which is available to
                the clinician, allowing both change in treatment regimens and assessment of
                treatment compliance.

             -  For the Maestro System using a neuroregulator with no battery: one programmable,
                battery-powered ambulatory controller connected via a small, flexible cable to a
                cutaneous transmit coil that is positioned over the implanted neuroregulator to
                provide power for the device; a software program on a laptop computer that
                transmits information to and uploads data from the controller which is available to
                the clinician, allowing both change in treatment regimens and assessment of
                treatment compliance.

      The objectives of this trial are as follows:

        -  Determination of efficacy by quantification of excess body weight loss (EWL) at 4 and 12
           weeks, and 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months.

        -  Evaluation of safety through 4 and 12 weeks, and 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months.

        -  Selection of effective daily treatment regimen(s).
    
  