
    
      This is a prospective and explorative clinical study performed at one centre. Objective: The
      objective of this study is to assess the clinical efficacy of pulmonary vein isolation using
      the Arctic Front Advance cryoballoon in patients with longstanding persistent atrial
      fibrillation (AF) at one year follow up.

      44 subjects will be enrolled. Clinical sites: Arrhythmia centre in Uppsala University
      Hospital, Uppsala Sweden.

      Subject population: Patients with longstanding persistent AF, with continuous AF of longer
      duration than one year, who have not previously undergone an AF ablation procedure, and who
      have symptoms related to AF corresponding to at least EHRA score 2, will be studied. Atrial
      fibrillation should be confirmed on at least 2 consecutive ECG recordings during the past one
      year supporting the presence of AF for at least one year. Patients should have failed at
      least a betablocker or class I or III antiarrhythmic drug.

      In order to exclude permanent AF patients, an electrical cardioversion with conversion to
      sinus rhythm maintained for at least one hour, is required.

      Excluded patients are those with congestive heart failure with New York Heart Association
      (NYHA) class 3 or more, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < 40%, left atrial diameter
      (LA) ≥ 60 mm, significant valvular disease or planned cardiac intervention within the next 12
      months, and conventional medical contraindications for AF ablation procedures.

      Pulmonary vein isolation: Pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) will be performed using the Arctic
      Front Advance cryoballoon ablation catheter. Acute procedural success is defined as
      electrical isolation of all pulmonary veins assessed by entrance and exit block, including 20
      minutes waiting time and the use of the provocative agent adenosine to screen for early
      recurrence of PV conduction.

      Design of the study: Patients will be screened with echocardiography and response to
      electrical cardioversion. Following conversion to sinus rhythm, amiodarone will be initiated
      in order to maintain sinus rhythm.

      After cryoballoon ablation of all pulmonary veins, PV conduction block will be assessed by a
      circular mapping catheter, including waiting time and provocative agents. All patients will
      be subject to electro anatomical voltage mapping during sinus rhythm for demonstration of the
      extent of atrial myocardial lesions after ablation. Biomarkers including nTproBNP and
      troponin I, reflecting myocardial strain and destruction, will be collected at baseline and
      at different time points after the procedure.

      Patients will be followed every third month up to one year after the ablation procedure.
      Amiodarone will be withdrawn one month after the ablation procedure.

      Arrhythmia monitoring during follow up will be performed by a 7 day Holter monitoring every
      third month at 6, 9 and 12 months follow up, including a 12 lead ECG.

      A transthoracic echocardiography will be repeated at 12 months follow up to assess LA volume
      and contractility. Symptoms, EHRA score, and quality of life (QoL) will be evaluated.
      Predictive variables for successful outcome/AF recurrence will be analysed.

      All patients will be reinvestigated for assessment of PV re-conduction using a circular
      mapping catheter, irrespective of symptoms. Patients with symptomatic recurrence requiring a
      redo ablation procedure will be re-studied after 8-12 months while asymptomatic patients will
      be studied at 12 months follow up.

      Primary end-point:

      Clinical success defined as

        -  Freedom from AF related symptoms, off or on previously ineffective antiarrhythmic drugs
           irrespective of the presence of asymptomatic AF on Holter. AF may be either absent or
           paroxysmal in nature, or

        -  Presence of AF related symptoms, off or on previously ineffective antiarrhythmic drugs,
           but with significant symptomatic improvement to the extent that a redo procedure or a
           novel previously not tested antiarrhythmic drug is not desired as declared by the
           patient on a symptom questionnaire. Atrial fibrillation may be either absent or
           paroxysmal as recorded on Holter or ECG tracings after 1 or 2 procedures at 12 months.

      Secondary end-points:

        1. Complete freedom from AF without antiarrhythmic drugs at 6 and 12 months after 1-2
           ablation procedures according to 7 day Holter and ECG.

        2. Rhythm (% of subjects in sinus rhythm, paroxysmal AF and persistent AF) at 12 months.

        3. AF burden on 7 day Holter at 12 months.

        4. AF profile

        5. Assess whether PVI is crucial for elimination of AF in patients with longstanding
           persistent AF. Correlation between freedom from AF/recurrence and PV
           isolation/re-conduction at repeat electrophysiological study.

        6. Systemic blood pressure.

        7. Quality of Life determined by standardized questionnaires (SF 36, with all domains and
           time-points and EQ 5D).

        8. Symptoms (Symptoms Severity Questionnaire and EHRA Symptom Classification).

        9. Incidence, intensity and relationship of Adverse Events.

       10. Left and right atrial size and function (sinus rhythm) (echocardiography corrected for
           Body Surface area, dPdT) prior to and after ablation at 12 months.

       11. Biomarkers including nTproBNP and troponin I, reflecting myocardial strain and
           destruction, will be collected at baseline and at different time points after the
           procedure. A biomarker reflecting fibrosis and brain damage will be analysed.

       12. Extent of scar tissue as indicated by LA voltage mapping at baseline and extent of
           electrical silence around PV postablation.

       13. A subgroup analysis will determine whether sinus rhythm obtained by AF ablation is
           superior AF with regard to all secondary endpoints including QoL, Symptoms,
           cardiovascular hospitalizations, safety, biomarkers, left atrial size and function, at
           12 months.

       14. Prediction of freedom from AF by risk variables including LA volume, LA contractility
           (strain rate), LA intracardiac pressures and dpdt, Atrial amplitude analysis during AF
           prior ablation, extent of scar tissue as assessed by a voltage mapping at baseline
           during sinus rhythm, biomarkers, and demographic variables (AF duration, hypertension,
           ischemic heart disease, diabetes and CHADS2VASscore).

       15. Catheter related complications.

       16. Cardiovascular hospitalization

       17. Health economics
    
  