
    
      The purpose of the current project is to determine the effects of augmented neuromuscular
      training on brain neuroplasticity. Specifically we aim to evaluate the potential of standard
      augmented NMT (aNMT) to alter brain neural performance as evidenced by EEG and functional
      brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The changes in EEG and MRI (pre vs. post) will be
      compared over the same period of time. We hypothesize that aNMT will influence adaptive brain
      strategies in young girls and simultaneously will improve joint mechanics in evidence-based
      measures collected in realistic, sport-specific virtual reality scenarios. The human brain is
      a highly complex multilayered organ composed of many billions of neurons (1 trillion brain
      cells and 100 billion neurons), organized into very complicated interconnecting neural
      networks. Typically, each neuron is connected to tens of thousands of other neurons through
      connections called synapses. Electrochemical signals that are passed between neurons through
      these synapses allow them to communicate. The connections between neurons are not static, but
      change over time. The more signals sent between two neurons, the stronger the connection
      grows, and so, with each new experience, the brain slightly rewires its physical and
      functional structure.

      Unique local physical and functional connections between neurons are called neural networks.
      Neural networks are typically characterized by preferred signaling pathways, and it is the
      interactions within and between these networks of neurons that enable us to perform various
      functions including cognitive functions, such as attention, working memory, pattern
      recognition and problem-solving. It is this simultaneous cooperative function of brain areas
      working together as large-scale networks which is at the root of the sophistication and
      computational power of the human brain.

      Event Related Potentials (ERPs), which are temporal reflections of the neural mass electrical
      activity of cells in specific regions of the brain that occur in response to stimuli, may
      offer such a measure, as they provide both a noninvasive and portable index of brain
      function. The ERPs provide excellent temporal information, but spatial resolution for ERPs
      has traditionally been limited. However, by using high-density electroencephalograph (EEG)
      recording spatial resolution for ERPs has improved significantly.

      Currently, there is no direct, reliable, bed-side, and non-invasive method for assessing
      changes in brain activity associated with concussion. Event Related Potentials (ERPs), which
      are temporal reflections of the neural mass electrical activity of cells in specific regions
      of the brain that occur in response to stimuli, may offer such a method, as they provide both
      a noninvasive and portable measure of brain function. The ERPs provide excellent temporal
      information, but spatial resolution for ERPs has traditionally been limited. However, by
      using high-density electroencephalograph (EEG) recording spatial resolution for ERPs is
      improved significantly. The paradigm for the current study will combine neurophysiological
      knowledge with mathematical signal processing and pattern recognition methods (BNA™) to
      temporally and spatially map brain function, connectivity and synchronization.

      The proposed study will provide additional evidence for the utility and contribution of the
      BNA™ test (reflecting temporal and spatial changes in brain activity as well as brain
      functional connectivity associated with concussion) in concussion management.

      The BNA test is basically divided to 3 phases - first EEG data is collected from subjects
      using an EEG system and while the subject is performing a computerized cognitive task. The
      EEG data is then analyzed using the advanced BNA™ technology and last a report of the BNA™
      test is generated.

      Neuroimaging, specifically functional magnetic resonance imaging provides improved spatial
      data relative to EEG and provides another measure of neuroplasticity to gain the full
      pictures of training effects on the brain. Previous literature supporting its ability to
      detect differences in those with ACL injury strengthens the use of fMRI. We will be assessing
      the full brain response during a knee extension task using previously established methods ACL
      deficient and reconstructed knees. Recent investigations into gait retraining with fMRI
      pre-post testing have created the neural correlates of gait training based on ankle
      dorsiflexion. In the same way, this study will apply a similar paradigm utilizing knee
      extension to understand the neuroplasticity associated with lower extremity neuromuscular
      training.
    
  