
    
      Nebulizer use in young children is common with prevalence of 33-71% in children under age 12
      years. Nebulizers are used primarily to administer SABA medications, (i.e., albuterol) and
      some anti-inflammatory medications (i.e., budesonide, cromolyn). Parents may prefer nebulizer
      delivery due to the inability of young children to coordinate respiration with aerosol
      delivery and many parents lack confidence in administering metered-dose inhaler (MDI)
      medications to young children. Physician preference for nebulizer administration of asthma
      medications is low, but is favored due to direct medication delivery to the respiratory
      system despite studies indicating MDIs with spacers are as effective as nebulizers in
      delivering asthma medications to young children. Although national guidelines recommend a
      nebulizer with mask for children 2 years or younger most asthma educational programs lack
      specific content addressing appropriate nebulizer technique including when and what symptoms
      to treat at home, optimal length of a nebulized medication session, prevention of SABA
      overuse and appropriate cleaning and maintenance of the device. Because the overuse of home
      nebulizer SABA medications has been associated with fatal asthma, instruction and supervision
      of nebulized rescue medication delivery in addition to appropriate preventive medication use
      may reduce asthma morbidity and mortality .

      The current study was conducted to determine the effectiveness of a home-based nebulizer
      educational intervention (NEI) for young children with asthma. The intervention was designed
      to teach early symptom recognition, appropriate medication use and nebulizer technique for
      home treatment of acute asthma episodes. Study outcomes included symptom frequency, activity
      limitation, emergency department (ED) visits and hospitalizations, appropriate asthma
      medication use and nebulizer practice. We hypothesized that children receiving the NEI would
      demonstrate improvement in appropriate nebulizer and asthma medication use and decreased
      asthma symptoms, activity limitation, ED visits and hospitalizations.
    
  