
    
      This study will be conducted in Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine Neurosurgery
      Department and Hacettepe University Faculty of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation.

      The study was designed as a randomized controlled trial. At the beginning of the study,
      demographic data and characteristics of the cases will be recorded. Patients will be
      evaluated in three different periods throughout the study. The first assessments will be
      performed on the first day after the patient's condition is appropriate after the surgical
      procedure for Type 1 CM. Following this evaluation, all patients will be divided into two
      groups using. a simple randomization method. The first group will be exercised for 6 weeks
      while the second group will not be intervened during this period and will be followed as a
      control group. Immediately after the exercise program administered to the first group after 6
      weeks, both groups will undergo second assessments. After these assessment measures, the same
      exercise program in the first group will be applied to the second group only this time for 6
      weeks. In the meantime, the first group will stop their exercise programs. After the 6-week
      exercise program of the second group has ended, both groups will be given the third
      assessment, the final assessment.

      "The study will be conducted in individuals aged 18-65 years who have been diagnosed with
      Type 1 CM by the physician and have been decided to undergo surgery for this diagnosis. In
      our study whose primary outcome parameters were determined as "Neck Disability Index" and
      "Visual Analogue Scale minimum, the minimum sample width required to reach 95% -99% power was
      six individuals in total. For various reasons (patient withdrawal, etc.), the rate of
      withdrawal from the study was predicted to be 25%. Accordingly, the study was decided to be
      conducted with a total of eight individuals.

      Patients with a history of primary neurological disease other than Chiari Type 1
      Malformation, severe cognitive impairment (> 24 from Mini-Mental State Assessment),
      peripheral vestibular problem, and history of orthopedic surgery will not be included in the
      study.

      The data will be evaluated using SPSS for Windows 22.00. Descriptive statistics will be
      presented as a minimum, average, median, standard deviation, maximum and categorical
      variables for numerical variables and as percentages. The suitability of the variables to
      normal distribution will be examined by the Shapiro-Wilk normality test. Whether the groups
      (Group 1, Group 2) are similar in terms of gender will be examined by the Pearson Chi-Square
      Test when the prerequisites are met, and Fisher's exact test if not. By the cross-pass
      research design, the block, period, trial and sequence effects will be analyzed with a mixed
      effect model.

      At the beginning of the study, demographic data, characteristics and disease information will
      be recorded.

      The evaluations to be made are summarized below:

        -  Visual Analogue Scale, pain threshold and pain tolerance tests, Neck Disability Index,
           for the determination of pain level in the neck region and throughout the body

        -  Cervical range of motion (Performance Attainment Associates, St. Paul, MN, 55117, United
           States) (CROM 3) device for the evaluation of the cervical region.

        -  Berg Balance Scale for evaluation of performance-based balance,

        -  Timed Rise Walk Test, Sharpened Romberg test and "8" shaped walk test (F8WT) for
           evaluation of fall risk, static and dynamic balance,

        -  The International Ataxia Assessment Scale (ICARS) for coordination,

        -  Grip Ability Test (GAT) for the assessment of fine motor skill in the upper extremity,

        -  Posture evaluation,

        -  Eating Assessment Tool (EAT-10) for evaluation of swallowing function

        -  For daily living activities, Barthel Daily Living Activities Index,

        -  For the quality of life, the Short Form 36 questionnaire will be used.
    
  