
    
      Sleep deprivation is among the most common complaints about the ICU experience. ICU sleep
      tends to be light and non-restorative (as opposed to deep / restorative sleep), severely
      fragmented, and distributed throughout the day and night rather than consolidated into
      nighttime hours. Sleep deprived patients suffer from sleep debt, a condition of impaired
      attention and memory, and cognitive slowing. Sleep disturbances in the ICU arise not only
      from light and noise pollution, but also from drugs that interfere with brain activity
      involved in restorative sleep. Sleep deprivation has also been suggested as a major
      modifiable risk factors for acute encephalopathy, also known as delirium. Delirium is an
      acute state of confusion that affects up to 80% of ICU patients, and is one of six leading
      causes of preventable morbidity and mortality in hospitalized elderly patients. Many patients
      who survive delirium experience long-term cognitive impairment and loss of independence.
      Current medications used in the ICU to treat sleep problems (e.g. benzodiazepines,
      antipsychotics) do not induce natural sleep and do not prevent delirium. In contrast, the
      investigators have found that the α2-adrenoceptor agonist dexmedetomidine can induce
      biomimetic sleep, a brain state whose pattern of electroencephalogram (EEG) activity,
      cerebral blood flow, and functional connectivity approximates restorative sleep. Moreover, a
      recent large clinical trial in post-surgical patients suggests that low-dose dexmedetomidine
      given overnight substantially reduces the risk of delirium. It is unknown whether this
      benefit is linked to improved sleep, or whether patients with better sleep while in the ICU
      have better long-term cognitive outcomes. The investigator's central hypothesis is that sleep
      deprivation substantially mediates both the short- and long-term cognitive impairments
      associated with delirium in critical illness. To test this hypothesis, this study is designed
      to systematically determine 1) the impact of prophylactic dexmedetomidine on sleep quality,
      2) the optimal way to give dexmedetomidine (all night vs at the beginning of the night only),
      2) the impact of sleep deprivation on short-term cognitive function and delirium, and 3) the
      contribution of sleep deprivation to long-term neuropsychiatric outcome following critical
      illness. At the conclusion of these studies, the investigators will have expanded knowledge
      of sleep physiology in critical illness and relationship of sleep with delirium; evaluated a
      new preemptive therapeutic strategy to promote sleep and prevent delirium, and developed an
      understanding of how sleep impacts neuropsychological outcomes after critical illness. These
      studies will thus will provide crucial guidance for individualized approaches to preserving
      long-term brain health in this vulnerable patient population.
    
  