
    
      Paclitaxel is designed to block the mechanisms of cell division in cancer cells, which may
      cause them to die.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin treatment. You
      will have radiation treatment to your pelvis (hip area) every day (Monday - Friday) for a
      total of 25 treatments. Each treatment should take about 20 minutes to complete.

      After the radiation treatment, you will receive a type of radiation called a "vaginal cuff
      boost." The vaginal cuff boost involves a small device being inserted into the vagina to
      treat the back of the vagina with a high dose of radiation. The applicator is similar to
      placing a large tampon in the vagina. This internal treatment takes about 30 minutes for each
      treatment. This is separate from the external radiation treatments that are given.

      While you are receiving radiation treatment, and then afterwards, you will also receive
      chemotherapy with paclitaxel. During the radiation period, you will receive paclitaxel by
      vein over 1 hour, on Days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. Starting 4-6 weeks after radiation treatment
      is finished, you will receive paclitaxel at a larger dose, given over 3 hours each time, once
      every 21 days (3 weeks). You will receive up to 4 "cycles" of chemotherapy, each cycle
      lasting 21 days.

      You will be given certain drugs about 30 minutes before your chemotherapy treatments to help
      control possible side effects, like allergic reactions. These drugs include dexamethasone,
      diphenhydramine (Benadryl), and cimetidine.

      You will have several tests performed throughout the study. Before each cycle of chemotherapy
      and one month after the last cycle of chemotherapy is given, quality of life and symptom
      assessment forms will be completed. These questionnaires should only take about 15 minutes to
      complete.

      While you are on chemotherapy treatment, you will have tests performed before each
      chemotherapy treatment. This will involve blood (about 1 tablespoon) drawn for routine tests,
      and a review of your symptoms by the study staff.

      Once you are off study treatment, you will be asked to return to the clinic for follow-up
      visits. These visits will occur every 3 months for 1 year, then every 4 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for 2 years, then once a year after that. At these visits, you will have
      a physical and pelvic exam performed, along with blood (about 1 tablespoon) drawn for routine
      tests. Chest x-rays will usually be done once a year and any other diagnostic exams will only
      be done if your doctor thinks they are needed.

      This is an investigational study. There are no standard treatments for this type of
      endometrial cancer, but radiation and chemotherapy are common treatments. This combination of
      chemotherapy and radiation is considered experimental. Up to 49 patients will take part in
      this multicenter study. Up to 44 participants will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  