
    
      Leadership for implementation require leadership that supports effective implementation
      strategies at the organizational level. The Leadership and Organizational Change for
      Implementation (LOCI) is a leadership training program focusing on enhancing general
      leadership and implementation leadership in particular (Aarons, Ehrhart, Moullin, Torres, &
      Green, 2017). The aim of the project is to evaluate the implementation strategy used to
      implement evidence-based treatment for PTSD in adult specialized mental health services in
      Norway.

      The Leadership and Organizational Change for Implementation (LOCI) consists of several
      components:

      1. 360° assessment A 360° assessment where the LOCI leaders, the therapists who report to
      them, and the executive leader are asked to complete a web-based survey focused primarily on
      the leadership of the LOCI leader and the implementation climate in his/her unit. Questions
      to therapists and the executive leaders are worded so that they are reporting on the
      appropriate LOCI leader. The LOCI leaders are asked questions about their own leadership,
      climate in their clinic, and on the implementation citizenship of their therapists.
      Descriptive results from the 360° assessment are presented in an individual feedback report
      for each of the LOCI leaders in the LOCI condition. Each of the LOCI leaders will receive
      their own feedback reports during the initial and follow-up leadership trainings, and they
      will not be required to share it with anyone besides the research group. Feedback reports for
      the executives will utilize data aggregated across all clinics within the respective health
      trusts. Executives will be presented with their feedback reports at initial and follow-up
      organizational strategy meetings (see below).

      Leadership training 2.1 Training 2.1.1 Initial leadership training: The LOCI intervention
      begins with a two-day workshop for the LOCI leaders. The workshop addresses leadership in
      general, with a particular focus on the full-range leadership model, transactional
      leadership, and implementation leadership. The LOCI leaders are challenged to share own
      experiences and views on leadership, and examples of leadership styles are shared and
      discussed. Implementation climate is also addressed, with a focus on strategies leaders can
      use to support implementation of EBPs. Mid-way in the workshop at both day 1 and 2, the
      feedback reports from the 360° assessment will be shared individually with each of the LOCI
      leaders. The LOCI facilitator and the LOCI leader review the report together, identifying
      strengths and areas they would like to further develop. In a collaborative method, the LOCI
      facilitator and the LOCI leader draft that leader's individual leadership development plan
      wherein goals and committed actions are detailed to facilitate enhancement in their
      leadership and the implementation climate of their clinic.

      2.1.2 Booster leadership training: The leadership training is followed by a one day booster
      session after 4 and 8 months. Before each booster session, a new 360° assessment will be
      completed, resulting in updated feedback reports, where the data is presented in graphs so
      that it is easy to see the development from the baseline assessment to the assessment at 4
      and 8 months. The feedback report makes the basis for the leaders´ subsequent work with the
      individual leadership development plan. Organizational strategies, goals, and leadership are
      addressed through group discussions.

      2.1.3 Graduation: At month 12, there will be a ritual to mark the completion of the program.
      Accomplishments are celebrated, challenges are addressed, and plans for further sustainment
      are shared.

      2.2 Coaching calls with first-level leaders The LOCI leaders will participate in weekly brief
      consultation calls over the phone (10-30 minutes) with their LOCI facilitator where the goals
      are to give the leaders the opportunities to strategize methods for overcoming barriers to
      EBP implementation; to follow up on the leadership development plan; and to update the
      leadership development plan according to the work being done and new information. Once a
      month the individual calls are replaced with one-hour group consultation calls with all the
      LOCI leaders within the cohort.

      2.3 Organizational strategy meetings (OSMs) LOCI leaders and executives meet with the LOCI
      facilitator(s) for 2 hours following the first leadership training. At this meeting, the LOCI
      leaders and executives will receive feedback from the 360° survey followed by the iterative
      development of an implementation climate development plan in light of the results from the
      survey. The subsequent meetings take place on a web conferencing platform at months 4, 8, and
      12.

      The executive will participate in brief (15-30 minutes) monthly telephone coaching calls with
      the LOCI facilitator where the focus is to follow up on the implementation climate
      development plan in light of the results from the 360° survey.

      Evidence-based practices for post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD) During the project,
      therapists will be trained in screening for and diagnosing PTSD, using evidence-based
      assessment tools. In addition, two well-documented EBPs for PTSD will be implemented in
      Norwegian specialized mental health services: 1) Eye Movement Desensitization and
      Reprocessing (EMDR) is an integrative eight-phased approach which is guided by the Adaptive
      Information Processing model (Shapiro & Laliotis, 2015). 2) Cognitive Therapy for PTSD
      (CT-PTSD) is based on a model assuming that PTSD develops if the traumatic event is processed
      in a way that maintains the experience of serious current threat (Ehlers & Clark, 2000).

      Personnel in all clinics will receive training (2-3 hours) in screening for trauma and
      post-traumatic stress symptoms. A sample of therapists will receive three days of training in
      one of the specific practices (EMDR or CT-PTSD). The therapists will receive 10 hours of
      group consultation divided by 2 hours once a month for 5 months.

      Methods:

      A prospective design will be used. All participating clinics will receive the same LOCI
      intervention. The clinics will be allocated into groups of 6-7 clinics. Two groups will
      receive LOCI from April 2020 till June 2021. Two groups will receive LOCI from April 2021
      till June 2022.

      The project will consist of three groups of participants:

        1. First-level leaders will participate in the LOCI innovation and complete 360 degrees
           surveys. In addition, executive leaders will participate in organizational structural
           meetings to support first-level leaders, in addition to completing the surveys.

        2. All therapists in the participating clinics will participate in the training of PTSD
           screening and the surveys. A sample of therapists will be trained and supervised in PTSD
           treatment.

        3. Patients that are referred to the clinics as normal, report traumatic experiences and
           fulfill the criteria for PTSD will be offered to participate in the study. They will
           receive PTSD treatment, and complete surveys in connection with the treatment sessions.
           The project aims at recruiting 12 mental health clinics in 2021 and 12 clinics in 2022
           in specialized services from all over Norway. The clinics will be recruited via the four
           regional health trust, which will receive an invitation by e-mail.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria Adult outpatient clinics in specialized health services are
      included. All leaders and therapists in the clinics will be asked to participate in the
      surveys. Administrative personnel are excluded as most of the measures will not be applicable
      to these staff. Staff must be employees of the participating clinics. Leaders that do not
      agree to participate in the leadership training (LOCI) will not be eligible to participate.
      Patients (18-100 years) with PTSD will be asked to participate in the study by their
      therapist. There are no specific exclusion criteria, as the referrals should follow standard
      procedures within the clinics.

      Fidelity Therapists will videotape (EMDR) or audiotape (CT-PTSD) all sessions in all cases.
      Randomly chosen therapy sessions for each therapist will be checked for fidelity. Students
      will be trained to assess five fidelity sessions per therapist.

      The therapists will receive written fidelity feedbacks as soon as possible after the session
      has been video or audiotaped.

      Data collection and management Data are collected from therapists, LOCI leaders, and
      executives at baseline, and at 4, 8, 12, and 16 months. The surveys are distributed by
      e-mail. Participants are not given any compensation for their participation. The therapist
      and LOCI leader survey takes on average 15-20 minutes to complete, whereas the executive
      survey takes on average 10 minutes to complete. Results from some of the scales will be
      shared with the LOCI leaders (MLQ, ILS, IC, EBPAS) and the executive leaders (IC, and EBPAS))
      as part of the LOCI. Patients will fill out a questionnaire by iPad in connection with all
      therapy sessions. It takes on average 30 minutes to complete. Patients can receive trauma
      treatment even if they do not want to participate in the research. All data will be stored on
      the University center for sensitive data. Results from some of the scales will be shared with
      the therapist by a report function on the iPad.

      Discussion Implementation of EBP can be challenging. Leaders in the health care system have
      the responsibility that the services provide effective treatments to a certain number of
      patients within a given time period. In order to increase the probability that patients will
      receive the most effective care for their symptoms, the leaders have to obtain effective
      strategies to promote the adoption of the evidence-based treatment. The LOCI intervention
      addresses leadership in general, implementation leadership in particular, and organizational
      strategies in order to support the implementation of EBP and sustainment over time. Available
      data suggest that LOCI is effective in supporting implementation of EBP through strengthening
      leadership and a positive implementation climate (Aarons et al., 2017). This study will
      examine the adaption of LOCI in a Norwegian mental health setting. We will examine whether
      the LOCI will have an effect on leadership, the implementation climate at the clinics, and
      the clinic´s ability to offer trauma-focused treatments to patients with elaborated levels of
      post-traumatic stress symptoms. The knowledge derived from this study can be used to support
      the implementation of other EBPs within the mental health system.
    
  