
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To obtain epidemiological information and biological material on a population-based
           series of breast cancer cases.

        -  To establish whether polymorphisms in putative cancer predisposition genes are
           associated with an increased risk of breast cancer by comparing the frequency of
           alterations in breast cancer patients with the corresponding frequency in controls.

        -  To define the proportion of breast cancer incidence attributable to mutations in such
           genes.

        -  To examine the interactions between genetic and nongenetic risk factors.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between pathological and clinical characteristics of breast
           cancers and germline genotype.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients complete an epidemiological questionnaire that covers standard known breast cancer
      risk factors including reproductive history, oral contraceptive use, hormone replacement
      therapy use, family history, and alcohol consumption. The questionnaire will also request
      identifying information on the patient's first-degree relatives.

      Blood samples are collected from patients. DNA is extracted from these blood samples, from
      samples collected from cancer-free control participants in MREC-SEARCH-CONTROL, and from
      additional controls through the European Prospective Investigation of Cancer (EPIC) study (a
      population-based study of diet and health based in Norfolk, East Anglia). DNA samples are
      analyzed for polymorphisms of low penetrance cancer susceptibility genes.

      In addition to the breast cancer patients recruited for this study, patients with malignant
      melanoma and lymphoma, colorectal, ovarian, prostate, colorectal, bladder, kidney,
      pancreatic, and esophageal cancer, and brain tumors are recruited for the following related
      clinical trials: MREC-SEARCH-COLORECTAL, MREC-SEARCH-OVARIAN, MREC-SEARCH-PROSTATE,
      MREC-SEARCH-ENDOMETRIAL, and MREC-SEARCH-CANCER.
    
  