
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned
      (like the roll of dice) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have a 2 out of 3 chance of being assigned
      to Group A and a 1 out of 3 chance of being assigned to Group B.

      If you are in Group A, you will receive hormonal therapy (LHRH), abiraterone acetate,
      prednisone, and enzalutamide.

      If you are in Group B, you will receive LHRH, abiraterone acetate, and prednisone.

      Study Drug Administration:

      The study doctor will decide what hormone therapy you will receive, will explain when and how
      you should take it, and explain any risks.

      In addition, you will take 4 abiraterone acetate tablets by mouth each day (all at the same
      time) at least 1 hour before a meal or 2 hours after a meal. You will also take 1 tablet of
      prednisone by mouth 1 time each day to help lower the risk of side effects caused by
      abiraterone acetate.

      If you are in Group A, you will also take 4 capsules of enzalutamide by mouth each day. You
      should take enzalutamide at about the same time every morning. Enzalutamide can be taken with
      or without food. If you miss a dose, you should NOT take another dose until the next day. You
      should tell the study doctor as soon as possible if you miss a dose.

      About every 28-days is called a cycle. You should return all unused study drug and/or empty
      pill bottles at the end of each cycle.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your
           prostatic specific antigen (PSA) level.

      On Day 15 of Cycles 1, 2 and 3, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn to check your liver
      function. These tests may be done at your local doctor's office and the results faxed to MD
      Anderson.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This blood will also be
           used to check your PSA level.

      The testing on Cycles 2, 4 and 6 may be done at your local doctor's office and the results
      faxed to MD Anderson.

      Within 14 days before surgery and at your End of Treatment Visit:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. This blood
           will also be used to check your PSA level, your blood sugar levels, and blood-clotting
           function. You will be asked to fast for at least 8 hours before these blood draws.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray or a CT scan of the chest.

        -  You will have an EKG to check your heart function.

      Surgery:

      After 6 cycles of study treatment, you will have surgery to remove your prostate. You will be
      asked to sign a separate consent form for this surgery, and the risks will be discussed with
      you. Your leftover prostate gland tissue from surgery will be collected and used for
      biomarker testing.

      About 4 to 8 weeks after your surgery:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) drawn for routine tests. This blood will also be used to
           check your PSA, testosterone, cholesterol, and blood sugar levels.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive the study drugs for about 6 months. You will be taken off study early if the
      disease gets worse, if you have intolerable side effects, or if your study doctor thinks it
      is in your best interest to stop, or of you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the visits after
      surgery.

      This is an investigational study. Abiraterone acetate is FDA approved in combination with
      prednisone for the treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer
      who have received prior chemotherapy containing docetaxel. Prednisone is FDA approved and
      commercially available as a corticosteroid. Enzalutamide is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of certain types of prostate cancer. Their combination with
      hormone therapy in patients with prostate cancer is investigational.

      Up to 69 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  