
    
      Rationale: Cancer induced bone pain (CIBP) as a result of bone metastases strongly interferes
      with quality of life and daily functioning of patients with advanced cancer. The current
      standard of care for patients with painful bone metastasis includes palliative external beam
      radiotherapy (EBRT). While EBRT is a well-established treatment option, it takes up to 4-6
      weeks for EBRT to induce optimal pain relief, and 30-40% of patients do not respond to EBRT.
      Pain palliation may be improved by including magnetic resonance image guided high intensity
      focused ultrasound (MR-HIFU) as alternative or in addition to EBRT.

      Study design: The FURTHER study is a multicenter, three-armed randomized controlled trial,
      performed in six hospitals in four European countries, all of which are partners in the
      FURTHER consortium. The UMC Utrecht is coordinating center. A total of 216 patients with
      painful bone metastases will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive EBRT only, MR-HIFU
      only, or EBRT followed by MR-HIFU.

      Study population: The study will be performed in male and female adult (≥ 18 years) cancer
      patients capable of giving informed consent, who were referred to the department of radiation
      oncology for treatment of painful bone metastases (pain score on Numerical Rating Scale (NRS)
      ≥ 4).

      Intervention: The intervention under study is MR-HIFU alone or in combination with EBRT. The
      intervention is aimed at rapid and persistent relief of CIBP. The intervention will be
      compared with standard treatment EBRT.

      Main study endpoints: Primary outcome of the trial will be pain response at 14 days after
      completion of the treatment. Secondary outcomes include pain response at 14 days after
      inclusion, and pain scores, toxicity, adverse events, quality of life and survival in the
      first 6 months after treatment, and cost-effectiveness of the treatments.
    
  