
    
      The accepted management for any pulpal intervention on a vital dental pulp is the pulpectomy
      (ablation of the whole dental pulp, preparation and filling of the whole root canal system,
      which is difficult and invasive). However, it has been shown that radicular pulp has a
      reparative potential and interesting immune defence properties. A pulp chamber pulpotomy
      (ablation of the coronal part of the pulp, easier and less invasive) may therefore be a
      better alternative. Its feasibility, known on decidual and immature permanent teeth (where it
      is a routine treatment) has been shown on mature permanent teeth. We aim to prove its
      non-inferiority to pulpectomy and study its prognostic factors.

      Primary objective and primary endpoint:

      To compare the success rates of root canal treatment (i.e. pulpectomy, reference treatment)
      and conservative treatment (pulpotomy) for treating dental pulpal inflammatory disease on
      permanent teeth, assessed by time to indication of re-treatment (time-to-failure) (primary
      endpoint). The investigator in charge of the patient proposes a classification of the
      failure, which must be validated by an adjudication committee.

      Secondary objectives and endpoints:

        1. To assess the impact of treatment on post-procedural pain;

        2. To describe the clinical prognostic factors of these two treatments;

        3. To assess the additional value of biomarkers expression levels as a prognostic tool for
           clinical decision making (pulpectomy vs. pulpotomy).

      Study design:

      Prospective, comparative, randomized study (randomized clinical trial)

      Study population:

      Adult patients with indication of pulpal intervention on a permanent mature non-necrosed
      tooth.

      Adjudication committee:

      The adjudication committee will review the classification of the failure for each patient, on
      the basis of data and radiographs and if necessary will submit queries sent to investigator.
      The adjudication committee will finally classify the failure as direct or indirect.

      Sample size and Power consideration:

      Maximum of 226 patients, based on analogy with frequentist analysis:

        -  non-inferiority study, α =0.05, 1- β =0.8;

        -  expected rate of failure in the control group: 10% /year;

        -  maximal inferiority margin: hazard ratio=2;

        -  two years of accrual, one year of follow-up;

        -  each patient is followed up to the end of study;

        -  expected loss to follow-up 10%/year:

        -  loss of power due to interval censorship of clinically silent failure: negligible;

        -  sequential analysis (Pocock scheme, final test with final critical p=0.03).

      Statistical analysis:

      Bayesian analysis, analogous to a frequentist non inferiority study (RRmin=2) with α=0.05 and
      β=0.2

      Bayesian modelling of survival of retreatment indication-free, assessing:

        -  Intergroup differences (Cox proportional hazards model if applicable, parametric
           modelling otherwise)

        -  Covariates impact (regression models) Assessment of predictive values of (clinical and
           biological) covariates.
    
  