
    
      Alcohol and drug (AOD) abuse and family violence are co-occurring risk factors for Native
      American (NA) health disparities and are associated with the leading causes of death, such as
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes. However, extant interventions often fail to
      holistically promote resilience, health, and wellness and instead address problems in
      isolation. There have been few NA culturally-based and family-focused, interventions that
      enhance family resilience and prevent and reduce AOD abuse and violence in families. Given
      the gap in community and culturally-grounded programs to prevent AOD abuse and violence in
      families, there is a critical need to test the efficacy of such sustainable community-based
      interventions. The long-term goal of this research is to promote health and wellness, while
      preventing and reducing AOD abuse and violence in NA families by testing an efficacious,
      sustainable, culturally-relevant and family-centered intervention for cross-national
      dissemination. Using community-based participatory research methods (CBPR), the overall
      objectives of the proposed research is to use a stepped-wedge trial design (SWTD) to test the
      efficacy of a culturally modified intervention that is facilitated by Tribally-based
      community health representatives (CHRs) and to use the consolidated framework for
      implementation research (CFIR) to examine the barriers and facilitators for intervention
      sustainability and implementation. The central hypothesis is that the sustainable and
      community-based, "Weaving Healthy Families program"-a shortened and culturally adapted
      version of the Celebrating Families! Program-will reduce and postpone AOD use, decrease and
      prevent violence in families, and promote resilience and wellness (including mental health)
      among NA adults and youth. This intervention seeks to promote wellness by targeting key
      behavioral (AOD), mental/emotional (emotional regulation/anger management, cognitions,
      resilience), social and familial (healthy and safe relationships, the family environment, and
      parenting), cultural (values, traditions), and physical (nutrition) factors. Investigators
      test the efficacy and gain knowledge in sustainability and implementation by: Aim 1: Test the
      efficacy of the modified intervention on AOD and violence reduction and resilience
      enhancement. Using an open cohort, multiple baseline SWTD and multilevel and longitudinal
      modeling, investigators will test our working hypothesis that the intervention will reduce
      parental AOD misuse and violence, postpone youth AOD use, and enhance family members'
      resilience and wellness. Aim 2: Evaluate the sustainability and feasibility of the
      intervention's implementation. Investigators will use the CFIR and a convergent mixed-method
      design to evaluate barriers and facilitators to intervention implementation, testing our
      working hypothesis that the modified intervention will provide a culturally relevant and
      feasible model to promote wellness in a sustainable way. The expected outcomes of the
      proposed research are an efficacious, culturally relevant, and sustainable community based
      program to promote health and wellness for tribes cross-nationally.
    
  