
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine overall survival of patients with high-risk multiple myeloma, primary systemic
           amyloidosis, or light chain deposition disease treated with two courses of modified
           high-dose melphalan and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.

        -  Determine the hematologic response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of cytogenetic markers in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease (high-risk
      multiple myeloma vs primary systemic amyloidosis vs both).

        -  Induction therapy (multiple myeloma patients only): Patients receive oral dexamethasone
           on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20 and oral thalidomide daily on days 1-35. Treatment repeats
           every 35 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Mobilization and stem cell collection:

             -  Multiple myeloma patients: Within 28-35 days after completion of induction therapy,
                patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2-3 hours on day 1 and filgrastim (G-CSF)
                subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning on day 2 and continuing through the day before
                the last leukapheresis. Usage of mesna IV on day 1 (prior to and twice after
                cyclophosphamide administration is recommended).

             -  Primary systemic amyloidosis patients: Patients receive G-CSF SC daily beginning on
                day 1 and continuing through the day before the last leukapheresis.

      All patients undergo leukapheresis for the collection of stem cells until the target number
      of CD34+ cells is reached.

        -  Conditioning regimen: Within 1-4 weeks after mobilization, patients receive modified
           high-dose melphalan IV over 20 minutes on day -2.

        -  Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) reinfusion: PBSCs are reinfused on day 0. Patients
           receive G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients undergo a second autologous PBSC transplantation within 3-6 months, but no later
      than 12 months, after the first transplantation.

        -  Second conditioning regimen: Patients receive modified high-dose melphalan IV over 20
           minutes on day -2.

        -  Second PBSC infusion: PBSCs are infused on day 0.

        -  Maintenance regimen (multiple myeloma patients only): Between 4-8 weeks after the second
           transplantation, patients with no progressive disease receive oral dexamethasone once
           daily on days 1-4 and oral thalidomide once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28
           days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 3 and 6 months and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study within 20-25
      months.
    
  