
    
      Patients will be asked to participate in the study, in the context of medical consultation
      before coronary angiography by a physician and / or a study nurse. This occurs during an
      outpatient visit at the cardiac clinic at the respective centre.

      Included are all patients planned for elective coronary angiography before possible
      revascularization during a eight month period at SKAS, NÄL, SÄS and Sahlgrenska University
      Hospital, this regardless of diagnosis.

      Patient informed consent (attached appendix) is given to the patient before coronary
      angiography at the out patient visit at the cardiac clinic at the respective centre, both
      verbally and in writing by physician and/or nurse at the time of consultation about
      participation in the study. At this time the approval is signed by concerned parties. This is
      desired to be done only by a nurse as there is no intervention in the study. The patient has
      to fill out three questionnaires at two occasions (but the 10 first patients included in the
      reliability tests have to fill out the expectancy form a total of three times including
      questions about the reliability of the questionnaire). The patient also has to leave two
      additional blood samples.

      Patients answer a questionnaire developed to measure the expectations of treatment and
      questionnaires measuring quality of life and presence and degree of angina pectoris, (SF-36
      and SAQ Seattle Angina Questionnaire). The form of expectations is validated against the
      "quality of life" forms. Blood samples are taken at inclusion and again after six months and
      are analyzed for NTproBNP, a biochemical measure of how much strain the coronary artery
      disease puts on the heart muscle. We want to examine whether levels of NTproBNP before and
      six months after coronary angiography correlates with quality of life and expectations before
      the inquiry and to what extent the expectations are met. To ensure equal treatment, it is
      important to build a patient perspective and set offered treatment and the availability of
      this, in relation to the individual patient's expectations.

      The following three instruments will be used to measure symptoms, functional limitation, and
      expectations:

        -  SAQ (Seattle Angina Questionnaire) is primarily formulated to measure functional status
           of patients with coronary artery disease. SAQ consists of 19 five-scale questions,
           physical limitation (nine questions), angina grade (one question), frequency of angina
           (two questions), satisfaction of treatment (two questions) and perception of disease
           (five questions), and therefore measures dimensions of physical limitations, angina
           degree, satisfaction of treatment and Perception of illness. The form takes about five
           minutes to fill in. It is not a general measurement of quality of life (7).

        -  SF-36 partially consists of scales measuring physical function (10 questions), role
           functioning-physical causes (four questions), role function-emotional reasons (three
           questions), social functioning (two questions) and pain (two questions), It also
           consists of scales for welfare, measuring mental health (five questions), vitality (four
           questions), general health (five questions) and change in health (one question). This
           instrument takes five-10 minutes to complete (8.9).

        -  The Expectation Form is an own developed instrument consisting of a questionnaire with
           11 questions about expectations for future care and treatment, and a follow-up
           questionnaire six months later, to examine whether the expectations of the patient had
           been met. The form takes about five minutes to fill in.

      The form will be evaluated and validated as follows (10):

        -  Reliability-test will be done by four experienced professionals, knowledgeable in the
           topic reviewing the questionnaire.

        -  The first 10 enrolled patients complete the questionnaire. This is made at an additional
           occasion at the time of angiography. We do a 'test re-test, with about a week apart from
           test to re-test. At this additional occasion patients will also answer questions about
           how the questionnaire was to fill in i.e. a check of the user friendliness and on how
           the understanding of the form was.

        -  Validation of the form is done with SF-36, SAQ, and NTproBNP as the criteria. All data
           are clinically relevant and should be recorded in the patient's medical record according
           to standard procedures. Case Record Form (CRF) will be coded and anonymous, and a code
           list will be stored at a research nurse at each, included hospital. Decoded CRF are sent
           to and stored at Sahlgrenska University Hospital, at the department of Cardiology.
           Processing and statistical data is coded and anonymous. The people managing the data are
           those involved in the study as well as the cardiologist research unit's coordination
           staff and monitoring staff.

      Ethical issues must always be considered in studies where people with chronic and serious
      illnesses are included. Requirements for information about the study and the opportunity to
      connect with those responsible, respect for integrity and that none shall be harmed are
      fundamental ethical principles that must be followed. Anonymity and confidentiality will be
      guaranteed. It is also important to clarify the possibility of ending participation in the
      study with no consequences for further care and treatment.

      Out of a privacy standpoint, there is a risk that the patient may feel exposed after filling
      in the questionnaire relating to life situation, personal health and the relationship with
      health care. We will be informing patients carefully about how we handle data and that no
      data may be linked to individual patients when they are compiled and presented. data is
      entered and managed via the Cardiology Research Unit, Sahlgrenska University Hospital. These
      data are available to researchers participating in the study. The lead applicant is
      responsible for data processing (with Statisticians) and is primarily responsible for the
      report.

      Statistic:Data processing and statistical analysis will be done in consultation with
      statisticians. For about eight months, we expect, based on past experience, to be able to
      include 800 consecutive patients undergoing elective coronary angiography at SKAS, NÄL, SÄS
      and Sahlgrenska University hospital. Of these, about half is estimated to have coronary
      artery disease and the rest of the surveys done as part of the investigation of other
      cardiovascular disease as valvular disease or heart failure. The gender distribution is
      estimated to be about 70% men and 30% women. Dichotomous variables (baseline characteristics)
      are given in the frequency and compared between sexes with the chi 2 or Fisher's exact test
      when appropriate. Continuous variables are presented as mean values with standard deviations
      and compared by Student t-test. Comparisons between different age groups are made by ANOVA.

      Answer from the quality of life and degree of angina pectoris instruments, converted to
      scores according to established schedules. Comparison of scores at baseline and six months
      after the angiography will be done with paired Student t-test and between groups with two-way
      ANOVA, or with non-parametric tests depending on the distribution of the data. The form of
      expectations will be analyzed to answer each question using statistics as above. The study is
      explorative why customary power calculation is not done. As indicated above, expected patient
      material will be heterogeneous with respect to clinical condition, indication for
      angiography, sex and age. It is therefore important to collect as many materials as possible
      in order to compare different groups. Based on the SF 36 it can be stated that about 50
      patients in each of two groups is needed if one is to detect differences in the range of five
      points (total points of this instrument is often 45-50 depending on the patient group it is
      about) with five-point standard deviation, 0.05 and power of 80%.
    
  