
    
      Background: Venous thromboembolism is a leading cause of morbi-mortality for patients
      hospitalized in intensive medical care units. Nevertheless, few studies evaluating
      prophylactic methods exist. Data from these studies demonstrate however that unfractionated
      heparin and low molecular weight heparin are effective to reduce the incident rate of
      asymptomatic deep venous thrombosis (DVT) of the lower limbs by 50 % compared to the absence
      of prophylaxis. Rate of asymptomatic DVT remains about 15 %. When the bleeding risk is high,
      drug prophylaxis with anticoagulants is contra-indicated, and mechanical devices are
      recommended: elastic stockings (ES) alone or associated with intermittent pneumatic
      compression (IPC). However, mechanical devices have not been systematically evaluated in
      intensive medical care units.

      Objective:

      To compare the association IPC + ES to ES alone in patients with high bleeding risk and
      hospitalized in intensive medical care units, on symptomatic or asymptomatic venous
      thromboembolism incidence, evaluated systematically at day 6.

      Design: Multicentre open-label randomized parallel-group trial with blinded evaluation of
      outcomes, and an inclusion period of 24 month. Brest CIC (Centre d'Investigations Cliniques,
      research center) coordinates this multicentre trial.

      Outcomes:

      The primary endpoint is a combined criterion (blindly evaluated) between day 1 and day 6:

        1. Non fatal symptomatic venous thromboembolic event (objectively confirmed) between day 1
           and day 6,

        2. death due to a pulmonary embolism between day 1 and day 6, and 3) asymptomatic DVT
           (distal or proximal) detected by ultrasonography systematically done at day 6.

      Patients number:

      CIREA 1 : Assuming a DVT frequency of 15 % in the control group (ES alone) , we calculated
      that 356 patients will be required for the study to have 80% power to detect a 60% reduction
      in the relative risk with a two-sided alpha level of 5%. Because of about 20 % deaths in the
      first days, we decide to increase the number at 392 subjects.

      Statistical analysis: Efficacy analysis is performed on an 'intention-to-treat' basis. The
      frequencies of the combined primary outcome at day 6 are compared between groups using an
      exact one-sided Fischer test. Adjustment for stratification variables used
      Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. Relative risk and absolute risk reduction are computed with
      their 95% CIs. A logistic regression model is used to take into account potential imbalance
      in baseline characteristics.
    
  