
    
      Exfoliated buccal mucosa cells have been used as a source of material for various genetic
      tests and in studies of oral cancer but their use in studies of cardiovascular disease has
      been limited. Previous applications have included analysis of telomere length in buccal cells
      from patients with ischemic heart failure and measurements of intracellular magnesium levels
      in patients undergoing radiofrequency catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation. To the best
      of the investigators' knowledge, their study published at Circulation Arrhythmia and
      Electrophysiology 9(2) in 2016, was the first analysis of buccal mucosa cells in patients
      with a heritable form of heart disease. This analysis included 39 patients diagnosed with
      arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy (ACM), a primary myocardial disease characterized by an
      unusually high burden of arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death as well as 15 carriers of
      disease-causing mutations without overt disease manifestation. In a subsequent analysis
      (unpublished data), 55 additional individuals affected by ACM were sampled and the positive
      predictive value of our approach in diagnosing the disease was 91.9%. Although highly
      arrhythmogenic, ACM is a relatively rare disorder. The investigators are now at a position to
      apply this simple, totally risk-free approach to help identify those individuals at risk of
      SCD due to more common forms of heritable arrhythmic disorders including the cardiac
      channelopathies. The cardiologists at St. George's University of London evaluate more than
      100 families of SCD victims per year for diagnosis and risk assessment. The large number of
      individuals evaluated at this single site provides the unprecedented opportunity to use this
      novel diagnostic approach to aid significant numbers of those at risk of developing
      life-threatening arrhythmias. There are no risks or potential discomfort associated with the
      study for the volunteer participants. The outcomes, however, may prove highly beneficial for
      prevention of SCD, timely and accurate diagnosis and management of arrhythmic disorders.

      The study participants will just be asked to open their mouth. A study team member will rub a
      soft brush a few times at the inside of their cheek and smear the brush on a microscopy
      slide. The slide will be sprayed with 70% ethanol to preserve the material and taken to the
      research laboratory where it will be subjected to immunostaining to study the distribution of
      key proteins. The patient will have a total of 4 smears taken (2 from each cheek). For the
      majority of the patients, only a single sampling will be enough which will take place during
      one of their regular follow-up appointments at the cardiology clinic. There is no pain and no
      discomfort associated with the procedure and it lasts only a few seconds. In selected cases,
      however, if for instance the investigators want to use the buccal smear to evaluate the
      effect of a novel drug treatment on protein distribution, the patient might be asked to
      provide the study team with another sample, again during one of his scheduled regular
      follow-up visits
    
  