
    
      Differentiating tumour progression/recurrence from radionecrosis post- stereotactic
      radiosurgery (SRS) of brain metastases can be at times challenging on standard brain MRI.
      This is because radionecrosis mimics the appearances of tumour progression by appearing as
      contrast enhancing lesions on standard MRI.The definitive way of differentiating this is
      surgical excision of the area in question and histopathological evaluation. But this is not
      always feasible in clinical practice as not all areas of the brain are surgically accessible
      and an en bloc (complete) resection is needed for the result to be meaningful.

      The next best option we have is the multi-parametric MRI which typically consists of three
      components-MR perfusion, MR diffusion and MR spectroscopy. This investigation is resource
      intensive, requiring considerable input form MR physics, neuroradiology reporting time , is
      not routinely available in all centres and hence not viable for routine clinical practice.

      Therefore there is an urgent need for a reliable and viable form of imaging modality that
      helps differentiate tumour from radionecrosis when assessing treatment response post-SRS. It
      is important to be able to do this accurately as the management of both conditions are
      entirely different.

      Currently the Royal Marsden Hospital is using contrast-clearance analysis MRI (TRAMs) to help
      differentiate tumour from radionecrosis if the changes seen on standard brain MRI post-SRS
      are deemed to be unclear. Contrast-clearance analysis MRI (TRAMs) is FDA approved and
      conforms to European standards (CE marked), yet has sparse evidence on its efficacy. There is
      some evidence for the use of 18F-choline PET/CT in primary brain tumours (gliomas) but more
      evidence is needed for its use in brain metastases.

      Given that surgical excision is not always feasible for reasons explained above, in this
      study the investigators consider the muti-parametric MRI as the gold standard investigation
      for discriminating tumour from radionecrosis.

      This pilot brain imaging study is seeking to determine if contrast-clearance analysis MRI
      (TRAMs) and/or 18F-choline PET/CT are equivalent to multi-parametric MRI in their ability to
      reliably differentiate between tumour progression/recurrence and radionecrosis. If contrast
      clearance analysis MRI (TRAMs) and/or 18F-choline PET/CT are found to be equivalent to multi-
      parametric MRI then it gives the investigators increased confidence in the findings of these
      readily available imaging modalities, helping treating clinicians to make rapid and reliable
      management plans- ultimately improving patient outcomes.
    
  