
    
      Diffuse autoimmune hyperthyroidism or Graves' disease (GD) is a common condition mainly
      affecting women with 2-3% prevalence The increased production of thyroid hormones in GD is
      driven by autoantibodies directed against the thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) receptor
      (TRab). In most cases, this autoimmunity will also affect other tissues, above all the
      orbital tissue by mechanisms not fully understood -Thyroid Associate Ophthalmopathy (TAO).
      Symptoms and signs can be mild (grittiness, dry eyes, periorbital swollen, chemosis,
      redness)-moderate (double eye vision, exophthalmia or severe (optic nerve compression,
      corneal ulcers). Serious-moderate ocular engagement in TAO is seen in approximately 10% of
      patients with GD.

      Not only has the hyperthyroidism a marked impact on mental health, but the presence of TAO
      has an additional negative impact on the well-being of these patients, even many years after
      successful treatment of the hyperthyroidism. It has been suggested that smoking and stress
      are negative prognostic factors for the course of TAO indicating that a vicious circle. MRI
      may detect earlier changes than CT that can be used to predict the course of TAO.

      The aims of treatment are to retain euthyroidism which can be achieved by anti thyrostatic
      drugs (ATD), radioiodine treatment or surgery (where patients are pre-treated with ATD) and
      to avoid TAO as long as possible. If moderate-severe TAO occurs, high dose if intravenous
      glucocorticoids (GC) are the gold standard considering the side effects. However, many
      patients are non-steroid responders and for them no treatment except for acute orbital
      decompression, retro bulbar irradiation and later reconstructive surgery can be offered. When
      patients relapse immediately after steroids often per oral steroids are given although not
      recommended from the literature.

      Rituximab (RTX) is a mouse-human chimeric antibody designed towards pre B and mature B
      lymphocytes and that blocks B-cells activation without affecting the regenerating of B cells
      from stem cells or the plasma cells immunoglobulin production. TAO is a B- lymphocyte
      mediated disease and in two studies RTX inhibits the active phase of TAO. In a study by
      Khanna et al a positive effect from RTX is observed in six steroid resistant patients with
      TAO with a decrease of the inflammation in the orbit, even though no effect on strabismus or
      proptosis was observed. In another study by Salvi et al , RTX treatment is compared with
      steroids as a first line treatment for TAO and after 30 weeks of follow up in an unrandomised
      study design. RTX decreased the activity and severity significantly compared to the steroid
      group. No relapse was observed in the RTX group but in the steroid group (10%). In the RTX
      all patients improved, but in the steroid group only 65%. There were more side-effects in the
      steroid group.

      Selection criteria All patients with indication for i.v GC will be evaluate for the study.
      The patients are recruited consecutively from the region as we are a tertial referral center
      and iv steroids for TAO is not given on local hospitals..

      Patients and study design All patients aged 18-70 years in the western region in Sweden with
      TAO and indication for iv GC (CAS ≥4) will be evaluated for this prospective open study with
      RTX+MTX to GC non-responders. If GC respondent but relapsing after 12 weeks of iv GC
      treatment, patients will be randomized to RTX+MTX or per oral GC+MTX. If non respondent after
      4 weeks of intravenous steroid infusion the patient will be eligible for RTX treatment
      Patients are seen for ophthalmological and endocrine investigations at baseline, 4, 12, 18,
      32, 44, 56 and 68 weeks. At similar occasions anthropometric measurements, immunological
      markers and measures of GC effects (ACTH test, body composition (not all occasions)) will be
      performed. At baseline and after 30 weeks high quality MRI and Gallium (GA)-PET is performed.
      Patients undergoing Ga-PET in another study focusing on pituitary imaging (principle
      investigator HFN) will serve as controls for orbital muscles. The aim of the RTX study is to
      recruit at least 10 patients in the RTX arm and probably 40-50 patients will be included.

      No study with this design has previously been published. The present situation does not offer
      the patients not responding to GC or with relapses after iv GC infusions any effective
      treatment. If the RTX proves safe and effective future non-respondent patients will be able
      to get this treatment. In small studies RTX have had a good effect in TAO, sometimes even
      better than GC and with less side-effects. It will also lay the ground for future studies
      that compare RTX and GC in a randomised study design as first line treatment. If GA-PET shows
      useful in the management of patients with TAO it may become a routine investigation.
    
  