
    
      Objectives There are currently no disease-modifying treatments for cognitive and behavioral
      symptoms associated with early clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD), and only minimally
      effective symptomatic treatments are available. In this application, we propose a
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) augmented executive functioning training
      intervention. This intervention will target cognition and brain circuits that are impaired in
      patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early AD. The goal is to improve cognitive
      performance and functional outcomes in patients with MCI and early AD.

      Research Plan and Methods This study will recruit 50 Veterans with MCI or very early AD who
      are receiving outpatient services at the Minneapolis VA Health Care System (MVAHCS) Geriatric
      Research, Education, and Clinical Center (GRECC) Memory Loss Clinic. This study will be a
      double-blind, randomized, placebo (sham) controlled study. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive either active or sham tDCS, both paired with cognitive training tasks.
      Ten sessions of training/tDCS sessions (20 minutes of 2mA current stimulation with 45 minutes
      of cognitive training tasks) will occur over 2-3 weeks, performed at the participant's home.
      Participants will attend an in-person enrollment and training session prior to study
      intervention. Follow-up sessions will occur via phone or video conference at 3 and 6 months
      after study initiation.

      Clinical Relevance Executive cognitive impairments in patients with MCI or early AD have been
      associated with poor decision-making ability and lack of insight, potentially leading to
      compromised job performance, financial mismanagement, increased personal safety risk,
      relationship stress, and poor medical treatment adherence. While disproportionate memory
      impairment is a hallmark of both conditions, there are compensatory strategies available to
      reduce disability associated with very early stage memory impairment in those who are
      otherwise cognitively intact. Compensatory strategies are much less effective for executive
      dysfunction, as the disability itself impairs one's ability to recognize when such strategies
      are needed and successfully employ them. Novel, well-tolerated, neuroplasticity-based
      interventions that can reduce executive impairment by targeting both cognitive control (an
      executive ability) and its underlying neural dysfunction are needed to improve cognitive
      outcomes, safety, and quality of life for patients with MCI or early AD. Knowledge gained
      from this study can inform the future development of clinical treatment approaches aimed at
      reducing risk and delaying out-of-home placement in Veterans with cognitive impairment.
    
  