
    
      Pulmonary embolism (PE) represents 0.4% of hospitalizations and is the third leading cause of
      death due to cardiovascular disease (1). In contrast to stroke and acute coronary syndromes,
      its mortality has not decreased in recent decades likely due to only minor advances in
      short-term prognostication and treatment strategies (2).The presence of shock or hypotension
      remains the principal prognostic clinical marker and,to date, is the only factor that clearly
      indicates a more aggressive treatment than heparin (3). However, only 5% of patients with
      acute PE present with shock. The majority of PE patients are normotensive and are usually
      treated with heparin alone. Several studies have looked for new prognostic indicators in
      order to better stratify normotensive PE patients. A large body of evidence shows that right
      ventricular dysfunction/injury markers such as elevation of brain natriuretic peptides,
      troponins, and echocardiographic evidence of right ventricular dysfunction (RVD) are
      associated with adverse prognosis (3-8). However, these markers have some important
      limitations. Echocardiography is usually not available around-the-clock in most clinical
      settings, moreover it shares with troponins and natriuretic peptides a good negative
      predictive value (>90%) but a low positive predictive value (about 10%) for short-term
      mortality, probably precluding these markers' usefulness to target more aggressive treatments
      (8).

      Plasma lactate concentration is a marker of the severity of the tissue oxygen
      supply-to-demand imbalance. It may reflect tissue hypoperfusion also in the presence of
      normal blood pressure. Accordingly, in other critical settings such as sepsis,plasma lactate
      concentration is considered to be an accurate prognostic marker as it rises before
      hemodynamic impairment is clinically evident (9). Furthermore, plasma lactate concentration
      can be easily and rapidly assayed on arterial blood samples using a blood gas analyzer, which
      is usually available in emergency departments (EDs) and intensive care units. Recently, a
      retrospective study showed that plasma lactate ≥ 2 mmol/L was associated with a high
      mortality rate in patients with acute PE (10). Moreover a prospective monocentric study
      confirmed these retrospective results and revealed that plasma lactate has prognostic
      relevance beyond known clinical and instrumental prognostic markers (TELOS study, Ann Emerg
      Med, in press, see attached file)

      The aim of present study is to prospectively investigate the association between plasma
      lactate concentration and short-term adverse outcomes in patients with acute PE. In
      particular, we examine whether high plasma lactate (≥ 2 mmol/L) is associated with a high
      incidence of PE related major adverse events, defined as PE related death or hemodynamic
      collapse >10% within 7 days of follow-up. Moreover we investigate whether plasma lactate
      shows incremental prognostic value to clinically overt hemodynamic impairment and to
      RVD/injury markers, maintaining prognostic relevance in both hypotensive and normotensive PE
      patients.
    
  