
    
      Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation（PNF） is defined as a treatment method that promotes
      or hastens the response of the neuromuscular mechanism through stimulation of proprioceptors
      within the related muscles or joints. PNF stretching technique is a therapeutic technique
      using the PNF concept to the related muslces either to increase neuro-inhibition mechanism
      for releasing muscle spasm and elongating muscle length, or to increase neuro-excitation
      mechanism for enhancing muscle strength. Improvement in range of motion using PNF stretching
      technique has been reported superior to other techniques in previous literature, but those
      studies have only been done in healthy adults. Less is known in the effect of PNF stretching
      on improvement in joint restriction. Range of motion limitation usually disturbed the
      patients with total knee arthroplasty. PNF stretching techniques has been used frequently for
      patients with total knee arthroplasty in clinical practice to increase range of motion
      effectively and reduced knee pain during exercise. However there is no evidence-based
      research in such a technique for patients with total knee arthroplasty. This research
      project, therefore, will explore application of PNF stretch in changes of knee flexion, pain,
      muscle strength, and function of the lower extremity following total knee arthroplasty.

      Purposes： To investigate immediate and short term effects on angle of knee flexion, intensity
      of pain, strength of the knee extensor, and function of the lower extremity by using PNF
      stretching technique in patients with total knee arthroplasty.

      Method： Sixty patients who received total knee arthroplasty in National Taiwan University
      Hospital will be recruited in this study. They will be allocated randomly into either
      experimental or control groups. Conventional physical therapy will be given to all
      participants. Besides, the experimental group will assume PNF stretching technique from the
      third post-operative day to the day of discharge. This technique will be executed by the same
      physical therapist, including 5 trials of isometric knee extension for 6 s, followed by
      active knee flexion to the maximum range immediately, and holding for 10s. The rest interval
      will be 10 s. For the control group, passive stretch technique with the same treatment time
      will be given, instead. All participants will be asked to do home exercises after discharged
      from the hospital. The outcome measures will be given before and after the first session
      treatment on the same day, on the day of discharge, and one month after the operation. The
      variables measured will be (1) knee flexion angle measured with a universal goniometer, (2)
      maximum voluntary isometric strength of the knee extensor measured with a hand-held
      dynamometer, (3) pain score using pain visual analog scale, (4) function performance of the
      lower extremity measured with timed up and go test, (5) Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis
      Outcome Score (KOOS) to record 5 dimensions including the symptoms, stiffness, pain,
      difficulties in knee functions and/or daily activities, limitations in sports or recreational
      participation, and quality of life.
    
  