
    
      This GoDARTS-Scotland proposal aims to investigate biomarkers associated with diabetes
      progression, therapeutic response, diabetes complications and related traits, and
      specifically to investigate mechanisms of action and response to metformin. GoDARTS-Scotland
      will specifically target the patient group who have been diagnosed with diabetes in the
      previous 2 years and follow up will be by linkage to electronic health record data.

      The study will, for the most part, involve a single study visit lasting approximately 20
      minutes. Informed consent will be obtained before any study procedures are carried out.

      In addition, those patients who are not on metformin will undergo more comprehensive sampling
      and a second visit, between four to six months, after initiation of metformin. As current
      guidelines suggest all patients who are newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes should be
      treated with metformin the investigator will ask the patient and General Practitioner to
      consider initiation of metformin, although this is a clinical decision that will be made by
      the GP. Between four to six months after commencement of Metformin the patient will be asked
      to return to the clinic for a second visit where additional samples and measures will be
      taken.

      The investigator plans to recruit patients aged 16 and upwards with a diagnosis of diabetes
      from several Scottish Health Boards.

      The Resource will be hosted by the Tayside Biorepository which is part of the East of
      Scotland Tissue Bank. Access to samples and data will be managed by the Tayside Biorepository
      on behalf of the whole of Scotland. All initial requests for access will be made to the
      Tayside Biorepository Access Committee who will manage the process and send requests for
      access to data to the relevant access committees.

      All eligible patients will be recruited into this study from February 2016 until January 2019
      and this will allow any necessary follow up visits to take place.
    
  