
    
      Frail elderly patients are characterised as having complex health and social care needs; they
      are at risk of hospital or residential care home admission, and require a range of high level
      interventions due to their frailty and multiple chronic conditions. A growing proportion of
      the population in OECD countries are age 65 and over: 15% in 2010, and expected to reach 22%
      by 2030. More than half of all older people have at least three chronic conditions, and a
      significant proportion have five or more.

      A recent US study indicates that more than 95% of Medicare patients with a chronic disease
      such as congestive heart failure, depression, or diabetes have at least one other chronic
      condition, and the majority (80%, 71%, and 56%, respectively) have four or more chronic
      conditions. The CareWell project deals with multimorbid frail patients. Typically these
      patients have several diagnoses, the most frequent ones are:

        -  Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD),

        -  Diabetes and

        -  Congestive Heart Failure (CHF).

      The main objective of the CareWell study is to explore the data collection and analysis of
      health services' use. All sites are requested to upload their available data regarding
      service use, their flow chart on recruitment, and the demographic characteristics of end
      users. The evaluation has been conducted using the MAST multi-dimensional evaluation
      methodology adapted to the needs of CareWell project focusing on integrated healthcare.

      MAST includes assessment of the outcomes of telemedicine applications divided into the
      following seven domains:

        1. health problem and characteristics of the application;

        2. safety;

        3. clinical effectiveness;

        4. patient perspectives;

        5. economic aspects;

        6. organisational aspects and

        7. socio-cultural, ethical and legal aspects. Each domain will be addressed and studied
           through a range of methodological approaches, quantitative, qualitative and modelling.

      Patients distributed in six sites will be recruited and assessed at baseline and be followed
      up during a period of six months. Data is to be collected from different sources, including
      administrative databases, questionnaires and personal interviews.

      All 6 CareWell sites are to conduct cohort studies, which means that a group of people with
      similar characteristics are followed over a period of time. Potential participants are
      selected by screening electronic healthcare records and/or the hospital / national databases
      and/or during long term condition annual reviews in the community setting.

      Candidates are informed about the nature and the objectives of the evaluation. Once
      candidates have signed the informed consent form, if necessary, they participate in the
      evaluation.
    
  