
    
      This study was initiated by the research assistant (Mikaela I. Poling) and assisted by
      another research assistant (J. Andrés Morales), as part of their academic project on these
      syndromes, under the supervision of the Principal Investigator (Robert L Chamberlain).

      Classic FSS, SHS, DA1, and DA3 are poorly understood pathological entities that share some
      similar physical findings to FSS. Stevenson et al. (2006) provided the only study to date on
      FSS features and history. They did not, however, focus on therapeutic outcomes, and there was
      limited anecdotal outcome data in single and multiple case reports.

      The objectives for STOP-FSS are as follows: to evaluate (1) physical findings, possible
      frequency clusters, and complications of physical findings amongst patients with FSS; (2)
      posttraumatic stress and depressive symptoms and associated therapeutic outcomes in patients
      with FSS, using single-disease specific (i.e., posttraumatic stress symptoms, chronic
      depression) measures; (3) document treatment types and outcomes; (4) evaluate quality of life
      in patients with FSS, using a general quality of life self-report measure and
      syndrome-specific semi-structured quality of life interview; (5) educational attainment and
      services used; (6) evaluate diagnostic accuracy of FSS and SHS, using the Stevenson criteria;
      and (7) evaluate possible differences with patients meeting the full Stevenson criteria and
      those fulfilling the craniofacial part of the Stevenson criteria, with or without additional
      malformations.

      The following hypotheses are thus proposed. First, it is suggested that physical findings and
      frequency clusters will be similar to those previously reported, but complications of
      physical findings amongst patients with FSS, having received little attention in the
      literature, will be pronounced and result in nearly as significant of a disease burden for
      the patient as the primary physical findings themselves, e.g., intercostal myopathy
      eventually leading to right heart failure in some patients. Second, it is suggested that FSS
      is associated with higher rates of posttraumatic stress symptoms, depressive symptoms than is
      observed in the general population. Third, it is suggested that physiotherapy alone or with
      surgery is expected to be superior to surgery alone, especially for patients with FSS, in
      treating most problems, but surgery may have an important role, especially treating
      blepharophimosis and in combination with intensive pre- and post-operative physiotherapy in
      treating selective tendon lengthening in hands and feet. Fourth, it is suggested that FSS is
      associated with reduced quality of life than is observed in the general population. Fifth, it
      is suggested that when patients with FSS who do not have neurocognitive features receive the
      appropriate academic services, they frequently excel beyond family and peers, and it is also
      suggested that most patients with FSS do not receive educational services that are responsive
      to their unique needs and abilities, e.g., placement in 'special' classes or schools based on
      the patient's appearance or poorly conducted intelligence tests. Sixth, it is suggested,
      based on systematic review and meta-analysis preliminary results, that two-thirds of patients
      with a stated diagnosis of FSS will not meet the Stevenson criteria and be rediagnosed,
      mostly as DA1. Seventh, it is suggested, based on systematic review and meta-analysis
      preliminary results, that two-thirds of patients with stated diagnosis of FSS who do not meet
      the Stevenson criteria, one-third will be meet the craniofacial stipulates of the Stevenson
      criteria, with or without additional malformations, and share a natural history with those
      who met the full Stevenson criteria.
    
  