
    
      The primary endpoint is femoral broaching time (in minutes), which is collected
      intraoperatively. The primary objective is to demonstrate that femoral broaching time with
      KINCISE is non-inferior to femoral broaching time with manual instruments (not using KINCISE)
      when used in THA with Anterior Advantage.

      Note: If non-inferiority is successfully demonstrated, then the study will be deemed to be
      successful, and a test for superiority of femoral broaching time will be conducted.

      If the primary endpoint analysis successfully demonstrates non-inferiority of femoral
      broaching time, then the following three secondary objectives will be assessed with formal
      hypotheses, in order, under a gatekeeping strategy:

        -  Non-inferiority of skin-to-skin OR time when KINCISE is used vs. when KINCISE is not
           used.

        -  Non-inferiority of the percent of subjects with optimal acetabular cup abduction angle
           when KINCISE is used vs. when KINCISE is not used.

        -  Non-inferiority of the percent of subjects with optimal acetabular cup version angle
           when KINCISE is used vs. when KINCISE is not used.

      In addition, the following secondary endpoints do not have prospectively planned hypotheses;
      these will be summarized for both treatment groups:

        -  Harris Hip Score (HHS) and HHS change from preoperative baseline

        -  Forgotten Joint Score (FJS) and FJS change from 6-week postoperative baseline

        -  EQ-5D-5L and changes in these assessments from preoperative baseline

        -  Pain (Groin, Thigh, and Buttock)

        -  Patient Satisfaction

        -  Post-op time when functional activities can be accomplished (return to work, self-care,
           etc.)

        -  Radiographic Outcomes (based upon AP Hip, AP Pelvis, and Lateral)

        -  Length of hospital stay after index THA

        -  Re-hospitalizations during the study (including a specific summary of
           re-hospitalizations within 90 days)

        -  Narcotic drug usage throughout the study

        -  Complications (including a specific summary of complications within 90 days
           post-surgery)
    
  