
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is considered a virus-mediated autoimmune disease in the central
      nerve system characterized by blood brain barrier (BBB) disruption. Conventional magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) is currently an invaluable diagnostic tool as structural lesions are
      accepted biomarkers. However, MRI lesions correlate poorly with disease burden underlining
      the clinical-radiological paradox. Therefore, more advanced MRI are needed to provide
      additional information beyond what is obtainable from conventional scans. Perfusion MRI
      alterations preceding overt BBB disruption and lesions have been described suggesting a
      microvascular pathology as an etiological contributor to MS lesions. Transient diffusion
      decrease observed by diffusion MRI support the hypothesis of a hypoxic event prior to BBB
      disruption. A new model of perfusion MRI (DSC) enables microvascular function assessment in
      MS. This model is yet to be tested on MS patients. Furthermore, emerging evidence suggest
      that virus receptor CD46 affects immunologic susceptibility to MS. CD46 is highly expressed
      on cerebral vascular endothelium and may protect BBB integrity.

      The hypothesis for this project is that CD46 activity is modulator of MS disease development,
      where CD46 modifications increases vulnerability to BBB disruption by attenuation of normal
      flow responses in MS brains.

      Aims: Besides testing correlations between microvascular dysfunction and MS clinical outcome,
      this have prompted the investigators to investigate DSC-metric and predicted microvascular
      dysfunction in relation to defective CD46-driven immune responses.

      Method: For this the investigators conducted our MRI study performed in a clinical research
      setting, and the - immunological study performed in a laboratory setting. Both studies are
      based on newly diagnosed MS patient assessments conducted at Department of Neurology, Aarhus
      University Hospital. All subjects undergo clinical examination, blood/cerebrospinal fluid
      samples and a comprehensive 3Tesla (3T) MRI protocol. MRI parameters and immune responses are
      compared between study groups and related to clinical outcome.
    
  