
    
      This is an observational pilot study to evaluate the clinical applicability of the ExSpiron
      Respiratory Volume Monitor (RVM) in patients with suspected sleep apnea. Previous work has
      demonstrated the ability of the RVM to provide non-invasive, real-time, continuous
      measurements of respiratory parameters (MV, TV, and RR) but those studies have not
      specifically looked at patients during sleep or patients with sleep disordered breathing.

      Previously there was no device capable of providing, continuous, non-invasive, real time
      measurements of ventilatory status such as minute ventilation, tidal volume and RR. The
      ExSpiron system utilizing impedance based technology and proprietary algorithms (Respiratory
      Motion Inc., Waltham, MA) have been developed to obtain these measurements.

      Respiratory Motion, Inc. has previously evaluated ExSpiron measurements of respiratory
      parameters (MV, TV and RR) in studies of adult volunteer subjects. Stimulus leads delivered
      an alternating minimal current (1.5 mA) at a frequency of 50 kHz and recording leads recorded
      differential voltages to calculate impedance. Subject data (height, weight, age, gender,
      chest circumference) were measured. The studies showed that using the optimal lead placement
      configuration, algorithms based on chest wall impedance and respiratory pattern analysis
      provided provided RVM measurements and ExSpiron curves which correlated strongly with
      spirometry volumes and spirometry curves.

      A large percentage of patients in the general surgical population have undiagnosed OSA. This
      population is at increased risk of adverse perioperative respiratory complications.
      Assessment and management of perioperative respiratory function and early intervention when
      indicated is a multifaceted, complex task often complicated by the unavailability of an
      accurate and continuous monitoring system that can demonstrate apnea and hypopnea to guide
      clinical decision making. The ExSpiron system is designed for these patients and is intended
      to address some of the limitations of the current generation of hospital monitors as listed
      below:

      In the, non-ventilated patient, current monitoring devices do not provide objective
      non-invasive, continuous real time measurements of important respiratory parameters MV, TV
      and RR that reflect respiratory competence, nor do they provide adequate assessment of apnea
      and hypopnea.

      Current monitoring of non-intubated patients mostly relies on oximetry data, subjective
      clinical assessment which measures respiration and not ventilation and rarely transcutaneous
      CO2 measurements. In appropriate clinical settings, the ExSpiron system can provide direct
      quantitative measure of ventilation (MV, TV and RR) that can be used in the detection of
      apnea and hypopnea.

      Precise apnea and hypopnea assessment.

      Most if not all of the gaps left by current respiratory assessment technologies may be filled
      by a non-invasive monitor such as the one proposed for use in this study. There are many
      potential applications for this technology including: use in peri-procedural environment to
      evaluate the effects of medication on ventilation and detection of apnea/hypopnea. In
      addition, it may be useful in clinical decision making regarding medication adjustments of
      pain management protocols, evaluation ventilatory status prior to extubation and evaluation
      of the need for reintubation, but also trending of respiratory patterns to avoid risky
      emergency airway management interventions.

      New advances in technology and digital signal processing have led to the development of an
      impedance based Respiratory Volume Monitor (RVM). The RVM (ExSpiron™, Respiratory Motion,
      Inc.; Waltham, MA) has been shown to provide accurate real-time, continuous, non-invasive
      measurements of tidal volume (TV), minute ventilation (MV) and respiratory rate (RR). Our
      main hypotheses are that the non-invasive, impedance-based RVM monitor will accurately
      reflect TV, RR and MV during sleep and will detect apneas and hypopneas accurately.

      Main Hypothesis: The ExSpiron monitor accurately reflects apnea and hypopnea events compared
      to standard polysomnography. The ExSpiron monitor is able to distinguish between central and
      obstructive apneic events.

      Secondary Hypothesis: 1) Correlation of MV% as compared to % predicted with comorbidities
      (e.g. hypertension and metabolic syndrome), 2)Correlation of MV changes as compared to MV%
      predicted with oxygen desaturation index (ODI), 3) evaluation breathing patterns before and
      after obstruction, 4) evaluation of breathing patterns in different types of apnea (central,
      obstructive and mixed).
    
  