
    
      The purpose of the study is to gather, in a prospective manner, information on patients with
      early rheumatoid arthritis and their response to methotrexate therapy. Specific aims of this
      study are:

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of methotrexate monotherapy as defined by attaining ACR 50
           response after 16 weeks of therapy.

        -  To identify predictors of methotrexate response in patients with RA.

        -  Does presence of the shared epitope predict methotrexate response

        -  Does evidence of periodontal disease predict methotrexate response

      A maximum of 120 RA patients will be consented for this protocol. This subject accrual will
      include UNMC and the RAIN (Rheumatoid Arthritis Investigational Network). Investigators have
      examined the discriminatory characteristics of several clinical and biologic parameters in
      predicting treatment response (at least 50% improvement based on ACR criteria) in initial
      analyses involving 54 participants with early RA treated with methotrexate monotherapy in
      past RAIN clinical trials. In the initial analyses, factors showing discriminatory
      characteristics have included rheumatoid factor (RF) isotypes (particularly IgA and IgM),
      matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3, HLA-DRB1 shared epitope (SE)-containing alleles, C-reactive
      protein, and interleukin (IL)-1. For instance, we have found that subjects with low serum
      concentrations of RF-IgM (< 27 IU/ml) are more likely to be non-responders than those with
      higher (> 27 IU/ml) serum concentrations (79% vs. 43%).

      Males and females will participate in this protocol. As RA is approximately three times more
      common in females, it is anticipated that a higher percentage of the study subjects will be
      female. Subjects will be > 19 years of age. This age range was chosen because the age of
      majority in Nebraska is 19. RA diagnosed before the age of 19 may not have the same disease
      characteristics as defined by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criterion for RA.
      Pediatric subjects will not be enrolled in this study. Rheumatoid arthritis occurs in all
      races. No enrollment restrictions have been based on race or ethnic origin.
    
  