
    
      Esophageal cancer is the ninth most common cancer in male population in Korea. It was
      estimated that 1,864 new cases of esophageal cancer were reported and 1,434 deaths occurred
      in Korea in 2005.

      Although half of the patients with esophageal cancer initially present with locoregional
      disease amenable to radical surgery or radiation-based therapy, most patients eventually
      develop metastatic disease with or without local recurrence.

      Chemotherapy plays a major role in palliative therapy and remains to be the primary mode of
      treatment for the recurrent or metastatic esophageal cancer. Although various chemotherapy
      regimens are available, esophageal cancer carries a very poor prognosis, with a mean survival
      time of less than 8.1 months with current chemotherapies used singly or in combination with
      5-fluorouracil (5-FU), vindesine, mitomycin, docetaxel, paclitaxel, cisplatin, irinotecan,
      vinorelbine, or capecitabine. The majority of the trials performed were in small numbers of
      patients with reported response rates from 15 to 40%.

      The response was usually of short duration and there was no survival benefit with single
      agent chemotherapy. Combination chemotherapy has slightly improved the results in terms of
      duration of response (3-6 months), but still there was little improvement in overall
      survival. Therefore, the identification of new active agents is essential to prolong the
      survival.

      Clinical trials of single agent docetaxel have been reported in patients with esophageal
      cancer and the response rate is about 18-25%.

      S-1, a new biochemical modulator of 5-FU, is an oral dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase(DPD)
      inhibitory fluoropyrimidine. The advantages of S-1 compared with 5-FU are greater convenience
      because of its oral formulation and continuous delivery, without intravenous infusion. S-1 is
      frequently used as a substitute for 5-FU in gastric cancer, but limited data is available for
      esophageal cancer.

      The combination of docetaxel and S-1 is highly active and well tolerated in advanced or
      recurrent gastric cancer, and the synergistic antitumor activity has been fully elucidated.

      Therefore, we will evaluate the efficacy of docetaxel and S-1 combination chemotherapy in
      Korean patients with esophageal cancer.
    
  