
    
      Aims & Objectives:

      Peg-IFN has five unique features, namely (i) finite duration of administration, (ii)
      anti-viral effect, (iii) immune-modulation, (iv) anti-fibrotic effect and (v) delayed
      virologic response off-treatment. However these benefits come at a cost i.e. the drug is
      expensive and there are several known adverse events.

      ETV is a potent nucleoside analogue (Nuc), which has minimal resistance compared to most
      other Nucs. It is efficient for inducing rapid decline of HBV DNA. However ETV has no known
      immune modulatory or anti-fibrotic effect and therefore off-treatment response or improvement
      of hepatic histology is not expected with ETV. Similar to other NUCs, there is no defined
      duration of administration of ETV.

      It has been hypothesized that if lower-dose of Peg-IFN can be given in combination with ETV
      in treatment-naïve CHB patients, they are likely to benefit most from the 'best of both the
      drugs' in terms of viral and biochemical responses, treatment cost and duration and adverse
      events.

      The project aims to evaluate the outcome of first-line combination treatment with 'lower-dose
      Peg-IFN plus ETV' in treatment-naïve CHB patients to see whether this combination may be
      further evaluated and eventually recommended as first-line management for HBV related chronic
      liver diseases (CLD).

      Research Question:

      Although the best treatment option for CHB is not clarified yet, certain therapeutic concepts
      can be derived from the experience of treating patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) and
      human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections. A major advancement in treating CHC and HIV
      infections has been the development of first-line combination therapy.

      The research question of this study is whether the first-line combination treatment with
      'lower-dose Peg-IFN plus ETV' is effective and beneficial in treatment-naïve CHB patients and
      whether this combination may be evaluated further and eventually recommended as the preferred
      first-line management for HBV related CLD.

      Methodology:

      Ethical consideration

      Ethical approval for the study has been obtained from the Ethical Committee at Bangabandhu
      Sheikh Mujib Medical University. The study will be performed according to principle of the
      'Declaration of Helsinki' of 1975 maintaining all the requisites and norms of 'good clinical
      practice' (GCP).

      This will be a prospective, open label, interventional clinical study. The first 20 (twenty)
      treatment-naive hepatitis B virus 'e' antigen (HBeAg) positive CHB patients with treatment
      indication, presenting from July 2011 onwards, who can afford the treatment with Peg-IFN and
      who voluntarily agree to be part of the study will be recruited. Signed voluntary consent in
      Bengali will be obtained from each participant.

      Patients will receive peg-IFN (90 µgms) sub-cutaneously once weekly for 24 weeks in
      combination with ETV (0.5 mg) once daily orally for the same duration. Administration of
      Peg-IFN will be supervised and patients will be evaluated regularly both clinically and with
      biochemical and haematological parameters for early detection and management of adverse
      event(s) if any.

      Virologic and biochemical parameters will be tested (i) at baseline, (ii) at end of treatment
      (i.e. at 24 weeks) and (iii) at 12 weeks off-treatment.

      These will include HBeAg, HBV DNA and serum alaninetransaminase (ALT). Besides for assessment
      of liver status, patients will undergo ultrasonography (USG) of hepato-biliary system (HBS),
      endoscopy of upper gastrointestinal tract (UGIT) and if possible liver biopsy or fibroscan of
      liver at baseline.

      Data analysis All data will be collected using pre-designed questionnaire and preserved in a
      safe place. Data will be analysed using SPSS programme.
    
  