
    
      Objective:

      To perform a clinical trial assessing the safety, tolerability and efficacy of the GABA(B)
      receptor antagonist SGS-742 in patients with SSADH deficiency.

      Study Population:

      Twenty-two children and adults with SSADH deficiency.

      Design:

      Double-blind, cross-over, phase II clinical trial. SGS-742 is a GABA (B) receptor antagonist
      that has shown to be safe and well-tolerated in clinical trials in adults with cognitive
      impairment. In addition, preliminary data in the SSADH knockout mouse model suggest efficacy
      in this specific syndrome. The primary outcome measure will be a change in the Auditory
      Comprehension subtest of the Neuropsychological Assessment Battery Language Module score; the
      secondary outcome measure will be a change in cortical excitation and inhibition measured by
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Additional evaluations will include neurological and
      neuropsychological examinations, magnetic resonance spectroscopy and CSF collection to
      measure GABA levels. The trial will have a baseline phase in which each patient will undergo
      a neurological examination and a neuropsychological evaluation. During the subsequent
      treatment phase, patients will be randomized to SGS-742, supplied by IRIX Pharmaceuticals,
      and based on weight given a maximum tolerated dose not to exceed 600 mg t.i.d. orally, or
      placebo, each for 6 months. Patients will then have repeat TMS, neurological and
      neuropsychological evaluations, followed by cross-over to the alternate treatment arm, and
      re-evaluation after 6 months.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measures for drug efficacy will be performance on neuropsychological
      testing and responses to parent questionnaire. The secondary outcome measure will be TMS
      parameters of cortical excitation and inhibition. The outcome measures for safety will
      include clinical examination and neuropsychological tests.
    
  