
    
      All transplant recipients receive periodic monitoring of drug levels and laboratory tests to
      assess adequacy of immunosuppression and allograft function. These are performed when the
      recipient is admitted to the hospital after transplantation or for a complication such as
      acute rejection or toxicity, or when the recipient is an outpatient.

        1. Blood samples: Participants may be asked to provide research blood specimens during
           regular clinical tests, and may collect up to 15 milliliters of blood as many as 7 times
           within the first year of transplant, and then less often thereafter. The total volume
           collected will take in account the patient's height, weight and age at the time of the
           collection. However, if for any reason participant is unable to provide a sample during
           regular clinical test it may be collected at another time. Participants will be asked to
           provide these samples indefinitely. This will allow longitudinal assessment of the
           stability of biomarker expression as a reflection of clinical drug concentrations in
           repeated measurements.

        2. Saliva collection: Up to 5 ml of the subject's saliva will be collected no more than
           four times, if the previous sample does not provide adequate information. Samples will
           be collected in self-collection container at the time of consent or as early as possible
           after consents are obtained, and will be stored at room temperature in the Pediatric
           Transplantation Laboratory, 3344 Forbes Ave. In recipients where both are available, the
           genotyping results as DNA from saliva will be compared between paired blood samples.
           Henceforth, saliva collection will only be offered to participants who cannot donate
           blood specimens for genotyping. Salivary sampling is considered an acceptable
           alternative standard for whole blood genotyping. A saliva sample will be collected only
           if the patient or the patient's parent or guardian prefers this option over blood
           sampling.

        3. Collection of urine, feces, and bile: five mls of any body fluid will be collected in
           sterile urine cups for application of proteomics technologies. Collections may be
           repeated up to four times, if the first specimen provides suboptimal information.

        4. Collection of remaining allograft standard of care biopsy specimens, and tissue from
           explants: Any piece of allograft biopsy deemed residual by the pathologist will be
           subjected to gene array testing. This will occur when participant is scheduled for their
           standard of care biopsy, or while in surgery. Genetic material extracted from the
           smallest tissue can be amplified using several approaches.

        5. Measurements: Biomarker expression will be evaluated after mitogen and antigen
           stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. (1-3). Briefly, peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMC) are extracted from whole blood by Ficoll gradient separation,
           Thereafter, either mitogens such as phytohemaglutinin, pokeweed mitogen, or
           phorbol-myristic acid-ionomycin, or viral and major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
           peptide antigens, or intact alloantigenic cells will be used to stimulate recipient
           PBMC. Cellular responses that can be measured include but are not limited to expressed
           pro-inflammatory or anti-inflammatory markers, cytokines, proliferation, cytotoxicity,
           and apoptosis.
    
  