
    
      Introduction: Pes planovalgus or flatfoot-associated complaints are frequent symptoms, which
      are thought to be caused by the foot deformity itself. Concurrently, the multifactorial
      weakness of the M. tibialis posterior and its tendon (trauma, systemic disease, chronic
      tendon degeneration by overuse) can lead to a flattening of the medial longitudinal arch of
      the foot. Affected patients suffer from functional impairment and pain. Less severe cases are
      eligible for non-surgical treatment. Foot orthoses are considered to be the first line
      approach. Furthermore strengthening of the arch and ankle stabilizing muscles are thought to
      contribute to an active compensation of the deformity. There is only limited evidence
      concerning the numerous therapy approaches since high quality studies are missing. One
      excellent report (Kulig et al. 2009) shows clear benefits by the use of foot orthoses and
      eccentric strengthening exercises. Beside the fact that evidence-based guidelines for therapy
      have yet to be developed, no data is available showing functional benefits that accompany the
      therapy process. This would give further insight into mechanisms behind non-surgical
      management strategies and how patients benefit functionally from therapy. Purpose: The
      purpose of this randomized longitudinal intervention study is the evaluation of the
      therapeutic benefit of three different non-surgical treatment regimens (foot orthoses only
      FOO, foot orthoses and eccentric exercise FOE, foot orthoses sham treatment FOS) in patients
      with Pes planovalgus and accompanying complaints. Furthermore the analysis of possible
      functional changes in gait mechanics (kinematic and kinetic view) and neuromuscular control
      (electromyographic analysis) will contribute to a superior understanding of functional
      changes that accompany non-operative management. The purpose of the study is to optimize
      non-surgical management in patients suffering from Pes planovalgus associated pain leading to
      an efficient use of health care system's financial resources. Methods: 60 patients with Pes
      planovalgus associated complaints (clinical diagnosis with plain weight bearing radiographs),
      M. tibialis posterior dysfunction) are included in the study. Functional impairment is
      evaluated pre and post intervention by the Foot-Function-Index (FFI, German version).
      Anthropometric data recording is followed by preparation of subject's foot anatomical
      landmarks with retroreflective markers and superficially detectable muscles of the ankle
      joint complex are prepared with surface electromyography (SEMG) electrodes. The 3D kinematic
      data allows inter alia the calculation of segmental angels of the lower extremity and
      measurement of navicular drop. The neuromuscular activity is analysed in the time (on-off
      pattern) and amplitude domain (gait cycle specific phases). Procedure: Potential participants
      are recruited via the Outpatient Clinic of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery of the
      Inselspital, University Hospital, Bern. After initial screening, subjects are randomized to
      one of three intervention groups (foot orthoses only FOO, foot orthoses and eccentric
      exercise FOE, foot orthoses sham treatment FOS). FOO-subjects wear custom-made foot orthoses
      only. FOE-subjects wear individually accustomed foot orthoses and they will perform a
      combined monitored and home training program to progressively strengthen the M. tibialis
      posterior and accompanying ankle stabilizing muscles with eccentric exercises. FOS-subjects
      wear custom-made sham foot orthoses without the functional elements of the treatment orthoses
      (longitudinal arch support, ankle stabilizer, bowl-shaped heel for rearfoot stability).
      Subjects are measured pre and post intervention (12 weeks). Measurements include the primary
      outcome measure Foot-Function-Index (FFI, German version: total score) followed by basic
      anthropometric measures. Subject preparation allows then the measurement of 10 trials on a
      walkway and on stairs with embedded force plates in barefoot condition. An average step cycle
      out of 10 trials is calculated and biomechanical outcome measures are extracted. A re-test
      allows the calculation of intervention effects by one-factor ANOVA (group: treatment FOO vs.
      FOE vs. FOS) for repeated measures.
    
  