
    
      People who live in rural areas are more likely to smoke cigarettes than people who live in
      urban and suburban areas. However, many smoking cessation resources and programs may not be
      available to residents of rural areas. Toll-free tobacco telephone quitlines are proven to
      help people stop smoking and are available to almost everyone living in the United States,
      but only 1% to 5% of smokers actually use them. Another option for helping people stop
      smoking may involve having doctors provide smoking cessation programs in their offices or
      clinics; however, most doctors' offices do not have the resources to provide this type of
      service. Telemedicine provides medical information over the phone or through the Internet by
      using various technologies, including Webcams or video conferencing equipment. It has been
      used successfully to provide psychiatric care and addictions counseling, but there have been
      no studies that have examined the effectiveness of a telemedicine smoking cessation program.
      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of a telemedicine smoking cessation
      program that takes place in a doctor's office versus the effectiveness of a traditional
      telephone quitline smoking cessation program among rural smokers.

      The study will be conducted at 25 rural doctors' offices in Kansas. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to participate in a telephone quitline program or a telemedicine program.
      Participants in the telephone quitline program will receive four sessions of telephone
      quitline counseling from smoking cessation counselors over an 8-week period. Participants in
      the telemedicine program will receive four sessions of telemedicine counseling from smoking
      cessation counselors over an 8-week period, which will be delivered through two-way Webcams
      at computers in the doctors' offices. All participants will receive educational handouts and
      individually tailored quit plans, including information on smoking cessation medications. At
      baseline and Months 3, 6, and 12, all participants will take part in telephone interviews
      with study researchers to assess smoking habits. At baseline and Month 12, participants will
      mail a saliva sample to researchers for the purposes of determining the level of nicotine in
      the body.
    
  