
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death among women in Europe and in the USA. Its
      costs amount annually more than 196 billions Euro in Europe. The federal state of
      Saxony-Anhalt occupies leading position in mortality in myocardial infarction and coronary
      heart disease in Germany. Up to 8 percent of all pregnant women develop a severe
      pregnancy-associated hypertension, like preeclampsia, superimposed preeclampsia or
      HELLP-syndrome. These women have an increased lifetime risk for cardio- and cerebrovascular
      diseases.

      The consecutive increasing arterial stiffness because of endothelial dysfunction is a
      determining factor in etiology of pregnancy-associated hypertension and results in increased
      cardiovascular risk. Aortal pulse wave velocity is used as Goldstandard for measuring
      arterial stiffness.

      Pregnant women suffering from a severe pregnancy-associated hypertension present higher
      levels in arterial stiffness measured by pulse wave velocity than healthy pregnant women.
      Pathological changes of the vascular systems persistent from 6 month until 10 years after
      delivery and give an explanatory approach for an increased cardiovascular longterm risk at
      these patients. Numerous medical associations like American Heart Association aim at reducing
      especially cardiovascular longterm risk in women with status after preeclampsia, superimposed
      preeclampsia or HELLP syndrome.

      Pregnancy-independent studies in patients with coronary heart disease and analysis in women
      with metabolic syndrome show a reduction of arterial stiffness by regular conditional
      workout.

      Scientific problem of this pilot study: If a reduction in arterial stiffness in women from a
      risk group - during a 6-month-ongoing intensive regular conditional workout within a
      midwife-supported teamwork and under inclusion of dietary interventions - achieved?
    
  