
    
      Background: The majority of subjects who have suffered a first-time stroke have balance
      disability in the subacute phase. Trunk impairment, restricted balance, and impaired postural
      control in patients with stroke are correlated with increasing risk of falls and impaired
      mobility. This creates disability and dependency in their activities of daily living. The
      core is central to almost all kinetic chains in the body. Several studies and a systematic
      review have shown that implementing core stability exercises may be a viable strategy for
      improving trunk performance and dynamic sitting balance, standing balance, and gait in
      post-stroke patients.

      Main objective: To compare the efficacy of conventional physiotherapy versus an approach
      based on a Core Stability Exercises (CSEs) program, in terms of dynamic balance, gait and
      functional rehabilitation at the end of the intervention (5 weeks) and in the long term
      (sustained effect over time at 3 and 6 months), in sub-acute post-stroke patients. A
      secondary objective will be to develop and evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of a
      specific mobile application (app) to reinforce the adherence to unsupervised home-based CSEs
      by the own patient in the long term.

      Methodology: Multicentre blinded-assessor randomized controlled (parallel group) trial. Study
      duration per patient will be 29 weeks (intervention period: 5 weeks, followed by 24 weeks
      follow-up). The study will consist in two parts: 1) A main study (CORE Trial) where
      physiotherapy modalities will be compared (main comparisons), and 2) an ancillary substudy
      (CORE-App Study) where the effect of a mobile application (app) will be evaluated (secondary
      comparison).

      Expected results: The study will provide useful information on the short and long term
      effects of a physiotherapy rehabilitation program based on core stability exercises, as well
      as the potential use of a mobile app to reinforce long term adherence to unsupervised
      home-based physiotherapy.
    
  