
    
      These VST lines have been made at Baylor College of Medicine from donors for other transplant
      patients or other normal donors some of whom were from the National Marrow Donor Program. All
      donors have been screened with the standard blood bank donor questionnaire, medical history
      and testing for infectious disease by a doctor who is experienced in screening transplant
      donors. Only donors who have cleared this process and were deemed to be eligible provided
      blood for VST generation.

      The lines were made using a special process. To make the VSTs investigators mixed donor cells
      with small pieces of proteins, called peptides that come from adenovirus, CMV, EBV, BKV and
      HHV6. These peptides stimulate donor T cells that react against the viruses to grow and train
      the donor T cells to kill cells that are infected with CMV, EBV, adenovirus, BKV and HHV6.

      Once the investigators made sufficient numbers of VSTs, they tested them to make sure they
      would target cells infected with these virusesbut not normal cells. Then the cells were
      frozen.

      For patients treated on this study, the VSTs will be thawed and injected into their
      intravenous line. The patient will remain in the clinic for at least one hour after the
      infusion. After the patient receives the cells, their transplant doctor will monitor the
      levels of the virus the patient is infected with in their blood. The investigators will also
      take blood to see how long the VSTs given to the patient last in their body.

      The patient will continue to be followed by their doctors after the injection. The patient
      will either be seen in the clinic or will be contacted by a research nurse to follow up for
      this study every week for 6 weeks then at 3, 6 and 12 months. The patient may have other
      visits for their standard care.

      The patient will also have regular blood tests done to follow their counts and the viral
      infection, but most of these will be done as part of their standard medical care. To learn
      more about the way the VSTs are working in the patient's body, up to an extra 30-40 ml (6-8
      teaspoons) of blood will be taken before the infusion and then at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 weeks and 3
      months. Blood should come from the central intravenous line, and should not require extra
      needle sticks.

      All participants on this study will be infused with the same number (dose) of cells. If after
      the first treatment the patient has a persistent infection, we would discuss this with
      him/her and allow an option to receive more treatments. These additional treatments might be
      with cells from the same donor or if we feel that there is another donor's whose cells might
      be better for the patient, we would use cells from a different donor. This second product
      will be administered at the same dose level 28 days after the initial infusion, and
      subsequent infusions should be at least 14 days apart. After each VST infusion, the patient
      will be monitored as described above.
    
  