
    
      Aim 1. To evaluate the role of 99mTc-ECDG in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). Both as a monitoring
      and diagnostic tool.

      Approach. Three separate cohorts of patients suffering from RA will be recruited;

        1. Patients with newly diagnosed RA;

        2. Patients with active and long-standing RA before and after treatment with anti-TNF;

        3. Patients with RA in remission with or without anti-TNF treatment.

      5-10 patients will be recruited into each cohort. In order to provide written consent all
      patients will be older than 18 years old. Exclusion criteria will include any patient with an
      allergy to glucosamine or seafood, any patient with end-stage renal or hepatic disease,
      pregnancy or lactation. No restrictions will be imposed on the treatment patients are able to
      receive for their underlying rheumatic condition, nor for any other medical condition while
      in this study. Patients will be required to cease any glucosamine therapy for three days
      prior to the injection of the radiotracer.

      An evaluation of patient's history and physical examination will be conducted prior to tracer
      administration. All relevant disease will be documented as well as concurrent illnesses and
      treatment regimes. A rheumatologist will assess disease severity and documented as per
      recommendations outlined under the PBS guidelines for subsidised treatment (HIC - Medicare
      Australia). Biological markers of disease will be acquired from each patient at the time of
      clinical assessment, including ESR, CRP levels, rheumatoid factor and anti-citrullinated
      peptide antibodies. Similar assessments will be undertaken at six monthly intervals for three
      years. These results will be used to correlate with the scan findings. Patients from cohort A
      & B will have their initial scans acquired prior to the commencement of therapy. Scans will
      be repeated six months later in all patients. Results will be analysed on both a per patient
      basis and a per joint basis.

      AIM 1a. To correlate 99mTc-ECDG joint uptake with clinical parameters of disease.

      The scan findings of each group will be graded by a nuclear medicine physician (SA) noting
      the pattern of tracer uptake and the intensity of tracer uptake. Relative tracer activity in
      joints will be correlated with the activity in the brain / skull (where essentially no uptake
      is evident). In addition, the neighbouring muscle tissue, the liver and the cardiac blood
      pool activity at the two scanning time points (15 and 120 minutes) will be evaluated. A four
      point (0-3) grading system will be utilised to semi-quantify the scan findings, and is as
      follows:

      0 - Nil uptake - defined as no increased / minimally increased tracer activity in region of
      interest (ROI; activity approximates uptake in the brain);

        1. - Mild - tracer uptake in ROI approximates that of the neighbouring muscle tissue;

        2. - Moderate - tracer uptake in ROI is greater than that in the vicinity of the heart;
           and,

        3. - Severe - tracer uptake in ROI approximates that of the liver. The scan findings will
           then be compared to clinical parameters as documented at the time of the study and on
           follow-up assessment (as outlined under aim 1). This will enable the investigators to
           assess disease progression or remission over time. It will thus be possible to evaluate
           the predictive nature of the scan findings in this respect.

      AIM 1b. To evaluate 99mTc-ECDG joint uptake differences before and after treatment. That is,
      to predict response to therapy. One of the purposes of follow-up is to identify changes in
      disease activity over time. The clinical and scan findings at the time of recruitment will be
      compared to the corresponding findings from the follow-up assessments (as outlined in Aim 1 &
      1a). Patients from cohorts A & B will permit assessment of clinical response to therapy.
      Thus, any regression of disease activity or otherwise, can be correlated with the differences
      as depicted on the scans acquired at baseline and at six months later. In cohort B, the
      99mTc-ECDG scans acquired at baseline and 6 months later from inadequate responders to
      conventional therapy will be compared to those with a favourable clinical response.

      Follow-up studies in patients from cohort C (disease in remission) will provide information
      regarding:

        -  the reproducibility of the scan findings in patients who remain clinically stable,

        -  the significance of probable subclinical disease (increased tracer uptake in joints of
           patients who are otherwise asymptomatic on the baseline study and the changes observed
           on the follow-up scans),

        -  and the sensitivity in detecting recurrent disease (changes in tracer distribution in
           joints that become inflamed in the intervening period).

      AIM 1c. To correlate between findings on 99mTc-ECDG with other imaging modalities, including
      bone scintigraphy and 18FDG-PET scintigraphy. In at least 3 RA patients with a wide range of
      disease activity, a bone scan will be performed within 72h of the 99mTc-ECDG. At least 3
      patients will also undergo 18FDG-PET scintigraphy. These scans will be evaluated by an
      experienced nuclear medicine physician (SA), and correlated to the patient profile and the
      99mTc-ECDG scan findings. These cohorts will enable the value of the different clinical
      information provided by each imaging technique and their complementary nature to be
      evaluated. It is anticipated that this study will take 30 months to complete. All patients
      will be recruited with the aim to recruit all patients in the first 12 months and followed up
      for at least 24 months.

      AIM 2. To investigate the role of 99mTc-ECDG in detecting seronegative spondyloarthritis.
      Distinguishing back-pain related to disease flare-up/progression and alternative causes
      (osteoarthritis, disc pathology) in patients with early AS is difficult. Therapy is
      cause-specific. Inappropriate application of therapeutic regimes can delay recovery often
      leading to unforeseen complications with poor outcomes (eg. steroid-related osteoporotic
      vertebral crush fractures). Plain X-rays, CT scans and MRI will effectively highlight the
      irreversible chronic changes of this disease. However, these techniques seldom detect the
      earliest pathogenic changes, being the most amendable to therapeutic intervention.
      99mTc-ECDG, by virtue of its ability to accumulate at sites of inflammation, appears
      successful in identifying early and mild disease. Furthermore, the pattern of tracer
      distribution will assist in differentiating between the competing diagnoses. A control group
      of 10-15 patients with mechanical back pain will be used as controls 10-15 AS patients with
      varying degrees of disease activity will be recruited. TNF-alpha inhibitor therapy will be
      administered to patients meeting the necessary guidelines and scans performed pre and post
      treatment. Repeat studies will be acquired 6 months later in all patients. A comparison of
      clinical findings, documented by experienced Rheumatologists with regular six-monthly
      follow-up over three years will be conducted. The predictive value of these scans with
      respect to treatment response will also be assessed as outlined in Aim 1b. MRI scans, the
      gold standard for sacro-ileitis, will be acquired within 72 hours of the 99mTc-ECDG scans,
      for comparison of findings in the lumbo-sacral region. A number of these patients will also
      undergo bone scintigraphy and / or 18FDG-PET scintigraphy (as outlined in Aim 1c), to
      evaluate the comparative value of these alternate imaging modalities.
    
  