
    
      Smoking is the leading preventable cause of morbidity and mortality among women in the US.
      Quitting smoking may be especially problematic for women. As a form of exercise, yoga shares
      many of the same properties as traditional (Western) aerobic exercise which our previous
      research has shown to be an effective addition to smoking cessation. Yoga may also offer
      other benefits that may make it an especially effective complimentary treatment for women who
      are attempting to quit smoking.

      In this study we will recruit two cohorts of 30 women smokers and provide
      cognitive-behavioral therapy for smoking cessation once weekly for 12 weeks. In addition,
      participants will be randomly assigned them to receive either; (1) Yoga or (2) a Wellness
      program (contact-control), twice weekly during the program. All participants will be assessed
      for changes in smoking behavior, psychosocial variables relevant to smoking cessation and
      other psychological constructs that may act as mechanisms of action (mediators) of yoga and
      smoking cessation. These variables include; weight concerns, perceived stress, mindfulness,
      self-esteem, quality of life and group cohesion. Interviews will be used to collect
      qualitative data at the end of each cohort. The proposed study is designed to provide
      information necessary to establish several research fundamentals necessary to support a full
      scale efficacy trial. These include: 1) establishing intervention feasibility and
      acceptability in the target population, 2) piloting recruitment and retention procedures and
      identifying barriers to participation, 3) obtaining qualitative feedback from participants to
      enhance treatment content and/or design, 4) establishing anticipated effect size estimates,
      and 5) identifying likely mechanisms of action that may be responsible for intervention
      efficacy.
    
  