
    
      INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE:

      Skin cancer is the most common cancer and its incidence is increasing rapidly in Western
      countries. In the Netherlands the registry of skin cancer is poor, however based on recent
      literature and guidelines the investigators estimate the number of new malignant skin tumors
      and the precursor actinic keratosis (AK) in 2015 at around 235,278, having a major impact on
      the health care system. Moreover, it is predicted that numbers of skin cancer will rise with
      4.5-8% per year, depending on the type of skin cancer. Skin cancer comprises melanoma and
      non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC: basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and
      its precursors actinic keratosis (AK) and Bowen disease). In case of suspicion on NMSC, at
      present, the pathological examination of a biopsy is the gold standard. In case of clinical
      suspicion on AK, the diagnosis is made à vue, without pathological confirmation. In the
      United States, already in 2003, skin cancer was found to be among the most costly of all
      cancers to treat, thus, it is evident that skin cancer places an enormous burden on western
      healthcare systems with increasing costs. As BCC is the most common skin cancer (about 75% of
      all skin cancers) with an estimated incidence of 51,000 new tumors in 2015, this study will
      focus on this skin cancer type.

      HEALTH CARE EFFICIENCY PROBLEM:

      As described above, the incidences of the various malignant skin tumours are increasing
      dramatically. The rising number of skin cancer may result in long waiting lists for
      consultation at departments for dermatological care and in increasing health care costs. In
      case of suspicion on skin cancer it is of utmost importance to diagnose and treat in an early
      phase, preferable in a patient friendly manner. With the implementation of reflectance
      confocal microscopy (RCM) in routine patient care settings the diagnosis is assessed at the
      first consultation and the patient can be treated instantly. A second consultation for
      explaining the diagnosis is than not necessary, which time can then be used for other new
      patients. Also, with the conventional diagnostic procedure (pathological investigation of a
      skin biopsy) the investigators experience in 29% of the cases a sample error, so the BCC
      subtype is not correctly identified, and as treatment depends on BCC subtype many patients
      need a subsequent treatment because of treatment failure or recurrence. Also for
      pathologists, to examine skin tumor after skin tumor is not that efficient and challenging.
      More pathologists are needed if there will not be other diagnostic techniques in the future.
      RCM will also, not unimportantly, lower the costs for diagnosing skin cancer.

      USUAL CARE:

      Currently, in case of suspicion on NMSC, including BCC, an invasive diagnostic biopsy for
      pathological examination is performed.Treatment choices depend on BCC subtype.

      THE INTERVENTION TO BE INVESTIGATED:

      RCM is a non-invasive imaging technique. It provides real time images of cell- and tissue
      structures and dynamics in situ, without the need for ex vivo tissue samples. RCM visualizes
      human skin up to a depth of around 250 μm. Most, but not all tumors can be visualized. For
      thicker tumors RCM may help to find the optimal localization to perform a biopsy, as
      superficial features in these tumors may help to spot these. Moreover, the whole tumor can be
      imaged by RCM and a diagnosis can be made instantly.

      RCM features for skin cancer are reported, which showed a high correlation with conventional
      pathological features. These features allow to diagnose AK and SCC, and subtypes in BCC
      (superficial, nodular, micronodular, infiltrative and mixed type BCCs).

      RCM in the RELEVANCE FOR PRACTICE

      Skin cancer is responsible for 50% of the costs in dermatological patient care, 75-80% of
      these costs are caused by BCC. These costs will increase even more, as incidence rates will
      rise further. As described above, the gold standard is pathological investigation of a biopsy
      or of an excision. However, pathological diagnosis of a biopsy often results in sampling
      errors, as only a small part of the tumor is investigated resulting in potentially
      inappropriate chosen therapies. The subtypes of BCC are treated differently. As a sample
      error may lead to treatment failures or recurrences, other subsequent treatments are needed,
      increasing costs. In addition, the conventional method is unfriendly for patients, as it is
      invasive, painful, scarring, and the diagnosis is not instantly available. In order to
      implement patient friendly RCM in daily BCC care, a large prospective study is needed. The
      ability of RCM in determining the correct diagnosis and subtyping BCC needs to be
      investigated as well as preparing protocols for use in patient care. It is believed that this
      diagnostic imaging technique will be more cost-effective and more patient friendly as
      compared to the biopsy procedure, the gold standard at present. Therefore, the purpose of
      this study is to investigate whether reflectance confocal microscopy can correctly identify
      the subtype of basal cell carcinoma.

      Study design: Randomized controlled trail. Comparison with usual care; punch biopsy and
      excision.
    
  