
    
      GX301, an experimental therapeutic (anti-cancer) vaccine, is composed of four immunogenic
      peptides from human telomerase and two complementary adjuvants, Montanide ISA-51 VG and
      imiquimod.

      An earlier Phase 1 study of GX301 has provided evidence of vaccine-specific immune response
      in a small sample of stage 4 prostate cancer patients given eight GX301 administrations over
      9 weeks.

      The present Phase 2, randomised, parallel-group, multicentre trial is aimed at comparing
      three different GX301 administration regimens in patients with progressive,
      castration-resistant prostate cancer who have completed a first-line docetaxel treatment and
      have achieved response to chemotherapy or disease stability. Primary comparisons will include
      regimen efficacy in inducing vaccine-specific immunological responses over a period of 6
      months following randomisation; and treatment safety and tolerability over the same period.

      A further study aim is to investigate whether achievement of immunological response,
      irrespective of the assigned GX301 regimen, is related to progression-free and/or overall
      survival.

      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to receive one of three GX301 vaccination
      regimens consisting of two, four or eight administrations, respectively, each regimen being
      given over a fixed 9-week period. Randomisation ratio will be 1:1:1. Randomisation will be
      stratified by previous cumulative exposure to docetaxel.

      Following randomisation, immunological responses to GX301 will be determined over a 6-month
      period. However, on-study patient observation will be continued until the occurrence of one
      of the following end-points, whichever the earliest: (a) disease progression; (b) death; (c)
      completion of an 18-month observation period; or (d) patient's decision to terminate his
      participation in the study.

      All patients discharged from the trial for reasons (a) or (c) will undergo a follow-up to
      ascertain survival until 24 months from randomisation.

      Data analysis will be carried out in two sequential steps. The first step will focus on
      co-primary outcomes and will therefore take place upon completion of the study dataset up to
      the 6-month time-point. The second step will incorporate secondary outcomes and will
      therefore be conducted upon completion of the full study dataset.
    
  