
    
      The study used newborn with weight less than or equal to 1,500, at the University Hospital
      Pedro Ernesto (HUPE) State University of Rio de Janeiro. Were defined as exclusion criteria
      congenital malformations, genetic syndromes and death of the patient before inclusion in the
      study. All children included in the study after written consent of those responsible,
      received aggressive parenteral nutrition immediately after birth and minimal enteral feeding
      in the first or second day of life. When the volume of enteral diet reached the value equal
      to or greater than 100 ml / kg / day was suspended intravenous hydration or parenteral
      nutrition. The increase of enteral nutrition was conducted in compliance with the gradual
      increase of 20 ml / kg / day, according the acceptance of VLBW.The clinical trial was
      randomized into two types of calorie intake in the diet. Newborn exposed group (EG) received
      enteral diet with 4.5 g / kg / day of protein and 160cal/Kg/dia, and in the control group
      (CG) was used usual diet with caloric intake from 3.5 to 4 g / kg / day of protein and
      120-140 kcal / kg / day. The osmolality of the diet has not changed, there was an increase in
      the volume to achieve the desired protein-caloric. We used two types of nutrition: 1) raw
      milk milked exclusively at the bedside of VLBW (without fortifying additive); 2) milk formula
      for premature exclusive. The type of feed was considered as exclusive breastfeeding or
      exclusive formula for premature when there were more than 80% predominance of one type of
      food. The food was offered initially by orogastric catheter until the child reaches maturity
      to be fed by cup and / or suction.

      The assessment was initiated when enteral feeding reached a volume exceeding 100 ml / kg /
      day and was suspended concomitant intravenous infusion or nutrition parenteral total (NPT)
      solution, and completed at discharge or at 43 weeks corrected gestational age, or in case of
      death or shutdown of the project requested by those responsible.

      The calculation of caloric intake and water was daily, were presumed to breast milk values of
      1.5 g of protein and 70 calorias/100 ml and in milk formula for premature infants used are
      listed values of 2.3 g of protein and 80 calories per 100ml.The outcome measure will be
      assessed when children have completed 43 weeks of corrected gestational age.

      The sample size calculation assuming risk of 5%, 80% power and prevalence of 50% resulted in
      60 newborn. Statistical analysis were measured average rates of weight and gestational age at
      birth and at discharge, the average corrected age at discharge, the rate of SGA VLBW; daily
      weight gain during the total days of hospitalization, the real weight gain during the period
      between the day of recovery of birth weight and hospital discharge. Was also calculated the
      difference between Z score of hospital discharge and birth for weight, length and head
      circumference.

      Statistical calculations were performed: Ficher exact test and / or odds ratio (OR) for
      categorical variables, ANOVA or Kruskal-Wallis test for continuous variables. Was considered
      when p <0.05 as statistically significant.
    
  