
    
      Study design: Randomized study

      Purposes: to investigate whether the use of "Slender sheath" is associated with less pain
      compared to use of "Standard Sheath" and less complications corresponding at the access site.
      Specific hypotheses:

        1. Use of "Slender sheath" results in less pain related to CAG/PCI compared to use of
           "Standard sheath".

        2. Use of "Slender sheath" is associated with fewer conversions to femoral access compared
           to use of "Standard sheath".

        3. Use of "Slender sheath" is associated with less use of analgesic during the procedure
           compared to use of "Standard sheath".

        4. Use of "Slender sheath" is associated with fewer cases of occlusion of a. radialis at
           discharge and post-examination compared to use of "Standard sheath".

      Time Schedule The trial will run from December 2015 until a total number of 1000 patients are
      included. It is expected that the data collection and publication of the results will be
      completed within a year.

      Endpoints

        1. Pain related to the application of the sheath (Visual Analog Scale = VAS)

        2. Maximal pain during CAG/PCI (VAS)

        3. Frequency of conversions to femoral access

        4. Use of analgesics (cumulative amount of mg Fentanyl given)

        5. Use of sedatives (cumulative amount of mg Midazolam given)

        6. Use of Verapamil (cumulative amount of mg given, used to reduce spasms)

        7. Number of catheters used

        8. Number of sheaths used (femoral and radial)

        9. Occlusion of a. radialis at the time of discharge estimated by ultrasound of the artery

       10. Occlusion of a. radialis after a month (Assumes that all patients with open vessels at
           discharge also have open vessels after a month. Only patients with occluded vessels at
           discharge will be offered a new ultrasound scan)
    
  