
    
      The increasing number of spinal injuries and pathologies directs the need of technological
      advancement in spinal surgeries and its approaches in Pakistan. Among various expansion in
      surgical procedures; minimally invasive surgery of spine has gaining more advantage for
      spinal decompression, spinal fusion and instrumentation over lumbar, thoracic and cervical
      spine areas considering multilevel pathology.(1) Minimally invasive spine surgery (MISS), has
      attracted increasing attention within the last decade. The common thread between all
      minimally invasive spine surgeries is use of smaller incisions and less deterioration of
      surrounding soft tissue, typically results in less pain after surgery and a faster recovery
      with reduced length of stay at hospital. The patient reported functional outcome after this
      procedure was found to be better in comparison with the open approach procedures.(2)
      Therapeutic exercise post-operatively was programmed to maximize recovery and to minimize
      potential future problems including disability and improving quality of life. Three different
      approaches for post-operative management has been practiced including: 1. Recovery phase: 4
      to 16 weeks of limited activity following the surgery, 2. eliminating post-operative activity
      restriction leads to enhanced short-term outcomes for patients after limited open discectomy,
      3. Incorporating therapeutic exercise intervention program.(3) The purpose of therapeutic
      exercise post-operatively was to maximize recovery and to minimize potential future problems
      including disability and improving quality of life. (4)The therapeutic intervention program
      comprises of two components: patient education and exercise therapy based on protocols by
      clinical expertise considering the philosophy of surgeon. Patient education comprises of a
      one hour counseling session. Therapeutic exercise program encompasses trunk strengthening
      exercises (both isometrics and dynamics) along with core stabilization exercises and
      endurance training. (5)
    
  