
    
      The research question will be addressed in a pilot randomized double-blind placebo controlled
      clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of metoclopramide.Investigators will recruit 30
      neonates (15 per arm) diagnosed with gastroschisis. There will be two arms to the trial: the
      experimental arm will receive intravenous metoclopramide and the control arm will receive
      placebo. Patients will receive prokinetic agent therapy, dosed according to weight, or
      placebo. Each subject will receive the intervention for 28 days or until achievement of full
      enteral feeding, whichever comes first. Primary outcome: Days to achieve full enteral feeding
      when all intake (at least 150 ml/kg/day for 72 hours) is given as breast milk or formula by
      gavage or by mouth. Secondary outcomes: 1. Duration (days) until initiation of enteral feeds.
      2. Duration (days) on parenteral nutrition. 3. Weight gain, measured by grams per day per
      week during therapy. 4. Occurrence of adverse effects associated with the use of
      metoclopramide. 5. Rate of catheter-related sepsis episodes (line positive blood cultures
      necessitating antibiotic treatment or catheter removal). 6. Incidence of necrotizing
      enterocolitis (NEC) based on clinical criteria and presence of pneumatosis intestinalis on an
      abdominal X-ray. 7. Duration of hospitalization (number of days from admission until final
      hospital discharge).

      Subjects can be withdrawn from the study if meet one of the following criteria:

        -  Subject develops extrapyramidal symptoms

        -  Subject has not established full enteral feeding by the end of day 28 of therapy

        -  Withdrawal of informed consent or refusal of further study participation by parent/legal
           guardian

        -  Serious adverse event which, in the opinion of the investigator, indicates that
           continued participation in the study is not in the best interest of the subject

        -  Any clinical adverse event, laboratory abnormality or intercurrent illness which, in the
           opinion of the investigator, indicates that continued participation in the study is not
           in the best interest of the subject

        -  Unpredictable discontinuation of metoclopramide drug supply
    
  