
    
      The recovery of foot and ankle arthrodesis and osteotomy is still plagued by the problem of
      delayed consolidation or even pseudo-arthrosis. Some known risk factors for delayed
      consolidation are inherent to the patient and /or cannot be easily corrected by the surgeon:
      smoking, diabetes mellitus, use of NSAIDS, etc. Many other biological risk factors are well
      known. The fusion rate is one of these factors. This factor is influenced by the mechanical
      stability and compression at the level of arthrodesis. The right alignment till the moment of
      consolidation is an important factor as well.

      Currently, two concepts leading to a better fusion rate are under investigation. First,
      research is done to optimize the local biological factors by using concentrated growth
      factors. Second, researchers are working towards optimal biomechanical stability and
      compression by further developing per-operative osteosynthesis material.

      Following the optimal biomechanical stability concept, the following innovation was recently
      released: the Io-Fix system of Extremity Medical L.L.C. (Parsippany , NJ). This state of the
      art system has clear advantages compared to other systems. Based on the well-expected
      advantages, the Foot and Ankle unit of UZ Leuven has been using this system since more than
      one year. The initial subjective results with Io-Fix are strongly positive.

      However, the current literature lacks studies assessing and quantifying the advantages of the
      Io-Fix system. Objective presentations about the use of, and (early) results are currently
      missing. Therefore, the investigators want to take their responsibility to objectively
      investigate whether they can confirm and quantify the expected positive results of using the
      Io-Fix system. Subsequently, the investigators want to search for eventual unexpected
      problems with Io-Fix.

      However, the investigators believe that a larger study groups within a prospective framework
      with a longer follow-up is mandatory.
    
  