
    
      HIV counseling and testing (HCT) is a highly cost-effective intervention for increasing
      serostatus awareness, a point of entry into HIV care and treatment, and an important means of
      primary and secondary HIV prevention. Public health officials have called for dramatic
      increases in HIV testing to achieve an HIV-free generation. Yet, testing rates are plateauing
      and rates of repeat-testing among those with ongoing risk remain low. Thus, there is a need
      to better understand and address deterrents of HIV testing.

      Evaluations of population preferences for testing have typically focused on the acceptability
      of specific venue-based testing options, such as home-based, provider-initiated, or workplace
      testing, usually without consideration or offer of other options. Results from these
      assessments do not probe the potential diversity in testing preferences of target
      populations; they do not ascertain how individuals value diverse characteristics of testing
      options; nor can they identify combinations of testing options that could maximize uptake of
      testing. The investigators posit that systematically designed HIV testing interventions,
      matched specifically to the heterogeneous preferences of diverse target populations, hold
      potential to greatly improve uptake of testing.

      In this study the investigators will extend the use of the DCE method to design an HIV
      testing intervention that is matched to the specific preferences of two high-risk populations
      and to establish, in a pragmatic randomized controlled trial, whether a Preference-Based HIV
      Counseling and Testing (PB-HCT) intervention increases uptake of HIV testing. In short, the
      investigators are adapting concepts from health and behavioral economics, marketing, and
      patient-centered care to apply a groundbreaking, client-focused perspective to the context of
      HIV testing.

      This application will address the following Specific Aims:

      Aim 1 will identify which combination of HIV counseling and testing options is expected to
      maximize uptake of HIV testing in two high-risk populations. We will use formative work and
      DCE surveys with female barworkers and male Kilimanjaro mountain porters, two high HIV risk
      populations in Moshi, Tanzania, to quantify the relative importance of characteristics such
      as home-based vs. facility-based testing, venipuncture vs. finger prick vs. oral swab,
      individual vs. couples counseling, the availability of services such as health check-ups, and
      options for HIV serostatus disclosure, for individuals' testing decisions. Latent class
      analysis of DCE choice data will identify distinct sets of testing preferences within each
      high-risk population, and identify a combination of testing options that is predicted to
      maximize uptake of testing.

      Aim 2 will evaluate whether an HIV testing offer, matched to the testing preferences of each
      high-risk population, increases testing uptake relative to a common option. Representative
      samples of 600 female barworkers and 600 male mountain porters will be randomized into three
      groups (Groups A, B, and C). Participants will be offered one common option (this option is
      the same regardless of which group a participant is randomized into) and 3 group-specific
      testing options. Group A participants will be offered 3 currently available testing options
      targeted at the distribution of preferences among participants. Group B participants will be
      offered 3 preference-informed "enhanced" testing options, which include features that may not
      yet be available in the study area. Group C participants will be offered an equal number of
      predicted less-preferred options. The primary outcome is uptake of HIV testing.

      The findings from this project have significant public health relevance. The proposed study
      will a) rigorously characterize the HIV testing preferences of two high-risk populations; b)
      identify feasible HIV testing interventions that are predicted to increase HCT uptake; and c)
      identify the effect of a preference-informed HIV testing intervention on rates of testing.
      More generally, this study evaluates the critical link between an intervention that is
      systematically designed to match a population's preferences and the efficacy of that
      intervention. If successful, preference assessments among small samples from key populations
      could be used widely as an implementation research tool to inform the design of diverse HIV
      prevention, testing, and treatment interventions; preference-informed interventions, in turn,
      hold potential to broadly increase intervention uptake and efficacy, both internationally and
      in the United States.
    
  