
    
      The objective for this pilot study is to determine the efficacy of the Fitbit Charge wearable
      fitness monitor alone or in combination with additional behavior change strategies for
      increasing physical activity in inactive adults. A secondary objective is to assess the
      influence of psychosocial factors (e.g. self-efficacy, self-regulation, habit formation) on
      the effectiveness of this type of behavior change intervention. The central hypothesis is
      that use of the Fitbit will increase physical activity from baseline and that adding
      additional strategies will enhance this effect. This hypothesis is based on previous research
      demonstrating that continuous self- monitoring (using wearable technology) is effective in
      promotion of weight-loss in overweight and obese adults. This objective will be addressed
      through pursuing the following specific aims.

      Aim 1: To determine the efficacy of using the Fitbit to increase physical activity behaviors
      and improve health markers in inactive adults. The working hypothesis is that wearing a
      Fitbit for 3 months will increase physical activity and improve health markers from baseline
      to follow-up in inactive adults.

      Aim 2: To compare the efficacy of the Fitbit alone to the Fitbit in combination with behavior
      change strategies for increasing physical activity and improving psychosocial factors in
      inactive adults. The working hypothesis is that using the Fitbit along with behavior change
      strategies will lead to greater improvements in physical activity and psychosocial factors
      (self- motivation, self-regulation, self-efficacy, and social support) than using the Fitbit
      alone.

      Aim 3: To assess the influence of individual differences in psychosocial variables on changes
      in physical activity over the intervention. The working hypothesis is that higher levels of
      self- motivation, self-regulation, self-efficacy, and social support at baseline will be
      predictive of greater improvements in physical activity over the intervention, regardless of
      group assignment.
    
  