
    
      This study is part of the CALIBER (Cardiovascular disease research using linked bespoke
      studies and electronic records) programme funded over 5 years from the NIHR and Wellcome
      Trust. The central theme of the CALIBER research is linkage of the Myocardial Ischaemia
      National Audit Project (MINAP) with primary care (GPRD) and other resources. The overarching
      aim of CALIBER is to better understand the aetiology and prognosis of specific coronary
      phenotypes across a range of causal domains, particularly where electronic records provide a
      contribution beyond traditional studies. CALIBER has received both Ethics approval (ref
      09/H0810/16) and ECC approval (ref ECC 2-06(b)/2009 CALIBER dataset).

      Overall aim

      To elucidate the role of depression and anxiety in the aetiology and prognosis of specific
      acute and chronic coronary disease phenotypes.

      Background

      Coronary disease and depression are major causes of mortality and morbidity globally and so
      the public health impact of a causal association between the two is profound1. But our
      meta-analysis of 22 aetiologic cohort studies (4016 events) the presence of depression was
      associated with a 70% increased risk of CHD events. This systematic review, and others,
      identified several limitations of existing research, including a) clinical phenotype
      resolution: broad aggregates of CHD, rather than specific coronary phenotypes, b) small size,
      with insufficient event numbers to compare risks in women and men, c) temporal resolution:
      Single time point of exposure to depression (usually prevalent); unclear temporal relation
      between the onset of symptoms of depression and the onset of symptoms associated with
      coronary disease and lack of studies assessing whether exposure to depression prior to the
      onset of any symptomatic coronary disease influences the prognosis (future progression) of
      coronary disease once established, d) incomplete and inconsistent assessment of potential
      confounders or mediators: unclear role of social deprivation, smoking, alcohol and other
      behaviours which may confound the association; unclear role of detection, treatment and
      control of cardiovascular risk among patients with depression and lack of consideration of
      co-existing psychiatric morbidities.

      Study design

      Observational study, using cohort and case series analyses in initially healthy populations,
      and among patients with specific manifestations of coronary disease.

      Sample size calculations

      We have ample statistical power for our main hypotheses. For example we will estimate a
      relative risk for the effect of depression (vs not) on STEMI, and compare this with the
      relative risk for the effect of depression vs not on non-STEMI. Assuming depression exposure
      prevalence of 10%, 500 linked cases of each type and alpha of 0.01, we will be able to
      distinguish a relative risk of, say 1.7.

      Data analysis Our overall analytic approach involves the distinction between different
      coronary disease phenotypes which form the endpoints of aetiologic, and the start-points of
      prognostic, analyses and between different temporal patterns of evolution of risk.
      Furthermore we will consider the separate, and joint, effects of depression and anxiety,
      distinguishing between a solitary measure and the cumulative impact of serial measures, on
      the specific coronary disease phenotypes.

      A structured Statistical Analytic Protocol detailing how we will analyse the data and to what
      extent analytic choices are pre-specified, can be made available on request.

      Expected value of results

      This provides an opportunity to investigate large scale the association of depression with
      specific coronary syndromes comes from the linkage of GPRD to MINAP.
    
  