
    
      Cash transfer programmes provide cash to families caring for orphans and vulnerable children
      (OVC). Conditional cash transfer programmes require families to comply with conditions
      relating to child health, education and general social welfare in order to receive the cash.

      We plan to evaluate conditional and unconditional cash transfer programmes in Manicaland,
      eastern Zimbabwe - a predominantly rural area with high HIV prevalence. We will employ a
      cluster randomised controlled trial design. Ten existing study sites that represent four
      socio-economic strata - subsistence farming areas, roadside trading settlements, large-scale
      agricultural estates (tea estates and forestry estates) and small towns - have been
      identified as part of a separate, ongoing cohort study. Each site has been divided into 3
      smaller, socio-economically homogenous clusters providing a total of 30 clusters that will
      form ten matched triplets. One site from each matched triplet will then be randomly assigned
      to one of three study arms - conditional cash transfer arm, unconditional cash transfer arm,
      and standard social services arm.

      Data on the primary endpoints will be collected using a rapid, baseline census of all
      households in the study clusters. This will take approximately 3 months to complete. The cash
      transfer programmes will commence, in the appropriate intervention arms, shortly after
      completion of baseline data collection. A similar follow-up census will take place two years
      after initiation of the intervention.

      The cash transfer interventions will be delivered by a local NGO called Diocese of Mutare
      Community Care Programme (DOMCCP), who work in partnership with Catholic Relief Services
      Zimbabwe. The baseline and follow-up censuses will be managed and conducted by the Biomedical
      Research and Training Institute Zimbabwe (BRTI) and Imperial College London. Data will also
      be collected from children in a sample of households from each of the study clusters as part
      of the ongoing Manicaland Cohort Study, which is a parallel study conducted by BRTI and
      Imperial College London. This data will also be used to evaluate the cash transfer
      programmes.
    
  