
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare progression-free survival of postmenopausal women with, estrogen receptor-
           and/or progesterone receptor-positive recurrent or advanced breast cancer treated with
           exemestane with versus without SOD1 inhibitor ATN-224.

        -  Establish the safety of SOD1 inhibitor ATN-224 in combination with exemestane in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate (overall, at 16 and 24 weeks), response duration, and rate
           of stable disease for ≥ 16 and ≥ 24 weeks in these patients.

        -  Determine the clinical benefit rate (complete response, partial response, and stable
           disease) at 16 and 24 weeks in these patients.

        -  Investigate the time course of suppression of serum ceruloplasmin (Cp, surrogate for
           copper).

        -  Investigate serum estradiol and estrone sulphate levels in these patients to assess if
           SOD1 inhibitor ATN-224 interacts with the aromatase inhibition of exemestane.

      Tertiary

        -  Investigate the pharmacokinetic behavior of SOD1 inhibitor ATN-224 in combination with
           exemestane.

        -  Investigate superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) activity in red blood cells and cytokine
           levels in plasma samples from these patients.

        -  Investigate circulating endothelial cell levels, circulating endothelial RNA levels, and
           proteome profiles in blood samples at baseline and during treatment, from these
           patients.

        -  Investigate SOD1, lysyl oxidase and copper-dependent proteins expression, and
           endothelial growth factor receptor-related cell-signaling pathways in historical tumor
           samples from all patients entered on the study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior aromatase
      inhibitor therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral exemestane and oral SOD1 inhibitor ATN-224 once daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral exemestane once daily. In both arms, treatment repeats
           every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic assessments,
      including Cp levels, estradiol and estrone sulfate, SOD1 levels, cytokines, proteomics,
      circulating endothelial RNA, circulating endothelial cells, protein expression, and
      EGFR-related cell signaling pathways.

      After completion of study treatment patients are followed at 28 days.
    
  