
    
      Objective: The primary goal of this study is to define the safety and efficacy of combined
      systemic and intrathecal (IT) B cell-depleting therapy (i.e. anti-CD20, rituximab) in
      patients with secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis (SP-MS). The secondary goals of this
      study are to collect longitudinal data to help identify the most sensitive outcome measures
      and trial design for future Phase II trials for SP-MS patients and to investigate the
      mechanism of action of rituximab on the human immune system.

      Study Population: Patients with SP-MS and mild to moderate level of clinical disability, who
      have no medical contraindication to IT or intravenous (IV) administration of rituximab.

      Design: This is double blind, placebo-controlled, single center, baseline versus treatment,
      Phase I/II clinical trial of IV and IT rituximab in SP-MS patients.

      Outcome Measures: Quantitative neuroimaging measures of central nervous system (CNS: i.e.
      brain and spinal cord) tissue destruction and clinical and functional (i.e.
      electrophysiological) measures of neurological disability will be collected every 6-12
      months. Additionally, biomarkers focusing on analysis of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) B cells
      and immunological responses to EBV will be collected at baseline and during treatment. The
      trial is currently powered using progression of brain atrophy as detected by SIENA
      methodology as the primary outcome measure. However, this may not be the most sensitive
      outcome available. In recognition of this, the trial has an adaptive design: it incorporates
      analysis of the progression of CNS tissue destruction, as measured by quantitative MRI
      markers, and clinical/paraclinical markers, defined as secondary outcome measures, in the
      first 30 enrolled patients during the year long pre-treatment baseline prior to
      randomization. All defined outcome measures collected in the first 30 enrolled patients will
      be transformed into z-scores and compared for the robustness of longitudinal change over the
      coefficient of variation. As a result, the primary outcome measure of this trial will be the
      comparison of individualized rates of brain atrophy progression between the rituximab and
      placebo groups after 2 years of treatment; unless the predetermined analysis establishes that
      one of the secondary outcome measures has a higher z-score than the brain atrophy
      measurement. In this case, the primary outcome would be the efficacy of rituximab versus
      placebo in inhibiting patient-specific slopes of functional or structural deterioration as
      measured by this more sensitive biomarker of CNS tissue destruction.

      Trial also included interim analysis for the efficacy of B cell depletion from the
      intrathecal compartment with pre-defined stopping criteria for futility: if less than 50% of
      intrathecal B cells were depleted by active treatment (measured by <25% decrease in CSF
      CXCL13 and <50% increase in CSF BAFF), then trial was deemed to be underpowered to
      demonstrate efficacy on clinical or MRI outcomes and would be stopped.
    
  