
    
      Part 1 of the study will consist of building a patient registry. Eligible patients will be
      identified and consented for study participation.Parents/legal guardians will be asked the
      survey related questions from Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ), personality structure
      questionnaire (PSQ), Assessment Battery for Children (ABC2), Behavior Rating Inventory of
      Executive Function (BRIEF2), and the Screen for Child Anxiety Related Disorders (SCARED)
      (parent version) if appropriate and ASHD5 Rating for either 5-10 year old or 11-17 year old.
      The description of each survey is below with a link to more information to the ASHD5. All
      additional questionnaires are already validated by the Institutional Review Board (IRB).

      Registry information (as detailed below) will be gathered and entered into the registry.Each
      subject will be re-contacted approximately every 12 weeks to ask whether medications
      (cannabis related or other) have changed, efficacy/side effects have changed, or there have
      been changes in care or medical history. These new data will be recorded in the registry.
      Subjects may continue in the study for the duration of medical cannabis use, until they
      remove themselves from the study, or the study closes. All data will remain coded with a
      Master log of Subject identification numbers (IDs).

      Part 2 of the study consists of pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation of select subjects.

      PK sampling of a select formulations will begin subjects are enrolled into the Registry and
      have consented to PK sampling. . Subjects will have the opportunity to opt in or out of Part
      2 upon the initial informed consent process for Part 1.

      Part 3 of study related activities will include analysis and summary of the data on
      approximately a six month basis.

      The investigative team will provide study participants with coded summary statistics of
      medical cannabis products use in the region (either through email, postal mail). This will
      also be presented at a community-based meeting that all study participants are invited to
      attend. The study team recognized that participation in a community event will result in loss
      of de-identification, but also feel that this will occur on a voluntary basis for all study
      participants.

      The study team hypothesizes that the community educational programs will provide study
      participants an opportunity to connect with others in the community, share concerns, learn
      from others and allow the development of community-based support systems.
    
  