
    
      AIM 1a: Youth IDIs and caregiver and HCW/peer counselor FGDs Participants in in-depth
      individual interviews (IDIs) and focus group discussions (FGDs) will be recruited from the
      study clinics. IDIs and FGDs will be performed in a private room at the clinic from which the
      participant was recruited. IDIs and FGDs will be conducted by a trained qualitative
      interviewer fluent in English and Kiswahili. Before the IDI or FGD begins, socio-demographic
      information will be collected in standardized questionnaires using a tablet-based system
      (Open Data Kit, ODK). For youth, sociodemographic data to be collected include age, HIV
      treatment history, HIV status disclosure, family socio-economic status, education level, and
      technology access. For caregivers, data to be collected include age, relationship to the
      youth patient, and involvement in youth's HIV care. For HCW/peer counselors, data include
      age, professional role, time in practice and technology access. The interviewer will then
      describe procedures and norms for the IDI/FGD and participants will be given a chance to ask
      questions. Participants will be reminded that their participation is voluntary and they may
      refuse to answer any question or end the interview/FGD at any time. Participants will receive
      unique identification numbers and will not be addressed by their names to maintain
      confidentiality. The interviewer will then ask questions and facilitate a discussion based on
      a discussion guide. Aim 1a IDIs will last approximately 1 hour and Aim 1a FGDs will last 1.5
      - 2 hours. The IDI/FGD will be audio recorded and the facilitator will take written notes.
      Discussions will be conducted in English or Kiswahili, depending on participant preferences.
      Notes will be compared to audio-recordings to fill in missing information, transcribed and
      translated to English (if necessary). Transcribed data will be de-identified. Audio-recorded
      interviews will be destroyed after the transcripts have been validated. Participants will be
      provided refreshments and KSh 400 to compensate for their time and transportation expenses to
      participate in the study. We will provide this monetary compensation to each participant at
      the conclusion of each IDI/FGD.

      AIM 1a: Policy-maker IDIs Policy-makers will be approached and recruited to participate. IDIs
      will be performed in a private room at the policy-maker's place of work or at the study
      clinic, depending on the participant's preference. IDIs will be conducted by a trained
      qualitative interviewer fluent in English and Kiswahili. Before the IDI begins,
      socio-demographic information will be collected in standardized questionnaires using a
      tablet-based system (Open Data Kit, ODK). Data to be collected include age, professional
      role, and involvement with policy-making and implementation related to youth HIV care. The
      interviewer will then describe procedures and norms for the IDI and participants will be
      given a chance to ask questions. Participants will be reminded that their participation is
      voluntary and they may refuse to answer any question or end the interview/FGD at any time.
      Participants will receive unique identification numbers and will not be addressed by their
      name to maintain confidentiality. The interviewer will then ask questions and facilitate a
      discussion based on a discussion guide. Policy-maker IDIs will last approximately 1 hour. The
      IDI will be audio recorded and the facilitator will take written notes. Discussions will be
      conducted in English or Kiswahili, depending on participant preferences. Notes will be
      compared to audio-recordings to fill in missing information, transcribed and translated to
      English (if necessary). Transcribed data will be de-identified. Audio-recorded interviews
      will be destroyed after the transcripts have been validated.

      AIM 1b: User-centered design FGDs with youth and HCW/peer counselors Based on input from
      interviews and FGDs conducted in Aim 1a, we will develop a prototype mHealth intervention
      that will use WhatsApp to provide peer support groups and 1-to-1 text messaging between youth
      and HCWs. The prototype will include messaging content, facilitation guides, and an interface
      to manage communication that will be used by facilitators and HSWs. To evaluate the
      acceptability of the prototype and to get feedback on how it can be improved, we will conduct
      2 rounds of user-centered designed FGDs with youth and HCW.

      We will evaluate the prototype intervention using user-centered design FGDs with youth living
      with HIV who are in the process of transitioning to adult care or have completed the
      transition and with HCWs/peer counselors who care for youth living with HIV. Participants for
      each set of FGDs will be recruited as described above. Following informed consent,
      participants will complete an enrollment visit in which questionnaire data will be collected
      using tablet-based ODK forms. For youth, data to be collected include sociodemographic
      characteristics such as age, family socioeconomic status, education level, technology access,
      HIV treatment history, social support, depression, stigma, ART knowledge and motivation, ART
      adherence. For HCWs/peer counselors, data include age, professional role, time in practice
      and technology access. FGDs will be conducted in 2 rounds. In the first round, FGDs with
      youth will explore their comprehension, interest and reactions to prototypical messages and
      discussion topics. FGDs with HCW will explore their reactions and comfort with prototypical
      messages and discussion topics. HCW will also be presented with the prototype message
      management interface, training materials, and their input sought on improvements. The second
      round of FGDs will recruit a new group of participants to evaluate the modified content and
      interface. Participants will be provided refreshments and KSh 400 (approximately $4) to
      compensate for their time and transportation expenses to each study visit, provided to
      participants at the conclusion of each visit.

      Aim 2 Pilot intervention trial

      Consent forms and data collection materials will be generated based on findings from the
      formative work conducted in Aim1. These materials will be submitted for approval as a
      modification prior to initiation of the pilot trial.

      Intervention package: The intervention package will be piloted at the 4 intervention
      facilities and compared to the 4 control facilities. The intervention package will consist of
      a WhatsApp group that is setup and organized by the study. Participants will be divided into
      1-3 WhatsApp groups, each with 10-55 youth. Each group will be facilitated by a study staff
      member trained as a counselor (the same facilitator will facilitate all groups). The
      facilitator will send weekly messages to the group, containing content related to the topic
      areas outlined in Table 4. Messages from the facilitator will not contain overtly HIV-related
      language. These messages are intended to spark unstructured discussion among study
      participants, or with the facilitator, at any time through the WhatsApp group or
      individually. Subsequent messages from the study will answer participant questions or correct
      misinformation. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be developed for standardizing
      responses to the questions received so that study staff follow national guidelines and local
      practice standards to respond. The process will be adaptive as new scenarios unfold - a new
      question not addressed by the SOPs will be discussed by study team and SOP developed if it is
      a question likely to be encountered repeatedly. Weekly review of the log of WhatsApp chats by
      the study PIs will enable standardization and quality assurance of WhatsApp interactions.

      At the start of the intervention, participants will be invited to attend an optional
      in-person meeting at the study clinic with the other members of their WhatsApp group to
      establish connection and discuss the name and agreements of the group. This meeting will be a
      completely optional component of the intervention. Participants who attend this meeting will
      be provided refreshments and KSh400 (approximately $4) to compensate for their time and
      transportation expenses, provided at the end of the meeting.

      The study team will monitor the discussion to learn about the content of the discussions and
      how it relates to the intervention aims. We will also monitor for abusive or problematic
      content or behavior in the discussion and will intervene if necessary. Guidelines and ground
      rules for the discussion group will be presented to all members when they begin participation
      and all participants will be informed that the content of the discussions will be monitored
      by the study team. They will also be informed that the content will be kept confidential, but
      that it is possible that members of the discussion group could potentially disclose
      confidential information outside of the group, though this will be explicitly discouraged by
      the study team. The technology development for the intervention package will be conducted by
      a contractor that has not yet been identified. The identity of the contractor will be
      submitted to the ERC prior to the start of the contract period.

      Study population: The pilot trial will be conducted at 8 facilities. To maximize internal
      validity of the pilot, facilities will be selected based on adequate number of youth in care
      and similarity of youth patient populations. We will randomly select 4 facilities to receive
      the intervention and 4 facilities to serve as control sites. Eligible participants will be
      youth aged 16-24 living with HIV, who have daily access to a mobile phone (their own or
      shared) that can access the intervention technology platform. The stage of transition at
      which youth become eligible will be based on their score on the Transition Readiness
      Assessment Questionnaire (TRAQ), with the threshold for eligibility to be determined in Aim
      1. If Aim 1 indicates that peer chat groups should be tailored based on youth characteristics
      (e.g., route of transmission, developmental age), we will limit the trial to the subgroup
      with the largest number of youth, but will also assess interest among youth from other
      subgroups in participating in a future peer intervention. We will enroll 50 participants from
      intervention facilities (~12 at each facility) to receive the intervention for 12 months and
      50 participants from control facilities who will be followed for 12 months without
      intervention. Based on data from the ongoing ATP study, we estimate 20% of facilities
      nationally have at least 50 patients in this age group engaged in care annually. We expect to
      complete enrollment within 3 months.

      Evaluation of intervention impact: A screening questionnaire will be used to assess
      eligibility and collect sociodemographic characteristics such as age, school attendance and
      technology access of all screened individuals. In order to evaluate the intervention's reach
      and uptake, differences in these characteristics between screened and enrolled participants
      will be assessed by chi-squared test for categorical and t-test for continuous variables. At
      baseline (enrollment) and endline (12 months), participants will complete a standardized
      questionnaire to evaluate intermediate outcomes in our intervention framework. Participants
      who do not return for their 12-month visit will be traced by phone call and home visit.
      Participants will be provided refreshments and KSh 400 to compensate for their time and
      transportation expenses to each study visit, provided to participants at the conclusion of
      each visit.

      Mediating and moderating factors: Based on our conceptual model linking the intervention to
      elements of social support that promote the care transition, we expect the intervention will
      affect successful transition through multiple mechanisms. While the pilot trial is not
      powered to assess impact on primary transition outcomes, we will focus on its impact on
      hypothesized mediators.
    
  