
    
      Lixisenatide is a drug that has been shown to reduce postprandial glycaemia in people with
      type 2 diabetes and is now approved for use in Australia. Although slowing of gastric
      emptying is likely to be the dominant mechanism by which lixisenatide reduces postprandial
      glycaemia after a meal, the effects of lixisenatide on gastric emptying have hitherto not
      been quantified by the 'gold standard' technique of scintigraphy. The study would determine
      and evaluate for the first time the magnitude of, and the relationship between lixisenatide
      on glycaemia with those on gastric emptying with scintigraphy. This information will be of
      fundamental significance to the effective use of lixisenatide in the management of people
      with type 2 diabetes that suffer from postprandial hypotension.

      Postprandial hypotension represents an important clinical disorder that occurs frequently in
      the elderly and people with type 2 diabetes and for which current management is suboptimal.
      While the mechanisms mediating postprandial hypotension are poorly understood, impaired
      regulation of splanchnic blood flow, gastric distension, the rate of small intestinal
      delivery and neural and hormonal mechanisms have been identified as possible
      pathophysiological mechanisms. Meal ingestion is associated with splanchnic blood pooling and
      a consequent reduction in venous return of blood to the heart. In healthy young and older
      individuals, with intact baroreflex mechanisms, these changes induce a rise in heart rate,
      stoke volume and cardiac output leading to a compensatory rise in blood pressure. However,
      patients with postprandial hypotension, these responses are inadequate to maintain blood
      pressure. The magnitude of the fall in blood pressure is greater when gastric emptying is
      more rapid and that slowing gastric emptying can markedly attenuate the postprandial fall in
      blood pressure in both healthy older subjects and type 2 patients.

      There is currently no information about the effect of lixisenatide on postprandial blood
      pressure and splanchnic blood flow in patients with type 2 diabetes.

      The purpose of this study would determine whether lixisenatide reduces the postprandial fall
      in blood pressure and related effects of gastric emptying to those on blood pressure, heart
      rate and splanchnic blood flow.

      The use of lixisenatide on appetite and energy intake and how these relate to effects of
      gastric emptying is lacking.

      It is hypothesized that lixisenatide will slow gastric emptying of oral glucose; attenuate
      both fasting and the postprandial rise in blood glucose; attenuate the magnitude of the fall
      in blood pressure, rise in heart rate and increase in SMA flow and reduce hunger, increase
      fullness and decrease energy intake at a buffet meal with greater effects in patients with
      type 2 diabetes that healthy subjects.
    
  