
    
      Device Description: The Dynamic Foot Orthosis (DFO) is designed with a rolling link mechanism
      at the distal 3rd. It is designed to reduce sliding friction and torque at the metatarsal
      heads in addition to decreasing compressive forces that is accomplished by the conventional
      multi-durometer FOs. The relative sliding motion of two compliant surfaces over each other
      allows some deformation horizontally and lowers frictional resistance. The DFO addresses the
      friction element by accommodating the normal sliding and rolling motion at the distal 3rd of
      the foot during gait. Additionally, the DFO has a silicone layer at the metatarsal head and
      the remainder of the anterior section made of 2 separated orthotic layers that slide over
      each other. This provides an articulating surface to provide a relative motion between the
      orthotic segments while transmitting load.

      Study Objectives: In this pilot study, the first objective is to bench test a novel shear
      reducing insole and compare it to current standard insoles and shoes. The second objective is
      to study twenty-seven insensate diabetes patients with pre-ulcerative foot callus to examine
      for changes in spatial temporal gait including gait initiation, risk of falling, static and
      dynamic balance, and plantar temperature response to walking and consecutive plantar stress
      in both footwear conditions.

      Study Design: This is an interventional study. For objective one, changes in compression
      stiffness and static coefficients of friction will be measured using a force dynamometer in
      the lab of Professor Albert Shih. A test platform will be built to evaluate the performance
      of the shear reduction shoe sole design and characteristic of the force, in two directions
      parallel (shear) and perpendicular to the ground, and the associated deformation under the
      steady-state and impulse conditions.

      For objective two, diabetes patients presenting to the Michigan Orthotics and Prosthetics
      Center for fabrication and dispensing of diabetic shoes and innersoles will be invited to
      participate. Twenty-seven insensate diabetes patients with pre-ulcerative foot callus will be
      enrolled. Patients will wear body worn sensors (LegSys) to measure changes in
      spatial-temporal gait and static and dynamic balance parameters prior and post usage of the
      insoles. To reduce the effects of learning from naïve use of novel footwear, the testing
      sequence between the experimental and standard footwear will be randomized. We will examine
      increase on foot temperature over 200 steps of continuous walking using the DFO and using
      standard insoles. We will also examine if the thermal changes are mediated by autonomic
      neuropathy as measured by sudomotor function. The footwear testing sequence will be
      randomized and an acclimatization procedure will be followed in an effort to minimize the
      potential effects of cumulative plantar temperature responses to walking and footwear
      conditions. We will also examine static balance by measuring center of mass with eyes open
      and eyes closed condition.

      Outcome Measures: For objective one, the primary endpoints will be the compression stiffness
      and static coefficients of friction. For objective two, plantar foot temperature changes in
      regions-of-interest in response to walking 200 steps will be measured in each footwear
      condition and compared to baseline. Other outcome measures include gait analysis, including
      gait initiation, gait speed, double support time, medial and lateral center of mass
      displacement, and inter-cycle variability under single and dual task conditions. This will be
      measured during each footwear condition. Static balance will also be measured in each
      footwear condition. Using the Romberg's test, we will also assess center of mass displacement
      and reciprocal hip and ankle motion under eyes open and closed conditions. Sudomotor function
      will be measured by electrical sweat conductance (ESC), as expressed in microSiemens (µS).

      Safety Evaluation: All subjects who sign the informed consent form and are determined to be
      eligible for treatment will be included in the analysis of safety. Collection, classification
      and summary analysis of adverse events will be performed.

      Duration of Participation: One visit lasting approximately 1 hour.

      Duration of Study: One year

      Inclusion Criteria: Patients will be included if they have diabetes and have been referred
      for diabetic shoes. They will also be insensate with pre-ulcerative plantar callus or
      previous plantar foot ulcer.

      Exclusion Criteria: Patients will be excluded if they are unable to independently walk 100
      feet, lower extremity prosthesis user, have active cellulitis, foot ulcer, or Charcot foot.
    
  