
    
      Platelet-derived therapies are a growing trend across multiple medical and surgical
      specialties, mainly orthopedics for conditions such as bone and soft tissue trauma,
      inflammatory conditions, and chronic pain syndromes. One of the most well described
      platelet-based therapies is autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP). This concentrate is then
      administered via injection. When platelets are activated, they release these growth
      differentiation factors, facilitating even nerve repair and regeneration. Growth factors act
      locally and are implicated in many aspects of natural wound healing, including chemotaxis,
      cell proliferation, cell differentiation and angiogenesis.The key role of platelets in these
      processes makes them an attractive candidate for therapies aimed at accelerating natural
      healing, as well as tissue regeneration.

      Although most of the studies focusing on PRP injections have been relatively small and
      heterogenous, they largely support the concept of administration in terms of safety, while
      efficacy remains uncertain.

      When platelets are activated, they release many kinds of growth differentiation factors and a
      few types have been found to facilitate nerve repair and regeneration. Moreover, corporeal
      dysfunction in ED due to smooth muscle atrophy or other intra-cavernosal pathology can lead
      to corporo-venous occlusive erectile dysfunction despite a normal arterial inflow.
      Rejuvenating the Corporeal tissues with PRP, which is well known for its growth and healing
      factors, is a possible modality as a potential treatment for erectile dysfunction according
      to Alkhayal et al. In their retrospective study examining the efficacy of one
      intra-cavernosal PRP injection to 40 ED patients, they reported that mean IIEF-5 score before
      treatment was 13 (5-20) and post treatment IIEF-5 = 17 (7-24), (p < 0.001).

      To date, there are no treatments that address the underlying cause of endothelial
      dysfunction, although LIST treatment for ED has shown promising results. Platelet-derived
      therapies targeting inflammation and promoting tissue/nerve regeneration and may represent a
      potential treatment option towards this direction.
    
  