
    
      Type-2 diabetes mellitus is a public health concern. According to the World health
      organization (WHO), diabetes mellitus affects more than 180 million people worldwide. Type 2
      diabetes mellitus accounts for 80-95% of diabetes cases in developed countries and a higher
      proportion in developing countries (IDF 2006). Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus are at
      high risk of developing cardiovascular complications. Diabetic patients are two to four-times
      more likely to develope cardiovascular disease. The mortality of diabetic patients with
      cardiovascular disease is much higher than in non-diabetic matched patients with
      cardiovascular disease. Recently, it has become apparent that not all anti-diabetic drugs
      have the same effect on the progression of atherosclerosis and on cardiovascular outcomes.
      There is a great need to understand the potential protective mechanisms of the various
      anti-diabetic drugs in order to decrease their risk for cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality. In addition to increasing insulin sensitivity, Pioglitazone (PIO) has
      anti-inflammatory properties. Several studies have suggested that PIO decreases serum markers
      of inflammation including C-reactive protein (CRP). However, the underlying mechanisms of
      these anti-inflammatory (and probably anti-atherosclerotic) effects of PIO are unknown. We
      have shown in the rat that 3-day pretreatment with PIO increases myocardial cyclooxygenase-2
      (COX2) activity and levels of both 6-keto-PGF1a, the stable metabolite of prostacyclin (PGI2)
      and 15-epi-lipoxin A4, a lipid mediator with a strong anti-inflammatory properties.
      Prostacyclin inhibits platelet aggregation and causes vasodilatation. Increased levels of
      6-keto-PGF1a and 15-epi-lipoxin A4 may thus be the explanation for the anti-inflammatory and
      anti-atherosclerosis effects of PIO. Several clinical studies have shown that COX2 inhibition
      is associated with increased cardiovascular events. Thus, augmenting COX2 activity and the
      production of prostacyclin and 15-epi-lipoxin A4 may have potential favorable effects. The
      purpose of the study is to test whether PIO therapy is associated with an increase in serum
      and/or urine levels of 6-keto-PGF1a and 15-epi-lipoxin A4 in patients with diabetes mellitus
      type 2.
    
  