
    
      Given the possible synergism with irinotecan and bevacizumab for colorectal carcinomas, the
      combination has been studied in gliomas. In a study of 21 patients, the combination of
      irinotecan and bevacizumab produced a 43% response rate, with acceptable toxicity. The
      response rate is significantly higher than irinotecan alone and any other therapy for
      recurrent glioma. There were two serious adverse events, one intracranial hemorrhage and one
      bowel perforation. At the Duke Brain Tumor Center, the investigators have treated over 1000
      glioblastoma patients with a bevacizumab-containing regimen, and there is marked clinical
      benefit and acceptable toxicity. Our initial study looking at the combination of bevacizumab
      and irinotecan for patients with recurrent glioblastoma published in 2007 found impressive
      response rates and survival and corroborated the earlier experience of Starks-Vance.

      The investigators completed a study for newly diagnosed glioblastoma that utilized
      bevacizumab, radiation therapy and temozolomide followed by 6 months of bevacizumab,
      irinotecan and temozolomide. In addition, the group at University of California at Los
      Angeles published a study with bevacizumab, radiation therapy and temozolomide followed by 12
      months of bevacizumab and temozolomide for newly diagnosed glioblastoma. These two phase II
      studies reported acceptable toxicity and a suggestion of improved survival compared to
      historical controls, and led to two large phase III randomized, placebo controlled studies of
      the addition of bevacizumab for newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients. The current proposal
      builds on the encouraging results of the addition of bevacizumab to the standard therapy for
      newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients. Two critical questions remain- the role of bevacizumab
      maintenance and bevacizumab at the time of progression in a patient previously treated with
      bevacizumab at the time of initial diagnosis. In addition, a retrospective analysis of data
      collected at our center from patients with recurrent disease suggests that continuation of
      bevacizumab at the time of progression may improve overall survival in comparison with
      cessation of bevacizumab.
    
  