
    
      Phase I study of this study is a dose-escalating study with enrollment of patients with
      metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who have never received chemotherapy or who
      have received chemotherapy (chemotherapy failure or intolerance), and preferential enrollment
      of patients who had failed chemotherapy. The phase II study is a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled multicenter study based on ADT, and only patients with metastatic
      castration-sensitive prostate cancer will be enrolled.

      According to the results of a completed phase I dose-escalation trial and preclinical data on
      the drug, the initial dose proposed for this study is 50 mg BID, and one cycle will be 28
      days. The escalated doses are 100 mg BID and 125 mg BID, two dose groups. If two or more
      cases of DLT occur for 100 mg BID, the dose may be reduced to 75 mg BID for investigation. If
      DLT occurs in two or more out of six patients for a certain dose group, the group with the
      dose preceding the testing dose will be determined to be the MTD dose group.

      RP2D will be determined based on a comprehensive analysis of the safety, pharmacokinetic,
      pharmacodynamic and efficacy data of dose escalation. Where the MTD is determined, MTD is
      usually taken as the RP2D, or a dose lower than MTD is selected as the RP2D based on the
      combined data. If it is determined from the safety data that the dose can still be further
      increased, but the pharmacokinetic data indicate that the plasma concentration of LAE001 has
      reached steady-state saturation, the lowest dose that reaches steady-state saturation will be
      taken as the RP2D. According to the above principles, if the overall incidence of DLT at the
      dose is < 1/3, this testing dose will be determined as the RP2D. Six patients will be further
      enrolled and treated at the RP2D dose for sufficient pharmacokinetic data.

      Phase II study is designed as a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial on top of
      ADT therapy. Its primary objective is to assess the efficacy and safety of LAE001 in patients
      with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer. About 60 patients will be enrolled and
      randomly assigned to the LAE001 treatment group (Group A) and placebo treatment control group
      (Group B) based on a 2:1 ratio on top of basic ADT therapy. Participant will be treated until
      the occurrence of disease progression (clinical evidence required), intolerance, judgement by
      the investigator that the patient is unsuitable to continue receiving treatment, death, or
      withdrawal of informed consent.
    
  