
    
      BACKGROUND: Strong evidence suggests that human albumin solutions should not be used for
      fluid resuscitation except among patients undergoing therapeutic plasmapheresis and select
      patients with complications of liver cirrhosis (i.e. spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, or
      large volume ascitic fluid removal). Previous work by the investigators reported overuse of
      albumin fluid resuscitation as a stakeholder-identified quality improvement opportunity in
      Alberta ICUs. Audit data from the provincial electronic medical record (EMR) for critical
      care, eCritical, reinforced stakeholder opinion and demonstrated that within Alberta ICUs in
      2016 a considerable amount of albumin use deviated from evidence-based indications. On
      average, 14% of admissions to adult ICUs received at least one albumin unit during their ICU
      admission, with several high-use units providing albumin to between 20% and 35% of
      admissions. In 2017 the investigators began a pilot quality improvement initiative to reduce
      albumin overuse in six ICUs in Alberta. The intervention was developed according to the
      Theoretical Domains Framework. Questionnaires completed by clinicians working in the target
      ICU identified local culture and opinion of clinical leaders as barriers, and education,
      order sets, and clinical champions as facilitators to reducing albumin use. The intervention
      thus consisted of establishing a clinical champion, educating clinicians, changing the
      process for albumin through development of an albumin order sheet, and providing quarterly
      unit-level audit/feedback data to clinicians on albumin utilization. There was a 41%
      reduction in albumin utilization, however follow-up data identified problems with
      sustainability. The current project will build on the pilot initiative to implement a quality
      improvement intervention to reduce albumin overuse within all adult ICUs in Alberta.

      OBJECTIVE: Evaluate albumin reduction within all adult ICUs in Alberta.

      METHODS: This will be a registry-based, stepped-wedge quality improvement initiative.

      Quality Improvement Initiative: Spread to 16 adult ICUs in Alberta will require understanding
      and adapting the investigators pilot intervention to local barriers and facilitators. The
      intervention for this quality improvement initiative will be developed using the Theoretical
      Domains Framework. The research team will develop working groups responsible for tailoring
      the intervention and implementation strategy to each participating ICU. This will be
      conducted as part of the Province-wide quality improvement initiative. The investigators will
      conduct the quality improvement initiative using a registry-based, stepped-wedge,
      implementation trial. Owing to the nature of this design, the interventions will be
      implemented at the level of ICU. Clusters of 2 ICUs will be assigned to receive the
      intervention every month such that all ICUs in Alberta will receive the intervention by the
      end of the implementation period.

      Registry-based data analysis: To evaluate this quality improvement initiative, the Provincial
      EMR for critical care, eCritical, will serve as a 'registry' and will be used to capture all
      clinical and outcome data. Data will be collected until patient death or hospital discharge
      and censored at 60 days. To optimize efficiency and power, data will be collected 3-months
      before and after implementation of the interventions.

      SETTING: 16 adult ICUs in Alberta's critical care strategic clinical network reflecting
      teaching/non-teaching and urban/rural hospitals will participate.

      STUDY POPULATION: All adult patients (>18 years) admitted to the study ICUs during the study
      period (November 2019 to January 2021). Study ICUs will include 14 general medical-surgical
      ICUs, and 2 cardiovascular surgery ICUs.

      OUTCOMES: The primary outcome of this study will be the proportion of ICU patients without an
      evidence-based indication for albumin prescribed at least 1 unit of albumin (any
      concentration) during admission to ICU. Evidence-based indication will be operationally
      defined as receipt of therapeutic plasmapheresis OR having a diagnosis of liver cirrhosis and
      being in receipt of a paracentesis. This latter criterion enables identification of patients
      with either spontaneous bacterial peritonitis or large volume ascitic fluid removal. This
      outcome was selected because: 1) there is precedent within current literature; 2) previous
      experience auditing albumin utilization in Alberta ICUs demonstrate it is available through
      eCritical; 3) it provides a relevant, broadly understandable estimate of the effect of the
      implementation science intervention to change albumin overuse; and 4) it permits assessment
      of the feasibility of implementing the platform to develop and carry out multi-stakeholder
      implementation science interventions to promote evidence-informed clinical practices and
      evaluate the intervention.
    
  