
    
      1. Risk and burden for participants Participants in this study have cancer but may still be
           eligible for standard therapy and may not show any benefit from the trial drug. If this
           is the case will be withdrawn from the trial and will receive standard care. The study
           itself carries a number of potential burdens:

             -  Study drug and Radiotherapy. Although the dose and safety effects of the drug have
                been previously assessed in phase I trials and the radiotherapy used is considered
                standard of care, it is possible for participants to experience some side effects.
                To ensure any side effects are treated appropriately all participants will be
                reviewed regularly by experienced clinicians while having the study treatment.
                Comprehensive assessments for safety will be carried out.

             -  Burden of frequent hospital visits and tests. Participants in this study must
                attend hospital every 3 weeks to check for any side effects of the drug, have
                routine blood and clinical biochemistry tests, clinical examinations and administer
                the next dose of pembrolizumab. Additionally, for research purposes some
                participants may consent to have additional tumour biopsies and blood tests. These
                will not be mandatory for all participants.

        2. Recruitment Participants will be offered information about this study by their clinical
           teams if they are considered to meet the entry criteria and express interest in taking
           part in the study. It will be made clear that there will not necessarily be a
           therapeutic benefit from taking part in the study. It will also be made clear that,
           should participants decide not to take part their future care will not be affected.
           Participants will be given sufficient time and information to make an informed decision
           about entering the trial, all participants entering the trial will give written informed
           consent.

        3. Confidentiality Participants will be linked to a unique identifier the code for which
           will be held on a password protected database held only by the study team. This study
           will run across twenty two hospital sites. Tumour data will be analysed at Manchester
           University and research blood will be analysed at Leeds University. Sample processing
           will take place using the trial ID only. No other patient identifiable information will
           be available on study samples. Investigators will have access to patient identifiable
           information on password protected NHS hospital notes and databases only.

        4. Conflict of Interest Participants may be recruited to the study by those involved in
           their prior clinical care. Investigators do not expect conflict of interest between
           research and healthcare duties for a number of reasons: participants must give their
           full informed consent before entering the study, specifically regarding the unknown
           efficacy of the study drug. Those participants who do not continue in the study will
           maintain a relationship with the clinical team if required for symptom control. At the
           end of the study, participants will be able to access the results if they wish, through
           the Royal Marsden Website. They will also be sent a written summary of the results if
           they indicate this.

        5. Use of tissue samples in future research If participants give their consent, any
           leftover blood or tissue samples which are not required for this study will be stored
           for future unspecified research in line with the human tissue act regulations. Access
           and use of samples for research purposes will require appropriate ethical approval.
           Future researchers will not be able to identify individual participants from their
           biobank data, demographic and clinical information will be available.
    
  