
    
      This study is a multicenter, randomized, controlled, single-masked, Phase III trial to
      determine if non-surgical periodontal therapy (scaling and root planing) is efficacious in
      reducing elevated glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) at 6 months post-randomization in subjects
      with type 2 diabetes and untreated, moderate to advanced chronic periodontitis. Six hundred
      adults with a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and chronic periodontitis will be randomized at
      three Clinical Sites; University of Alabama at Birmingham; the University of Minnesota,
      Minneapolis; and the University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio. The Core
      Laboratory will be located at the University of Minnesota and the Study Chair's Office and
      Coordinating Center will be located at Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York.

      Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to receive either initial non-surgical
      periodontal therapy with chlorhexidine rinse (treatment subjects) or delayed non-surgical
      periodontal therapy (control subjects). Control subjects will be offered delayed periodontal
      therapy (scaling and root planing) following the 6 month visit. Participants meeting all
      other eligibility criteria and needing essential dental care, i.e., for broken, grossly
      carious or abscessed teeth, may enroll only following completion of necessary dental
      treatment. Participants in both study arms will receive oral hygiene instruction and healthy
      lifestyle information (e.g. diet, exercise) at baseline and at the 3 and 6 month visits.

      Periodontal data will be recorded by trained and calibrated examiners at baseline and 3 and 6
      months following randomization. Fasting blood will collected at baseline and at 3 and 6
      months to measure intermediate links in the putative causal chain between periodontitis and
      glycemic control. The periodontal health of all subjects will be monitored, and any subject
      who experiences progressive periodontitis during the study will be provided with non-surgical
      rescue therapy.
    
  