
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of two established chemotherapy regimens (Arm
      A: FOLFOX6 [oxaliplatin, fluorouracil (5FU) and leucovorin (folinic acid)] plus bevacizumab;
      and Arm B: pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride [liposomal doxorubicin] and
      bevacizumab plus temsirolimus [DAT]) in combination with the concurrent use of the
      NovoTTF-100L(P) system in patients with predominant hepatic metastases.

      II. To define the safety profiles of FOLFOX6 plus bevacizumab or DAT with concurrent
      NovoTTF-100L(P) in patients with predominant hepatic metastases.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate clinical response signals to the treatment with FOLFOX6 plus bevacizumab or
      DAT with concurrent NovoTTF-100L(P).

      II. To assess predictive biomarkers by analyzing baseline molecular mutation status, and
      resistant pathways by comparing molecular signatures at baseline versus at time of relapse in
      patients who have achieved objective responses.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Participants receive oxaliplatin, leucovorin, and fluorouracil via pump over 46 hours
      beginning on day 1, bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15, and
      use NovoTTF-100L(P) system over 18 hours daily. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Participants receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15, pegylated
      liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes-3 hours on days 1 and 15, and
      temsirolimus IV over 60-90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Participants also use
      NovoTTF-100L(P) system over 18 hours daily. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days.
    
  