
    
      For this in silico planning study all treatment plans will be performed in centers that are
      already operating and have experience in treatment planning. IMRT treatment plans will be
      calculated in Eindhoven (NL), Tomotherapy plans in Deventer (NL), Cyberknife plans in Liege
      (BE) and RapidArc treatment plans in Hasselt (BE). Proton treatment plans will be performed
      at the University of Pennsylvania (USA) and the C-ion treatment plans at the University of
      Marburg (GE).

      A dataset with state-of-the-art image data is available. 25 patients will be included
      according to a-priori defined selection criteria. Each patient will function as his or her
      own control. For this reason, the number of patients per tumor group can be limited to 25
      patients per tumor group (power = 80%, alpha = 5%).

      The datasets will be stored on a secure website hosted by MAASTRO. High quality CT-images
      will be used for radiotherapy treatment planning. Secondary image information such as FDG-PET
      and MRI will be used for GTV delineation. GTV and all relevant OARs will be delineated in
      MAASTRO (NL). The GTV to PTV margin will be determined by the individual institutes according
      to the treatment technique and treatment modality.

      Photons will be planned with state of the art treatment techniques. Protons will be planned
      using active beam delivery with Intensity Modulated proton therapy (IMPT)and carbon-ions with
      a pencil beam delivery treatment planning technique with gantry. Each participating center
      will use its own treatment planning system according to standard practice at that center. The
      same tumor dose, overall treatment time (OTT) and an equal number of fractions will be used
      for all treatment modalities.

      Photon, proton and C-ion treatments will be compared based on dosimetric parameters on normal
      tissues. DVH's will be calculated for the OARs. In addition, the NTCP for a fixed tumor dose
      will be determined. Cobalt Gy equivalent doses will be used when reporting the proton and
      carbon-ion dose. In the case of protons, a constant RBE value of 1.1 will be used for both
      the tumor and the normal tissues. The RBE of carbon-ions will be calculated based on the
      models used by the participating centers.
    
  