
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease with a high global burden, and multiple conservative
      treatment options are available. In addition to being a major source of disability
      osteoarthritis results in a significant economic burden as well. A study published in 2012
      showed the 1-year physician, outpatient procedure, and hospitalization costs in patients with
      osteoarthritis more than double those patients without osteoarthritis in Ontario.

      Conservative treatment options include topical and oral anti-inflammatory medications, weight
      loss, physiotherapy and intra articular cortisone and viscosupplementation injections.
      Unfortunately, commonly used treatments such as oral anti-inflammatory medications carry a
      significant systemic adverse effect on the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and hepatic and renal
      systems and intra articular cortisone have potential adverse effect on blood glucose control.
      For this reason, topical anti-inflammatory medications are popular yet are often ineffective.
      Unfortunately, topical anti-inflammatory medications have variable efficacy in relieving
      osteoarthritic knee pain and often only provide a moderate degree of pain relief.

      In the setting of chronic pain various other topical modalities have been utilized. A
      systematic review of the literature identified commonly studied topical analgesics were
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs followed by lidocaine, capsaicin, amitriptyline,
      glyceryl trinitrate, opioids, menthol, pimecrolimus, and phenytoin. Given the biological
      bases behind utilizing agents which target a variety of pain generators the investigators
      hypothesized that a combination of these would provide significant pain relief to patients
      affected by end stage knee osteoarthritis. For this reason, the investigators propose a trial
      evaluating utilizing multiple topical modalities for pain relief to provide support for the
      use of combination therapy in treating knee osteoarthritis. Results from this study will
      potentially improve the global health and economic burden through improvement in the
      management of knee osteoarthritis.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective The primary objective of the trial will be to evaluate the efficacy of a
      multimodal topical analgesic, Multiprofen, in comparison to placebo cream treatment on
      patient reported pain relief utilizing a 11-point visual analog scale (VAS) measured from
      0-10.

      Secondary objectives

      Our secondary objectives will be to evaluate the effect of topical combination therapy on:

        1. Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) patient reported
           outcome score. This score is commonly utilized in assessment of knee osteoarthritis and
           has been validated to be reliable and responsive in this patient population.

        2. Patient knee range of motion and strength

        3. Return to previous level of activity

        4. Radiographic degree of osteoarthritis.

        5. Patient demographics

        6. Adverse events

      SUMMARY OF TRIAL DESIGN The investigators propose a single center blinded trial evaluating
      the efficacy of a combination formula of topical analgesic in comparison to placebo cream
      treatment. The investigators will randomize 186 patients between topical multimodal cream
      "multiprofen" and a control placebo cream.

      Randomization Method Participants will be randomized using a random number generator to
      either experimental or placebo control intervention.

      Participants will be randomized to one of two treatments:

      Experimental - A multimodal topical cream treatment with Ketoprofen, Baclofen, Amitryptiline,
      and lidocaine in a carrier gel. This topical formulation has been in use commercially under
      the trade name "Multi-profen".

      Control - A identically packaged placebo cream treatment will be utilized in the control
      population.

      Proposed duration of treatment and follow-up: Participants will be brought back at 3,6 and 12
      weeks' time to complete questionnaires recording VAS and WOMAC scores

      The current proposal includes 1 clinical site in Canada (Oakville Trafalgar Memorial
      Hospital, Oakville, ON, CAN)
    
  