
    
      Colonoscopy can be challenging to perform and painful due to looping of the colonoscope.
      Looping occurs when further insertion of the colonoscope results in a loop forming in the
      shaft of the colonoscope instead of advancement of the tip. Attempts have been made to solve
      this problem, but to date there is no perfect solution. Since colonoscopy is the gold
      standard for colon cancer screening providing a device that could prevent looping would be
      valuable. We have developed an experimental device that has not been approved outside of the
      context of this study known as the Segmental Stiffening Wire (SSW). This wire will be
      utilized by passing it through the biopsy channel of the endoscope. The wire has a 15-25 inch
      area of increased thickness and stiffness. The stiffened section can be advanced into areas
      of looping in an effort to prevent re-looping. We will conduct a pilot study in two phases.
      The first phase will include approximately 10 healthy volunteers who will undergo colonoscopy
      using the SSW. Fluoroscopy will be used to determine if the device prevents re-looping. If in
      phase 1 the device is successful in over 30% of episodes, the second phase will be
      undertaken. In the second phase volunteers willing to undergo two colonoscopies on
      consecutive days will be recruited. Volunteers who experience looping will be randomized as
      to whether the SSW is available. These volunteers will then undergo an otherwise identical
      colonoscopy on the following day except the SSW will be available if it was not on the first
      colonoscopy or it will not be available if it was on the first colonoscopy. Volunteers who
      undergo two colonoscopies will not need a second bowel preparation but will be maintained on
      a clear liquid diet between the two procedures. Volunteers in which looping does not occur
      will have their initial colonoscopy completed as normal and then will leave the study. If
      unable to obtain sufficient volunteers willing to undergo dual colonoscopy, then volunteers
      willing to undergo single colonoscopy will be included and their procedures will be done with
      or without the SSW in random fashion. The endpoints will be cecal intubation time; cecal
      intubation rate; quantity of sedation/analgesia; number of ancillary maneuvers; pain/sedation
      as measured by the Visual Analog Pain Scale, the Ramsey Sedation Scale, and clinical
      observations; vital sign changes; and the endoscopists subjective assessment of procedure
      difficulty and the usefulness of the SSW.
    
  