
    
      Objective:

      We propose a common protocol for use in non-invasive (i.e., minimal risk, not involving
      general anesthesia or sedation) collection of biological and environmental samples and
      clinical data from anonymous adult volunteers for methods testing and protocol development,
      quality control, methods development and evaluation. Individual collections conducted under
      this protocol will submit actual advertisements, forms and names of persons obtaining consent
      for IRB expedited review.

      Study Population:

      This protocol covers recruitment of healthy non-pregnant adults (men and women age 18+)
      and/or pregnant adult women (age 18+).

      Design:

      All clinical data and sample collection will be performed by clinical and research
      professionals as appropriate. Biological samples that may be collected include blood or
      plasma, breast milk, cerumen, exhaled breath, hair, mucosal and skin cells, nail clippings,
      saliva, semen, stool and urine. In some cases, lymphocytes will be isolated from blood and
      immortalized. Clinical data may be collected through non-invasive procedures routinely
      employed in research and clinical practice, and using medical devices approved for marketing
      (excluding procedures involving x-rays or microwaves). Clinical data collection may include
      anthropomorphic measurement, body composition assessment, detection of naturally occurring
      radioactivity, Doppler blood flow, exhaled breath, flexibility testing, moderate exercise,
      muscular strength testing, physical sensors, and sensory acuity testing where appropriate
      given the age, weight and health of the individual. Environmental samples may include dust,
      water, soil, air, vegetation, and other environmental samples that may be collected without
      damage to property. Compensation for clinical data and sample donation will depend on the
      time and effort involved in donation. Samples and clinical data may be collected during a
      one-time collection, or participants may be asked to provide samples and clinical data on
      several occasions over a specified period.

      Outcome Measures:

      The samples and clinical and response data will be used to determine if proposed research
      designs are feasible and if methods are sufficiently valid and precise to be used in
      epidemiologic studies. They will also be used for quality control purposes in study sample
      analysis projects. In epidemiologic studies involving the collection, storage and analysis of
      laboratory samples, it is essential to evaluate the performance of available assays and to
      assess the impact of storage and handling on the quality of samples

      and laboratory analyses. It is also necessary to determine levels of specific biomarkers in
      the population to aid in study design as well as willingness of specific population groups to
      provide necessary samples and data. It is essential 1) to demonstrate that a method is
      sufficiently reproducible and stable over time such that differences in measurements among
      individuals in the population can be detected; 2) to evaluate measurement reliability by
      sending blinded control samples along with study samples to testing laboratories

      for quality control purposes; 3) to test proposed laboratories or methods by using replicate
      samples in order to choose the laboratory or method with the greater precision; and 4) to
      assess how collection, handling, and storage procedures affect measured levels of specific
      analytes to allow informed decisions about whether to proceed with a specific analysis; 5) to
      determine levels and distributions of proposed biomarkers to assess study feasibility and
      determine appropriate study sample size; and 6) evaluate approaches to recruiting

      participants for proposed studies with specific sample collection requirements. Under this
      protocol, methods may include analyses of genes and gene products, peptides, proteins,
      lipids, immunologic parameters, hormones, viability of cells, evaporation and dilution
      effects, chemical toxicants and their metabolites, metals, micronutrients and other analytes.
    
  