
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To demonstrate safety and feasibility of ipilimumab and nivolumab at the standard doses of
      drug in solid tumor and relapsed refractory HIV-classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) participants
      with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection given the possibility of increased toxicity
      based on immune activation, co-morbidity, or interference with highly active antiretroviral
      therapy (HAART) therapy. (Dose De-escalation and Dose Expansion Cohorts)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab and
      nivolumab, on immune function (HIV viral load in plasma using conventional assay, CD4+ and
      CD8+ cells). (Dose De-escalation Cohort) II. To preliminarily assess objective response rates
      associated with treatment for commonly represented solid tumors (Kaposi sarcoma, anal cancer,
      and lung cancer) and relapsed refractory HIV-cHL. (Solid Tumor Dose Expansion and cHL
      Cohorts) III. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of
      ipilimumab and nivolumab, on immune function (HIV viral load in plasma using conventional HIV
      assay, CD4+, and CD8+ cells). (Solid Tumor Dose Expansion and cHL Cohorts)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Understand the immune response to agent in the context of antiretroviral therapy (ART), of
      altered immune function, and repertoire due to prior HIV infection.

      Ia. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab and
      nivolumab, on intratumor immune cells by immunohistochemistry (IHC) such as PD1, programmed
      cell death 1 ligand 1 (PDL-1), and others.

      Ib. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab and
      nivolumab on circulating cytokine markers by multiplex assay, such as: interleukin (IL)-2,
      IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-8, interferon gamma-induced protein 10 (IP10), chemokine (C-X-C motif)
      ligand 13 (CXCL13), interferon (IFN)-gamma, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, soluble IL-2
      receptor (sIL2R)-alpha, sCD27, soluble TNF receptor (sTNFR)1, and sTNFR2.

      II. To understand the response of human tumor viruses (human papillomavirus [HPV],
      Epstein-Barr virus [EBV], Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus [KSHV]) to agent.

      IIa. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab and
      nivolumab on herpesvirus loads (EBV, KSHV, cytomegalovirus [CMV]) in plasma.

      IIb. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab and
      nivolumab on latent herpesvirus (EBV, KSHV, CMV) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (PBMC).

      IIc. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab and
      nivolumab on herpesvirus specific CD8 and CD4 T cells in PBMC.

      IId. In cases of Kaposi sarcoma, to evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the
      combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab on viral transcription in tumor biopsies.

      IIe. In cases of anal cancer, to evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the
      combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab on HPV types in anal swabs, when feasible.

      III. Understand the response of HIV to agent. IIIa. To evaluate the effects of single agent
      nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab on latent HIV loads in PBMC using
      outgrowth assay.

      IIIb. To evaluate the effects of single agent nivolumab, and the combination of ipilimumab
      and nivolumab on HIV reactive T cells.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of nivolumab.

      Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients in dose
      level 2 also receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of every third cycle of
      nivolumab, and patients in dose level -2 also receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1
      of every sixth cycle of nivolumab. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 46 cycles of
      nivolumab (with ipilimumab if receiving dose level 2 or -2) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 16 weeks or 112 days (based
      on 5 half lives).
    
  