
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate whether the 32 units/m^2 or the 64 units/m^2 or both dose levels of CPX-351
      (liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351) are likely to improve treatment-related mortality
      (TRM) rate while keeping the complete remission (CR) rate constant in patients with untreated
      high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or non-acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML) at high risk of TRM.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe the CR/CR with incomplete platelet count recovery (CRp) rate after up to 4 cycles
      of induction/re-induction therapy.

      II. Describe the event-free survival, disease-free survival, and overall survival of patients
      who achieve CR/CRp.

      III. Estimate the frequency and severity of regimen-associated toxicities.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I:

      INDUCTION/RE-INDUCTION: Patients receive lower-dose liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351
      intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 40 days for 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving CR
      or CRp continue on to consolidation.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive lower-dose liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351 IV over
      90 minutes on days 1 and 3. Treatment repeats every 40 days for 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: (closed to accrual effective 4/21/14) INDUCTION/RE-INDUCTION: Patients receive
      higher-dose liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351 IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5.
      Treatment repeats every 40 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving CR or CRp continue on to consolidation.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive higher-dose liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351 IV over
      90 minutes on days 1 and 3. Treatment repeats every 40 days for 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 month.
    
  