
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicity spectrum and dose-limiting toxic effects of sorafenib when combined
      with cetuximab and irinotecan in patients with advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer.

      II. Determine the recommended phase II dose of sorafenib when combined with cetuximab and
      irinotecan in these patients.

      III. Correlate the clinical activity of this regimen, in terms of radiologic and positron
      emission tomography (PET) response, with baseline extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)
      expression as well as Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS), BRAF, and other genetic properties of
      tumors in these patients.

      IV. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. V. Correlate the
      pharmacodynamic effects of this regimen with baseline ERK expression as well as KRAS, BRAF,
      and other genetic properties of tumors in these patients.

      VI. Correlate the pharmacodynamic effects of this regimen on mitogen-activated protein kinase
      (MAPK) status in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and on normal skin and oral mucosa with
      clinical parameters in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of sorafenib followed by a multicenter phase
      II study.

      PHASE I:

      COURSE 1 (56 days): Patients receive oral sorafenib once or twice daily on days 1-56,
      cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8,15, 22, 29, 36, 43, and 50, and irinotecan IV over
      90 minutes on days 15, 22, 29, and 36.

      COURSE 2 AND ALL SUBSEQUENT COURSES (42 days): Patients receive oral sorafenib once or twice
      daily on days 1-42, cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36, and
      irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 42 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sorafenib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

      PHASE II: Patients receive sorafenib at the MTD determined in phase I, cetuximab, and
      irinotecan as in phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days.

      *NOTE: This trial was intended to be Phase I/II, but the trial never continued to the Phase
      II portion.
    
  