
    
      The RECOVER Clinical Trial is a prospective, randomized, multi-center device trial intended
      to assess safety and feasibility, and inform dose selection in preparation for a pivotal
      trial. Subjects that have Grade II tears of the hamstring will be evaluated for eligibility
      in this study.

      Part A of the trial will be an open-label, safety, feasibility and dose-escalation study to
      assess whether the treatment approach (liposuction, cell processing and injection) is
      feasible in athletic patients at one or both doses of ADRCs.

      Part B of the trial is contingent on successful completion of Part A and is a multicenter,
      randomized, double blind trial of both doses of ADRCs vs. placebo.

      In both parts of the study, following informed consent and screening evaluations, eligible
      subjects will undergo pre-operative testing. Subjects will then undergo liposuction under
      general or local anesthesia. Lipoaspirate will be processed in the Celution System to isolate
      and concentrate ADRCs for immediate intramuscular administration under ultrasound guidance.

      The first 5 patients of Part A will receive 0.2 million cells/kg body weight (maximum of 20
      million cells) while the second 5 patients will receive 0.4 million cells/kg body weight
      (maximum of 40 million cells).

      If the study is shown to be safe and feasible in Part A then patients in Part B of the study
      will be randomly assigned to receive one of two doses of ADRCs or a visually-matched placebo
      in a 1:1:1 ratio. If they receive the placebo they will undergo a liposuction and sham
      intramuscular injection procedure in which they will receive placebo.Part B will receive
      placebo, 0.2 million cells/kg body weight (maximum of 20 million cells), or 0.4 million
      cells/kg body weight (maximum of 40 million cells).

      Patients in Part A of the study will be followed through to 90 days post-procedure. Patients
      in Part B of the study will be followed through to 24 months post-procedure.
    
  