
    
      STUDY OVERVIEW - PURPOSE AND BACKGROUND

      African, Caribbean and Black (ACB) individuals represent only 4.7% of Ontario's population,
      yet account for 30% of HIV prevalence in the province. Nearly two-thirds of ACB people living
      in Ontario are classified as immigrant, refugee or non-status (IRNS) individuals. IRNS people
      are more likely than the general population to be exposed to events that are associated with
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Furthermore, the diagnosis of HIV is itself a traumatic
      life event. Nonetheless, significant gaps remain regarding the best strategies for supporting
      trauma-informed care among ACB IRNS individuals with HIV. For example, IRNS women are more
      likely than Canadian-born women to have experienced rape, non-sexual physical assault, and
      civil conflict. ACB IRNS men who have sex with men (MSM) are more likely than non-MSM to have
      emigrated to Canada as asylum-seekers after fleeing some form of persecution or imminent
      threat in their countries of origin. Furthermore, while it is known that stigma contributes
      to exacerbation and severity of HIV symptoms-via the activation of physiological stress
      responses-there is no known intervention that has been shown to interrupt the pathway by
      which HIV stigma effects stress and HIV symptoms. Accelerated Resolution Therapy (ART®) is an
      exposure-based therapy that incorporates rapid eye movements in a standardized administration
      over 5 sessions in a 3-week period. ART® is effective brief treatment for PTSD symptoms; but,
      it's range of therapeutic benefit when applied to people with HIV infections is unknown.
      Although evidence shows that the amygdala is the brain region most reactive to changes in
      stress stimuli, it remains unknown if therapeutic responses can be reliably validated with
      biomarkers. No studies have leveraged neuroimaging to validate the self-reported empirical
      therapeutic benefit of ART®.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the implementation of ART®, including
      understanding factors influencing its therapeutic outcomes.

      The central hypothesis is that ART® will reduce HIV symptom distress by down-modulating the
      effects of stigma and posttraumatic stress-leading to improved self-reported quality of life.
      The hypothesis is based on previous research showing that adaptive coping strategies buffer
      the effects of stigma on stress, as well as evidence from a randomized trial of ART® which
      demonstrated statistically significant treatment effects for trauma related distress
      (d=1.88), anxiety (d=1.62), and depression (d=1.41), as well as a clinically meaningful
      23-point reduction on the civilian PTSD checklist.[5] The investigators will investigate our
      central hypothesis by pursuing the following specific aims in a sample of ACB immigrant,
      refugee and non-status people with HIV.

        1. Identify factors influencing the response to ART®

        2. Identity neuroimaging indicators for treatment effects of ART®

        3. Identify factors influencing ART® implementation

      The secondary purpose of this study is to determine if ART® treatment of posttraumatic stress
      symptoms can decrease inflammation and its effects on HIV symptoms.
    
  