
    
      Around 20 per cent of patients with acute pancreatitis develop pancreatic or peripancreatic
      necrosis with or without peripancreatic collections. Sterile necrosis can generally be
      managed conservatively and the mortality rate is relatively low (12 per cent). Approximately
      30 (range 14-62) per cent of patients with necrotizing pancreatitis, however, develop
      secondary infections of peripancreatic fluid collection which is associated with sepsis and
      organ failure and is an indication for intervention1.

      Until recently, the first-choice intervention in patients with infected necrotizing
      pancreatitis or sterile necrosis with clinical deterioration (multiple organ failure) has
      been open surgical necrosectomy. This approach is associated with considerable morbidity
      (34-95 per cent) and mortality (11-39 per cent). In 1998, Freeny and colleagues10 first
      described a consecutive series of patients with infected pancreatic necrosis who were treated
      primarily with imaging-guided percutaneous catheter drainage (PCD), as an alternative to
      primary surgical necrosectomy. The rationale for PCD was to drain the infected fluid under
      tension and gain time to improve organ function of these critically ill patients and thereby
      delay or avoid surgical necrosectomy. In their retrospective cohort study, PCD was successful
      in postponing surgical intervention for a median of 4 weeks and even obviated the need for
      surgical necrosectomy in almost half of the patients. In addition, PCD seems technically
      feasible in the vast majority of patients with necrotizing pancreatitis.

      In clinical experience, investigators have found that PCD successfully drains the liquefied
      component of pancreatic necrosis while the solid component still remains undrained. This
      infected solid component of pancreatic necrosis is probably responsible for failure of PCD
      which demands surgical debridement.

      Streptokinase is a protein secreted by several species of streptococci which can bind and
      activate human plasminogen. It is primarily used in clinical practice intravenously as an
      effective thrombolytic agent in cases of myocardial infarction and pulmonary thromboembolism.

      The earliest reports on intracavitatory use of Streptokinase and other fibrinolytics were for
      empyemas. Later because of beneficial results, their intracavitatory use was extended to
      other conditions like liver, retroperitoneal and peritoneal abscesses.

      In a phase II study, intracavitatory urokinase has shown to facilitate percutaneous drainage
      significantly reduce hospital stay and costs of percutaneous drainage of intra abdominal,
      retroperitoneal abscesses.

      In the present study investigators plan to instill streptokinase locally in to the
      collections of patients with severe acute pancreatitis via pigtail catheter inorder to
      liquefy the solid necrotic component and analyze whether it hastens the drainage and thereby
      delays or obviates the need for necrosectomy.
    
  