
    
      The direct anterior approach (DAA) has become a popular approach for total hip arthroplasty
      (THA) recently because of its atraumatic intermuscular plane, less tissue damage, and faster
      recovery. Studies comparing DAA with standard lateral or posterior approach showed DAA THAs
      have better results. These better results of DAA included possible lower dislocation rate,
      less perioperative pain, shorter length of hospital stay, and better implant position.
      However, DAA is a technic-demanding approach which needs a longer learning curve, and may
      endanger lateral femoral cutaneous nerve. DAA may also incurs a higher complication rates in
      obese patients than other approaches. Similarly, the mini-incision posterior approach
      (mini-PA) has most of the above-mentioned advantages of DAA except atraumatic intermuscular
      plane. Comparing with standard posterior approach, the mini-PA resulted in better function
      scores, shorter length of hospital stay, reduced blood loss, comparable radiographic outcome
      and complication rates. More recently, the micro-posterior approach (micro-PA), which evolves
      from mini-PA but preserves short external rotators of the hip except for the piriformis or
      conjoined tendon and includes all advantages of mini-PA, has been introduced into clinical
      practice and gained excellent clinical results.

      Both DAA and micro-PA have their own advantages and disadvantages. Because of the fast
      recovery, both DAA and mini-PA were successfully used in outpatient THA. Furthermore, supine
      positioning during DAA facilitates the use intraoperative fluoroscopy to improve component
      positioning, while mini-PA and micro-PA utilize lateral decubitus position and achieve the
      safe zone of Lewinnek in only 60% of cases for cup positioning. In the learning curve of DAA,
      despite of the muscle-sparing advantage, there may be high early revision rate of THA.
      Therefore, both DAA and micro-PA have their own enthusiasts. To our knowledge, there were no
      studies comparing the results of DAA THAs with micro-PA THAs. Thus The investigators
      conducted a single-surgeon propensity-score matching study to compare these two approaches.
      Our hypothesis is that DAA THAs may have better results than micro-PA THAs in component
      positions and other clinical outcomes. The purpose of this study were to compare (1) the
      radiographic component positions, (2) the clinical outcomes, such as length of hospital stay,
      operative time, blood loss, perioperative pain scale, dislocation rates, and functional
      scores between DAA and micro-PA for THA.

      Methods The investigators conducted a non-randomized comparative study to compare component
      positioning and clinical outcomes of the unilateral primary THA patients with DAA techniques
      and those with micro-PA techniques. The investigators received approval from institutional
      review board in National Taiwan University Hospital. The investigators recruited consecutive
      patients receiving unilateral primary THAs performed by a single surgeon (the senior author)
      between October 2013 and September 2014. The eligibility criteria were patients with
      unilateral hip arthritis indicated for THA. The excluding criteria were patients with
      previous THAs or patients indicated for revision THAs. A total number of 141 patients were
      recruited. Twenty-six of the patients underwent THAs with DAA and 115 of the patients
      underwent THAs with micro-PA. The patient demographics was shown in table 1. All the patients
      were regularly follow-up at least 2 year in out-patient clinics. The investigators used
      Trilogy acetabular cup system and ML-taper femoral components (Zimmer Inc., Warsaw, IN,
      United States) in all patients.

      Perioperative protocol and discharge criteria Pre-operative digital templating was performed
      by the senior with AGFA IMPAX Orthopaedic Tools (Agfa Healthcare, Mortsel, Belgium) for every
      patient. Multimodal analgesia protocol including preoperative, intraoperative and
      postoperative medications (pregabalin, tramadol, acetaminophen, and celecoxib) was used in
      every patient. Intra-operatively, the patients received local infiltration analgesia with
      periarticular injection of diluted ketorolac and levobupivacaine solution. Additional
      intramuscular morphine was given for pain relief. The discharge criteria included (1)
      ambulation for 30 meters with assistive devices, (2) the ability to go up and down stairs
      with assistive devices, and (3) no need for intravenous or intramuscular analgesics.

      Clinical outcomes Estimated blood loss, operation time and length of hospital stay were
      obtained from the electronic medical records. The patients' hemoglobin level was checked
      routinely on the day before operation and on the first and second post-operative days. The
      investigators also calculated the decreased amount of hemoglobin level as a more objective
      parameter for blood loss. Visual analogue scale (VAS) was recorded 4 times a day by nurse
      practitioners during hospitalization. The mean VAS on the first, second and third
      post-operative days were used for analysis respectively. Besides, the morphine dosage during
      hospitalization also served as another parameter of pain intensity. In addition to chart
      review, Harris hip score, Oxford hip score (OHS), and EQ5d scores were obtained for outcome
      evaluation at 3 months, 6 months, and 2 years after operation.

      Radiographic parameters The stem alignment, acetabular cup abduction, anteversion angles and
      leg-length discrepancy were measured on digital anteroposterior (AP) pelvic radiographs. The
      radiographs were all obtained using a standardized technique with supine position, leg
      internally rotated and x-ray beam centered on pubic symphysis. For stem alignment, the
      investigators obtained proximal femoral axis, which was the line connecting centers of
      femoral canal at the levels of stem tip and lesser trochanter, and the femoral stem axis,
      which was the line connecting centers of femoral stem at levels of 2 centimeters and 5
      centimeters proximal to the stem tip. The angle between proximal femoral axis and femoral
      stem axis was measured and analyzed as the stem alignment. The cup anteversion angle and
      abduction angle were means measured using AGFA IMPAX Orthopaedic Tool (Agfa Healthcare,
      Mortsel, Belgium). The leg-length discrepancy was the distance between the two lines from
      each lesser trochanter parallel to the inter-teardrop line.

      Statistical Analysis With presumed achieved proportion of safe zone of Lewinnek in DAA and
      mini-PA, a minimum of 21 patients in each group were required, with an assumed two-sided
      alpha level of 5% and a power of 80%. Using body mass index (BMI), age and gender as
      covariates, 1:1 (DAA : micro-PA) propensity score matching was done. All the following
      analysis were calculated before and after propensity-score matching. The investigators used
      Mann-Whitney U test for comparison of continuous data and Chi-square test for categorical
      data. P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. The software for analysis was STATA
      (StataCorp LP, Texas, USA).

      Source of Funding Funding source did not play any role in this investigation.
    
  