
    
      Mother-infant interactions, which are well-established to strongly influence long-term
      neurodevelopmental outcomes, are at particular risk during the pandemic, both due to maternal
      stress, as well as to changes in health care policies leading to decreased interaction with
      healthcare providers during the immediate postpartum period. In order to minimize risk of
      severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV-2 transmission, nurses and physicians in the WBN
      have minimized entry and exit into patient rooms, and new moms are discharged on average one
      day early. In addition to psychological stress, there are also currently unknown risks to the
      neonates born to mothers with SARS-CoV-2 infections at various points in their pregnancy.
      Although viral transmission itself seems unlikely, it is currently completely unknown if
      secondary effects will be observed. In the case of maternal HIV infection, it is now well
      established that even when vertical transmission does not occur, there are negative
      consequences to neurodevelopmental outcomes of these exposed children. It is therefore
      imperative to develop preventative strategies that protect newborns and set them on the path
      of optimal neurodevelopment. As mother-infant nurturing interactions are known to be the most
      crucial ingredient in optimal neurodevelopmental trajectories, the goal of the investigators
      is to test the hypothesis that an intervention focused on promoting mother-infant emotional
      connection in the neonatal period will lead to long-term benefit and prevention of
      deleterious effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The investigators will use FNI, an intervention
      specifically developed to enhance mother-infant emotional connection through facilitated
      mother-infant interactions, emotional exchanges and mutual calming sessions. Some of the
      facilitated interactions include: interactive touch with deep emotional expression and vocal
      soothing, sustained reciprocal olfactory exposure, family practice in comforting, and
      skin-to-skin holding. Previously at CUIMC, an RCT investigated the effects of FNI in NICU
      infants. Infants who received FNI showed significant increases in electroencephalogram (EEG)
      power, a measure of brain activity, near term age compared with those who receive Standard
      Care (SC). Increased EEG power has previously been shown to be associated with improved
      cognitive development, as measured by the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development
      (BSID-III). Within the group of children who scored above 85 on the Bayley-III (1 standard
      deviation below the mean or higher), FNI infants scored significantly higher on the BSID-III
      Cognitive and Language scales compared to SC infants. Additionally, FNI infants had lower
      risk for autism spectrum disorder (ASD) as measured by the Modified Checklist of Autism for
      Toddlers (M-CHAT), an early ASD screening questionnaire. FNI infants also displayed
      significantly lower levels of EEG coherence (1-18 Hz) largely within and between frontal
      regions. This finding suggests that FNI may accelerate brain maturation particularly in
      frontal brain regions, which are involved in regulation of attention, cognition, and emotion.
      Taken together, the first RCT of FNI is strongly suggestive of neurodevelopmental benefit.

      Purpose/aims: The COVID-19 pandemic has made precautions necessary in the Well Baby Nursery
      that result in maternal stress which is known to impair mother-infant bonding, which is
      well-established to be critical for positive long-term neurodevelopmental and behavioral
      outcomes. The investigators will be conducting a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of Family
      Nurture Intervention (FNI) in the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital (MSCH) Well Baby Nursery
      (WBN) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC). The RCT will compare
      neurodevelopmental and socio-emotional outcomes of the current standard of care (SC) during
      the COVID-19 pandemic with Family Nurture Intervention (FNI) conducted via telemedicine.
    
  