
    
      Over the past few decades, highly significant progress has been made in understanding the
      pathophysiology of the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Recognition of
      ventilation-induced lung injuries (VILI) has led to the radical modification of the
      ventilatory management of these patients. The landmark trial by the ARDSnet trial group
      demonstrated in 2000 that ventilating ARDS patients with a low tidal volume (VT) of 6 ml/kg
      (calculated from predicted body weight), and with a maximum end-inspiratory plateau pressure
      (Pplat) of 30 cmH2O decreased mortality from 39.8% (in the conventional arm treated with a VT
      of 12 ml/kg PBW) to 31% . However, recent studies have shown that lung hyperinflation still
      occurs in approximately 30% of ARDS patients even though they are being ventilated using the
      ARDSNet strategy. Additionally, Hager and coworkers found that mortality decreased as Pplat
      declined from high to low levels at all levels of Pplat on the data collected by the
      "ARDSNet" trial group. Their analysis suggested a beneficial effect of VT reduction even for
      patients who already had Pplat<30 cm H2O before VT reduction.Similar observation was also
      recently reported by Needham et al on a cohort of 485 patients with ARDS. Because VT
      reduction to <6 ml/kg to achieve very low Pplat may induce severe hypercapnia and may cause
      elevated intracranial pressure, pulmonary hypertension, decreased myocardial contractility,
      decreased renal blood flow, and the release of endogenous catecholamines, this strategy using
      "ultraprotective" MV settings is not possible for most patients on conventional mechanical
      ventilation for moderate to severe ARDS.

      Extracorporeal carbon dioxide removal (ECCO2R) may be used in association with mechanical
      ventilation to permit VT reduction to <6 ml/kg and to achieve very low Pplat (20-25 cm H2O).
      In an observational study conducted in the 80's, Gattinoni showed that use of venovenous
      ECCO2R at a flow of 1.5-2.5 l/min in addition to quasi apneic mechanical ventilation with
      peak inspiratory pressures limited to 35-45 cmH2O and PEEP set at 15-25 cmH2O resulted in
      lower than expected mortality in an observational cohort of severe ARDS patients. However, a
      randomized, controlled single-center study using that same technology and conducted in the
      1990s by Morris's group in Utah was stopped early for futility after only 40 patients had
      been enrolled and failed to demonstrate a mortality benefit with this device (58% in the
      control group vs. 70% in the treatment group).

      In recent years, new-generation ECCO2R devices have been developed. They offer lower
      resistance to blood flow, have small priming volumes and have much more effective gas
      exchange. With ECCO2R the patient's PaCO2 is principally determined by the rate of fresh gas
      flow through the membrane lung. In an ECCO2R animal model, CO2 removal averaged 72±1.2 mL/min
      at blood flows of 450 mL/min, while CO2 production by the lung decreased by 50% with
      reduction of minute ventilation from 5.6 L/min at baseline to 2.6 L/min after insertion of
      the device. Lastly, Terragni et al (15)demonstrated that ECCO2R could improve pulmonary
      protection by allowing very low tidal volume ventilation (3.5-5 ml/kg of PBW) in a
      proof-of-concept study of ten patients with ARDS. This strategy was also associated with a
      significant decrease in pulmonary inflammatory biomarkers.
    
  