
    
      Lumbar spinal stenosis is one of the most common causes of low back pain in the elderly and
      can lead to significant disability. The symptoms of spinal stenosis range from low back pain
      to neurogenic claudication with lower extremity pain, weakness and/or sensory changes related
      to activities. As spinal stenosis can affect the central canal as well as the lateral
      recesses and intervertebral foramen variably, symptoms can involve single or multiple
      myotomes and dermatomes. Since the causes of spinal stenosis are most frequently degenerative
      changes, the symptoms of spinal stenosis often, but not always, worsen over time. Despite the
      prevalence of spinal stenosis, treatment of spinal stenosis remains somewhat controversial.
      Common treatments include conservative measures such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatories
      (NSAIDS), activity modification and physical therapy as well as more invasive treatments such
      as epidural steroid injections and surgery. Although surgery has been demonstrated to provide
      some benefit to many individuals with spinal stenosis, ESI are being used with increasing
      frequency as a less invasive, potentially more cost effective and safer treatment for spinal
      stenosis. However, there is a lack of data to demonstrate the effectiveness and safety of
      epidural steroid injections for spinal stenosis, particularly in the older adults.

      Because of the compelling need for effective therapy for patients suffering from spinal
      stenosis and because epidural steroid injections are rapidly becoming standard of care for
      treating these patients - even in the absence of compelling clinical evidence - we are
      conducting a randomized, controlled trial in order to test the hypothesis that lumbar
      epidural steroid injections improve functional status and pain associated with spinal
      stenosis. The main objective of the study is to conduct a blinded, randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) in elderly patients with spinal stenosis to test if the effectiveness of epidural
      steroid injections (ESI) plus local anesthetic (LA) is greater than LA alone.
    
  