
    
      Since the first case described in 2002, indications of TAVI (transcatheter Aortic Valve
      Implantation) procedures increased in the treatment of symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.
      Initially reserved for inoperable patients or at high surgical risk, the indication for TAVI
      was recently extended to patients at intermediate surgical risk. Post-procedure intensive
      care admission (ICU) was initially considered the rule for all patients regarding the risk of
      high-grade conductive disorders, vascular or neurological complications. However, given the
      drastic reduction in serious complications and the increasing number of procedures,
      systematic ICU admission may be safely avoided. Selection criteria for ICU admission were
      established by our team in a previous study. The use of these low risk criteria, the growing
      experience of operators as well as technological improvements allow to safely avoid ICU
      admission in 1/3 of patients. However, long-term impact of this triage strategy remains
      unknown.

      Objective:

      The objective of this study is to assess 1-year outcomes of patients undergoing TAVI
      according to unit admission (ICU or conventional care unit (CCU)).

      Methods This monocentric observational study retrospectively includes all patients undergoing
      TAVI at the Montpellier University Hospital from 2017. TAVI is indicated in patients with
      symptomatic severe aortic stenosis with a life expectancy > 1year and contra-indicated for
      conventional surgery, at high risk or intermediate surgical risk> 75 years after "heart team"
      decision. Exclusion criteria are patients who died before unit admission or referred a
      non-cardiological unit after the procedure. Two groups of patients are defined: (1) patients
      referred to the ICU and (2) patients referred to the CCU after the procedure according to
      risk-stratification criteria. Low-risk of complications criteria were defined as the absence
      of major comorbidities, hemodynamic stability, absence of pre-procedure right bundle branch
      block, LVEF> 40% and absence of procedural complications, particularly the absence of any new
      conductive disorder after 2 hours monitoring. The primary endpoint is 1-year major events
      (all-cause mortality, major cardiovascular event and rehospitalization for cardiac causes)
      according to the VARC-2 criteria. The secondary endpoints include hospitalization duration,
      1-month major events and all-cause mortality during follow-up > 1 year depending on the
      group.

      Data assessment Data on patients' baseline characteristics, procedural details and
      in-hospital outcomes is collected from a prospective TAVI database. No additional testing or
      biological samples were specifically required for this study
    
  