
    
      Investigators will test S2-S4 dermatome stimulation with SCI individuals using intermittent
      catheterization to estimate the clinical impact on bladder capacity and continence.

      For individuals with SCI using intermittent catheterization, investigators will verify that
      S2-S4 dermatome stimulation is acutely effective at reducing hyper-reflexive bladder activity
      during bladder filling. Investigators hypothesize that S2-S4 dermatome stimulation will
      reduce the number and severity of incontinent episodes, increase bladder capacity, and
      increase the volume catheterized. By comparing the extended outcomes to the acute laboratory
      outcomes obtained by ourselves and others, investigators can assess the feasibility of acute
      urodynamics to identify subjects for implanted devices or future studies.

      For individuals with SCI using intermittent catheterization, investigators hypothesize that
      dermatome stimulation will decrease bladder spasm frequency and intensity, and reduce bladder
      incontinence chronically. The goal of this study is to provide objective evidence for the
      assertion that dermatome stimulation decreases bladder activity and therefore the unwanted
      side effects of neurogenic bladder. These experiments will demonstrate the neurophysiologic
      response of acute stimulation through urodynamic test, and will also provide increased
      evidence for future clinical trials through proof of lessened bladder pressures - an
      important cause of vesico-ureteral reflux and renal injury.

      There is a potentially larger population of persons with incomplete SCI than complete SCI who
      retain sensation in the pelvis who could gain benefit from dermatome stimulation. To examine
      the outcomes following incomplete SCI (in persons who retain sensation in the pelvis),
      investigators will test dermatome stimulation to determine the tolerable and effective
      electrical stimulation parameters in persons that have some degree of preserved motor or
      sensory function through the lowest sacral spinal cord segments. Investigators will acutely
      measure the effects of dermatome stimulation on bladder pressure and hyper-reflexic bladder
      contractions during bladder filling. Investigators hypothesize that dermatome stimulation
      will increase bladder capacity at stimulus amplitudes that are acutely tolerable to subjects
      with incomplete SCI. It will determine the feasibility of a non-invasive screening procedure
      to identify potential candidates for future device implantation, thereby providing a pathway
      for translation of the technology to implantation.

      This project will improve the understanding of the neurophysiology of afferent-mediated
      neural pathways that affect bladder function, and translate recent advances discovered in
      animal and human studies into clinical research and treatment. The ability to void safely and
      effectively by electrical stimulation without cutting sacral nerves or the external urethral
      sphincter would be a major advance. A socially acceptable, predictable and reliable device
      for reducing incontinence would be widely used and improve quality of life.
    
  