
    
      Background:

        -  Kaposi Sarcoma (KS) is a multicentric angioproliferative tumor, caused by Kaposi
           sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, that most frequently involves the skin, but may also
           involve lymph nodes, lungs, bone and gastrointestinal tract. It is most common in people
           with HIV but may also occur in patients without a diagnosis of HIV. Patients with
           HIVassociated KS have worse survival than HIV-infected patients without KS.

        -  As it is a relapsing and remitting condition, patients with KS often require prolonged
           courses of cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        -  KS is an immune responsive tumor as interferon-alpha, pomalidomide, and restoring Tcell
           function in HIV + patients treated with antiretroviral drugs can result in clinical
           benefit and remission of KS.

        -  Published Phase I/II studies by our group demonstrated that IL-12 alone and in
           combination with liposomal doxorubicin led to clinical responses in patients with
           advanced KS.

        -  NHS-IL12 (M9241) is an immunocytokine with affinity to both single and double stranded
           DNA allowing for targeting of exposed DNA, which is commonly seen in necrotic tumors.
           This agent is able to deliver IL-12 to the tumor microenvironment promoting local
           immunomodulation, that results in less systemic toxicity than IL-12 systemic
           administration.

        -  M7824 is a novel bifunctional fusion protein composed of a monoclonal antibody against
           human PD-L1 (avelumab) fused with the extracellular domain of human TGF-beta receptor II
           (TGF- RII), which functions as a TGF-beta trap .

        -  Anti-PD-L1 and anti-PD-1 agents have been found to be active in certain virus-induced
           cancers, including Kaposi sarcoma, and to be safe and active in patients with HIV
           infection.

        -  Currently, no clinical data exists for the combination of NHS-IL12 and M7824.
           Preclinical data suggest synergy between these agents from existing ongoing studies and
           the available clinical data both in KS and other tumor subtypes suggest that the
           combination of NHSIL12 with M7824 is likely to be well-tolerated and has scientific
           rationale. This combination offers a new treatment approach for patients with advanced
           KS who have received prior therapies.

      Objectives:

      -Evaluate the safety and tolerability of single agent NHS-IL12 and the combination of NHSIL12
      with M7824 in patients with advanced KS.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age >18 years

        -  Histologically confirmed Kaposi sarcoma (KS)

        -  KS requiring systemic therapy, with a history of prior systemic therapy:

             -  2 weeks from last chemotherapy

             -  4 weeks from last immunotherapy

        -  At least five measurable cutaneous KS lesions with no previous local radiation, surgical
           or intralesional cytotoxic therapy to these measurable lesions.

        -  ECOG Performance Status (PS) less than or equal to 2

        -  Patient must be willing to give informed consent.

        -  Patients can be HIV positive or negative.

        -  Antiretroviral therapy (ART) for HIV+ patients for 8 or more weeks prior to entry with
           an HIV viral load of <400 copies/ml and CD4+ T-cell count >50 cells/microliter.

        -  Patients with bleeding from visceral sites of KS or requiring blood transfusions in the
           2 weeks prior to study entry will not be eligible.

      Design:

        -  This is a Phase I/II study assessing the safety and efficacy of NHS-IL12 alone or in
           combination with M7824 in patients with advanced KS. Patients will receive therapy until
           optimal tumor response, unacceptable toxicity, the patient s request to discontinue
           therapy, PI decision, up to a total of 96 weeks, or 24 cycles.

        -  Monotherapy: Patients will receive NHS-IL12 alone with a 3+3 design applicable to the
           first 3-6 patients at a starting dose of 16.8 microgram/kg on day 1 of a 28-day cycle.
           Two dose de-escalation levels (Dose Level -1: 12 microgram/kg or Dose Level -2: 8
           microgram/kg) will be permitted if there is evidence of 2 or more dose limiting
           toxicities within the first 6 weeks of therapy.

        -  Combination Therapy: The combination arm will open following accrual and completion of
           the the DLT period for patients in the monotherapy arm. Up to 28 patients will be
           treated with M7824 (1200 mg IV, every 2 weeks) and NHS-IL12 (MTD dose from the
           monotherapy arm). The DLT period for this arm will be 6 weeks.
    
  