
    
      Patients will be premeditated with 7.5mg oral midazolam approximately 45-60 minutes prior to
      anesthesia. The standard monitoring of Electrocardiography for ST analysis and SPO2 will be
      monitored continuously. Capnography, tidal volume and airway pressure will also be monitored
      during anesthesia. Arterial line for invasive Blood Pressure monitoring, wide bore IV cannula
      will be placed before induction of anesthesia. Anesthesia technique will be standardized in
      both groups. After pre-oxygenation, anesthesia co-induction will be done with midazolam
      0.02-0.05 mg/kg, propofol 0.5-1mg/kg and fentanyl 5mcg/kg. Cis-atracurium 0.15mg/kg will be
      used as muscle relaxant. Patient will be ventilated manually by using isoflurane (1% end
      tidal) in oxygen using facemask. ETT will be placed orally via direct laryngoscopy by MC and
      C-MAC blade 3 or 4 when a Train of Four would not be achieved. All intubation will be
      performed by senior experienced anesthetist having experience of at least 20 intubations
      using video laryngoscope.

      After induction a central venous catheter will be placed for central venous pressure
      monitoring and a thermo dilution Swan Ganz catheter will be inserted if indicated.

      Tracheal intubation will be performed using the standard Macintosh laryngoscope(MC) or C- MAC
      video laryngoscope (VL) (Karl Storz, Tuttlingen, Germany).

      Hemodynamic changes, laryngoscopic view, the number of attempts, the time required for
      laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation, changes in rhythm, and intraoperative and post
      operative complications will be recorded. Heart rate (HR), systolic arterial pressure (SAP),
      diastolic arterial pressure (DAP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP) along with peripheral
      oxygen saturation (SpO2), will be recorded before (T1) and after induction (T2), 1 minute
      after intubation (T3), 5 min (T4) and 10 min (T5)post intubation. End tidal carbon dioxide
      (EtCO2) will be recorded immediately after induction (T2), immediately after intubation 1
      minute (T3), 5 min (T4) and 10 min (T5) post intubation. Measurements obtained after
      induction of anesthesia when the hemodynamics will be stable (post induction) will be
      considered as baseline measurements in the study.

      Duration of laryngoscopy (DOL) is defined as the time from oral placement of the laryngoscope
      blade to obtaining the best glottic view. For the evaluation of glottic view during
      laryngoscopy, modified Cormack and Lehane Scoring System (m CL) and percentage of the glottis
      opening (POGO) score will be used. Duration of intubation (DOI) is defined as the time
      interval between oral placement of the ET to the attainment of tracing of 3 EtCO2 waveforms
      after intubation and initiation of mechanical ventilation. An attempt is defined as the time
      from introduction of laryngoscope into the oral cavity until its removal. Three attempts at
      intubation will be allowed for all groups. Failure to intubate will be defined as the
      inability to intubate after three attempts. An alternative technique will be used in cases of
      failure as per the discretion of anesthetist. In the case of multiple attempts, the duration
      of each attempt will be recorded. The duration of laryngoscopy and intubation (DOLI) is
      defined as the sum of all intubation attempts. The hemodynamic changes after intubation will
      be evaluated after successful intubation. After the study period, the anesthetic agents will
      be used as per the patient requirement. A number of unsuccessful attempts of intubation,
      complications encountered during intubation (bleeding, lacerations, dental injury, etc.,),
      and optimal laryngeal external manipulation (OLEM) during intubation will be recorded. The
      management of these complications will be done by primary anaesthesia team as per their
      feasibility and the costs of management of these complications will be covered under hospital
      insurance. Difficult intubation will be assessed by using Intubation Difficulty score (Table
      1), Thyromental distance and Upper lip bite test.

      Adverse effects of A number unsuccessful attempts of intubation, complications encountered
      during intubation (bleeding, lacerations, dental injury, etc.,), and optimal laryngeal
      external manipulation (OLEM) during intubation will be recorded.
    
  