
    
      This is a Phase 2a study consisting of two parts, PART A and PART B. The first part (PART A)
      is a simple randomised, open-label, 2-period, cross-over, adaptive design study lasting for
      each participant up to 36 days.

      The second part (PART B) is an open-label extension for an additional period of 52 weeks, so
      as to establish a longer drug effect for the participants who wish to continue on oral daily
      dose.

      The complete timeline of the study includes the screening assessments within 28 days prior to
      simple randomisation and initiation of the study. The first administration of study
      medication will occur after all baseline and screening procedures have been passed (baseline
      is defined as pre-dosing period timeframe day -28 to day -1). No study procedures will be
      undertaken until a current informed consent form has been signed by each participant or their
      respective carer or responsible person.

      The design of the first part (PART A) of the study involves two periods, two administration
      routes and two dose levels: In one period the intravenous (iv) form will be given and in the
      other period the oral dose will be given. The first period will involve 12 administrations
      (either oral or iv) and the second period will involve 11 administrations (either oral or
      iv).

      The very first administration in the first period is intended as a full pharmacokinetic (PK)
      screen over the first 48 hours (Day 1 to Day 3). After that, 11 daily administrations
      complete the first period (Day 3 to Day 13). After a wash-out period of 11 days, the second
      period of the study starts, involving again 11 daily administrations. Therefore, the first
      part (PART A) of the study is scheduled to be completed in 36 days.

      The study design asks for 32 participants, 16 males and 16 female participants. All
      participants have the option to go on to the second part (PART B) of the study, the extended
      open-label study exploring the cognitive effect of the drug for another 52 weeks where the
      oral form will be exclusively administered.

      Safety and tolerability will be constantly assessed throughout the study, starting from the
      first dose of study medication.
    
  