
    
      Decades of research have shown that financial hardship is a key risk factor for suicide.
      Studies have consistently found higher prevalence of suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and
      suicide death among individuals experiencing financial hardship, such as unmanageable debts
      and difficulty paying for basic needs (e.g., housing, food). Stressful financial events
      (e.g., loss of income, evictions) are well-documented reasons for and precipitants of
      suicidal behavior. An increase in suicidal behavior is not only associated with objective
      aspects of financial hardship (e.g., number of debts, income level), but also with how
      hardship is experienced by individuals (e.g., financial threat, financial shame). In fact,
      growing evidence suggests that subjective financial hardship mediates the relationship
      between objective financial hardship and suicidal behavior.

      Despite overwhelming evidence about the economic determinants of suicide, evidence-based
      interventions to reduce suicide risk and financial hardship are not available. Suicide
      prevention interventions at the individual level have largely focused on identifying or
      treating symptoms of psychiatric distress and other immediate clinical factors.
      Ecological-level interventions have mostly focused on increasing suicide awareness and
      reducing access to the means of suicide.

      To address this gap, our project aims to develop a peer-led intervention that includes
      strategies and tools to reduce objective and subjective financial hardship, with the goal of
      decreasing hopelessness, shame, and depression (risk factors for suicide), increasing hope
      and life satisfaction (protective factors for suicide), and thereby reducing suicidal
      ideation and behaviors.

      The main outcome of this study will be a manualized intervention to lessen financial hardship
      as a risk factor for suicidal ideation and behavior. If the findings of this study support
      its feasibility, acceptability, satisfaction, and initial efficacy, the investigators will
      formalize a peer provider training program, further develop an intervention fidelity measure,
      and pursue a randomized controlled trial to test intervention efficacy.

      Specific aims and hypothesis are as follows:

        1. With multi-stakeholder input, develop and iteratively revise From Hardship to Hope, a
           peer-led financial empowerment intervention to reduce financial hardship and suicidal
           ideation and behaviors.

        2. Assess the feasibility and acceptability/satisfaction of the novel intervention using
           qualitative and quantitative methods.

        3. Examine the initial efficacy of the intervention on several outcomes. The investigators
           hypothesize that suicidal ideation intensity, hopelessness, and objective and subjective
           financial hardship will decrease after the intervention, while utilization of financial
           supports, financial self-efficacy, and hope will increase.

        4. Explore the intervention's mechanisms of action (e.g., level of participation, change in
           subjective financial hardship). The investigators hypothesize that the amount of change
           in suicidal ideation intensity will be positively correlated with the change in
           subjective financial hardship, and both will be associated with the level of
           participation.
    
  