
    
      Objectives of this double blind placebo-controlled study are to determine the efficacy,
      safety and tolerability of Namenda in the prevention of post-operative delirium as defined by
      DSM-IV-TR categories 293.0 Delirium due to medical condition or medications, and 780.09
      Delirium NOS. The incidence of post-operative delirium is 10-50% of general surgical cases,
      depending on the population studied. Delirium is known to affect mortality and morbidity, and
      increase the length of stay of patients. Hospital mortality estimates in patients with
      delirium range from 10-65%, estimated to be 2-20 times that of control patients without
      delirium. Delirium is an independent prognostic determinant of hospital outcomes, including
      death, new nursing home placements and functional decline. Delirium is an independent marker
      for increased mortality among older medical inpatients in the 12 months post hospitalization,
      particularly in those patients without dementia.

      Delirium may be better understood by a Multifactorial Model of Delirium, which involves a
      complex inter-relationship between predisposing Factors/Vulnerability and Precipitating
      Factors/Insults.

      If higher risk factors can be identified, then preventive interventions targeted to these
      groups may be able to significantly reduce morbitity, possibly mortality, but at minimum
      improve the quality of life of those patients who otherwise would have gone through such an
      enormously traumatic and disturbing experience as the psychosis and disorientation of a
      delirium.

      The Academy of Psyhosomatic Medicine Task Force on Mental Disorders in General Medical
      Practice, found that co-morbid delirium increased hospital length of stay: 100% in general
      medical inpatients, 114% in elderly patients, 67% in stroke patients, 300% in critical care
      patients, 27% in cardiac surgery patients, and 200-250% in hip surgery patients.

      Overall Design and Plan of Study: 30 Surgical patients (type of elective surgery: total hip
      and total knee replacements) will be randomized into two arms of the study attempting to get
      a similar mean age for each group: Group 1: 15 patients receive placebo Day
      --8,--7,--6,--5,--4,--3,--2,--1,Day 0 (surgery), Post-op day 1,2,3, and 4. Group 2: 15
      patients receive (10 mg) of Namenda (memantine) Day --8,--7,--6,--5,--4,--3,--2, then 20 mg
      per day on Day --1, day 0 (surgery), Post-op day 1,2,3 then 10 mg per day Post-op day 4, then
      stop Namenda.

      Both groups will receive a MMSE, CLOX, Confusion Assessment Method (CAM) and the Delirium
      Rating Scale-Revised-98 Scale on day --8 (or before drug/placebo), day --1, then post-op day
      1-6. Actigraphy will be performed day --8 through post-op day 6, and sleep diaries will be
      collected (subjected diaries pre-hospital day --8 through day --1, then objective diaries,
      day --1 through post-op day 6 in hospital).

      Baseline screening blood tests will be drawn on all patients and include SMA-8 including BUN
      and creatinine, serum albumin, TSH, NH3 and baseline BP, Pulse and Temperature. Pre-op
      hematocrit has been shown to be a predictor as well, and may be worthwhile to follow up in
      these patients.

      If delirium should develop in any patients, treatment will be as per usual standard of care,
      with likely psychiatric consultation and medications used will be tracked.

      Pharmaco-economic arm (PEA) of syudy: We are working with hospital administration and will be
      able to obtain costs of care such as the following: room charges, locations (whether ICU,
      step-down unit or regular floor etc), pharmacy costs, cost of consultations needed, number of
      days in the hospital needed for each group. Discharge outcome (disposition, need for SNF vs.
      home, visiting nurse service needs) will be compared at discharge, and fo;;ow-up 30 days
      later.
    
  