
    
      Background and Objectives: Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is the primary cause of
      genital ulcer and one of the most prevalent sexually transmitted infections (STI) worldwide.
      HSV-2 has been recognized as a risk factor for HIV in multiple studies. A substantial shift
      in the aetiology of genital ulcer disease (GUD) towards genital herpes has been noted in many
      countries in Africa, especially those with mature HIV epidemics. Some countries guided by the
      predominance of HSV-2 as the aetiology of GUD in their country, are changing syndromic
      guidelines to include acyclovir as part of the treatment for GUD. Little data is available to
      support this decision in terms of its effect on clinical course and its cost-effectiveness.
      Yet, substantial investment would be needed in poor countries to add acyclovir to their
      essential drug list. Studies to determine the appropriateness of episodic acyclovir therapy
      for HSV-2 in the developing world are needed.

      Episodic therapy with acyclovir both as a treatment modality and as an HIV-prevention
      strategy is appealing, in terms of cost and sustainability. However, it is not clear which
      will be its impact under field conditions in which there would be delay in symptom
      recognition and treatment initiation, and whether these conditions could be optimized through
      patient education. We propose to conduct a randomized placebo-controlled trial of the effect
      of HSV-2 episodic therapy on symptomatic herpes and on HIV shedding from genital ulcers. This
      study will help answer the question if acyclovir therapy for herpes should be added into the
      syndromic management of genital ulcer disease. Acyclovir has an acceptable profile for
      widespread STI treatment and is now relatively inexpensive and well-tolerated. Given that
      HSV-2 is the leading cause of GUD in the developing world, this approach could have great
      public health importance, by providing a safe, acceptable, and cost-effective method to treat
      genital ulcer disease and potentially reduce HIV transmission. If acyclovir therapy reduces
      HIV shedding, its incorporation into syndromic management would provide and effective way to
      scale it up as a public health intervention.

      Methods: We plan an individually randomized double blind placebo-control trial of the WHO and
      US CDC recommended dose of 3-times daily acyclovir for a 5-day treatment course. The trial
      will be conducted at two primary health care clinics in Johannesburg, South Africa. A total
      of 600 men presenting to the clinic with GUD will be enrolled in the study. Consenting
      participants will be randomized to receive either acyclovir plus syndromic management or
      placebo plus syndromic management. Syndromic management for genital ulcer disease will
      consist of one dose antibiotics to cover for syphilis and chancroid. Participants will be
      followed for a month; during follow-up visits duration of ulcers, ulcer number and size will
      be evaluated and ulcer, blood and semen samples collected to test for HIV RNA viral loads
      among HIV-positives and for HSV-2 shedding.

      Timeline: Duration of the project is 2 years

      Expected Outcomes: The main outcome of the study will be the evaluation of the impact of
      acyclovir therapy on ulcer healing. We will also measure the impact of acyclovir therapy on
      HIV and HSV-2 viral load from genital ulcers and HIV viral load in semen.
    
  