
    
      Surgical resection is the current gold standard for curative care of primary and metastatic
      hepatic tumors. This procedure involves the removal of the part of the liver where the tumor
      is located. This is typically achieved by removing the segments containing the tumor, so
      called anatomical resections. The downside of this technique is that it also removes a large
      part of healthy liver tissue. Recently, non-anatomical resections are becoming more popular,
      as they spare more healthy liver tissue than anatomical resections with similar oncological
      outcomes. In a non-anatomical resection, only the part of the liver with the tumor and a
      safety margin of 5 - 10 mm are resected. This is done to ensure a negative resection margin,
      which means that no tumor cells are at the boundary of the resection. These non-anatomical
      resections can be performed repeatedly in case of recurrence. However, compared to anatomical
      resections, it is more challenging to keep a negative resection margin as anatomical
      landmarks cannot be used for intra-operative guidance.

      In the beginning of a non-anatomical resection, a resection line is drawn onto the liver
      surface to visualize where the resection shall be started. During the resection process,
      intra-operative ultrasound is used to confirm a safe distance to the tumor. Finally, once the
      depth is reached, the distance to the tumor is again confirmed on ultrasound and the tumor is
      removed. This is a challenging process which depends on the operator's ability and experience
      with mentally reconstructing the spatial relationships of the ultrasound image and the
      intra-operative scene. Additionally, the resection margin introduces artifacts and makes it
      harder to visualize the safety distance to the tumor on ultrasound.

      To overcome these challenges, image-guidance systems have been introduced into the surgical
      workflow. These systems measure the pose of the surgical instruments and display their
      position on a virtual model of the anatomy. They mainly rely on a registration process to
      align a preoperative model with the patient's anatomy intraoperatively. This process is
      time-consuming, complex and error prone which is the main reason why such systems are rarely
      used.

      In this study, the investigators aim to clinically evaluate a different approach, where
      navigated intra-operative ultrasound data is used to create a virtual model and a surgical
      plan on the spot. This does not require a separate registration process. With this approach a
      virtual draft of the surgical plan is created, which serves as a rough guidance map through
      the procedure. The investigators hypothesize that using such an intra-operative surgical
      draft allows the surgeon to acquire a negative resection margin.
    
  