
    
      This project's aim is to identify psychological distress, build resilience among toddlers and
      their parents, and treat post traumatic stress disorder. The project components have
      consisted of a) using resilience-building interventions geared toward helping parents and
      daycare teachers deal with the stress engendered by the repeated emergency situations b)
      screening toddlers (24-48 months) for post traumatic distress utilizing new validated
      instruments c) referring highly symptomatic children and parents to dyadic treatment which
      focuses on observing the dynamics and interaction between parents and children before
      treatment intervention with the (more typically) mother/child.

      Research into childhood trauma has clearly demonstrated that infants and children impacted by
      terrorism or with mothers who have suffered traumatic experiences are at very high risk for a
      multitude of long-term emotional disorders. Mothers suffering the effects of Post Traumatic
      Stress Disorders (PTSD) have difficulty providing the emotional holding environment and
      relational foundation necessary for healthy attachment and bonding. An anxious or traumatized
      mother will have difficulty soothing her child if she herself is in a state of emotional and
      physical hyper-arousal.

      The project is aimed at identifying children who are suffering from posttraumatic distress
      and increasing capacity to provide treatment for them and for their caretakers. The project
      will be implemented in Sderot. Professional staff (teachers, nurses and aides) will be
      trained to conduct a systematic short screening in order to identify families with babies,
      toddlers and young children suffering from, or at risk for post-traumatic stress disorder.

      The elements of the project will consist of:

      A. Screening of young children and implementation of treatment The screening will consist of
      a short interviews with parents conducted by trained professional about exposure to traumatic
      events and resulting post-traumatic specific symptoms among the toddlers and their parents.

      B. Workshops for parents, teachers, nurses The knowledge and skills of preschool teachers and
      nurses working in all our projects sights as well as parents will be increased by providing
      training regarding the impact of war related trauma on preschool children. Workshops will
      better equip teachers, nurses and parents with knowledge about the emotional impact of trauma
      on young children and will increase the skills to help preschool children contain emotional
      distress as well as to help them in coping with the emotional consequences of trauma
      exposure.

      C. Treatment Interventions Dyadic treatment involving parents and children is aimed at
      increasing the attunement of parents to their toddlers and their needs in times of crises.
      Local practitioners in Sderot will received specialized training in this methodology by a
      child trauma specialist from Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. The effectiveness of the
      dyadic treatment will be evaluated.

      D. Evaluation of treatment Evaluation of treatment efficacy (dyadic treatment) will be
      assessed by pre and post interviews that will be conducted by trained professionals with all
      parents participating in the dyadic treatments in each of the three cities.
    
  