
    
      Hereditary non-polyposis colon carcinoma (HNPCC) or the Lynch syndrome is a rare cause of
      colorectal cancer caused by a defect in mismatch repair genes. Because of this, colorectal
      cancer does not develop according to the classical adenoma-carcinoma sequence, resulting in
      faster progression to malignant lesions. As a results patients typically present at a younger
      age with colorectal cancer or associated cancers such as endometrium or ovarian cancer. The
      risk for cancer in patients with the Lynch syndrome has been estimated to be 60-90% for colon
      cancer presenting at a mean age of 44 years . Colonoscopy is considered the gold standard for
      polyp detection. However the polyp miss rate has been reported to be 2% for larger adenomas
      (< 10mm) , 13% for lesions between 5 and 10 mm and up to 26% for small lesions (1-5 mm).
      Between 2 to 6 percent of carcinomas can be missed , resulting interval cancers. Typically,
      in HNPCC small colorectal lesions can already harbor cancer or high grade dysplasia, making
      early detection of small lesions even more clinically relevant than in an average risk
      population.

      New endoscopic imaging systems that are currently available have a high definition video
      signal and have an incorporated feature of virtual chromoendoscopy. High definition endoscopy
      is becoming the new gold standard in endoscopy, since it is available in all new types of
      commercially available endoscopes. The use of high definition endoscopy may lead to improved
      recognition of subtle and flat lesions. Furthermore, the use of filters techniques
      accentuates superficial changes in the mucosal architecture and helps to characterize polyps.
      I-scan is a postprocessing filter incorporated in the high definition processor (EPKi) of the
      new Pentax endoscopes. The techniques highlights changes in surface and vessel architecture
      through 3 different modifications (so called surface enhancement, tone enhancement and
      contrast enhancement). In a randomized trial in patients with a positive feces occult blood
      test it has been shown that the system detects significantly more polyps than standard
      resolution white light.

      Current literature suggests that classical chromoendoscopy with indigocarmine (Huneberg,
      lecomte) or narrow-band imaging (NBI) increases the detection of polyps in HNPCC patients.
      Although all of these studies had a cross-over design, randomization for the imaging modality
      was either not possible (in case of chromoendoscopy) or not applied (in case of NBI). So it
      is not clear whether more polyps are detected by advanced imaging techniques, or simply by a
      second inspection of the colon.

      The aim of this study was to assess the additional value of i-scan in polyp detection in
      HNPCC patients in comparison to high definition white light endoscopy (HD-WLE) in a
      randomized controlled cross-over trial. The investigators also wanted to investigate the
      effect of a second inspection round on polyp detection.
    
  