
    
      Hypothesis: Epilepsy is the most common neurological disorder globally, affecting
      approximately 50 million people worldwide. Of these, approximately 20% present with
      intractable or refractory epilepsy, where the frequency of seizures cannot be controlled
      adequately with anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs), leading to great neurobiological, cognitive,
      psychological and social consequences. Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) is a
      non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) technique that can effectively modulate (up- or
      down-regulate) cortical excitability of targeted brain regions. It has the potential of
      downregulating the neuronal activity, through the cathodal stimulation of the epileptic focal
      area and thus, reducing the frequency of seizures. Previous studies have shown that cathodal
      tDCS is a safe and effective treatment modality of treatment to reduce the frequency of
      seizures in patients with refractory epilepsy. However, the level of evidence of its effects
      in the management of seizures frequency is still low. In the present work, the investigators
      aim to evaluate the effects of tDCS in the management of seizures in patients with refractory
      epilepsy and its impact on cognitive function and quality of life.

      Objective: The main aim of this randomized controlled trial is to determine if cathodal tDCS
      is effective in reducing the frequency of seizures in refractory epilepsy and, to determine
      if this reduction will positively impact the participants cognitive status and quality of
      life.

      Methods: This is a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, single-center
      study. The participants in the study will be randomized to either the intervention - tDCS
      group or sham group. Each individual will undergo 15 consecutive sessions of real cathodal
      tDCS stimulation or sham-stimulation. The primary outcome measure will be the frequency of
      seizures, measured by a seizure diary; changes in interictal epileptiform discharges on the
      Electroencephalogram (EEG); and functional connectivity changes in the epilepsy focal area,
      measured by resting-state Functional Resonance Image (rs-fMRI). Secondary outcomes include
      quality of life and cognition. Outcome measures will be done prior to intervention;
      immediately after intervention, at 1 month-follow up and again at 3-months follow up.
    
  