
    
      This is a cross-sectional comparative study based on self-reported questionnaires and scales
      (validated for the most part) assessing the levels of burnout, emotional distress, sleep
      disturbance and needs in frontline Covid-19 healthcare workers vs non-Covid-19 healthcare
      workers. The enrollment and the course of the study will be carried out on site. Participants
      are volunteers and are informed about the objectives and methods of the study.

      Any physician, nurse or physiotherapist (referred as "healthcare worker") actively working in
      a medical care unit from different medical facilities will be informed of the study. An email
      containing information regarding the study and its implications will be sent. If required by
      the care unit they work in, potential participants will also be invited to a one-time
      information session. Potential participants will also be given an information form during
      this oral information session. Participants will be recruited from April 15th to May 15th
      2020.

      The assessment will be proposed by paper or web-based self-reported questionnaires and
      scales. This mixed-mode survey will not be randomized and will ensure the highest range of
      participants, considering the hygiene and organizational requirements in the target units.
      The assessment time will be proposed at the participant's inclusion. Because of the
      mixed-mode survey and anonymity of data, the completion of questionnaires and scales will be
      considered as informed consent as stated in the information form received by the
      participants.

      The questionnaires and scales include sociodemographic characteristics, professional
      information, the Professional Fulfillment Index (PFI), the Depression, Anxiety and Stress
      Scale-Short Form (DASS-21), the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and the Needs and Difficulties
      Inventory (NDI, developed for the study).

      Healthcare workers from emergency units, non-intensive Covid-19 and intensive Covid-19 units
      will be in the target group. Healthcare workers from non-Covid-19 units will be in the
      control group. In terms of enrollment, 200 participants (100 in each group) are expected. The
      objectives of the study will be reached by statistical comparison of these groups.

      In terms of data collection, the data manager collects data from paper version and electronic
      version. For the paper version, participants will be able to deposit their assessment in
      specific drop boxes available in the concerned care units. Then, data manager's assistant
      will be in charge of producing a digital copy. The data from the paper version will undergo
      double encoding (by two assistants, not linked to the principal investigator) in order to
      reduce encoding errors. The electronic data will be stored on a secure platform, linked to
      the Free University of Brussels. The paper version will be stored in a secure location within
      Erasme Hospital (Brussels, Belgium), accessible only by the principal investigator and the
      data manager. Evaluations, whether paper or electronic, will be destroyed 1 month after study
      completion date.

      Statistical analysis will consist firstly in a comparative analysis of participants'
      sociodemographic and professional characteristics using Chi-squared (or Student t test,
      Mann-Whitney U test when applicable for continuous variable) test for each categorical
      variable. Secondly, descriptive analyses will be performed on severity categories for
      professional fulfillment, burnout, insomnia, depression, anxiety and stress. Differences
      between groups regarding severity levels will be tested using X2. A two-way MANOVA will be
      used to test main effects of working position (group effect), occupation type (occupation
      effect) and to test a group × occupation interaction effect on fulfillment, burnout, insomnia
      and mental health scores. The two-way MANOVA will be adjusted for age, gender, marital
      status, workload and job status. Multivariable logistic regression analyses will be performed
      to estimate risk factors for burnout, clinically significant insomnia and severe to extremely
      severe depression, anxiety and stress. These will be presented as odds ratios, with 95%
      confidence intervals, adjusting for confounders. All tests will be two-tailed and alpha was
      set at .05. All analyses will be performed using IBM SPSS® v26.
    
  