
    
      Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogs are the mainstay of treatment for central
      precocious puberty (CPP) since 1985. The relatively short time period elapsed since the
      introduction of this therapy has not allowed until now to carry out exhaustive studies on the
      long-term evolution of treated patients. This project will analyze the long-term outcomes of
      patients with CPP treated or not with GnRHas on adult height, body mass index, body
      composition, metabolic disorders, bone mineralization, gonadal function, and fertility in
      comparison to a control group. Overweight before puberty is associated to earlier menarche,
      and conversely, earlier menarche predispose to adult obesity and metabolic disorders.
      Nevertheless, it is unclear if adult adiposity is a direct consequence of early puberty or if
      early puberty is a marker of a predisposition to excess adiposity from prepuberty through
      adult life. Recent data in rodent models support the hypothesis that early nutritional status
      determines a risk for both childhood and adult obesity and influences pubertal timing. In
      girls, early weight gain in childhood has been associated with early menarche. Pattern of
      growth rather than absolute level of fatness seem to be of most importance. So the first aim
      of this study is to compare the outcomes of CCP patients with or without an early adiposity
      rebound and to demonstrate that adiposity rebound more than CPP per se or the GnRHas therapy
      affect the outcomes. Moreover, recent genome-wide association studies have identified
      obesity-related gene variants associated with earlier age at menarche. The investigators
      hypothesized that there might be a genetic basis underlying the early programming of both
      childhood and adulthood adiposity and puberty timing. The investigators thus aim to determine
      if those obesity-related gene variants associated with an early but not precocious menarche
      could also be found in CPP, especially in girls with an early adiposity rebound and if their
      presence may affect adult health.
    
  