
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In Hawaii, as in many other states, tourism is a large industry. Most hotel jobs require
      little education or training, and hotels employ large numbers of persons and immigrants with
      low socioeconomic status. Hawaii, with the world's most ethnically diverse population, has
      high rates of obesity and diabetes, particularly among those of Polynesian ancestry (about
      20-22% of the population). This study will include a comprehensive lifestyle change program
      delivered through worksites in partnership with a large health care system.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Thirty-one hotels employing 11,000 persons on the island of Oahu are pair-matched. One member
      of each pair is assigned to a high intensity intervention and the other to a low intensity
      intervention. Both interventions are intended to reduce BMI through an emphasis on a healthy
      diet and increased physical activity. All employees are assessed annually for three
      consecutive years. The assessment includes a survey on lifestyle habits, stage of change, and
      attitudes toward weight, as well as measurement of BMI. The high intensity intervention
      hotels receive the following: 1) environmental changes to support lifestyle change and
      obesity control; 2) worksite based groups that offer state-of-the-art behavioral
      interventions; and 3) after-hours "Re-Invent Yourself" groups designed for persons who want
      to lose at least 25 pounds and are highly committed to doing it. These interventions
      incorporate all the elements that produce sustained weight loss and an innovative decision
      tutorial based on decision theory. The primary outcome is the mean difference between hotels
      in the high intensity and low intensity interventions in change in BMI from baseline to 12
      and 24 months. Secondary outcomes address effects of the intervention on ethnic and
      occupational subgroups stage of change, absentee days, and worker compensation claims.
    
  