
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To confirm tolerability of the combination regimen of inotuzumab ozogamicin followed by
      blinatumomab.

      II. To estimate the 1-year event-free survival of older, transplant-ineligible patients with
      newly diagnosed, Philadelphia (Ph)-negative, CD22-positive, B-cell acute lymphoblastic
      leukemia (ALL) treated with inotuzumab ozogamicin induction followed by blinatumomab
      consolidation. (Cohort 1) III. To estimate the 1-year event-free survival of patients with
      relapsed or refractory Ph-negative, CD22-positive, B-cell ALL treated with inotuzumab
      ozogamicin induction followed by blinatumomab consolidation. (Cohort 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the median, 1-year, and 3-year overall survival (OS) in all eligible patients.
      (Cohort 1) II. To estimate the median, 1-year, and 3-year relapse-free survival (RFS) in all
      eligible patients. (Cohort 1) III. To estimate the median and 3-year event-free survival
      (EFS) in all eligible patients. (Cohort 1) IV. To estimate the complete response (CR) rate
      and overall response rate (ORR, defined as complete response [CR] + complete response with
      incomplete count recovery [CRi]) to inotuzumab ozogamicin followed by blinatumomab (regimen
      CR rate and ORR). (Cohort 1) V. To estimate the CR rate and ORR (CR + CRi) to inotuzumab
      ozogamicin induction alone (induction CR and ORR). (Cohort 1) VI. To estimate the minimal
      residual disease (MRD) negativity rate in subjects achieving a CR or CRi. (Cohort 1) VII. To
      estimate the treatment-related mortality with this regimen. (Cohort 1) VIII. To describe the
      safety and tolerability of this regimen. (Cohort 1) IX. To estimate the median, 1-year, and
      3-year OS in all eligible patients. (Cohort 2) X. To estimate the median, 1-year, and 3-year
      RFS in all eligible patients. (Cohort 2) XI. To estimate the median and 3-year EFS in all
      eligible patients. (Cohort 2) XII. To estimate ORR (CR/CRi and CR/complete response with
      partial hematologic recovery [CRh]) to blinatumomab in patients with ALL refractory to
      inotuzumab ozogamicin. (Cohort 2) XIII. To estimate the CR, CRi, and CRh rates at defined
      time points and cumulatively for the entire regimen. (Cohort 2) XIV. To determine the MRD
      negativity (< 10^-4) rate at defined time points including prior to allogeneic HCT and
      cumulatively in patients achieving a CR, CRh, or CRi. (Cohort 2) XV. To determine the
      allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) rate in eligible subjects. (Cohort 2)
      XVI. To estimate the treatment-related mortality with this regimen. (Cohort 2) XVII. To
      describe the safety and tolerability of this regimen. (Cohort 2)

      OTHER OBJECTIVES:

      I. Results of the primary analysis will be examined for consistency, while accounting for the
      stratification factors and/or covariates of baseline quality of life (QOL) and fatigue.

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate specific karyotype groups (normal or various primary and secondary
      chromosomal abnormalities) with clinical and laboratory parameters.

      II. To correlate specific karyotype groups with response rates, response duration, survival,
      and cure in patients treated with inotuzumab ozogamicin followed by blinatumomab.

      III. To correlate specific karyotype groups with MRD. IV. To determine karyotype changes at
      relapse and the influence of the type of change (or no change) in karyotype at relapse.

      V. To assess the correlation of quantitative MRD post-induction with inotuzumab ozogamicin
      and at sequential consolidation time points with blinatumomab with RFS, EFS, and OS.

      VI. To correlate the influence of MRD status (detectable versus [vs.] not and as a continuous
      measure) in relation to EFS, RFS, and OS with other clinical and biological factors (e.g.
      previously untreated vs. relapsed disease cohorts; age, initial white blood cell [WBC] count,
      cytogenetics).

      VII. To identify genetic variants and predictors of ex vivo resistance. VIII. To identify
      genetic variants and predictors of MRD. IX. To identify genetic variants and predictors of
      relapse. X. To determine inter-patient variability in drug sensitivity of adult ALL. XI. To
      examine the associations of drug sensitivity with host and leukemia molecular features.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the median, 1-year, and 3-year RFS, EFS, and OS in patients achieving a CR/CRi
      to inotuzumab ozogamicin. (Cohort 1) II. To compare the median, 1-year, and 3-year RFS, EFS,
      and OS among patients achieving MRD-negative vs. MRD-positive CR/CRi to inotuzumab
      ozogamicin. (Cohort 1) III. To compare the median, 1-year, and 3-year RFS, EFS, and OS among
      patients achieving MRD-negative vs. MRD-positive CR/CRi at any time. (Cohort 1) IV. To
      describe the rate, severity, and timing of sinusoidal obstruction syndrome/veno-occlusive
      disease (SOS/VOD) of the liver after limited inotuzumab ozogamicin exposure and identify risk
      factors for SOS/VOD. (Cohort 1) V. To estimate the rate of cytokine release syndrome in this
      population. (Cohort 1) VI. To estimate the median, 1-year, and 3-year RFS from time of CR/CRi
      to inotuzumab ozogamicin in patients receiving inotuzumab ozogamicin followed by blinatumomab
      and not undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). (Cohort 2) VII. To
      estimate median, 1-year, and 3-year OS after CR/CRi to inotuzumab ozogamicin in patients not
      undergoing allogeneic HCT. (Cohort 2) VIII. To compare in a non-randomized fashion median,
      1-year, and 3-year OS, median, 1-year, and 3-year RFS, cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR),
      and non-relapse mortality (NRM) between patients achieving CR/CRi and receiving consolidation
      with or without allogeneic HCT. (Cohort 2) IX. To describe the rate, severity, and timing of
      sinusoidal obstruction syndrome/veno-occlusive disease (SOS/VOD) of the liver after limited
      inotuzumab ozogamicin exposure and identify risk factors for SOS/VOD. (Cohort 2) X. To
      estimate the rate of cytokine release syndrome in this population. (Cohort 2)

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT 1: Patients receive inotuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1, 8,
      and 15 (Course IA). By the end of Course IA (day 21), patients with adequate ALL
      cytoreduction continue to Course IB/IC, and patients who fail to achieve ALL cytoreduction
      continue to Course II. By the end of Course II, patients with CR-CRi to Course IB/IC and
      Course II continue to Course IIIA, patients without adequate ALL cytoreduction to Course IA
      or refractory to Course IB/IC but CR/CRi to Course II continue to Course IIIB.

      COHORT 2: Patients receive inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on day 1, 8, and 15 (Course
      IA). By the end of Course IA (day 21), patients with adequate ALL cytoreduction continue to
      Course IB/IC, and patients who fail to achieve ALL cytoreduction continue to Course II.
      Patients with CR/CRi at the end of Course II continue to Course IIIB.

      COURSE IB/IC: Patients receive inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15.
      Treatment continues for 1 course (28 days) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      COURSE II: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28 and 43-70. Treatment
      continues for 1 course (84 days) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      COURSE IIIA: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28 and 43-70. Treatment
      continues for 1 course (84 days) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      COURSE IIIB: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28, 43-70, and 85-112.
      Treatment continues for 1 course (126 days) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years, and
      then every 6 months for up to 10 years.
    
  