
    
      Cardiac rehabilitation is an eight week program designed to help patients regain good health
      through changed lifestyle after a possible heart attack, heart surgery or other heart
      problems. Patients will take part in exercise sessions and education lessons, tailored to
      meet their personal needs. The exercise training component of cardiac rehabilitation may be
      delivered as intervals of short intense sessions (also known as high intensity intervals) or
      the current standard care of longer but less intense sessions (moderate intense intervals).
      Both exercises have been shown to increase fitness levels and also prevent future risk of
      heart disease. Although there is some evidence to suggest that high intensity interval
      training produces better body muscles recovery and fitness during cardiac rehabilitation,
      many important health outcomes have not yet been determined. Such outcomes include the
      ability of the body to safely control blood pressure and heartbeat rate. Others include
      health-related quality of life and emotional well-being.

      This study will explore whether there are any differences in health outcomes before and after
      the introduction of the intervention for patients undergoing high intensity interval exercise
      compared to those on moderate intensity interval exercise in terms of the recovery of the
      ability to control blood pressure and heartbeat rate, and also health-related quality of life
      and emotional well-being. In addition, patients' opinions will be sought regarding pain
      levels, the acceptability and the extent of enjoyment they get from each of the two types of
      exercise training.

      For each patient, their exercise program will be designed to match their preferences and
      requirements. Some may prefer to work in a gym environment and so will have their program
      designed around this type of activity. Others may prefer to work in a group exercise circuit,
      with their program matched to what is available. When comparing the two types of exercise,
      everything will be kept the same; from the warm up and cool down, to the types of movements;
      the only thing that will change is the intensity of the exercise.

      Before and after the eight week training program, patients will be asked to have an
      assessment to measure the effects that the exercise has on their body. Things like heart rate
      and blood pressure will be taken and they will also undergo a physical fitness test.

      After the training, patients will complete questionnaires to establish their level of
      enjoyment of the program, how motivated they were to complete it. In addition, their quality
      of life and emotional well-being will be measured by completing questionnaires before and
      after the 8 weeks of the cardiac rehabilitation program. The investigators anticipate that a
      total of 46 patients will be recruited for the study over a period of 6 months. In the United
      Kingdom, it is believed that delivering an improved exercise training program has the
      potential to enhance patients' recovery from heart disease that may reduce the need for
      hospital services and therefore a better use of the National Health Service resources.
    
  