
    
      Traditional healthcare facility-based consultation model of episodic contact in managing
      chronic disease patients have limited exposure to monitor and intervene patients' lifestyle
      factors. These factors have been found to be more effective in managing 3H than medication.
      The proposed adaptive platform will utilize wearable and mobile application technologies
      which has the ability to continuous track several physiological and lifestyle factors data
      (e.g. moderate to vigorous active minutes, resting heart rate, sleep hours and quality and
      dietary habits)

      Similarly, due to the limited exposure that healthcare workers have with patients under the
      current consultation model, current health education and intervention tends to be "one size
      fits all", passive and "top down" knowledge-loading. Patients are expected to change their
      behavior or to remember health education knowledge after a consultation session. The proposed
      adaptive platform will be built using educational and behavioral cues obtained from multiple
      stakeholders (including patients) and multiple data sources with the aim to gather more
      comprehensive and targeted feedback that is relevant to patients' needs in their management
      of their 3H condition. As changes in lifestyle factors and habits takes time, the proposed
      platform can also provide timely and appropriate feedbacks and reminders to patients at a
      more constant interval as compared to current model of care when advice was only given during
      consultation follow-up

      To be able to add healthy years to the life of the current and future seniors,behavioral
      interventions that are closely studied and carefully implemented without disruption to the
      daily activity of the seniors is needed to achieve a revolutionary improvement in current
      primary care management.

      The investigators will conduct a qualitative study to have a deep and enriched understanding
      of the types of nudges that are suited for patients with chronic diseases. Through modelling
      approach using the electronic medical records, the proposed adaptive platform will profile
      patients into groups and pre-set the nudges that are suitable for them. This allows the
      investigators to identify patients that have a higher risk of complications of 3H and quickly
      match the desired nudges to change behavior.

      The proposed adaptive platform also aims to empower patients by providing patients with
      automated bite-sized knowledge of their health conditions. Coupled with real-time
      personalized feedback to their health behaviors, patients will be equipped with the knowledge
      to take charge of their health using far lesser healthcare manpower and resources.

      The proposed adaptive platform will be integrated into common mobile wearable which are
      readily available devices that are widely used by many Singaporeans now. As such it can also
      be scaled up relatively easily with minimal resources and education.

      Therefore, the proposed adaptive intervention will improve health outcomes and reduce
      healthcare utilization. An empowered patient will result in lesser complications and improve
      health outcomes, resulting in lower patient and caregiver burden, improving quality of life.
    
  