
    
      1. Problem Outline, Theoretical Framework and Project Justification

           The problem: Cervical Cancer

           Cervical cancer is a serious public health problem. Worldwide, it is the third leading
           cause of death of women. An estimated 270,000 women die every year due to cervical
           cancer, and more than 85% of these deaths take place in developing countries (1).

           Chile´s national cervical cancer program was created in 1987. Since then, and with the
           systematic implementation of cervical cancer screening through Papanicolau (Pap) smears,
           cervical cancer mortality rates have dropped significantly (2,3).

           In spite of all efforts, cervical cancer continues to cause the mortality of more than
           500 women each year in Chile. Across the nation, only 59 percent of the population is
           up-to-date with their Pap, a figure that has not changed significantly in the last 10
           years (2). In the Metropolitan Region, this percentage is as low as 56 percent. The
           distribution of cervical cancer, like that of other cancers, follows a pattern of
           inequality in that women of lowest socioeconomic status are those most affected (4).

           Closing the Gap: Mobile Health (mHealth)

           Mobile technologies have had an exponential increase in the last few years.

           In 2014, the penetration of mobile phones will reach 90% in developing countries
           compared to 121% in developed countries. (5, 6).

           This same trend can also be seen in access to mobile broadband technologies, which will
           have an estimated penetration of 32% by the end of 2014.

           The number of internet users worldwide follows this same trend as well. By the end of
           2014, there will be more than 3 billion users, with more than 2/3 of these in developing
           countries.

           According to a survey by the Deputy Minister of Telecommunications in Chile (7), access
           to a mobile or fixed internet connection was 39.4% by the end of 2009. This increased to
           over 60% by 2012.

           This coverage is distributed unequally according to socioeconomic class, with more than
           81% of penetration in richer homes and less than 30% in poorer strata (21.4% and 9.8%
           respectively).

           On the other hand, mobile telephones reached more than 90% of homes in 2009, of both
           rural and urban survey respondents interviewed by the Deputy Minister of
           Telecommunications. While inequalities remain in this area as well, they are much less
           profound than with other technologies: the mobile telephone can be found widely
           distributed in all socioeconomic levels, and varies between 97% in richer strata and
           82.8% in poor SES (7).

           By the end of 2013, the percentage of mobile telephone subscribers per 100 inhabitants
           was almost 40% for mobile phones with a contract and more than 94% for phones with
           prepaid plans.

           The Solution: Using mobile health technology (mHealth)

           Mobile health (mHealth) has been defined by the WHO (World Health Organization) as
           "medical and public health practice supported by mobile devices, such as mobile phones,
           patient monitoring devices, personal digital assistants (PDAs), and other wireless
           devices" (9).

           Given the explosion of the use of these technologies in the world and particularly in
           developing countries, the potential for mobile health in health issues is huge.

           The overall interest in mobile health is widespread (11). According to the WHO´s report
           on mHealth in 2011 (9), mobile health strategies exist in at least 75% of the countries
           that belong to the WHO in each region. 100% of the countries in the Southeast Asian
           region reported some mobile health initiative at different stages of development, and
           the Americas region reported that more than 90% of its countries had some form of mobile
           health initiative (Chile was not included in these statistics).

           According to the World Bank, high-income countries reported more initiatives than
           low-income countries.

           Some examples of mobile health initiatives in Latin America are the following: Mexico
           reported a mobile health program called MedicalHome in which a million mobile telephone
           subscribers have access to health professional support by telephone for $5 per month,
           which is charged directly to the cell phone account. Columbia reported a program for
           treatment adherence reminders using voice messages and Peru reported a RCT (Randomized
           Controlled Trial) that was done to assess treatment adherence using text messaging in
           patients with HIV/AIDS (9).

           One of the most relevant problems regarding the use of these technologies is that there
           isn´t sufficient evidence of its effectiveness in prevention (12). Because of this, it
           is imperative to invest in rigorous and systematic evaluations of these interventions so
           that they can be applied at the population level.

           While some evidence exists that shows that mobile health is an effective strategy for
           treatment adherence for prenatal care and those with HIV and TB (13,14,15), the
           potential use of mobile health technologies in cancer prevention has not been fully
           explored. Given the widespread existence of mobile telephones in Chile, investigators
           intend with this study to deliver a simple, replicable, and scalable intervention to
           improve the rates of morbidity and mortality due to cervical cancer that afflict Chile´s
           population.

        2. Research Questions

      1. Do mobile technologies have a preventive benefit in women with greater risk of getting
      cervical cancer as compared to usual care? 2. In women with greater risk of getting cervical
      cancer, what are the barriers and facilitators to implementing this kind of technological
      intervention?

      3. Research Hypotheses

        1. Null Hypothesis: The proposed intervention does not increase Pap adherence rates in the
           studied health centers.

           Alternative Hypothesis: The proposed intervention increases Pap adherence rates in the
           studied health centers.

        2. Null Hypothesis: An intervention using mobile technology cannot be feasibly implemented
           in this population.

      Alternative Hypothesis: It is possible to implement an intervention using mobile technology
      in this population.

      4. Study Objectives General Objective: Evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of a
      mobile health intervention to increase cervical cancer screening adherence.

      Specific Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the effect that a text message intervention has on Pap adherence rates.

        2. Evaluate the implementation and usability of a cellphone mobile health intervention in
           three health centers of the Southeast Metropolitan Health District of Santiago.

      5. Methodology Design:

        1. Quantitative phase:

             1. Target Population:

                Target population will be women between 25 and 64 years of age who use cell phones
                and do not have an up-to-date Pap test (no Pap in the last three years). They must
                also be registered at one of the following health clinics: CESFAM (Centro de Salud
                Familiar) El Roble or CESFAM Juan Pablo II.

                A randomized controlled trial will be carried out to evaluate the effectiveness of
                text message intervention in improving Pap adherence. Socio-demographic variables
                associated with its effectiveness will also be analyzed.

                Selection methodology: Using the database of medical records in each clinic, women
                will be identified that meet the inclusion criteria. They will be invited to
                participate in the study, and if they choose to accept, informed consent will be
                obtained.

                Before randomization, the participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire
                with simple demographic questions and questions regarding their beliefs and
                attitudes about cellphone use and cervical cancer.

             2. Randomization:

           Participants will be randomized into either the intervention group or the control group
           using a randomization software that keeps the randomization sequence hidden. The control
           group will receive their usual care in each health center, which consists of different
           interventions depending on the health center they attend. Examples of usual care include
           periodic midwife visits, education by health personnel and cervical cancer health
           campaigns.

           c) Intervention: Women randomized to the intervention group will receive text and voice
           messages (designed with input from previous qualitative phase) sent to their cellphones
           that remind them to get a Pap smear, send them information about cervical cancer, and
           inform them of health clinic location and hours where they could get a Pap smear.

        2. Qualitative phase:

      The implementation of a mHealth intervention could fail for many reasons. Some of the
      previously described barriers for this and other types of mobile interventions are:
      restrictions in the number of characters in the text message, illiteracy, poor signal
      coverage and quality, and confidentiality and pertinence in families where cellphones are
      shared.

      However, there may be many other factors that hinder or facilitate its effectiveness: lack of
      funds to keep credit on a cellphone throughout the entire month, losing the phone, little use
      of text messaging in the elderly, among others.

      Investigators will carry out focus groups with women who receive care at the participating
      centers in order to define barriers and facilitators to a text message intervention that will
      promote Pap adherence.

      Focus Groups Participants:

      Women between 25 and 64 years old that meet the inclusion criteria for the study.

      Midwives at the health care centers.

      Investigators will carry out nine (9) focus groups in total. Women will let us know about
      barriers and facilitators to the use of this technology and midwives will help investigators
      to characterize the usual care that women receive and better inform text message content as
      well as barriers to their use.

      Every community member that attends a focus group will receive an incentive of 5,000 Chilean
      pesos (8 USD) for their time and information. Each health professional that attends a focus
      group will receive 10,000 Chilean pesos (16 USD).

      Data Encoding The focus groups will be led by individuals expert in qualitative methods and
      assisted by the Principal Investigator and a student assistant who will serve as a
      note-taker. The focus groups will be recorded for analysis.

      The audio of the focus groups will be transcribed and coded using the software Atlas.ti
      version 6.2

      Analysis Information will be analyzed using a qualitative content analysis process* by two or
      more investigators who will extract relevant themes regarding usage patterns, barriers, and
      facilitators to this type of intervention. Investigators will use the conceptual framework
      called PRECEDE-PROCEED in order to carry out the analysis*. Investigators will use it to
      identify predisposing factors that reinforce and enable the use of mobile technologies to
      improve Pap adherence.

      The collected information will contribute to the design of the intervention, and from there
      the quantitative phase of the study will begin.

      d) Sample size Previous studies have shown that without an intervention, around 30% of women
      who are not up-to-date with their Pap test will get a Pap within the following 6-12 months.
      Looking at literature regarding similar interventions for other pathologies, investigators
      anticipate seeing an absolute increase of 15% in adherence rate. With this difference in
      proportions, and alpha errors of 5% and beta errors of 20%, the estimated sample size is 176
      per arm. Considering a loss of 10%, investigators will recruit an estimated 200 patients per
      arm.

      e) Statistical Analysis Investigators will use descriptive statistics to characterize
      demographic variables of the included patients in the same manner as charactering the
      indicators of implementation.

      For the primary outcome (proportion of women with an up-to-date Pap), investigators will use
      a chi-squared test to test differences in proportions.

      For the multivariate analysis, investigators will use logistic regression and Poisson
      regression.

      For the categorical variables, investigators will use a chi-squared test.
    
  