
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether rosiglitazone and celecoxib, administered alone or in combination,
           cause changes in the expression of effector molecules, peroxisome proliferator-activated
           receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) and cyclo-oxygenase-1 (COX-1), in patients with early-stage
           non-invasive carcinoma of the bladder undergoing cystoscopic surveillance or in patients
           with muscle-invasive carcinoma of the bladder undergoing radical cystectomy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether these regimens result in changes in the expression of downstream
           effector molecules that mediate cellular proliferation and apoptosis in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationship between tissue levels of biomarkers of drug effect,
           proliferation, and apoptosis and the systemic biomarkers of response to treatment, in
           terms of COX-2 activity and the levels of the endogenous PPAR-γ ligand, in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the frequency of recurrence and the time to progression in patients undergoing
           cystoscopic surveillance.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, pilot, cohort study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts
      according to disease stage (Ta, Tis, T1, N0, M0 vs T2-4, NX, M0).

        -  Stage 1:

             -  Cohort 1: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily and oral rosiglitazone once
                daily for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Cohort 2: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily and oral rosiglitazone once
                daily for 14 days. Patients then undergo cystectomy.

        -  Stage 2: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I:

                  -  Cohort 1: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily for 1 year in the
                     absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  Cohort 2: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily for 14 days. Patients
                     then undergo cystectomy.

             -  Arm II:

                  -  Cohort 1: Patients receive oral rosiglitazone once daily for 1 year in the
                     absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  Cohort 2: Patients receive oral rosiglitazone once daily for 14 days. Patients
                     then undergo cystectomy.

      Patients in cohort 1 (in both stages) undergo cystoscopic surveillance every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 120 patients (20 per cohort in study stage 1; 40 per treatment
      arm [20 per cohort in each arm] in study stage 2) will be accrued for this study within 12-18
      months.
    
  