
    
      Background

        -  Despite progress in pediatric oncology, some patient subsets with hematologic
           malignancies and pediatric solid tumors continue to experience extremely poor overall
           survival. Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant (HSCT) is effective in some
           high-risk hematologic malignancies.

        -  Allogeneic HSCT can be performed safely in these patient populations, but disease
           recurrence is common and new approaches to enhance the antitumor effect of this therapy
           are needed. Natural killer (NK) mediated killing appears to confer improved outcomes
           after HSCT for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic
           leukemia (ALL), and NK cell infusions have induced complete remissions in patients with
           AML.

        -  Preclinical data demonstrates that activated NK cells readily kill pediatric solid
           tumors and leukemias, that large numbers of activated NK cells can be generated ex vivo
           using artificial antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and that the post-transplant period may
           be favorable for expansion and survival of adoptively transferred NK cells.

      Objectives

        -  To assess the feasibility and toxicity of infusing escalating doses of donor-derived
           activated NK cell donor lymphocyte infusions (NK-DLI) on Days 7 plus or minus 2 days and
           49 plus or minus 7 days following human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched T cell depleted
           (TCD) peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) in patients with metastatic or
           recurrent pediatric solid tumors and high risk leukemias who have unrelated donors or
           related donors;

        -  To determine if patients treated in this manner experience rapid, sustained donor
           engraftment and acceptable rates of acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD) (less than
           25% incidence of grade III or grade IV).

      Eligibility

      -Patients 4-35 years with hematologic malignancies (e.g., ALL, AML, Chronic Myelogenous
      Leukemia (CML), Hodgkins Lymphoma (HD), Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL), with a 5/6 or 6/6
      HLA-matched related or 9/10 or 10/10 HLA matched unrelated donor.

      Design

        -  Pre-transplant disease specific immune depleting chemotherapy and the preparative
           regimen will be the same as that used previously on 02-C-0259 and 01-C-0125, for those
           patients undergoing reduced intensity transplant.

        -  For patients with ALL or AML, a myeloablative regimen based on current Children's
           Oncology Group (COG) standard-of- care preparative regimen will also be included.

        -  Donors will undergo 1-3 apheresis sessions for filgrastim mobilized peripheral blood
           stem cells (PBSC). This product will be T cell and NK cell depleted prior to
           cryopreservation. NK cells selected from the product will be used for ex vivo activation
           and expansion using KT64.4-BBL artificial antigen presenting cells.

        -  A phase 1 cell dose escalation of donor derived NK-DLI will be performed using 3 dose
           levels (1 x 10(5), 1 x 10(6) and 1 x 10(7) NK cells/kg) infused on days 21 more or less
           3 post-PBSCT and a second infusion on day 49 more or less 7 post-PBSCT.

        -  Three patients will be enrolled at each dose level, with the cohort expanded to 6 if
           dose-limiting toxicity occurs. An expanded group of 12 patients will be treated at the
           highest dose level tolerated.
    
  