
    
      Colonoscopy is the gold standard for screening for bowel cancers and detection of pre-cursors
      to colorectal cancer (polyps). Early detection of polyps, allows endoscopic removal and
      therefore reduction in colorectal cancer. With improvements in technology endoscopists are
      detecting more lesions within the bowel with the majority small/diminutive <5mm (80%),
      however the clinical relevance of these lesions is minimal as the risk of advanced histology
      or cancer is <1%. The current practice involves removing these lesions and sending for
      histopathological assessment, incurring a significant risk to the patient, cost and is
      time-consuming, with very little benefit. Novel imaging techniques including Narrow-band
      imaging (NBI-Olympus, Japan), i-Scan Optical enhancement (OE-Pentax, Japan) and Blue-light
      laser imaging (BLI- Fujifilm, Japan) can help endoscopists characterise these small lesions
      between being neoplastic and non-neoplastic (hyperplastic). NBI involves the narrowing of
      bandwidths of light using a light filter. The light at this end of the spectrum is absorbed
      by haemoglobin (protein found within blood) therefore making blood vessels more pronounced.
      During the process whereby a polyp develops and later becomes neoplastic, there is an
      increase in blood vessels compared with normal tissue or hyperplastic polyps (benign),
      therefore NBI can be used to detect such lesions. I-Scan OE is an alternative imaging
      technique which enhances the pattern of the surface of polyps as well as the blood vessels,
      by manipulating dark-light borders and red, blue and green components of light. Blue laser
      imaging (BLI) is also new system for image-enhanced endoscopy using laser light. Blue laser
      imaging utilizes two monochromatic lasers (410 and 450 nm) instead of xenon light. A 410 nm
      laser visualizes vascular microarchitecture, similar to narrow band imaging, and a 450 nm
      laser provides white light by excitation.

      These novel technologies have been demonstrated to be superior over standard white light
      endoscopy with NBI the most extensively investigated. A systematic analysis of 6 studies >500
      polyps, resulted in a pooled sensitivity of 92%, spec 86%, accuracy of 89% at differentiating
      neoplastic from non-neoplastic lesions when using NBI. Head to head studies of NBI versus
      white light endoscopy (WLE) have shown NBI is better at differentiating between neoplastic
      and non-neoplastic lesions. Similar results have been found with i-Scan, with performances
      better than WLE and like NBI are similar to chromoendoscopy (a technique that involves
      spraying dye over bowel mucosa which is time-consuming and costly). BLI is a newer imaging
      platform, with the current evidence suggesting it is effective at differentiating polyps
      (neoplastic versus non-neoplastic) with accuracies of 95.2%, and when comparing with white
      light endoscopy the miss rate of adenoma was significantly lower with BLI (1.6% versus 10.0%
      p=0.001).

      In order to characterise between neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesions, endoscopic scoring
      systems have been developed to assist endoscopists. Examples include NICE (NBI International
      Colorectal Endoscopic).

      Recently Iacucci et al have developed a simplified classification system (SIMPLE- Simplified
      Identification Method for Polyp Labelling during the Endoscopy) for optical diagnosis of
      small and diminutive adenomas, SSA/Ps and hyperplastic polyps using the newly introduced
      OE-iSCAN system which achieved a high degree of diagnostic accuracy for small/diminutive
      polyp diagnosis. Furthermore, they have showed that a training module on SIMPLE
      classification resulted in an overall NPV of 91.3%. This user-friendly classification system
      can be used by experienced and non-experienced gastroenterologists on multiple endoscopy
      imaging platforms to differentiate neoplastic from non-neoplastic polyps. A classification
      system developed by Bisschops R et al recently using BLI called BASIC (BLI Adenoma Serrated
      International Classification). This takes into account the polyp surface, pit appearance and
      vessels, which has shown to have a high concordance amongst experts.

      In the hands of experts using NBI-NICE classification system accuracies of 98.9%, sensitivity
      98%, specificity 100%, NPV 97.7% and PPV100% were demonstrated when diagnosis was made with
      high confidence. Essential to the adopted use of these classifications is training for
      endoscopists, both experienced and those in training. There is good evidence that there is a
      short learning curve involved when using NBI. One study using a self-administered computer
      based training module, community based gastroenterologists (non-expert) were able to reach
      excellent NPV of >90% but fell short of other requirements (prediction of surveillance
      intervals). Much like NBI, the learning curve at acquiring the skills in order to
      differentiate between hyperplastic and adenomatous lesions using i-Scan has been
      investigated. An early study by Neumann et al demonstrated a rapid learning curve with 4
      endoscopists without previous experience with i-scan reached an accuracy of at least 85%
      after reviewing 67-110 lesions (with individualised feedback) following a 1 hour teaching
      session on pit pattern analysis.

      There have attempts at identifying the most effective training tool and method at teaching
      non-experts how to characterise lesions effectively. Studies have used still images of
      lesions, however this is limited as it does not reflect real-life practice as it does not
      allow views from different angles. It is thought videos simulate real-life practice as close
      as possible. A study using videos has demonstrated trainees were able to achieve accuracies
      of 90%.

      More recently Rastogi's group sought to identify which training method was more effective in
      prediction of diminutive polyp histology amongst trainees: didactic face to face training
      versus computer-based self-learning. The participants were randomised to either receive
      didactic training in the form of a classroom training session or self-learning via
      computer-based material on characterisation of polyps using NBI. Trainees reviewed 40 videos
      of diminutive polyps with the histology being revealed and explained. Both groups were given
      a further 40 videos for testing. This study found those taught in the didactic group
      characterised polyps with higher confidence, but the overall performance was similar in the
      two groups. The accuracy and sensitivity were slightly better in the self-learning group
      (93.9% vs 85.7% p 0.01 and 95.0% vs 86.9%; p0.03 respectively) in those polyps assessed with
      high confidence. This study demonstrates that a computer-based training module can be as
      effective in didactic training, perhaps a reflection on the amount of online self-learning
      trainees are exposed to.

      The investigators aim to recruit participants to receive either didactic face-to-face
      training or self-directed computer based learning, whereby participants will be taught how to
      characterise lesions using the NICE, BASIC and SIMPLE classification. The investigators aim
      to recruit trainees, novice endoscopists and experienced endoscopists to compare the
      different groups. Pre- and post-training assessments will be completed allowing us to examine
      the impact of training, which will consist of 40-60 videos (equal proportion of NBI, iScan OE
      and BLI) in the pre-training assessment and 40-60 videos (different set of videos but also
      equal proportion of NBI, iScan OE and BLI) in the post-training assessment. A follow up
      assessment will be completed at 6 months to assess the retention of skills and sustainability
      of colonic polyp characterisation using the optical diagnosis techniques. An existing library
      of NBI and OE-iScan videos will be used and further videos will be collected during routine
      colonoscopies with patients consenting for images to be used for teaching purposes.

      The investigators hypothesise that following the training module there will be an improvement
      in performance between the pre-training and post-training assessments. The investigators also
      hypothesise that there will be no difference between the didactic face-to-face group and the
      self-training group.

      This is an important study as better characterisation of small polyps may eventually lead to
      a 'resect and discard' strategy in the future. This involves characterising small or
      diminutive polyps (<10mm) as either non-neoplastic or neoplastic, resecting the lesion but
      not sending for histopathological analysis, which has significant cost savings. In order to
      do this training is essential. Whilst didactic training is attractive, it is costly and
      resource heavy. The option of self-directed learning is an attractive one as it can be
      delivered at times that suit the user, at their pace and can be delivered in greater volumes.

      This study is unique as it is examining the impact of the training module on different groups
      of participants (novice, training and experienced endoscopists), using multiple endoscopic
      platforms(NBI, i-Scan OE and BLI) at a multicentre, international level. It will enable us to
      assess whether the training module improves performance using different imaging modalities.
    
  