
    
      Patients entered in the study will undergo an induction treatment phase consisting of 1-3
      TOOKAD VTP treatments provided 4 weeks (28 +/-3 days) apart. The goal of this induction
      treatment phase will be to achieve Complete Response (CR) in the involved ipsilateral tract
      system. During this phase, patients will be treated with TOOKAD (padeliporfin) VTP to
      visually identified tumor sites in the calyces,in the renal pelvis and/or ureter and
      subsequently examined endoscopically at 28 +/- 3 days post treatment to determine whether the
      treatment was successful. If CR was not achieved, additional two treatments of TOOKAD
      (padeliporfin) VTP are permitted 28 +/- 3 days apart for a total of up to 3 treatments during
      the induction treatment phase. The Primary Response Evaluation (PRE) will be performed 28 +/-
      3 days after the last VTP treatment, to determine if the treatment was successful at
      achieving CR defined as: absence of visible tumor on endoscopy, negative urinary cytology by
      instrumented collection, and no evidence of tumor on biopsy (if feasible). If CR was not
      achieved after 3 treatments with TOOKAD (padeliporfin) VTP the treatment will be considered
      unsuccessful and the patient will be discontinued from the treatment phases. Patients
      achieving CR at the induction treatment phase will be allowed into the maintenance treatment
      phase of the study. The patients will then be followed over a period of 12 months post PRE,
      to assess the duration of response and its safety, and to provide planned maintenance
      treatment.

      Repeated maintenance VTP treatments during this period will be provided for patients who show
      evidence of tumor recurrence that is deemed treatable as defined by these criteria: low-grade
      tumors with the largest tumor (index tumor) betwen 5 mm and 15 mm in diameter, in up to 2
      anatomical locations in the calyces, renal pelvis or the ureter (ureter involvement should be
      in one anatomical location with no more than 20 mm of contiguous ureteral length). Patients
      with treatable tumor recurrence post Induction Treatment Phase would be considered as no
      longer having 'complete response in the entire ipsilateral kidney' and time to recurrence
      will be recorded.

      Patients completing the 12 months of the maintenance treatment phase of the study, or
      patients discontinued from the treatment phases after at least one VTP treatment will be
      followed for an additional 12 months non intervention to monitor for disease related outcomes
      and VTP treatment related adverse events.
    
  