
    
      STRUCTURED SUMMARY Title of study: Comparison of the Effectiveness of Povidone-Iodine alone
      to Povidone-Iodine--Tetracycline Combination for Chemical Pleurodesis in Malignant Pleural
      Effusion.

      Research design: Prospective Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial. Background: Malignant
      pleural effusion (MPE) is commonly encountered in clinical practice among patients with
      malignancy. In addition to its association with major morbidities, it also poses a high risk
      of recurrence following drainage. Chemical pleurodesis is often required to achieve pleural
      adhesion and obliteration of the pleural space to prevent such recurrence. Several agents are
      in common use for chemical pleurodesis with mixed effectiveness.

      Methodology: 62 consenting but blinded patients with clinical features of MPE who are
      undergoing pleural drainage and have fulfilled the criteria for chemical pleurodesis will be
      grouped by block balanced randomization into two equal groups- A and B. All the patients in
      Group A (Test) will have pleurodesis done with a solution combining 1 gram of sterile
      Tetracycline powder with 20mls of 10% Povidone-iodinemixed with 10mls of 1% xylocaine (for
      local intrapleural anesthesia) and 30mls of sterile water for injection instilled through the
      chest tube into the pleural space, while allpatients in Group B (Active control) will have
      20mls of 10% Povidone-iodine mixed with 10mls of 1% xylocaine and 30mls of sterile water for
      injection. Drainage and radiographic parameters will be collected prior to chest tube removal
      and during outpatient follow-up to assess the effectiveness of pleurodesis in each group.

      Objectives: To determine if combining tetracycline with 10% Povidone-iodine increases its
      effectiveness in pleurodesis for MPE.

      Principal Exposure:Chemical pleurodesis with 10% Povidone-Iodine or combination of 10%
      Povidone-iodine-Tetracycline (1 gram).

      Outcome variables: The primary outcome variable is the success of the pleurodesis in
      controlling MPE at 1month and 3 months follow-up. Success of pleurodesis classified as been
      Complete pleurosesis or Failed pleurodesis. The secondary outcome variables are:
      post-procedure complications of pain, hypotension,fever and occurrence of empyema thoracis,
      duration of thoracostomy tube retention post-pleurodesis, need for repeat of the procedure
      Keywords: Malignant Pleural Effusion, Chemical Pleurodesis, 10% Povidone-iodine,
      Tetracycline, Effectiveness
    
  