
    
      The Clinical Registry Investigating Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (CRIBBS) is an international
      registry for individuals with a rare genetic disorder called Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). The
      registry is sustained by private philanthropic funding sources. The primary objective of
      establishing and sustaining CRIBBS is to enable clinical natural history studies and
      therapeutic trials in individuals with BBS.

      Participation in CRIBBS is open to individuals meeting diagnostic criteria for BBS and/or
      genetic confirmation of the condition. Identification and recruitment of members will be
      accomplished in two approaches. First, family support organizations will share information
      regarding CRIBBS and encourage enrollment in the registry. Second, a website will be
      developed for participants, families and health care providers. This website provides a
      portal for registration as well as medical and new information impacting health care for
      individuals with BBS.

      Selection and Enrollment of Participants:

      A website portal at www.bbs-registry.org facilitates voluntary registration of interested
      individuals. A CRIBBS coordinator will contact the individual and/or family to establish that
      participants meet published diagnostic criteria and/or genetic criteria for BBS. Individuals
      meeting criteria will be consented and assigned a unique identifier.

      Data collection:

      Consented participants and/or their parent/guardian will be interviewed by a CRIBBS
      coordinator to collect demographic information as well as completion of a health
      questionnaire. Because CRIBBS is an international study and participants are geographically
      dispersed most individuals will be interviewed using secured telephone or Internet services.
      Participants will also be asked to complete behavioral health surveys. Health information
      from providers and treatment facilities will be obtained with appropriate authorization. The
      CRIBBS coordinator will conduct an annual update of health information and the behavioral
      health surveys will be repeated.

      Data Safety Monitoring:

        -  Participant confidentiality: Participation in CRIBBS is voluntary and every effort will
           be made to ensure participant privacy. Interviews with participants will be carried out
           by a CRIBBS coordinator in closed room. Personal Health Information obtained for health
           information abstraction will be stored securely in a double locked environment and
           destroyed following data abstraction. CRIBBS makes use primarily of an electronic
           database which is password protected and only accessible to CRIBBS staff members.

        -  Data use: Participant information will be used to inform researchers of the natural
           history of BBS, refine research initiatives and facilitate new therapies for individuals
           with BBS. De-identified data will be shared with the Global Rare Diseases Registry Data
           Repository (GRDR) maintained by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences
           at the National Institutes of Health and with other researchers and organizations
           approved by the CRIBBS board of directors.

        -  Registry Oversight: The Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation Institutional Review Board
           provides oversight of the CRIBBS registry while the CRIBBS board of directors determine
           the direction and focus of the registry.
    
  