
    
      Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) occurs in more than 300,000 patients in the United
      States each year with an estimated mortality of greater than 90%. Unfortunately, we currently
      have little to offer in terms of treatment other than supportive care for the post-cardiac
      arrest patient. Neuromuscular blockade (NMB) is sometimes utilized in post-arrest patients
      particularly for the prevention of shivering. However, usage of NMB remains controversial and
      current American Heart Association (AHA) recommendations are to minimize utilization. Recent
      prospective randomized trials in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome suggest a
      mortality benefit from NMB and an excellent safety profile. Furthermore, observational trials
      in both sepsis and post-cardiac arrest show that the use of NMB is associated with improved
      survival. Given this, we hypothesize that continuous NMB will be beneficial in post-arrest
      patients. In order to test this hypothesis, we propose a multi-center, randomized,
      open-label, phase II trial in post-CA patients comparing sustained NMB administration for 24
      hours to standard of care after return of spontaenous circulation (ROSC). We will enroll
      adult, comatose OHCA patients with ROSC and will utilize an already existing clinical trials
      network for the completion of the study. Patients will be randomized to receive either
      rocuronium for 24 hours or to receive placebo with usual care. Previous data from our group
      has suggested that lactate levels in the post-arrest patient are a good surrogate marker for
      mortality. We have therefore chosen to utilize lactate levels at 24 hours as the primary
      endpoint for the current trial. Secondarily we will evaluate clinical endpoints including
      length of stay (LOS), in-hospital mortality, and good neurological outcome. We will perform a
      sub-study of inflammatory markers and oxygen consumption.
    
  