
    
      Heart murmurs can be ausculted in most pediatric patients, but underlying Congenital
      Structural Heart (CSH) Disease is rare. Nevertheless, CSH Disease is often first suggested by
      the presence of a murmur. Primary care providers refer pediatric patients to Cardiologists
      for murmur evaluations with low accuracy, and this pattern results in:

        1. needless emotional strain on many patients with functionally normal hearts and their
           families,

        2. increased morbidity and mortality rates for rare patients with delayed cardiac
           diagnoses, and

        3. exorbitant costs to society.

      Referral accuracy for murmur evaluations probably is low because the differences between
      innocent and pathological murmurs can be subtle. Computer-assisted analysis of heart sounds
      may increase the accuracy of primary care referrals to pediatric cardiologists, but the
      accuracy of the only FDA-approved artificially-intelligent cardiac auscultation system,
      Zargis Medical Corporation's Cardioscan®, has never been determined prospectively in an
      unselected population of live pediatric patients. As a primary endpoint, the study herein
      proposed would prospectively compare the sensitivity and specificity of the Cardioscan® with
      that of CHMCA's Pediatric Cardiologists in the identification of cardiac pathology among 300
      new and unselected pediatric patients referred to CHMCA's cardiologists for murmur
      evaluations, using two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography as the common
      gold-standard. Double-blinding will be in place. The study also will attempt secondarily to
      gauge the clinical significance of pathology missed by the Cardioscan®, to define
      sub-populations of patients among which the Cardioscan's® judgment should be considered less
      accurate, and to gather data concerning the value and acceptability to families of the
      Cardioscan®. If (as expected) the Cardioscan's® accuracy merely approaches that of Pediatric
      Cardiologists, then the study herein proposed would still establish the Cardioscan® as a
      formidable tool for primary care providers-a helpful, billable, and potentially cost-saving
      alternative to consulting Cardiology on patients with probably- or possibly-innocent murmurs.
      Data collection for this project will occur predominantly within CHMCA's Heart Center in
      Akron, although some data collection may occur within CHMCA and/or at CHMCA's Heart Centers
      in Beachwood and/or Boardman. Minimal disruption to existing clinical patient flow through
      those settings would be expected and the entire protocol is expected to be completely
      painless and noninvasive, with no foreseeable health risks.
    
  