
    
      Introduction: Several chronic inflammatory diseases co-exist with and accelerate sarcopenia
      (reduction in muscle strength, quantity and quality) and negatively impact on both morbidity
      and mortality. There is limited research on the extent of sarcopenia in such conditions, how
      to accurately assess it and whether there are generic or disease specific mechanisms driving
      sarcopenia.

      Methods: This prospective cohort study is unique; it provides a multi-modal approach to
      assess sarcopenia across three chronic inflammatory diseases: chronic liver disease,
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Rheumatoid Arthritis both before and after therapeutic
      intervention. A total of 170 patients will be recruited (50 with Chronic liver disease, 20
      with non-cirrhotic nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, 50 with Inflammatory Bowel Disease and
      50 with Rheumatoid Arthritis) and including a comparison cohort of n=20 age-sex matched
      healthy individuals.

      Participants will undergo 4 assessments at defined time points; weeks 0, 2, 12 and 24, with
      blood tests to assess endocrine and inflammatory status; anthropometric (hand grip strength;
      mid-arm muscle circumference; triceps skinfold thickness); functional testing (short physical
      performance battery and isokinetic dynamometry); imaging ( ultrasound and Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging of the quadriceps), and vastus lateralis muscle biopsy. Physical activity and sleep
      will be monitored using actigraphy, and quality of life via questionnaires. Food diaries for
      nutritional intake analysis will be sampled between 0-2, 12 and 24 weeks. Stool and urine
      samples will be sampled for future microbiome and metabolomics analysis, respectively.

      This study will identify mechanisms across the groups and within each cohort, to further
      target interventions to reduce sarcopenia in the future. This is the first study to use a
      multi modal assessment to characterise sarcopenia in chronic disease. The multi-modal
      assessment includes serological, anatomical, functional and histological analyses to evaluate
      the deep phenotyping of these patients. The observational study of small sample sizes will
      allow potential future targets for intervention.
    
  