
    
      Background

      The Nijmegen Centre for Metabolic Disease (NCMD) harbors a unique research center with much
      experience in the characterization of the group of patients with the m3243A>G mutation.

      For a mitochondrial disease no therapy is available. Treatment is supportive, and aims at
      improving the quality of life. Clinical findings in patients with mitochondrial diseases may
      both comprise malnutrition and obesity. While a nutritional intervention might constitute a
      symptomatic treatment for these patients, there are very few data in adults to guide such a
      strategy.

      Malnutrition is defined as a state of nutrition in which a deficiency, excess (or imbalance)
      of energy, protein, and other nutrients causes measurable adverse effects on body composition
      and function, and clinical outcome. In patients with mitochondrial disease there is by
      definition malnutrition on a cellular level due to disturbed metabolism with energy deficit.
      A logical next step is to study the effect of this energy shortage on complaints in the adult
      population by describing characteristics of this patient group in relation to the nutritional
      status. In the same vein, a controlled dietary intervention might result in an evidence based
      dietary therapy.

      Frequent symptoms of patients with OXPHOS disorders include e gastrointestinal problems,
      fatigue and dysphagia. We suspect that these symptoms increase the risk for malnutrition.
      Research in patients with neuromuscular disorders have demonstrated that none of the patients
      had an adequate nutritional state, with a a lowered Fat Free Mass and a high fat percentage.

      Study design:

      Part 1 comprises a comprehensive Nutritional Assessment (NA) including indirect calorimetry
      (IC), bioimpedance analysis (BIA), anthropometry, eating report, activity measurement using
      the actometer, and completion of questionnaires including the Cis-fatigue and SF-36 for
      Quality of life.

      In Part 2 a 2-armed randomized controlled intervention study is performed . One group starts
      with a dietary intervention whereas the second group (controls) starts with a
      non-interventional period of 6 months. After this period the dietary intervention is also
      performed in the second group . The dietary intervention implies optimizing the diet based on
      individually calculated energy and protein requirements, while for remaining nutrients advise
      in line with recommended daily amounts (RDA) will be provided. Extended Nutritional
      Assessment measurements will be repeated every 3 months. Indirect Calorimetry will be
      performed at the start of the study.

      Objective of the study:

        1. To increase our knowledge about the nutritional status of adult patients with
           mitochondrial disease and its determinants.

        2. Evaluate effects of a dietary intervention in these patients on nutritional status and
           body functions (muscle strength, activity, fatigue) and quality of life.

        3. To develop criteria to refer patients with mitochondrial disease for dietary
           intervention.

      DINAMITE study acronym DIner: Hot meal, super NA: Nutritional Assessment or Nutrition +
      Adults MIT MITochondrial disorder E Energy
    
  