
    
      Background: Bladder cancer (BCa) is the 4th and 12th most common malignancies by incidence in
      Canadian men and women, respectively. In Canada, the lifetime probability of developing BCa
      is 1 in 27 men and 1 in 84 women. Urologists use a transurethral resection of bladder tumor
      (TURBT) to diagnose and stage patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). While
      the value of repeat TURBT is not questioned for incomplete endoscopic resections,
      retrospective studies have suggested value in repeat resection for high grade T1 (T1HG)
      tumors even if they are completely resected, typically done within 6 weeks of the initial
      resection. Repeat TURBT for T1HG BCa has been touted to detect understaged tumors, remove
      occult residual disease, provide prognostic value and improve subsequent bladder therapy. To
      date, there is a paucity of high quality level-1 evidence validating repeat TURBT for T1HG
      compared to a single TURBT for improved long term disease specific outcomes.

      Research Question: Among patients with T1HG BCa with completely resected tumor, is repeat
      TURBT superior to single TURBT for improving 53-year progression free survival (PFS), defined
      as >/=T2 local disease or lymph node disease/distant metastasis? Study Design: The RESECT
      trial is designed as a pilot, single-centre, 2-arm parallel-group, superiority randomized
      trial, with random permuted blocks (lengths of 4 or 6) and balanced allocation (1:1),
      conducted at the University Health Network.

      Patient Population: Adult patients with completely resected T1HG bladder urothelial carcinoma
      are eligible to participate. Patients with either lymph node/distant metastases at
      presentation, variant histology, those that had their initial resection performed outside of
      a study centre, or patients with severe comorbidities are excluded.

      Intervention: Repeat TURBT (experimental) versus T1HG standard of care (active control).

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is the difference between the two intervention arms with
      regards to PFS over 5-years of follow-up. Secondary outcomes are the difference between the
      two intervention arms in: (i) clinical measures; (ii) survival measures; (iii) perioperative
      safety measures; and (iv) quality of life (QOL) questionnaires.

      Randomization: Randomization will occur at the central coordinating site using a
      computer-generated randomization schedule and random permuted blocks (of lengths 4 or 6). The
      allocation sequence will be implemented using sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed
      envelopes.

      Blinding: Neither participants nor treating physicians will be blinded to treatment
      allocation. The research/data analyst team will be blinded as will the radiologists that
      assess surveillance imaging.

      Sample Size: To test feasibility, a sample of 18 cases in 1 year is expected. Analysis:
      Proportional outcomes will be analyzed with Chi-square or Fisher's exact test and continuous
      variables will be analyzed with Student's t-test. Time to event outcomes will be analyzed
      using log-rank tests on Kaplan-Meier estimates, followed by adjusted Cox proportional-hazard
      models. Continuous variables with differences between two time periods will be analyzed suing
      an analysis of covariance, with baseline values and centre adjusted for as covariates.
      Continuous variable outcomes with values over multiple time periods will be analyzed using
      repeated measures analysis of covariance.

      Follow-Up: In addition to baseline assessment, each participant will be followed up at 3, 6,
      9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 30, 36, 48, 60 months after the intervention with cystoscopic
      evaluation, and assessment of disease progression and QOL. Surveillance imaging will be every
      6 months for the 5-year follow-up.
    
  