
    
      This is a randomized, open-label, comparative study of CAELYX versus Paclitaxel HCl in the
      treatment of patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma following failure of first line
      chemotherapy with a platinum-based regimen. Patients entering the trial will be stratified
      prospectively for platinum-sensitivity and bulky disease and analyzed retrospectively for
      prior anthracycline therapy. Protocol-eligible patients, with measurable disease, who have
      received no more than one prior regimen, which was platinum-based, will be randomized to
      receive either a one-hour intravenous infusion of CAELYX, 50 mg/m2 every 28 days, or
      Paclitaxel HCl, 175 mg/m2 as a 3 hour infusion every 21 days. Patients will be treated for up
      to one year. It is suggested that responding patients receive at least 6 cycles of treatment.
      Patients with ongoing clinical benefit may continue study drug upon approval of the sponsor
      as long as it is in the patient's interest and in the absence of severe toxicity. It is
      suggested that patients exhibiting a complete response (CR) receive 2 subsequent cycles of
      treatment. Patients exhibiting partial response (PR) may continue to receive study drug as
      long as therapeutic benefit is being derived but it is suggested that they receive at least 3
      subsequent cycles of study drug. Patients will undergo appropriate radiological imaging
      (x-ray, CT scan, MRI) to document baseline disease, as well as a chest x-ray and an
      assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) by MUGA scan within 30 days prior to
      the first dose of study drug. Patients will be followed weekly for hematological toxicities.
      Radiological imaging will be repeated every 7-8 weeks to assess disease status. Patients who
      achieve complete or partial response will be reevaluated 4 weeks later to confirm the initial
      observation of response. All patients will be followed for a minimum of one year for disease
      progression and survival. LVEF will be assessed by MUGA scan at baseline, when the cumulative
      anthracycline dose reaches 300 mg/m2 (500 mg/m2 epirubicin), and after every 2 cycles of
      CAELYX thereafter. Endomyocardial biopsy is recommended for patients who have received > 400
      mg/m2 of CAELYX alone or a cumulative anthracycline dose of > 550 mg/m2 (including CAELYX;
      900 mg/m2 if epirubicin). [NOTE: This study was initiated on 7-May-1997. Due to poor accrual,
      the study enrollment was terminated on 31-Aug-1999. Patients were followed until study
      completion on 12-Apr-2000. During the preparation of the study report (beginning in May
      2003), the sites were re-queried for clarification of safety and survival data.]

      DOXIL, dose of 50 mg/m2 by i.v. infusion over 1 hour every 28 days for up to 1 year.
      Paclitaxel, dose of 175 mg/m2 by i.v. infusion over 3 hours starting on Day 1 of a 21-day
      cycle for up to 1 year.
    
  