
    
      Pilot-scale, prospective, open-label, randomized, two-period, cross-over intervention study.

      Each patient will be randomized to one of the two possible observation sequences:

      Sequence 1: run-in (2 weeks): usual care followed by period 1 (4 weeks): patientMpower
      application (+digital weighing scales & BP monitor) followed by period 2 (4 weeks): sham
      application

      OR

      Sequence 2: run-in (2 weeks): followed by period 1 (4 weeks) sham application followed by
      period 2 (4 weeks): patientMpower application (+digital weighing scales & BP monitor)

      The study will not make any other changes to the therapeutic interventions offered to the
      patients. Patients will follow their usual care and hemodialysis programme throughout the
      study.

      Proposed sample size is approximately 50 patients.

      Patients will be recruited through three haemodialysis facilities under the governance of
      Beaumont Hospital, a tertiary care centre for nephrology in Dublin, Ireland.

      The study observational intervention is an electronic health journal, the patientMpower
      application (with a supplied digital weighing scales and BP monitor). This has been developed
      specifically for patients undergoing hemodialysis. The app is an electronic application
      downloaded to the patient's mobile phone or tablet device. The app is designed to allow the
      patient to report various parameters relevant to hemodialysis and record these on a regular
      basis, ideally daily. The information recorded by the patients will be stored in a secure
      cloud system and will be available to the patient through their phone or mobile device at all
      times. No personal health data are stored on the phone or mobile device itself.

      Patient-reported measures (at a minimum) will include body weight (at least one reading
      /day), BP and compliance with relevant medication. Additional patient-reported measures which
      can be reported on the patientMpower app include body temperature, activity levels and
      symptoms.

      The control observation will be usual care with a sham electronic application (which will not
      allow recording of body weight, BP or other measurements).

      The objective of this pilot-scale cross-over open label randomized study is to assess the
      effect of self-monitoring using the patientMpower electronic health journal [+digital
      weighing scales &BP monitor] on outcomes in ambulatory hemodialysis patients.The primary
      objective will be to determine the frequency of use of the patientMpower app (+digital
      weighing scales & BP monitor).
    
  