
    
      Findings of excess cardiometabolic morbidity and mortality in persons with severe mental
      illness (SMI) have led to a growing interest by Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs) in
      improving the medical care of the populations they treat. However, these organizations face a
      number of financial and organizational barriers to implementing and sustaining such programs.
      In previous and ongoing work, the study team has documented the promise of team-based models
      in improving health and health care in this population. This study will test a novel approach
      for improving mental health consumers based on a partnership model between a CMHC and a
      Community Health Center (CHC). This partnership will capitalize on collocation of services,
      the primary care expertise of the CHC, and favorable reimbursement conditions, to develop a
      program that is both clinically robust and financially and organizationally sustainable A
      total of 300 CMHC clients with a severe mental illness and one or more active cardiometabolic
      problem (diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia) will be randomized to either onsite
      Integrated Community Care (ICC) (n=150) or to a referral to the partner community health
      center (CHC) (n=150) for their medical problems. For those in the ICC, the CHC will establish
      a satellite clinic at the CMHC staffed by a physician assistant and care manager. The ICC
      will provide care for both the index cardiometabolic conditions and common acute and chronic
      comorbidities.

      The study will use standardized, validated instruments to assess the impact of integrated
      community care on quality and outcomes of cardiometabolic and general medical care. A budget
      impact analysis will be used to assess the program's financial and organizational
      sustainability. When this study is completed, it will provide a model for CMHCs to provide a
      medical home for the populations they serve.
    
  