
    
      Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a serious and distinct illness that occurs in
      significant numbers, affecting at least 7 million people in the United States alone. The
      prevalence of GAD is higher in the primary care setting with rates twice as high as the rates
      reported in community samples. GAD is a life-long disorder with low remission rates,
      resulting in high disability and morbidity. Of significance are emerging epidemiological data
      suggesting that GAD is highly prevalent in the geriatric population with prevalence rates
      ranging from 1.9% to 7.1% and accounting for the majority of anxiety disorder cases in this
      age group. More alarming is the fact that the presence of anxiety symptoms leads to
      considerable functional impairment, increased morbidity, and mortality among the affected
      elderly population, thus leading to increases in the costs of their care. However, despite
      advances made in GAD treatment in the adult population, no prospective data are presently
      available on the treatment of GAD in the elderly population, forcing clinicians to provide
      treatment without the guidance of scientific data. These findings are of particular relevance
      to the Veterans Affairs Health Care System where the average age of patients treated in
      primary care clinics is currently 60-64 years. The present application focuses on this target
      subpopulation of elderly veterans.

      This proposal aims to provide evidence-based guidelines for pharmacological management of
      elderly veterans suffering from generalized anxiety disorder. This will be accomplished by
      conducting a clinical trial in elderly veterans suffering from GAD by evaluating the efficacy
      and safety of sertraline - a proven anxiolytic compound widely used in the young adult
      population.

      We believe that this proposed study will be one of the first studies in this area. Thus, it
      may also serve as a first step in a future line of research aimed at developing comprehensive
      pharmacological and psychosocial interventions in the treatment of anxiety in the elderly.

      (b) HYPOTHESIS/RESEARCH QUESTIONS Study Hypothesis In a double-blind, placebo-controlled
      trial in elderly veterans diagnosed with GAD, sertraline will be more effective and equally
      safe as placebo in reducing symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder.

      Research Question Will the presence of differences in pharmacokinetics (PK) (i.e., mean
      population values of steady state plasma concentrations) and plasma levels of sertraline
      explain differences in efficacy and side effect profile between and within the two fixed
      sertraline doses studied, if detected? (c) SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE The objective of the proposed
      study is to conduct a multi-site, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the
      efficacy and safety of sertraline at fixed doses vs. placebo in the treatment of GAD among
      elderly primary care outpatient veterans.
    
  