
    
      Hyperuricemia is highly prevalent in the US population and commonly clusters with obesity and
      metabolic syndrome. It remains controversial whether this reflects an epiphenomenon or
      connotes a causal role of hyperuricemia in metabolic syndrome. If indeed hyperuricemia plays
      a causal role in metabolic syndrome, it would be expected that hyperuricemia will impact on
      the molecular signals that mediate the effects of adiposity on inflammation and insulin
      resistance.

      Adipokines, the protein hormones produced by the adipocytes, serve as the signals for the
      effects of adipocytes on insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, hypertension, inflammation and
      atherosclerosis. Adipokines include tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6),
      plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1), leptin, angiotensinogen and adiponectin. In obesity,
      the production of TNF-α, IL-6, PAI-1, leptin and angiotensinogen increases whereas the
      production of adiponectin decreases. Increased expression of pro-inflammatory TNF-α and IL-6
      and decreased expression of anti-inflammatory adiponectin by adipocytes results in insulin
      resistance and inflammation.

      As oxidative stress in adipose tissue is considered to play a critical role in dysregulation
      of adipokines production in obesity and that hyperuricemia induces oxidative stress in
      adipocytes, it is hypothesized that hyperuricemia alters adipose tissue production of
      adipokines; therefore, febuxostat therapy will decrease hyperuricemia and thereby, have
      beneficial effects on adipokine production by adipose tissue; the favorable effects on
      adipokine production by febuxostat therapy will result in decrease in plasma levels of
      markers of inflammation; and as a result of the above, urinary markers of kidney disease will
      improve.

      Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) patients with type 2 diabetes will be studies because this
      population has a high prevalence of hyperuricemia and likely represents a target population
      which might benefit from reduction of uric acid levels.

      This is a placebo-controlled, double-blinded, randomized controlled trial to examine the
      effects of uric acid lowering with oral febuxostat on adipokines and markers of inflammation.
    
  