
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the efficacy of two home-based sleep interventions as therapy for sleep-wake
           disturbances,as measured by sleep latency or time to fall back asleep after initial
           sleep onset per sleep diaries, at baseline (week 1) and at the end of week 7 in cancer
           survivors.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the efficacy of these interventions as therapy for sleep-wake disturbances as
           measured by the number of awakenings after sleep, sleep quality, sleep difficulty, and
           sleep latency at baseline (week 1) and weeks 4 and 7 in these participants.

        -  To compare the efficacy of these interventions as therapy for sleep-wake disturbances as
           measured by the percentage of participants in each group who show improved sleep per the
           Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index.

        -  To compare the effects of these interventions on fatigue, mood disturbance, sleep,
           benefit, and distress in this patient population.

        -  To describe the side effects associated with these interventions in these patients.

        -  To describe patient practice habits and adherence measured via a sleep behavior record.

        -  To explore symptom clusters in this patient population and look at distress as a
           mediating variable. (Exploratory)

        -  To explore predictors of sleep quality. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to current (≥ 1 per
      week in the past 4 weeks) pharmacological treatment, including anxiolytics, for insomnia or
      mood (yes vs no), current pharmacologic treatment for pain (yes vs no), sleep difficulty
      period (≤ 1 month vs > 1 month), and age (≤ 50 vs 51-70 vs > 70 years). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 intervention groups.

        -  Group 1: Participants receive a home-based sleep intervention comprising a Sleep Hygiene
           Education booklet, printed stimulus-control guidelines, instructions on sleeping
           restrictions, and a guided-imagery pre-recorded mp3 device. Participants meet with study
           personnel for intervention refinement and are asked to practice behaviors consistent
           with the stimulus-control sheet, to read the sleep hygiene booklet one chapter per day
           for 7 days during the first week, and then as needed during study. They are also
           instructed to use the CD, with or without headphones, in a quiet and comfortable place
           without lights for up to 30 minutes every day for 6 weeks before bedtime. Participants
           are instructed to go to sleep and wake at the same time every day during study
           intervention.

        -  Group 2: Participants receive a home-based sleep intervention comprising a Sleep Hygiene
           Education booklet, printed stimulus-control guidelines, and a pre-recorded mp3 device
           containing short stories and essays. Participants meet with study personnel and are
           instructed to practice behaviors consistent with the stimulus control sheet, to read the
           sleep hygiene booklet, and use the CD as in group 1. Participants are not instructed
           about sleeping restrictions. They are offered the guided-imagery CD after study
           completion.

      Patients complete a Three-Day Sleep Behavior Record for 3 consecutive days at baseline and
      during weeks 4 and 7 of study intervention. Patients also complete questionnaires on Numeric
      Analog Sleep for Pain Scale, daily use of CD, Sleep Hygiene Practice, Pittsburgh Sleep
      Quality Index, Profile of Mood States, Brief Fatigue Inventory, Distress Thermometer,
      Side-Effect Questionnaire, and a Subject Global Impression of Change at baseline, during
      weeks 2 and 6, and after completion of study intervention.
    
  