
    
      Summary The data collected will identify real-life risk factors for getting the COVID-19
      diagnosis.

      The Oslo University Hospital/University of Oslo web-based solution "nettskjema" will be used
      to collect data and consent forms.

      The impact of knowing the risk factors for COVID-19 is tremendous because it can enable
      governments to conduct more targeted public health measurements than today to reduce the
      spread of the virus.

      Detailed description Research into an ongoing COVID-19 outbreak is difficult because patients
      are isolated, and supplies of personal protective equipment (PPE) supplies are limited. The
      risk of transmission to study personal is non-negligible even when PPE is available.

      A study design based on an electronic questionnaire and consent from delivered from the Oslo
      University Hospital/University of Oslo, GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) compliant
      "TSD" service has therefore been chosen.

      The study will be a case-control study based on a combined electronic consent form and
      questionnaire that the participants will fill in using a smartphone and electronic
      identification.

      The groups that will be included are:

        -  Hospitalized and non-hospitalized patients/persons with COVID-19 at all stages of the
           disease and after the disease

        -  Hospitalized patients without COVID-19

        -  Healthcare personal or other groups with an increased risk of COVID-19

        -  Healthy volunteers

      Participants may be followed with repeated questionnaires prospectively.

      Biological samples Biological samples may hold crucial information about the susceptibility
      to COVID-19 and for susceptibility to the progression of the disease. It is within the scope
      of the study to analyze such samples from a limited number of participants which will be
      asked to provide such samples or hospitalized patients that have surplus material. The
      material will be analyzed with non-genetic methods most suitable to provide such information.
    
  