
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that causes chronic inflammation of the
      joints and of the tissues around the joints, as well as in other organs in the body. Early
      diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis and early aggressive treatment can help prevent joint
      damage, deformity and disability.

      The management of RA rests on several principles; drug treatment, which comprise disease
      modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDS), but also non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs) and glucocorticoids (GCs), as well as non-pharmacological measures, such as
      physical, occupational and psychological therapeutic approaches, together may lead to
      therapeutic success. However, the mainstay of RA treatment is the application of DMARDs.
      Methotrexate (MTX) is the anchor drug in the management of RA and has been used for many
      decades.

      New and highly effective DMARDS have continued to emerge until the most recent years- in
      particular, biologic agents which target tumor necrosis factor, the interleukin 1 (IL -1)
      receptor, the IL-6 receptor, B lymphocytes and T cell co-stimulation. Furthermore, treatment
      strategies have changed during this period, initially by calling for early referral and early
      institution of DMARD treatment on the basis of respective evidence of clinical efficacy.

      The EULAR (EUROPEAN LEAGUE AGAINST RHEUMATISM) recommendations for treatment of rheumatoid
      arthritis (3) emphasize that treatment should be aimed at reaching the target of remission or
      low disease activity (DAS 28 score ≤ 3.2) as soon as possible in every patient; as long as
      the target has not been reached, treatment should be adjusted by frequent (every 1-3 months)
      and strict monitoring.

      MTX (1) should be part of the first treatment strategy in patients with active RA and when
      MTX contraindications (or intolerance) are present, other DMARDs should be considered.

      GCs (1) added at low to moderately high doses to synthetic DMARD monotherapy (or combinations
      of synthetic DMARDs) provide benefit as initial short-term treatment, but should be tapered
      as rapidly as clinically feasible.

      In a systematic review (4), GCs were found to be effective in relieving signs and symptoms
      and inhibiting radiographic progression, either as monotherapy or combination therapy.

      In patients responding insufficiently to MTX and/or other synthetic DMARDs with or without
      GCs, biological DMARDs should be started (1); current practice would be to start a TNF
      inhibitor (adalimumab, certolizumab, etanercept, golimumab or infliximab) which should be
      combined with MTX.

      In most of the studies which included GCs in the management of RA, it was included at the
      beginning of the study (1).

      In a recent trial (2), Inclusion of low-dose prednisone from the start into a two-year
      MTX-based tight control treatment strategy for early RA increases both effectiveness (i.e.
      disease activity variables) and outcome (i.e. erosive joint damage) without increasing
      toxicity. It also reduces the need for (early) treatment with biologicals.

      The anti TNF treatment is expensive and carries the risk of infection. To our knowledge,
      there is no study comparing the addition of small doses of steroids of steroids to the
      addition of anti TNF in patients who failed or did not tolerate the 25 mg of MTX.

      The investigators have designed this study to compare the efficacy of adding small doses of
      prednisolone (10 mg) daily to the efficacy of adding one of the available anti TNF in
      patients who did not achieve remission on maximum tolerated MTX dose (up to 25 mg).
    
  