
    
      Approximately 20% of college students are regular marijuana users, and are at risk for
      cognitive and academic problems, addiction, and risk behaviors such as driving while
      impaired. Young adult marijuana users are thus a high-risk population and may require an
      intervention that motivates marijuana reductions by increasing engagement in constructive
      alternatives to marijuana use. Brief Motivational Interventions (BMIS) have demonstrated
      efficacy for alcohol use in college students, but lack consistent evidence of efficacy for
      marijuana use. This research team has developed a supplement to alcohol BMIs, the
      Substance-Free Activity Session (SFAS), which directly targets the behavioral economic
      mechanisms of both substance-free reinforcement and delayed reward discounting by encouraging
      the development of and commitment to academic and career goals, and by highlighting the
      impact of day-to-day patterns of alcohol use and academic engagement on these goals. A
      controlled pilot trial found that the SFAS improved BMI outcomes in a sample of heavy
      drinking college students, and the ongoing parent trial to this revision is replicating and
      extending those results. This study will evaluate the SFAS using a randomized 3-group (BMI +
      SFAS vs. BMI + Relaxation Attention Control, vs. Assessment Only) pilot trial with 120
      undergraduates (50% female, 40% minority) who report using marijuana on > 5 days in the
      past-month. It is hypothesized that at the 1-month and the next-semester follow-ups
      (follow-ups are wedded to the academic calendar to allow for representative measurement of
      marijuana use and activity patterns) BMI+SFAS participants will report significantly lower
      levels of marijuana use and problems, and that these reductions will exceed those of BMI +
      Relaxation and Assessment-Only participants. Exploratory analyses will test the hypotheses
      that (a) the BMI + SFAS will be more effective for participants who report higher baseline
      marijuana reinforcing efficacy and delayed reward discounting; and (b) the advantage of BMI +
      SFAS on marijuana use will be mediated by increased participation in substance-free
      activities. Support for our hypotheses would extend behavioral economic theory and would
      provide initial validation for an approach that could be used to reduce marijuana misuse
      among the increasing population of college students who misuse marijuana. Furthermore, given
      the focus of the SFAS is to increase academic/campus engagement, this work has the potential
      for widespread dissemination.
    
  