
    
      Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is tuberculosis that is resistant to at least
      isoniazid and rifampicin, the two most important drugs in treating TB. In 2017, approximately
      558,000 new people were estimated to have developed MDR-TB, and 8.5% of the cases had
      extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB).(1) Current WHO-endorsed MDR-TB treatment
      regimens take 9-20 months to complete and are associated with substantial toxicity, including
      deafness from injectable agents, hepatitis from pyrazinamide and severe neuropathy from
      linezolid. Given the long duration and toxicities of MDR-TB regimens, it is perhaps not
      surprising that WHO reports that only 25% of patients with MDR-TB are enrolled into
      WHO-endorsed treatment regimens. Thus, there is an urgent need for shorter, less toxic
      treatments for MDR-TB. This proposal will determine the efficacy, safety, tolerability and
      optimal duration of a novel, all oral MDR-TB treatment regimen while addressing three major
      challenges with innovations that have the potential to transform future trials.

      The proposed DRAMATIC (Duration Randomized Anti-MDR-TB And Tailored Intervention Clinical)
      Trial is a multicenter, randomized, partially blinded, four-arm, phase 2 trial that will
      examine an injectable- and pyrazinamide-sparing regimen of bedaquiline, delamanid,
      levofloxacin, linezolid, and clofazimine. The DRAMATIC regimen limits the administration of
      linezolid to the initial 8 weeks of treatment, the window before linezolid-related neuropathy
      occurs. Animal and human studies provide evidence for the potential efficacy of this 5-drug
      regimen, but the optimal duration of treatment remains uncertain.(2-4)

      Primary Objectives:

        1. Describe the relationship between the duration of the experimental regimen and the
           proportion of participants with sustained cure at 76 weeks after randomization without
           treatment failure or relapse.

        2. Describe the relationship between baseline prognostic risk strata and sustained cure at
           76 weeks after randomization without treatment failure or relapse.

        3. Evaluate the association between novel biologic markers and sustained cure at 76 weeks
           after randomization without treatment failure or relapse.

           Secondary Objectives:

        4. Identify the shortest duration of the study regimen that has acceptable safety and
           efficacy for a Phase 3 clinical trial of the DRAMATIC regimen for treatment of MDR-TB.

        5. Describe the frequency, magnitude, time course of and risk factors for QTc prolongation
           associated with the study regimen.

        6. Demonstrate the feasibility and efficiency of implementing the new duration-randomized
           design in a multi-centre randomized trial of drug-resistant TB.

        7. Determine if time to sputum culture conversion predicts optimal duration of treatment
           when stratified by extent of disease.

        8. Describe the relationship between the duration of the experimental regimen and the
           proportion of participants with sustained cure at 104 weeks after randomization without
           treatment failure or relapse.

        9. Assess vital status at 132 weeks post randomization.

      Development of a shorter, better-tolerated treatment regimen will greatly enhance the ability
      of TB control programs to treat the growing number of patients. The DRAMATIC Trial will
      employ an innovative and efficient new design to establish a robust, nontoxic MDR-TB
      treatment regimen and identify the minimal duration for which it needs to be administered.
      These results will speed the process of moving forward to a confirmatory phase 3 clinical
      trial and increase the likelihood that such a trial is successful.
    
  