
    
      Innovative analyses of cardiovascular (CV) risk markers and heath behaviors in relation to
      neighborhood stressors are needed to further elucidate mechanisms by which adverse
      neighborhood conditions lead to poor CV outcomes. We propose to objectively measure physical
      activity, sedentary behavior, and neighborhood stress through accelerometers, global
      positioning systems (GPS), and ecological momentary assessment survey (via smartphone
      survey), linked to biological measures in a sample of White and African American women in
      Washington, D.C. neighborhoods. We hypothesize that individuals who are living in worse
      neighborhood environment conditions (e.g., higher poverty, crime, and social disorder) will
      be associated with higher chronic stress-related neural activity. As a secondary hypothesis,
      we hypothesize that associations between living in socio-economically disadvantaged
      neighborhood conditions and adverse biological markers will be moderated/mediated through
      levels of physical activity, time spent on sedentary activities, and dietary intake.
      Relationships between living in socio-economically disadvantaged neighborhood conditions and
      adverse biological markers will be also be mediated through psychosocial factors. In Aim 1,
      we will test associations between neighborhood environment conditions (e.g., poverty, crime,
      social disorder) and differences in stress-related neural activity, using PET CT-measured
      amygdala FDG uptake among a sample of White and African American women in Ward 3 (higher
      socioeconomic status neighborhood) and Ward 5 (low-to-middle socio-economic status
      neighborhood) in Washington D.C. In Aim 2a, we will determine associations between
      neighborhood environment conditions (e.g., poverty, crime, social disorder) and differences
      in cardiovascular risk and immune activation. Several measures of cardiovascular risk and
      immune activation will be performed including: (i) assessment of vascular function (vascular
      stiffness, vascular inflammation) and (ii) measures of immune function (i.e. flow cytometry
      for immune cell phenotyping, cytokine/chemokine/cortisol/neurotransmitter profiling,
      lipidomic analyses for lipid inflammatory intermediates, PBMC telomere length). In Aim 2b, we
      will assess feasibility and practicality of the use of geospatial tools and methods for
      measuring environmental factors (i.e. poverty, crime, social disorder) among this sample of
      women in Washington, DC. In aim 2c, we will examine whether associations between worse
      neighborhood environment conditions and adverse biological markers may be moderated and/or
      mediated by health behaviors (i.e., physical activity, sedentary time, dietary intake) and
      psychosocial factors (i.e., mood) measured via ecological momentary assessment (EMA). This
      project has a strong potential for improving scientific understanding of how neighborhood
      stress may influence biological measures of stress-related neural activity, such as amygdala
      activity, to improve our knowledge on interrelations among biology, environment, and
      cardiovascular health.
    
  