
    
      Coronary artery reblockage remains still a drawback of percutaneous coronary interventions
      even in the era of drug-eluting stents (DES). DESs working principle consists of the delivery
      of controlled amounts of antiproliferative agents at the local level, which results in the
      suppression of neontimal proliferation, the main cause of lumen re-narrowing after stent
      implantation. At present, several DES platforms have been developed and evaluated for
      clinical use. They differ between them with regard to the stent type, anti-proliferative
      drug, presence or absence of polymers employed for drug storage and modification of
      drug-release kinetics as well as type of polymer used for this purpose. Although their
      mid-term efficacy has been well-established, there is an ongoing debate on the potential of
      an increased incidence of late stent thrombosis, particularly after discontinuation of
      thienopyridine therapy, as well as of delayed onset of restenosis or catch-up phenomenon with
      DESs. Based on animal and human pathological data, investigators have linked the
      above-mentioned concerns to the presence of permanent polymers in DESs, which have a
      proinflammatory and prothrombogenic potential, and sometimes may induce a hypersensitivity
      reaction. On the other hand, lack of or delayed reendothelialization is considered an
      important factor for development of coronary reblockage. Estradiol has been shown to promote
      rapid reendothelialization of the stent and to reduce the restenosis after PCI. This trial
      will compare the anti-restenotic efficacy of the polymer-free rapamycin plus 17β
      estradiolvalerat -eluting stent with that of the polymer-free rapamycin-eluting stent in
      patients with coronary artery disease. The ISAR stent is a rough surface stainless steel
      stent which allows coating without the need of polymer (PF ISAR stent) in the cath lab.
    
  