
    
      The prevalence of obesity has increased in children over the past few decades. Approximately
      20% of adolescent boys are now considered obese. It is well accepted that obese children are
      at increased risk for high blood pressure, lipid abnormalities and type 2 diabetes. Recent
      studies have uncovered yet another undesirable effect of obesity. The testosterone levels of
      obese boys are only half those of lean boys at completion of puberty. Testosterone is
      important for muscle and bone development. Men with low testosterone are at higher risk of
      insulin resistance and inflammation, which lead to type 2 diabetes and heart disease. Since
      testosterone is the major reproductive hormone, these obese boys are at risk of decreased
      fertility. Men are supposed to achieve their peak testosterone levels at puberty. Thereafter,
      there is a decline in testosterone levels at the rate of 2% per year for the rest of life.
      Thus there is a clear need to develop a deeper understanding of low testosterone in these
      males who are entering their peak fertility years. There are no approved treatments for this
      disorder. The investigators propose to conduct a randomized placebo controlled trial to
      evaluate the effect of treatment with clomiphene in obese young men(age 18-30 years) who have
      low testosterone concentrations. Clomiphene is a drug that increases testosterone
      concentrations and possibly increases sperm production. In contrast, testosterone replacement
      therapy decreased fertility and cannot be used in young men. Investigators will study the
      effect of treatment with clomiphene or placebo tablets for 12 weeks in 30 subjects. The study
      will evaluate:-

        1. testicular function: Testosterone and two proteins secreted by testis(insulin like
           factor 3 and inhibin B) will be measured in the blood before and after treatment with
           clomiphene or placebo.

        2. insulin resistance: Investigators will measure insulin and glucose levels in the blood.

        3. inflammation: Investigators will measure proteins that induce inflammation.
    
  