
    
      This is a feasibility study that intends to recruit 60 family carers over a period of up to 4
      years. Carers will remain in the study for up to 12 weeks. They will be randomly assigned to
      a Talking Sense communication intervention and a treatment as usual control group of equal
      size. Quantitative and qualitative outcomes will be measured. Measures will include carer
      anxiety and depression, carer quality of life, carer general self efficacy and communication
      specific self efficacy as well as the carers rating of their relative's communication
      competence.

      The null hypothesis for this study is that receiving the Talking Sense communication
      intervention would have no effect on carer reported depression, carer quality of life,
      carer's perception of their ability to cope with communication difficulties, carer reported
      experience of communication difficulties and carer reported person with dementia's
      communication competence. The alternative hypothesis suggests that one or more of these
      outcomes would be significantly greater for the treatment group in comparison to the control
      group.

      This selection of outcome measures was identified by comparison with other treatment studies
      and in keeping with a theoretical framework for carer intervention studies described in a key
      text by Professor Richard Schulz, a prominent author in this field. Other longer term
      measures such as time to institutionalisation would be valuable though considered outside the
      remit of this study which is measuring short term effect only. If this feasibility study
      leads to a larger study, the longitudinal or wearing off of treatment effect would also be
      important to measure.

      The ideal control group for this study would be carers receiving no treatment though this
      would be unethical. Comparison to another form of treatment e.g. a leaflet has been used in
      other studies though this introduces additional variables to account for. In this case
      treatment as usual is considered to be the most appropriate form of control condition.

      Carers will be invited to participate in this study by a nurse or psychiatrist from the older
      person's mental health service. They will be asked if they wish to take a leaflet which
      broadly explains the purpose of the study and if their contact details can be passed to the
      chief investigator. All referrals will be approved by one of four overseeing psychiatrists.

      If in agreement, the carer will be telephoned by the chief investigator. Some carers may be
      excluded if they do not meet the study criteria though still offered communication therapy
      outside of the study if required.

      During this telephone contact, the chief investigator will provide a summary of the research
      study and answer any initial questions. If carers remain interested in participation, the
      chief investigator will arrange to visit them at home or on an NHS site. Carers will be sent
      a copy of the participant information sheet to read prior to this meeting.

      At this first meeting, the carer will be given a copy of the participant information sheet
      which will be read to them as much as required. They will be supported in understanding this
      where necessary. If they are keen to participate, they will be invited to sign a consent
      form. They will be offered time for consideration and a return visit/meeting if required.

      After the carer has signed a consent form they will be provided with a set of questionnaires
      to complete. Questionnaires will include a service receipt inventory and carer background
      information. The form and process of completing these questionnaires will be explained to
      them. They will then be asked to complete these questionnaires when alone. The chief
      investigator will arrange to collect these questionnaires.

      Carers will be randomly assigned to the treatment or control group using a list of randomly
      generated numbers by a third party colleague employee of Solent NHS Trust.

      Carers will be informed of their group assignment when the pre-treatment questionnaire packs
      are collected.

      Carers assigned to the treatment group will be asked about arranging future appointments.
      They will then be sent a letter explaining what happens next including dates of agreed
      appointments and when to expect delivery of the post treatment questionnaires. All carers
      will be offered a telephone reminder to complete questionnaires if required.

      Carers in both groups will continue to receive any support already planned from members of
      the older person's mental health service. Carers in the control group will also receive
      communication advice from the investigator in keeping with a model of treatment as usual.
      Carers in both groups will complete a service receipt inventory in their post intervention
      set of questionnaires.

      Carers in both groups will be advised of when to expect delivery and collection of a second
      post-intervention set of questionnaires. These will be collected.

      The referrer and over-seeing psychiatrist will be informed of the carer's decision to
      participate and assignment to treatment or control group.

      Carers will be seen on 3 occasions for a maximum total time of 4.5 hours. All interventions
      will be provided by the chief investigator.

      Carers will be encouraged to be seen alone. Therapy sessions will be offered in their home or
      at an NHS site.

      Carers will be shown the Talking Sense manual and given an overview of the 9 steps that it
      covers: knowledge, insight, thoughts and feelings, the environment, the person, how to be as
      the carer, reminders and encouraging conversation, communication and activities and
      challenging behaviours.

      All treatment session will be audio recorded. Analysis of these recordings will be used to
      measure the treatment provider's adherence as well as time spent on and most popular topics
      of discussion. Carers will also be invited to make notes.

      During the first session carers will be encouraged to grade their relative's degree of
      communication difficulty using the grading scale incorporated into the Talking Sense
      programme.

      The investigator will also use display resources adapted from the Talking Sense manual to
      explain specific issues.

      For the second and third session the carers will be encouraged to select topics to discuss,
      thoughts to consider and strategies to rehearse from the Talking Sense programme. Suitability
      of topics will be guided by the grade of communication difficulty they previously selected.
      There are five grades: very early, early, moderate, advanced and severe. For example, the
      validation approach to communication in dementia is only suitable for people with moderate,
      advanced or severe communication difficulties in dementia.

      Within one week of the final treatment session, all treatment group carers will be sent a 1-2
      page printed individualised summary of the topics and issues identified and discussed.

      The study period will be 10 to 12 weeks for each carer. For those receiving the intervention
      there will be at least a two week gap between receiving the summary document after the last
      intervention session and completing the post intervention questionnaires and interview.

      Between weeks 10 and 12, a purposive sample of approximately 15 carers from the intervention
      group will be invited to participate in an interview. These will be conducted by a single
      independent interviewer who will be an existing Speech and Language Therapy department
      employee of Solent NHS Trust. This person will have been trained by the chief investigator in
      using a semi-structured interview protocol. Carers will be asked to participate in an
      interview, at a location of their choice (as above) lasting no longer than 60 minutes.

      These interviews will be recorded and transcribed. The investigator will use a grounded
      hermeneutic approach of analysis with constant comparison leading to the development of
      themes and meta-themes. Consent to participate in the interview will be agreed with all
      participants at the start of the study until all interviews are completed.

      At the end of their participation, all participants will be sent a thank you letter. Carers
      will also be able to request further advice and support if required.
    
  