
    
      The protocol is divided into two studies that will have two separate consent forms (Study 1
      and Study 2).

      Study 1 involves the optimization of the device parameters. Study 1 will test adult subjects
      with no history of ocular disease (Study 1A) to assess the limits of human contrast
      sensitivity and subjects with definite glaucoma (Study 1B) by gathering preliminary data for
      comparison. These two pilot sub-studies intend to provide rapid data in regard to the device
      testing results to support the study hypothesis. This strategy will help rule out false
      negatives and false positives so that any adjustments can be made prior to the start of Study
      2 for longitudinal data collection. Study 2 involves determination of baseline population
      parameters for an older population more likely to be age-matched with patients with glaucoma,
      as well as performance of patients with various levels of glaucoma severity.

      Enrollment of participants in Study 1B will begin after the first 5 participants have been
      enrolled and tested in Study 1A. Study 2 will begin after Study 1A and B are complete.

      Study 1: No more than 20 adult subjects with no history of ocular disease and no more than 20
      adults subjects with definite glaucoma will be recruited to assist with optimization of
      device parameters.

      Study 1A: The individuals will not be patients of the co-investigators but rather volunteers
      who are recruited by word of mouth (co-employees, residents, research staff, etc.) and are
      willing to volunteer their time to assist in the development of the project. Volunteers can
      be of any age >18, male or female, and must be of self-reported excellent ocular health. Best
      spectacle corrected visual acuity of 20/40 or better is required (verified by Snellen acuity
      testing on the day of participation) and the participant must have no reported history of
      glaucoma, retinal disease, amblyopia, ocular trauma, or ocular surgery of any kind with the
      exception of refractive surgery (LASIK, PRK, or equivalent).

      Study 1B: These individuals will be recruited from the Alkek Eye Center patient population
      with confirmed diagnosis of glaucoma and of any age > 18.

      Study 2: Potential subjects will be recruited from the Department of Ophthalmology at Baylor
      College of Medicine and their families. We will recruit 100 patients for this study in the
      following distribution:

        1. 20 normal controls age 50 or older

        2. 20 patients age 50 or older with ocular hypertension

        3. 20 patients age 50 or older who are glaucoma suspects

        4. 20 patients age 50 or older with early to moderate glaucoma

        5. 20 patients age 50 or older with moderate to advanced glaucoma

      Study 1: Subjects participating in this portion of the study will attend one single visit: 1)
      Informed consent will be obtained and inclusion/exclusion criteria will be confirmed.
      Demographic information, ocular history, refraction, and visual acuity information will be
      collected for all patients. Additional clinical data will also be collected for Study 1B
      participants only. Information to be collected will include name, date of birth, ethnicity,
      gender, ocular history (surgery, etc), type of glaucoma (Study 1B), current visual acuity,
      refraction, central corneal thickness (Study 1B), intraocular pressure (Study 1B), recent
      slit lamp exam including lens status (Study 1B), recent dilated exam including optic nerve
      appearance (Study 1B), and recent automated perimetry results (Humphrey visual field, Study
      1B) 2) Snellen visual acuity will be measured while wearing current spectacle correction to
      ensure acuity of 20/40 or better. The current spectacle correction (refraction) and acuity
      will be recorded. 3) OKR (optokinetic reflex)-based contrast testing will be performed with
      the OCD - optokinetic contrast device (the device in study with this protocol). Subjects will
      be shown a brief demonstration of the OCD under red light (to begin dark adaptation) to
      familiarize themselves with the device and the expected testing strategy. 4) Subjects will
      then be dark adapted for 20-30 minutes. During this time they will be sitting in a darkened
      room. If the room is not dark enough a loose blindfold may be used. Music options will be
      available to help pass the time and ease potential discomfort. 5) After 20-30 minutes the
      blindfold will be removed (if used) and patient will have monocular dark-adapted (scotopic)
      testing done with the OCD, left eye followed by right eye. The non-tested eye may be covered
      during testing. After scotopic testing, the light of the OCD will be increased and
      light-adapted (photopic) testing will be performed in the same manner. 6) Debriefing.
      Subjective assessments of the testing modality and dark adaptation process will be collected.

      *************************

      Study 2: Study subjects participating in this portion of the study will require two study
      visits.

      Potential participants will be approached by the PI to ask if they are willing to participate
      in this study. If the subject agrees to participate, during their next scheduled clinic
      visit, the PI will also do a slit lamp examination including lens status using the AREDS 2008
      Clinical Lens Opacity Grading Standards in addition to their standard of care clinic eye
      visit. The slit lamp examination including lens status using the AREDS 2008 Clinical Lens
      Opacity Grading Standards is the only research related activity in this clinic visit.
      Potential participants who are the "normals" for Study 2 will be recruited from one of the
      co-investigator's clinic who is their treating physician. If interested, their physician
      (co-investigator) will contact the research coordinator to meet or call the patient and
      explain the study. If he/she agrees to participate, the PI will do a slit lamp examination at
      their next scheduled visit in the same manner as the other Study 2 participants, except the
      central corneal thickness will also be determined by ultrasonic pachymetry (standard testing
      for patients with glaucoma but not normal controls). Data from these clinic visits will be
      used as baseline information for the study. The baseline clinical and demographic data to be
      collected in the study will be: 1. Date of Birth 2. Ethnicity 3. Gender 4. Ocular History
      (surgery, etc) 5. Type of Glaucoma 6. Current visual acuity 7. Refraction 8. Central corneal
      thickness 9. Intraocular Pressure 10. Slit lamp examination including lens status by methods
      above 11. Dilated examination including optic nerve appearance 12. Recent automated perimetry
      results (Humphrey visual field)

      Research Study Visit 1 (within 2 months of clinic visit from which clinical data is
      obtained):

        1. Humphrey standard automated perimetry (visual field testing). This is a form of static
           perimetry used to assess retinal function and sensitivity. It is a commonly used
           photopic testing modality for the diagnosis and status of glaucoma and used frequently
           throughout ophthalmology and many ophthalmologic clinical studies. We hypothesize that
           there will be similarities in performance between Humphrey automated perimetry and OKR
           testing which will help validate our testing strategy. For patients with glaucoma, for
           whom visual field testing is frequently performed, this test will not be performed if a
           high-quality visual field test has been obtained within the last 6 months. For such
           patients, the visual field test from the clinical record will be used in the study.

        2. OKR-based contrast testing will be performed with the OCD - optokinetic contrast device
           (the device in study with this protocol). Subjects will be shown a brief demonstration
           of the OCD under infrared light (to begin dark adaptation) to familiarize themselves
           with the device and the expected testing strategy.

        3. Subjects will then be dark adapted for 20-30 minutes. During this time they may be
           blindfolded (depending on darkness of the room) and sitting in a dark room. Music
           options will be available to help pass the time and ease potential discomfort.

        4. After 20-30 minutes, the blindfold will be removed (if used) and patient will have
           monocular dark-adapted (scotopic) testing done with the OCD, left eye followed by right
           eye. The non-tested eye may be covered during testing.

        5. After scotopic testing, the light of the OCD will be increased and light-adapted
           (photopic) testing will be performed in the same manner.

      This visit should take approximately 90 minutes to complete.

      Second Research Visit (approximately 1 month after the first research visit):

        1. Pelli-Robson Contrast Sensitivity Testing. This is a form of stationary central vision
           contrast sensitivity that is a commonly used testing modality for photopic contrast in
           many ophthalmologic clinical studies. We hypothesize that there will be similarities in
           contrast performance between Pelli-Robson and OKR testing which will help validate our
           testing strategy.

        2. OKR-based contrast testing. This will be performed as in the second visit described
           above except that the testing order will be the right eye first, followed by the left
           eye.

        3. Debriefing. Subjective assessments of the testing modality and dark adaptation process
           will be collected.

      This visit should take approximately 90 minutes to complete.

      For those participating in Study 2, participants will be asked if they will allow the study
      staff to review their medical records to track clinical outcomes for 5 years. Participants
      will be asked to allow review of their medical records related to their developing or not
      developing glaucoma or other eye conditions to collect longitudinal data. This is an optional
      portion of the test for which they can opt out.

      The following information will be re-reviewed: 1. Date of Birth 2. Ethnicity 3. Gender 4.
      Ocular History (surgery, etc) 5. Type of Glaucoma 6. Visual acuity 7. Refraction 8. Central
      corneal thickness 9. Intraocular Pressure 10. Slit lamp examinations including lens status
      11. Dilated examinations including optic nerve appearance 12. Automated perimetry results
      (Humphrey visual field)
    
  