
    
      A major public health problem in aging is that about half of all stroke survivors have
      significant cognitive problems, called vascular cognitive impairment, nondementia (VCIND) and
      also a 10fold increased risk of going on to develop full dementia. Investigators at
      University of Maryland and VA Maryland Exercise and Robotics Center of Excellence (MERCE)
      have developed exercise programs for individuals that have suffered a disabling stroke that
      improve cardiovascular fitness levels, walking function, balance, and can reverse impaired
      glucose tolerance (prediabetic state) and non-insulin dependent diabetes in nearly 60% of
      stroke patients. Our most recent randomized studies provide the first evidence that aerobic
      exercise (cardiovascular) can improve selected aspects of cognitive function that typically
      decline with aging, and can increase indirect measures of blood flow to the brain. All of
      these findings provide hope that exercise can improve brain health by reducing recurrent
      stroke including silent strokes (9/10 stroke are silent), and improving cognitive function.
      Yet, no studies to our knowledge have shown that exercise training can improve these elements
      of brain health in individuals that have had a minor stroke, silent strokes, or are at great
      risk of stroke due to the presence of cerebrovascular risk factors (e.g., hypertension,
      prediabetes, etc.). Research studies in this pilot clinical demonstration project are
      designed to: 1) provide new insights into the potential role for exercise to improve brain
      health in aging and after minor stroke or at risk for stroke by using advanced brain imaging
      techniques; 2) extend our findings in exercise and brain health to a population with
      cerebrovascular disease, including those with less severe neurological deficits; those with
      cerebrovascular risk factors, minor strokes, transient ischemic attack (neurological deficits
      resolved, but still at high risk for further events), or silent strokes, which are extremely
      common and predictive of developing cognitive decline and dementia. Furthermore, the
      investigators are dedicated to testing exercise programs that can reach out to the community.
      Therefore, the investigators propose to use the same low intensity exercise class format that
      the investigators already have implemented safely and effectively at County Senior Centers in
      Maryland over the last 4 years for more disabled stroke patients, toward the training of
      these minimally disabled or nondisabled older individuals with silent or minor
      cerebrovascular disease. The results of this study will lay the groundwork for community
      partnering and broader dissemination providing exercise programs designed to preserve and
      improve brain health for those at high risk of vascular disease and cognitive decline in
      aging. The hypothesis is that a 6 month supervised exercise class will improve brain function
      and cognitive function among individuals with cerebrovascular risk factors, minor stroke,
      TIA, or silent stroke as indicated by measures before and after training of 1) written and
      computer - based cognitive function (memory and thinking) and mood tests and 2) MRI pictures
      of the brain to see if blood flow is increased or damage due to old strokes and aging is
      reduced by the exercise training.

      Individuals with cerebrovascular risk factors (e.g., hypertension, diabetes), minor stroke
      (nondisabling stroke in terms of community or home walking capability), TIA (warning stroke),
      or silent stroke (seen by brain imaging, but no paralysis or obvious stroke signs or
      symptoms) will be entered into a 6 month duration exercise class.

      Initial medical and neurological evaluation will be conducted by a credentialed Clinician to
      assure that individuals are eligible and that they are medically and neurologically approved
      for participation in a low intensity aerobic exercise class. All subjects will have approval
      of their primary care provider, documenting their awareness and medical approval for their
      patient to enter into a low to moderate exercise intensity class. This is the same medical
      clearance that is already Institutional Review Board approved and is in use for the similar
      exercise class for stroke and neurologic disability in Howard County Department of Aging
      Senior Centers. Before starting the exercise, all subjects will be given a series of baseline
      testing: 1) walking and balance tests to characterize their mobility performance capacity
      (timed walks, Short Physical Performance Battery, Functional Reach, Berg Balance Test,
      modified dynamic gait index, and 4 square stepping, 2) a 12 hour battery of written and
      computer based cognitive function and mood tests and questionnaires, and 3) MRI that lasts
      about 1 hour that includes pictures of the brain . All of these tests will be repeated at
      midpoints (i.e., 3 months) and at the end of the training program (6 months, MRIs are
      performed only at baseline and 6 months). The exercise class will consist of supervised
      walking as well as bar and chair exercises to address upper and lower extremity function. The
      class will occur 3 times per week for 6 months.

      Individuals are instructed to perform select parallel exercises at home the remaining days of
      the weeks and record activities in a homework logbook.

      This protocol is being designed in a modular fashion to collect the same outcomes at baseline
      and post all other MERCE exercise and robotics interventions.
    
  