
    
      Aims

      The study has two main aims:

        1. To compare the efficacy and the risk of "mood switching" of escitalopram and placebo in
           the acute phase treatment of bipolar depression in patients already taking mood
           stabilising medication.

        2. To compare the efficacy of escitalopram and placebo in continuation phase therapy for
           bipolar depression using a placebo-controlled discontinuation design. The study will
           compare the occurrence of syndromal and subsyndromal relapses, mixed states, mania,
           hypomania, and "rapid cycling" in a seven months' maintenance study following response
           to acute phase treatment.

      Hypotheses

        1. Escitalopram, given in addition to mood stabilising medications, is significantly more
           efficacious, measured by response and remission rates than placebo in bipolar depression
           (the acute phase study).

        2. Continuation therapy with escitalopram gives significantly longer mean time to
           depressive relapse and fewer depressive relapses compared to placebo (the continuation
           study).

        3. The incidence of "mood switching" (defined as development of mixed episodes, mania, or
           hypomania according to DSM-IV criteria do not differ significantly between escitalopram
           and placebo in either the acute or the continuation phases.

      Design This is a multi-center RCT with parallel-group design. The study compares the efficacy
      of placebo and escitalopram, given as add-on to mood stabilising medications in patients with
      bipolar depression without non-affective psychotic symptoms according to DSM-IV, and with a
      baseline MADRS score of ≥ 20 points.

      The study has two phases. The acute phase study lasts for eight weeks and compares the
      efficacy of escitalopram and placebo on depressive symptoms in bipolar depression. Response
      is defined as at least 50% improvement on the MADRS compared to the baseline score.
      Responders to escitalopram are re-randomised to escitalopram or placebo for the continuation
      phase while placebo responders continue taking placebo for the continuation phase. Patients
      on escitalopram who do not respond in the acute phase leave the study, whereas placebo
      non-responders are treated openly with escitalopram and repeat phase 1. Responders to this
      open-label treatment are then re-randomised double blind to escitalopram or placebo for the
      continuation study.

      The continuation phase study lasts for 32 weeks. Patients who responded to placebo in the
      acute phase continue placebo and their usual mood stabilising medication for the remainder of
      the study. Those who responded to escitalopram are re-randomised to continue taking placebo
      or escitalopram in unchanged doses. Patients who develop new mood episodes (DSM-IV-defined
      major depressive episode, mania, hypomania, or mixed episodes) or MADRS score ≥ 20 points
      leave the study.

      Method Screening includes sociodemographic variables, medical and psychiatric history,
      diagnosis made on the basis of clinical interview and verified by the MINI, symptom intensity
      measured by the MADRS,), results of medical examination and laboratory tests (ECG, height,
      weight, blood pressure and blood tests). Sociodemographic variables include age, gender,
      previous and concomitant disorders, course and treatment of mental disorders, bipolar
      disorder type (I or II), age of onset and history of psychotropic medication use.

      Study procedure As soon as the blood samples are analysed, eligible patients can be
      randomised. They are rated on the MADRS, Clinical Global Impressions (CGI), Inventory of
      Depressive Symptoms - Self Report (IDS-SR), Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 12 (SF-12),
      Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) and Sheehan Disability Inventory (SDI) at the baseline
      visit. Study medication is dispensed. The patients will return to further visits as shown
      below. Patients will receive study medication for a maximum of 40 weeks. Adverse events and
      concomitant medications are recorded.

      Assessments

      The following assessments will be carried out::

        1. MADRS, GAF, IDS-RS, and CGI-I at week 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 34 and
           40

        2. SDI and QLDS at week 8 and 40

        3. Diagnostic criteria for Mania and Hypomania at week 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 16, 20,
           24, 28, 34 and 40

        4. Diagnostic criteria for Major Depressive Episode at week 8, 9, 10, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28,
           34 and 40

      For the acute study, response and remission rates as assessed by the MADRS are the primary
      outcome measures. CGI-Improvement and IDS-SR are secondary outcome measures. In the
      continuation study, primary outcome measures include emergence of major depressive episodes
      and mania/hypomania, while time spent at different depressive symptom levels as assessed by
      the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria are secondary outcome measures.

      Definitions Response: at least a 50% reduction of the baseline MADRS score at the end of
      phase 1 if the patient has completed at least four weeks of the study. CGI-I 1 or 2 at the
      end of phase 1.

      Remission: MADRS score of 12 or less at the end of the acute phase if the patient has
      completed at least four weeks of the study.

      New episode: A patient who has previously responded to treatment meets the DSM-IV criteria
      for Major Depressive Episode. The patient must score at least 15 points on the MADRS and have
      a CGI-S score of 3 or more during this episode.

      Mania and hypomania: by DSM-IV criteria.
    
  