
    
      Patients and Methods At admission to NPH, newborn (GA >32 w, ≤36h old) infants referred to
      NPH with suspect or probable clinical signs of illness for which the physician on call
      considers that a blood sample is needed will be included in the study when a doctor taking
      part in the study is present at the ward. When a blood test is indicated, around 2 ml of
      blood is routinely drawn including an extra 0.1 ml blood for analysis of LDH using the Hilda
      Neo card.

      When an infant fulfils the inclusion criteria the physician on duty will open a downloaded
      "App" on the provided smartphone and take a photo of the first page of the study protocol
      including the patients study number time of birth, and the result of the clinical
      investigation on a simple clinical score protocol. Then the physician presses a "randomise
      button" on the smartphone to randomise to using the Hilda Neo card or to routine care. If
      randomised to the Hilda Neo card use the "app" gives instructions how to use the card and
      guides through the different steps of the test. The result of the LDH test will be presented
      to the physician immediately at the point-of-care and can be used in the clinical decisions.

      To prepare for a following study of the usefulness of LDH when deciding if a baby is ready
      for transfer from the NICU to ordinary care all included infants will have an LDH test at the
      routine clinical laboratory daily when other blood samples are drawn. The investigators
      believe that two LDH tests at 6 - 24 hour intervals are needed for that question. The reason
      for using two tests with an interval is that a high single LDH value can be expected in a
      large number of the infants because of the preceding disease while a decreasing value might
      be a better predictor of an improving status.

      An evaluation protocol is filled in by the neonatologist in the ward 80-96h after admission
      or, if earlier, at discharge or death. The classification of the protocols into "need for"
      and "no need for intensive care resources" will be done independently by two senior
      neonatologists, both blinded to the LDH results from the Hilda card and the routine clinical
      laboratory.

      The outcome that will be reported is the number of patients admitted to correct level of
      care, NICU or level 2 unit, in the two groups the admitting doctor has or has not access to
      plasma LDH respectively.

      The definitions of correct or not correct admission level were:

        1. Admitted to NICU care: correct decision=The patient did fulfil the criteria for referral
           to NICU during the first 80 and 96h after admission.

        2. Admitted to NICU care: not correct decision=The patient did not fulfil the criteria for
           referral to NICU during the first 80 to 96h after admission.

        3. Admitted to level 2 unit: correct decision=The patient did not fulfil the criteria for
           referral to NICU during the first 80 to 96h after admission.

        4. Admitted to level 2 unit: not correct decision= The patient did fulfil the criteria for
           referral to NICU between 80 and 96h after admission The classification of the protocols
           into "fulfil or not fulfil the criteria for intensive care resources" was done
           independently by two senior neonatologists, both blinded to the LDH results from the
           Hilda card and the routine clinical laboratory.

      The criteria for "fulfil the criteria for intensive care resources" were that shock-,
      ventilator-, CPAP- treatment, blood exchange, parenteral nutrition or other procedures
      demanding NICU capacity in the actual setting were performed during the first 80 - 96 hours
      after admission.

      For calculation of the number of patients needed for the study outcome "right decision" in
      relation to "wrong decision" will be used, see below under Power.

      The results will be recorded on the paper protocol forms, which are kept with the clinical
      record of the patient. The results will also be kept as a photo using the Smart phone App
      where it can be read only until the picture has been sent to the register. When the picture
      comes to the register it is identified only by its study number. Name and identity together
      with the study number is taken from the patient record to a separate register, which is
      securely kept by one authorized person in order for future supplementary information. The
      data recorded for the study are those normally recorded for a NICU patient and the doctors
      evaluation of the Hilda card.

      The de-identified protocols will be saved, processed and analysed with the statistical
      program SPSS. Only persons involved in the study will have access to the data registered.

      Based on going (Itzel et.al) and previously conducted research a LDH activity exceeding
      600U/L will be considered as increased.

      Power calculation In the investigators earlier study about 75% of the babies admitted to the
      NICU did not need intensive care procedures during the first week. To detect a reduction from
      75 to 50% according to outcome above would need 58 patients in the test and the control group
      respectively. The control group here is the group that is not admitted to the NICU ward but
      to the ordinary care ward.

      If there are technical or other problems with the Hilda Neo test that might influence the
      primary outcome the study will include 58 babies after the problem has been solved.

      The background factors and the criteria for need of intensive care that will be noted are
      presented on the protocols, (n= 120+20 patients)
    
  