
    
      Glucose variability (GV) in type 1 diabetes (T1DM) is increasingly viewed as a primary marker
      of glycemic control, responsible, along with chronic hyperglycemia reflected by HbA1c, for
      diabetes complications. In this study, we propose to investigate: (i) the time course of
      deterioration of physiological glucoregulatory mechanisms leading to increased GV, and (ii)
      the association of GV with metabolic and behavioral factors such as insulin sensitivity and
      treatment adequacy. Our primary hypothesis is:

      Glucose variability in T1DM is triggered by behavioral events (e.g. meals, insulin injection,
      exercise) that challenge the metabolic system. The timing and the magnitude of the behavioral
      challenges, and the ability of the metabolic mechanisms to absorb these challenges, determine
      the magnitude of GV. This process develops in a certain time frame, and can be accelerated by
      inadequate treatment, or attenuated by precise timing and dosing of bio-behavioral control.
      This study will use a combination of treatment records, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM),
      and an inpatient admission to clarify the relationships between behavioral challenges to the
      metabolic system, physiological glucoregulatory mechanisms, and GV. This study will test the
      following hypotheses:

        1. Suboptimal treatment behavior, e.g. insulin mistiming (early/late meal insulin) or
           unbalanced insulin (higher basal/bolus ratio), is correlated with higher GV and repeated
           hypo- and hyperglycemia; this relationship is mediated by a patients' insulin
           sensitivity;

        2. A metabolic challenge (e.g. consecutive sequence of hypo- and hyperglycemia), will push
           the metabolic system into a transient super-critical state characterized by increased GV
           as defined by the Variability Grid Analysis (VGA) and the Average Daily Risk Range
           (ADRR), which will persist for several days beyond the discontinuation of the challenge.
    
  