
    
      Research method: This study will be a prospective, randomized clinical trial comparing two
      methods of delivery of local anesthesia for intra-articular corticosteroids injection (IACI)
      in children with JIA. There will be two study groups:

        1. Children receiving analgesia with subcutaneous lidocaine 2% and EMLA® cream
           (Rheumatology Division standard of care arm) (n=33)

        2. Children receiving analgesia with iontophoresis and EMLA® cream (experimental arm)
           (n=33).

      About one child with JIA per week receives IACI in our institution. To minimize procedural
      variations in this study, we will select children undergoing knee (by far the most commonly
      injected joint) IACI by the Pediatric Rheumatology service at BC Children's Hospital.
      Randomization will be achieved with a Microsoft Access 2003 program. Our primary outcome
      measures will be change in pain between baseline pain assessed immediately prior to the
      corticosteroid injection, immediately after the local anesthetic application, and after the
      corticosteroid injection, using a 10-cm visual analogue scale (VAS, a continuous variable)
      and the Facial Pain Scale-Revised (FPS-R) scores (a categorical variable). The change in pain
      will be analyzed using Student's t-test for VAS scores and with Mann-Whitney U test for FPS-R
      scores. Descriptive statistics for demographic and auxiliary clinical variables will be
      presented in tables, including mean, range and standard deviation for continuous variables
      and median, range and percentiles for categorical variables.

      Adverse events from EMLA® or iontophoresis will also be recorded (i.e. tingling, redness,
      blanching, itching, blistering, or pain). Data collected will consist of the child's age,
      gender, JIA type and duration, number and sites of previous IACIs, and other medications used
      and will have no patient identifiers (such as name, date of birth, personal health number).
    
  