
    
      Coronary revascularization by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the dominant
      strategy in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD). Traditionally, PCI is
      performed with implantation of one or more permanent metallic stents which act as a scaffold
      for arterial recoil and, in the case of drug eluting stents (DES), provide a platform for
      delivery of anti-proliferative agents. A recent innovation in coronary stent technology is
      the advent of a bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) - a poly L-lactide (PLLA) scaffold
      covered with a poly D,L-lactide coating which elutes everolimus. Bioresorption occurs by
      de-esterification of the long chains of PLLA into small particles which are then phagocytosed
      by macrophages. Within two years, the BVS is completely resorbed and vasomotor reactivity of
      the blood vessel is restored.

      Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) represent a clinically challenging population - having
      an increased incidence of complex CAD as well as higher rates of stent thrombosis (ST) and
      in-stent restenosis (ISR) following PCI. ST occurs most frequently in the first thirty days
      following stent implantation and is prevented by effective antiplatelet medications,
      optimization of stent deployment and by rapid reendothelialization (RE) of the device.
      Notably, patients with DM have delayed RE following stent implantation which results in a
      marked increase in risk of ST. Thus, patients with DM in particular are in need of devices
      that result in rapid establishment of stent coverage by optimizing the response to vascular
      injury.

      Our study aims to answer the question: "Are there important differences in early healing
      between BVS and DES in patients with DM?" Our study hypothesis is that a BVS platform will
      enhance vascular healing resulting in greater strut coverage by 6 weeks in patients with DM.

      This is a single centre, interventional, prospective cohort study which will be conducted
      between July 2017 and July 2019. A total of 52 patients will be recruited for participation
      in this study. Stable patients with diabetes will undergo randomization to either BVS or DES
      in the first target lesion using optical coherence tomography (OCT) at the time of the index
      procedure. Subsequently, patients will undergo staged PCI at four or six weeks
      (sub-randomization) of the second lesion with OCT evaluation of the initially implanted
      device to determine the percent of uncovered struts.
    
  