
    
      Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α antagonists have changed the goals of ulcerative colitis (UC)
      treatment, with the focus now on preventing disease progression rather than just controlling
      symptoms. Anti-TNF agents have shown ability to achieve clinical remission and mucosal
      healing in UC. However, histological remission represents a target distinct from endoscopic
      healing in UC, and seems a better predictor of clinical outcomes. Moreover, histological
      remission and not mucosal healing has been associated with a reduced risk of colorectal
      cancer in UC. Infliximab was reported to induce histological remission in a significant
      proportion of UC patients. More recently, adalimumab was able to achieve histological
      remission in nearly one-third of anti-TNF naïve patients with moderately to severely active
      UC.

      Reactive therapeutic drug monitoring of anti-TNF agents may help to identify mechanisms for
      loss of response and to guide selection of optimal intervention in individual patients and
      has been shown to be cost-effective compared with empiric dose escalation. Proactive
      therapeutic drug monitoring showed that anti-TNF trough levels are correlated with clinical
      response, clinical remission and mucosal healing in patients with inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD). Conversely, inadequate serum drug concentrations and antidrug antibodies are
      associated with poor clinical outcomes. Recently, a study demonstrated that infliximab trough
      concentrations during maintenance therapy are associated with endoscopic and histologic
      healing in patients with UC.

      Golimumab, a subcutaneously administered fully human antibody to TNF, induces clinical
      response and remission in patients with moderately to severely active UC. In patients who
      responded to induction therapy, golimumab doses administered every 4 weeks as a maintenance
      regimen was effective in maintaining clinical response through 1 year. Available data on
      golimumab drug monitoring and exposure-response relationship in UC patients are from the
      PURSUIT trials. A positive association between golimumab levels and efficacy outcomes,
      including mucosal healing, was confirmed during both induction and maintenance portions of
      the PURSUIT studies.

      Real life data regarding golimumab concentrations and clinical outcomes are lacking, with
      only a small observational study published. Besides, there are no data regarding the ability
      of golimumab to achieve histological remission in UC patients.
    
  