
    
      Acute heart failure (AHF) is the most common cause of hospital admission in patients over age
      65, accounting for 1,000,000 admissions, over 6 million hospital days, and $12 billion in
      costs annually. The prognosis of patients admitted with AHF is dismal, with a 20-30%
      readmission rate and a 20-30% mortality rate within six months after admission. Recent
      studies have established the prognostic importance of renal function in patients with heart
      failure. In patients who are hospitalized with decompensated congestive heart failure,
      worsening renal function is also associated with worse outcome, Various studies have
      estimated that 25-30% of patients hospitalized for decompensated CHF have worsening of renal
      function leading to prolonged hospitalization, increased morbidity and mortality. Although
      there are no FDA approved renal adjuvant therapies for AHF, several novel adjuvant therapies
      for use in AHF are being investigated in randomized clinical trials. Additionally, there are
      currently available strategies, with the potential for improving renal function in AHF such
      as low dose dopamine and low dose nesiritide. However, these strategies have not been
      investigated.

      Participation in this study will last 6 months. All potential participants will undergo
      initial screening, which wil include a medical history, physical exam, blood draws,
      measurements of fluid intake and output, and questionnaires. The same evaluations and
      procedures will be repeated at various points during the study. Eligible participants will be
      randomly assigned to receive low dose nesiritide or placebo with optimal diuretic dosing or
      low dose dopamine or placebo with optimal diuretic dosing.

      Follow-up assessments will occur at Baseline, 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, day 7 or
      discharge, day 60 and 6 months. Follow-up assessments will include medical history, physical
      exam, blood draws, measurements of fluid intake and output, questionnaires and questions
      about medications and changes in health.

      The RED ROSE substudy involves a subset of ROSE patients in looking at the dyspnea
      assessment. The dyspnea visual analog scale (dyspnea VAS) has been suggested to be superior
      to other ordinal (Likert) scales in assessment of dyspnea in acute heart failure syndromes
      (AHFS)1. However, there is no standardization of conditions (oxygen supplementation,
      position, activity) at the time of VAS assessment and thus, it may not optimally reflect the
      variability in dyspnea severity in AHFS patients. This insensitivity to variability at
      baseline and subsequent assessment may limit the ability to reflect variation in response
      over time and with alternate treatment strategies. A standardized and sequentially
      provocative assessment of dyspnea (provocative dyspnea severity score, pDSS) may better
      reflect variation in dyspnea severity and variation in response over time and with alternate
      treatment strategies. Substudy subjects will be asked to complete a provocative dyspnea
      assessment at baseline, 24, 48 and 72 hours. The subjects will be asked to complete a 6
      minute walk assessment at the 72 hour visit.
    
  