
    
      Achieving malaria elimination presents a challenge because of important gaps in the knowledge
      about the strategies and tools needed achieve this. While malaria control measures aim to
      reduce morbidity and mortality in vulnerable populations, interventions to reduce
      transmission are designed to interrupt transmission of malaria parasites from humans,
      especially asymptomatic parasite carriers [1], to mosquitoes.

      The importance of asymptomatic infections in transmission has grown with the awareness that
      the majority of the human reservoir of infection are asymptomatic carriers [2] and these are
      quite difficult to target [3]. Previous malaria elimination campaigns have applied a strategy
      of mass drug administration: extensive treatment of entire populations, irrespective of their
      infection status, in one or multiple rounds [4]. Although transmission was interrupted in
      some cases, albeit temporarily [5], there is a reluctance to apply this method because the
      evidence of its impact has been mixed. A Cochrane systematic review of MDAs showed that long
      term reductions were not possible within the current concept and highlighted the need for
      studies in low- and moderate-transmission settings and studies that could address potential
      barriers for community uptake, and contribution to the development of drug resistance [6].

      More conservative approaches involving screening for infection with a rapid malaria
      diagnostic test (RDT) and treating only positive individuals; mass screening and treatment,
      did not have a significant impact on the malaria incidence [7], largely due to low test's
      sensitivity that would miss a large proportion of infected individuals with low parasite
      densities. Implementing reactive screening on a programmatic scale puts significant pressure
      on the health system [8] and available field-based screening tests lack the required
      sensitivity for low-density parasitaemia seen with asymptomatic infections [9]. More
      importantly, understanding the local context and adapting intervention strategies may help
      improve coverage and participation by recipient communities [10].

      This study investigates a novel approach to reducing residual malaria transmission that
      combines the elements of reactive treatment of household contacts of a clinical case
      reporting at a health facility with the active involvement of both patients and their
      households. The approach to implementation will be developed through formative research that
      identifies the optimum means of community engagement that will result in the best possible
      compliance and adherence to the treatment in the household.
    
  