
    
      Although caregivers often become concerned about their child by 17-19 months of age, children
      do not typically receive a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) until they are 4½
      years old, or older for Hispanic families. It is now well documented that early participation
      in ASD-specialized intervention can lead to significant improvements in skills and behavior
      for toddlers with ASD. However, despite the availability of publicly funded Part C early
      intervention (EI) services, long waits for a formal ASD diagnosis can prevent toddlers from
      receiving appropriately specialized intervention during the critical birth-to-three years. In
      addition, caregivers concerned about ASD experience high levels of uncertainty and stress
      during this waiting period. This project will implement and evaluate an innovative healthcare
      service delivery model designed to promote earlier access to specialized intervention for
      toddlers with ASD. The Screen-Refer-Treat (SRT) model provides a coordinated and
      cost-effective approach to early identification and intervention by involving both medical
      and EI providers, and represents a practical and sustainable strategy for bridging the gap
      between ASD concerns and ASD intervention. The SRT model, which builds on the availability of
      validated ASD screening tools and low-cost behaviorally-based ASD interventions, will be
      implemented in four diverse communities across Washington State to evaluate changes in
      service delivery practices for toddlers with Hispanic as well as Non-Hispanic backgrounds.
      The SRT model comprises three components: (1) universal ASD screening at 16-20 months and
      prompt referral to EI programs by primary care physicians (PCPs); (2) expedited ASD
      assessments within EI programs; and (3) use of an inexpensive, evidence-based ASD-specialized
      intervention by EI providers. An electronic version of the Modified Checklist for Autism
      (M-CHAT) with automated scoring that incorporates relevant follow-up questions will be
      provided to PCP practices, and distance coaching via telemedicine will be available to EI
      providers to support their ASD assessment and intervention activities. A stepped wedge
      cluster RCT design will be used to evaluate implementation and outcomes of the SRT model.
      Data on screening, referral, assessment, and intervention practices will be collected from 40
      PCPs and 80 EI providers across the state prior to and following SRT implementation to
      identify practice changes. In addition, separate samples of caregivers of toddlers with ASD
      concerns (n=245) will be recruited from communities before and after SRT implementation and
      followed prospectively to measure differences and changes over time in caregiver wellbeing,
      parenting efficacy, satisfaction with healthcare systems, and toddler's social-communicative
      behaviors. We predict that implementation of the SRT model will be associated with higher
      rates of ASD screening by PCPs, earlier referral to EI programs, earlier initiation of
      ASD-specialized intervention, reduced time between ASD concerns and diagnosis, and improved
      caregiver and child outcomes.
    
  