
    
      The core region is prescribed as a box which is formed from abdominal muscles at the front,
      paraspinals and glutueal muscles on the back, diaphragm on the roof, oblique abdominal
      muscles on sides and hip joint and pelvic girdle at the base. With the activation of these
      muscles, both trunk stabilization is ensured and movement that emerges in the distal segments
      is supported by power generation and transfer.

      The location of the center of gravity in the space changes frequently with the movement of
      the body segments. Postural adjustments that required to restore the impaired balance due to
      this displacement of center of gravity, consist of lumbal stabilization with the activation
      of the core muscles. Kibler et al. stated that core stabilization is a key component in order
      to achieve balance during upper and lower limb movements and emphasized that the core is a
      support point for the movement of the distal segments. In addition, core stabilization
      exercises should be included in the balance training program as they improve body awareness
      and act as a muscular corset that stabilizes the body when the core area is limped or absent
      with limb movement.

      The upper extremity is a body part with a wide variety of abilities. With the same basic
      anatomical structures, the arms, forearms, hands and fingers may function differently. The
      upper extremity is the primary tool that people use to manipulate the environment. Therefore,
      mobility comes to the forefront rather than stability in the upper extremity. On the upper
      extremity, the most vital component in the transition from high-level mobility to
      functionality is the hand. Daily activities such as kneading a dough, making a sculpture,
      cutting a meat, performing a surgical operation, thread a needle are performed manually. It
      also provides information about objects such as surface structures, weights, shapes,
      dimensions, and thermal properties. The functions of manipulating and grasping objects are
      functions that reveal the influence of handcraft. The continuity of the kinetic chain is
      necessary for these functions to be carried out with biomechanical and kinesiologically
      correct patterns.

      The kinetic chain is a system that allows different body parts to produce coordinated power
      and collect and transfer it to the final connection point through muscle activity and body
      position. It is necessary to provide body stabilization by a strong core in order to achieve
      power transfer between the extremities and the trunk with the minimum loss of power due to
      this system. Core stabilization is defined as a prerequisite for the consist of movements
      involving the upper limb through regional biomechanical stabilization and power generation,
      transfer and control along the kinetic chain.

      In a study conducted by Yuki Miyake and colleagues to investigate the effects of core
      stabilization exercises on upper extremity function, it was determined that only after 1
      session of core stabilization training, upper-extremity functions and balance parameters have
      been developed in the early period. The same group of researchers underlined the lack of
      literature on the effects of long-term core stabilization training on balance and upper
      extremity functions. The aim of this study planned in line with the available information is
      to investigate the effect of core stabilization exercises applied for 6 weeks on body balance
      and hand functions.
    
  