
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic condition affecting an estimated 422 million adults
      worldwide and 28.9 million adults in the US. DM can lead to increased risk of mortality and
      significant complications including amputation, blindness, cardiovascular disease, and kidney
      damage. The risk of developing these outcomes can be mediated by early diagnosis and
      treatment, such as by patient self-management by lifestyle changes and/or taking medication.
      However, outcome improvement depends on control of blood glucose levels, which in turn depend
      on adherence to treatment. Several psychosocial factors are known to affect treatment
      adherence for chronic conditions, one of which is stigma.

      Stigma arises when social norms result in the marginalization of people with a certain
      identity or trait. Negative stereotypes of people in the stigmatized group result in their
      systematic exclusion and/or discrimination. Chronic disease diagnosis itself can lead to the
      development of disease-specific identity-based stigma, in that a person's identity is
      disrupted by a new label (e.g. "diabetic") applied to them, until they incorporate this new
      label into a positive sense of self. Minority stress theory describes the impact of
      identity-based marginalization on health outcomes. According to minority stress theory,
      discrimination and stigma may lead to heightened stress levels, which can translate over time
      into heightened mental and physical health disparities for the stigmatized group. Categories
      of stigma experienced by patients include enacted stigma, perceived stigma, self-stigma, and
      concealment. Enacted stigma refers to acts of discrimination against people in a stigmatized
      group. Perceived stigma refers both to the fear of experiencing enacted stigma, as well as to
      the shame resulting from belonging to or being associated with a stigmatized group.
      Self-stigma refers to the internalization of negative group stereotypes by members of the
      stigmatized group. Concealment, also called non-disclosure, refers to the hiding of a
      stigmatized identity or condition.

      Stigma has been shown to negatively affect access to care as well as quality of life in
      people living with chronic diseases. Disease-specific stigma scales have been developed for
      various conditions, including mental illness, HIV/AIDS, epilepsy, and obesity. These scales
      have been used to facilitate interventions to minimize negative effects of stigma on health
      behaviors and outcomes. In comparison to other health conditions, diabetes stigma has only
      recently emerged as a research topic of interest.

      DM has been reported to be a health condition that is relatively less stigmatized in
      comparison to other conditions. One publication suggested in its introduction that "diabetes
      does not appear to have associated stigma." As such, there have been publications comparing
      the degree of stigma experienced by DM patients with those with conditions such as
      schizophrenia, dementia, HIV, depression, and hypertension. However, numerous qualitative
      studies interviewing people with diabetes have revealed that DM patients do experience
      significant disease-related stigma.

      In the literature, DM-related enacted stigma examples include workplace discrimination
      (decreased chance of being hired and increased chance of job loss); threatened or actual
      termination of romantic relationships; and judgmental behavior from healthcare professionals.
      Likewise, examples of perceived stigma include fear of being characterized as an illicit drug
      user when injecting insulin in public; and feelings of isolation when choosing to eat
      different foods, particularly in family and cultural situations. Self-stigma and concealment
      examples include avoidance of social events; timing self-management so it can be done in
      isolation; and altering blood glucose recordings, so as to appear "healthy."

      Despite ample evidence of the existence of DM-specific stigma, limited attempts have been
      made to measure it. The Diabetes Distress Scale (DDS) was designed to measure "emotional
      burden, physician-related distress, regimen-related distress, and…interpersonal distress"
      associated with DM. However, the DDS does not comprehensively measure all the types of stigma
      minority stress theory has shown to contribute to chronic disease health disparities. The
      Barriers to Diabetes Adherence measure includes six questions about stigma, but the scope of
      these questions was limited and targeted towards an adolescent population with Type 1 DM. A
      limited number of previous publications have adapted disease-specific stigma scales from
      other conditions or developed their own questionnaires for said conditions for their diabetes
      stigma research needs. To date, only one publication has developed and validated a stigma
      scale specifically for DM patients, and this measure only addressed self-stigma. Therefore,
      to our knowledge, there is currently no scale that measures multiple facets of DM-specific
      stigma that may be contributing to sub-optimal patient diabetes self-management. Given the
      relationship between stigma, treatment adherence, and adverse health outcomes for chronic
      disease patients, development of a comprehensive DM stigma scale may lead to improvements in
      DM patient centered care, which will be addressed by the following Specific Aims:

      Specific Aims

        1. Develop a novel quantitative measure that comprehensively measures enacted stigma,
           perceived stigma, and self-stigma and concealment specific to adult DM patients

        2. Pilot the measure with 30-50 DM patients

        3. Validate the measure and determine if DM stigma is associated with obesity, diabetes
           type, insulin use, and/or is predictive of medication adherence
    
  