
    
      An inter-disciplinary repeated measures case control design study is proposed, whereby novel
      methods of brain imaging, brain electrophysiological activity, neuropsychological tests will
      be examined in concert with the children's dynamic changes in glucose levels. This will be
      compared to healthy population.

      Study population Participants with T1DM and healthy siblings will be recruited by research
      publication in diabetes mellitus forums, and through the Pediatric Endocrinology Association.
      It will include mainly participants from the Pediatric Diabetes Mellitus Clinics at Assaf
      Harofeh; however, every child who complies with the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      recruited.

      Inclusion criteria: Families living in areas with high access to medical care. Age: 12-18
      years old having diagnosed with T1DM for longer than 2 years.

      Exclusions: head injuries, epileptic episodes, psychiatric medications, lack of Hebrew
      abilities, disagreement to keep with all study requests, history of more than one episode of
      severe hypoglycemic event in the past, including loss of consciousness or more than one
      episode of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) . Patients with significant renal or liver function
      abnormalities will be excluded.

      Similar exclusion criteria for healthy control population. All parents will sign informed
      consent and children will assent, according to Ethics committee regulations, prior to
      beginning study sessions.

      Procedures:

      Study design includes 3 sessions, which will be performed during a period of 2 -12 weeks,
      according to participants' convenience.

      The data acquired in each session will be analyzed both within groups and among groups in
      order to evaluate possible descriptive variables to performance differences among diabetic
      patients in addition to the expected differences between healthy and diabetic adolescents,
      and the expected difference between T1DM patients with variable glycemic control.

      Session 1 - baseline visit:

      Signing parents' informed consent and participant assent. Medical history intake by the study
      physician including physical exam. Data regarding age of diagnosis, DKA at diagnosis, history
      of serious hypoglycemic or DKA events, management profile, annual average HbA1c, systems
      review, chronic medical diseases, medications will be provided from parents, patients and
      summary letters and from clinical care charts.

      Physical examination will be performed including blood pressure, pulse, weight, height, BMI,
      pubertal stage, injection sites.

      Specialized psychological neurocognitive team will perform neurocognitive studies to one of
      the parents and participants. Tests will be performed in a clinic setting in order to provide
      a baseline cognitive and lingual ability to continue in the next study sessions. Capillary
      glucose assessment will be performed prior to testing to ensure glucose > 70 mg/dl.

      The neurocognitive studies will include an extensive battery of cognitive assessments,
      including tasks that were specifically designed for the purposes of the current project
      [Estimation Time task, Continuous Performance Test (CPT), Emotional Stroop for eating
      disorders (EST-ED) and New objects memory task]. Tasks will be performed in part by computer
      provided tasks and partly by hand written tasks.

      Session 2 - combined simultaneous EEG and CGMS assessment visit, and sleep quality
      assessment:

      Participants will be hospitalized for 30 hours in the continuous-EEG unit at the Pediatric
      Neurology Department, Assaf-Harofeh Medical Center, where they will undergo 30 hr. continuous
      simultaneous EEG and CGMS monitoring, and two separate sessions of neurocognitive assessments
      at glucose > 240 mg/dl and at glucose < 180 mg/dl, respectively.

      They will arrive to the EEG unit after breakfast on day 1. They will be connected to both
      systems and accuracy assessment will be performed before lunchtime of day 1. They will remain
      in unit, attached to both systems until afternoon on day 2, a total of 30 hours.

      Neurocognitive assessment will be performed after lunch on day 1, and after lunch on day 2.

      On day 1, they will receive their regular insulin dose before lunch, and a cognitive
      assessment which will be performed with glucose level > 70 mg/dl and below 180 mg/dl.

      On day 2, they will not receive their regular insulin dose before lunch, and the same
      cognitive test will be performed with glucose level > 240 mg/dl. An episode of food intake
      without a bolus of insulin occurs unfortunately very often among adolescents in daily life.

      The neurocognitive assessment performed at this session will include working memory,
      selective attention and inhibitory control tasks: Test of Memory and Learning (TOMAL) ,
      selective attention, cognitive flexibility and and inhibitory control (cognitive and
      emotional Stroop tasks) , word fluency test , visual memory and executive functions (ROCF) ;
      visuospatial short-term working memory ; auditory verbal learning ; Towers of Hanoi, a
      computerized task based on Tower of London (TOL). number storage capacity of working memory
      as well as tests of executive (WISC-IV) .

      During the 30 hours the participants will be connected to continuous EEG recording, sleep
      monitoring and CGMS. The study participants and research team will be blinded to the EEG
      readings while recorded. The study team and participants will not be blinded to the CGMS
      recording.

      Participants will be able to convey their daily activities in their room, while monitored by
      continuous EEG. They will have their regular diet and regular daily activities.

      Participants will carry on with their regular daily routine of at least 4 blood glucose
      measurements by prick tests, insulin management by multiple daily injections or pump therapy
      and meals.

      Participants from group 3 will measure glucose by prick test only twice daily as required for
      CGMS calibration.

      During 5 consecutive nights, including the night in hospital, the participants will be
      assessed for sleep quality by sleep diary and actigraph.

      The first night in hospital is to assess the association between actigraph and EEG and CGMS
      variability. The 4 nights at home are for assessment of CGMS, quality of life and actigraph
      readings.

      Session 3 - brain imaging :

      MRI scans including T1, T2, DTI and vascular MRI. All subjects will undergo anatomic (T1, T2)
      scans, DTI scans, and vascular scan. The session length will be of 20 -30 minutes max. The
      procedure will be performed with no sedation administration , no contrast material.

      Description of measures used in the study:

      Neurocognitive and psychosocial questionnaire and tasks based Continuous EEG monitoring This
      is a non-invasive method of examination, recording electrical cerebral brain activity
      (electroencephalographic reading) for continuous prolonged periods of hours and days, without
      causing inconvenience to the subjects. Results are of high resolution and reliability.

      The patients will be connected to a standard digital acquisition EEG machine (Bio-logic
      Systems corp, Electro-Cap International Inc, Illinois) by 19 scalp electrodes applied
      according to the 10-20 system and one cardiac electrode for simultaneous electrocardiographic
      (ECG) assessment. The EEG acquisition will be performed at sampling rate of 256 Hz.

      The EEG data from all subjects will be exported to the Matlab environment. Matlab is a
      computing language permitting more efficient analysis of data that are computationally
      intensive (The Mathworks Inc, MA).

      Spectral analysis of the EEG signal will be performed by fast Fourier Transform (FFT - using
      MATLAB function) for each patient on 2 seconds epochs of recording, taken at 5 minutes
      intervals (to fit the frequency of CGMS measurements), with a resolution of 0.5 Hz. The
      frequency bands will be divided to delta (0.5-3.5 Hz), theta (4-7.5 Hz), alpha (8-13 Hz),
      beta (13.5-29.5 Hz), low gamma (30-47.5 Hz) and high gamma (52.5-80 Hz).

      Each participant will have 3 electrodes connected to chest to see consecutive ECG
      measurements.

      continuous glucose monitoring by - CGMS The CGMS (Minimed Inc., Sylmar. Calif) is a portable
      device allowing continuous measurements of interstitial glucose concentration (IGC) by a
      disposable subcutaneous catheter, operated by a cable and monitor system. The system measures
      glucose values every 10 seconds and stores an average value every 5 minutes, providing 288
      measures per day [26]. The system reports values in the range between 40-400 mg/dl (glucose
      values lower than 40 mg/dl are reported as 40 mg/dl and values above 400 mg/dl are reported
      as 400 mg/dl). The median correlation of the device to capillary glucose is 0.92, with 75% of
      the correlation values above 0.75, 96.3% of the reference values in the range of >216 mg/dl
      are accurate. Calibration and verification of IGC will be performed prior to all meals and at
      bedtime, according to capillary measured glucose levels by finger taps, using a conventional
      glucometer. Data will be downloaded by using CGMS solutions software, transformed to Excel
      datasheet, and analyzed by a Pediatric Endocrinologist.

      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) The PSQI is a well-validated 19-item self-report
      measure of sleep quality in adults over the previous month. The PSQI provides a global score
      of sleep quality and seven sub scale scores. A total score of ≥ 5 has been recommended as
      clinically significant in terms of poor sleep quality. The PSQI has demonstrated good
      validity and reliability (Cronbach's α > 0.8). Participants will complete the PSQI during
      session 2, during day 1, prior to wearing the actigraph. The questionnaire is attached in
      appendix 2.

      Actigraphy An Actigraph (Micro-mini-Motion logger, Ambulatory Monitoring Inc., Ardsley, New
      York , USA) is a wrist-watch sized motion detector that has been shown to be highly valid and
      reliable for differentiating sleep from wakefulness, as well as recording total sleep time
      (r=97 compared to polysomnography). Participants will wear an actigraph for 5 consecutive
      nights on their nondominant wrist. Sleep patterns will be estimated using the validated Sadeh
      scoring algorithm developed for adolescents. Actigraph sleep measures included: (a) sleep
      onset/ bedtime; (b) sleep offset/wake time, (c) time in bed (minutes from sleep onset to
      sleep offset), (d) actual sleep time (number of sleep minutes between sleep onset and sleep
      offset), (e) sleep efficiency (actual sleep time divided by time in bed, expressed as a
      percent), (f) longest sleep period (longest consecutive period scored as sleep without any
      identified awakening), (g) median number of nighttime wakings (at least 5 consecutive
      minutes), and (h) median length of nighttime waking.

      Sleep Diary During the nights participants will wear the actigraph at home, they will be
      asked to rate every day their previous nights' sleep using a very short questionnaire.
    
  