
    
      Background:

      This is a study to investigate in a preliminary fashion the feasibility of short course
      chemotherapy to participants with HIV-associated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (HIV-NHL).

      This study will investigate if the paradigm for treatment can be successfully changed from a
      standard of 6 cycles to one cycle beyond complete remission with 6 total allowable cycles.

      Objective:

      To assess with 90 percent probability that at least 50 percent of participants treated with
      short-course EPOCH-R will be progression free at one year.

      Eligibility:

      Aggressive CD20 positive DLBCL.

      HIV+ serology.

      All stages (I-IV) of disease.

      ECOG Performance status 0-4.

      NHL previously untreated with cytotoxic chemotherapy.

      Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

      May not be pregnant or nursing.

      May not have received previous rituximab.

      Design:

      Participants will be treated every three weeks with a combination of EPOCH and rituximab for
      one cycle beyond CR/CRu by CT scan of all detectable tumors for a minimum of three and
      maximum of six cycles. Following cycle 2, CT, positron emission tomography scans (PET), and
      bone marrow biopsies (if initially positive) will be performed.

      At the conclusion of the study, we will estimate whether the number of cycles can be reduced
      using the paradigm. If the cumulative number of participants to relapse exceeds 25 percent by
      6 months, the study will be closed.

      Following the completion of chemotherapy, restaging will be performed 2 months following the
      end of treatment, then every 3 months for one year, every 6 months for one year, then every
      12 months until relapse, death, or loss to follow up.

      Antiretroviral therapy (ART) will be given concurrently with treatment regimen.

      To study the effects of treatment approach on parameters of HIV disease, measurements of CD4
      cells and viral loads will be made at baseline and at the completion of therapy, and then 2
      months following the end of treatment, and then every 3-6 months for a total of 24 months
      following chemotherapy.
    
  