
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Establish the feasibility of enrolling breast and colorectal cancer survivors along with a
      co-survivor into a randomized physical activity promotion trial.

      II. Determine the short-term effect of an enhanced survivorship care plan (SCP) compared to
      the standard SCP on objectively-measured physical activity among survivors and co-survivors.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (Enhanced SCP): Participants receive an enhanced SCP, comprised of a personalized
      document that summarizes treatment and follow up recommendations, including basic physical
      activity guidance. Participants also receive a copy of the United States Department of
      Agriculture (USDA) Dietary Guidelines for Americans, as well as standardized emails with
      wellness tips and information on stress management provided from the American Heart
      Association's website on "Healthy Habits" at 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks. Specific topics in emails
      include "positive self-talk", "daily relaxation breathing techniques", "better sleep", and
      "ways to find pleasure". Participants also wear a Fitbit web-integrated physical activity
      tracker daily for 12 weeks and receive email feedback specific to each participant based on a
      series of factors, including their Fitbit data, Emails may provide encouragement, such as
      "keep up the good work", and/or very specific instructions regarding compliance with the
      intervention, goals for meeting physical activity goals, potential strategies to
      increase/maintain levels of physical activity, etc., and technical or how-to support
      including how to use the device and website, or questions about goal-setting.

      ARM II (Control): Participants receive a standard SCP, comprised of a personalized document
      that summarizes treatment and follow up recommendations, including basic physical activity
      guidance. Participants also receive a copy of the USDA Dietary Guidelines for Americans, as
      well as standardized emails with wellness tips and information on stress management provided
      from the American Heart Association's website on "Healthy Habits" at 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks.
      Specific topics in emails include "positive self-talk", "daily relaxation breathing
      techniques", "better sleep", and "ways to find pleasure".
    
  