
    
      Were invited and accepted to participate in this study, 77 individuals with Cerebral Palsy
      who attended the outpatient clinic of San Francisco Home School (SFHS) at the time of data
      collection.

      This study served as a non-randomized experimental trial conducted between 2011/2012 at
      dental ambulatory in the SFHS. Dental care routines have been established, by standardizing
      procedures and ensuring the reproducibility of the method of sedation. In the initial
      consultation, medical history taking (collecting sociodemographic data of the participants)
      and dental examination was performed. Data relating to the Cerebral Palsy clinical standard
      were collected from medical records of patients and noted in the evaluation sheet developed
      specifically for this research. Were provided to guardians the clarifications regarding
      sedation technique and treatment planning.

      At dental examination the diagnostic criteria of caries followed those proposed by the World
      Health Organization (WHO). On the second visit, the patient was stabilized in the dental
      chair under mechanical contention. Performed adaptation and selection of nasal mask,
      monitoring equipment were positioned, starting the observation and recording of the
      behavioral and physiological records in the evaluation sheets. The proportion of gas was
      manipulated relative to the percentage between nitrous oxide and oxygen to achieve optimal
      sedation. In this study, it was considered a good sedation for Cerebral Palsy patient when he
      showed a certain degree of relaxation, which becomes more cooperative with treatment.

      Behavioral assessment in relation to dental treatment was measured by Venham's Score,
      standard used for behavioral assessment of the dental patient, and the measurement performed
      according to the patient's behavior during the dental procedure.

      Due to the subjectivity which compose the diagnosis of diseases or behavior analysis, it is
      common to occur some variation in the results. In the specific situation of a study, there is
      the aggravation of multiple observations be conducted on the same day, so that fatigue could
      lead to inconsistent diagnoses. For this reason, only one patient per day received dental
      care with nitrous oxide (N2O). In light of the above considerations, two dentists were
      calibrated to evaluate behavior in Venham's Score.

      Behavioral and the physiological parameters evaluations of patients referred for dental
      treatment were performed in four stages: pre-sedation, induction, sedated patient and in the
      end.

      Measures of Heart Rate and Respiratory Rate were recorded in all time intervals. The Heart
      Rate was later corrected for physiological cardiac variability in the different age groups of
      patients.
    
  