
    
      [131]Iodine-MIBG and [90]Yttrium-DOTATOC are radioactive drugs designed to treat specific
      tumor cells. These drugs are a combination of the radiation (131-Iodine, 90-Yttrium) and a
      protein that targets the tumor cell (MIBG or DOTATOC). Because these proteins are attracted
      to, and stick to, the tumor, the radiation is centered in the tumors. This kills more tumor
      cells and minimizes radiation-damage to healthy tissues, like the heart and lungs.

      Two organs still absorb some of the radiation, though: bone marrow and the kidney. These
      organs limit how much radiation can be given to tumors, but we don't know how much radiation
      is too much. Too much radiation to bone marrow can result in anemia. Too much radiation to
      the kidneys can result in kidney failure. From prior radiation therapies, we have a general
      idea of how much radiation we can give safely.

      131I-MIBG and 90Y-DOTATOC have never been given together. We want to give them together
      because many times, tumors are actually groups of different types of cells. This means, not
      all the cells respond to therapy the same way. If some tumor cells survive therapy, the tumor
      will continue to grow and eventually come back. We know some mid-gut neuroendocrine tumors
      (NETs) have targets for DOTATOC and some other mid-gut NETs have targets for MIBG. We also
      have now identified that some people with mid-gut NETs have different tumors: some with
      targets for MIBG and some with targets for DOTATOC. For these people, this means treating
      only with 131I-MIBG or 90Y-DOTATOC will not be enough to treat their cancer. They need both
      radioactive drugs.

      Because we are combining these radioactive drugs, this study is known as a first-in-man
      study. We are also using a special imaging to help us estimate the radiation dose to the bone
      marrow and to the kidneys. This is what decides the final dose of 131I-MIBG and 90Y-DOTATOC.

      Before receiving therapy, participants will be asked to undergo imaging to verify they have
      both MIBG and DOTATOC tumor types:

        -  participants are given very small doses of radioactive drugs

        -  a special camera (SPECT/CT) collects images (scans)

        -  imaging (scans) are done over 3 calendar days

        -  blood samples are taken at that time, too, to measure the circulating amount of tracer
           doses

      If the scans show a participant has both MIBG and DOTATOC tumors, therapy is given:

        -  a customized dose of 90Y-DOTATOC is given on day 1 of a treatment cycle. This is given
           outpatient.

        -  a customized dose of 131I-MIBG is given on day 2 of a treatment cycle. This is given
           inpatient (admitted to the hospital).

        -  participants are monitored through blood tests to identify the side effects of therapy.

      Each participant can have up to 2 cycles of therapy. The cycles are 12 weeks apart.

      The doses for 90Y-DOTATOC and 131I-MIBG are decided based on radiation to the bone marrow and
      radiation to the kidney. Doses are decided by how well other participants have done on this
      study.

      Participants have life long follow-up for this study. This is very important, because a study
      like this has not been done.
    
  