
    
      Bone strength and peak bone mass are preliminary determined by genetic factors. Life style,
      especially exercise, is also considered to have an important effect on bone strength. Bone
      has the ability to strengthen itself according to Wolff's Law. When bone is subjected to
      strains and/or strain rates higher than the usual, it responds by remodeling, strengthening
      its architecture. The ability is greatest in young individuals and decreases with age. In the
      elderly this ability is largely non-existent and bone mass is lost. Whether this loss leads
      to osteoporosis is largely a function of the peak bone mass achieved before the decline. 11%
      of males and 44 % of females over 50 suffer from osteoporosis in later life. To what extent
      vigorous exercising beginning at a young age can increase bone strength is not known.

      The purpose of the proposed research is to quantify the effect of life style on bone strength
      and general health parameters by comparing two male populations, one sedentary and the other
      that has done demanding physical training: (1) Elite infantry recruits who were inducted into
      the I.D.F. in Feb 1983, did their basic training at Sanur and were part of the 1983 stress
      fracture project who completed three years of elite infantry service and continued to serve
      as combat soldiers in the reserves; (2) Yeshiva students who had profiles of 82 or 97 and
      received deferment from their military service in 1983 and since then have continued their
      studies and never served in the army.

      50 subjects will be reviewed in each group. Measurements of weight, height, waist and
      abdominal girth, resting pulse and blood pressure will be made. The brachial/ankle blood
      pressure index will be recorded. MRI of the right knee to study potential degenerate changes
      will be done using a 1.5 Tesla General Electric Signa MR scanner. Quantitative Computed
      Tomography (QCT), one of the most popular and effective methods utilized for osteoporosis
      screening, will be performed to determine volumetric BMD, BMC, bone geometric properties and
      strength indexes of the tibia and lumbar spine.

      Comparisons:

      Group I: 50 males (age 41-45), former elite Israeli infantry soldiers, selected randomly from
      those recruits who did their infantry basic training at Sanur in Feb. 1983 (all profiled 82
      or 97) and completed their military service as combat soldiers will be compared to:

      Group II: 50 age-, profile- and ethnically-matched Israeli citizens whose military service
      was deferred in 1983 because of Torah studies and who did not do army service and were not
      involved in any kind of physical training.
    
  