
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) impacts 1:2500 Caucasian newborns and results from a defect in the
      cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator chloride channel (CFTR) responsible for
      electrolyte regulation. Between 25 to 81% of the CF population have gastro-esophageal reflux
      disease (GERD), and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are frequently prescribed for this
      condition. Moreover, PPIs are commonly used in patients with CF to allow for better gastric
      acid stabilization so that pancreatic enzyme efficacy is optimized and nutritional status is
      improved. Lansoprazole is a PPI that is widely used for acid-related disorders including
      GERD.

      The disposition of a number of drugs has been reported to be altered in CF. Changes in
      pharmacokinetic parameters observed in patients with CF include increased volumes of
      distribution and increased clearance of renally eliminated drugs. To date, the
      pharmacokinetics of PPIs in patients with CF have not been characterized.

      This study is a pilot study to evaluate and compare the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of
      IV lansoprazole in CF and normal children 2 to < 10 years of age. A goal of 12 evaluable
      subjects ranging from 2 to < 10 years of age including both males and females with CF ∆F508
      genotype will be recruited from CF clinic or inpatient. As a comparison group, six evaluable
      subjects who are normal, healthy children of similar demographic profile (age, gender, and
      race) will be recruited.

      After informed consent/assent is obtained, screening procedures will be completed within 30
      days of study participation. The pre-study screen includes an age-appropriate physical exam,
      medical history (current medication/herbal use), vital signs (non-crying sitting blood
      pressure and heart rate), height, weight, AST, ALT, and CBC. Subjects will be studied during
      a current hospitalization or scheduled for an approximately 12-hour study visit.
    
  