
    
      Morphokinetic parameters of embryo development have been intensively investigated. However,
      little attention has been paid to the influence of ovarian stimulation on morphokinetic
      parameters. Gryshenko et al. found a significant difference in the fourth cell division time
      (t5) of embryos obtained after controlled ovarian hyperstimulation in long GnRH agonists and
      GnRH antagonist protocols. Furthermore, higher gonadotropin doses were found to slow down the
      development of the embryos.

      Hence, the aim of this study is to investigate the influence of corifollitropin alfa (Elonva)
      on embryo morphokinetics and fertility treatment outcome in comparison to a control group
      stimulated with Follitropin beta (Puregon). The investigators hypothesize that there are
      differences in morphokinetic behavior of embryos within the different stimulation protocols.

      A total of 742 embryos from 215 different patients suffering from infertility undergoing
      ovarian stimulation with Elonva and a total of 5148 embryos from 1136 patients undergoing
      ovarian stimulation with Puregon will be retrospectively analyzed. To exclude environmental
      factors the evaluation will distinguish between embryos cultured under 21% oxygen and embryos
      with reduced oxygen conditions (5% oxygen) in the embryoscope. Groups will be age and BMI
      matched.

      All women included in the study underwent GnRH (Gonadotropin-releasing hormone) antagonist
      protocol controlled ovarian hyperstimulation. Patients received recombinant human
      follicle-stimulating hormone (Elonva; MSD Sharp &Dohme GMBH, Puregon; MSD Sharp & Dohme
      GMBH). ELONVA was administered for 7 days with subsequent administration of Puregon (MSD
      Sharp & Dohme GMBH) in case of further need of stimulation. Puregon was administered for 8-10
      days with dosage adaption according to age, weight, serum anti-mullerian hormone (sAMH)
      concentration, and hormonal status. Trans-vaginal sonography was performed after 5 days of
      stimulation, followed by every second day until the day of oocyte retrieval.
      Ultrasonographical measurement was performed using a RIC 5-9-D 4D intravaginal probe of a GE
      Voluson E8 BT09 ultrasound machine (both from GE Healthcare Austria GmbH). GnRH antagonist
      (Cetrotide, Merck KGaA) was injected to avoid premature ovulation. Triggering was initiated
      35 h before oocyte retrieval, administered with 5000-10,000 IU human chorionic gonadotropin
      (hCG) subcutaneously (Pregnyl, N.V. Organon), with dosage adaption according to body weight
      of the patient.

      Follicles larger than 10 mm in diameter were aspirated under sedation (Propofol, Fresenius
      Kabi Austria GmbH; Rapifen, Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH) and transvaginal ultrasound guidance
      (GE Healthcare Austria GmbH). Follicular fluid (FF) were examined for oocytes under constant
      conditions of 37 °C in an IVF workstation L24E with heating stage (K-SYSTEMS Kivex Biotec
      A/S). Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) was performed on all metaphase II (MII) oocytes
      4-5h after oocyte retrieval according to our standard operating procedure in both groups of
      patients.

      After oocyte retrieval and fertilization, oocytes were cultivated in universal culture medium
      (Gynemed Medizinprodukte GmbH & Co. KG, Germany). After 14-16 h, fertilization check was
      performed. All normal fertilized embryos with two pronuclei (PN) were then cultured using
      Embryoslide dishes in Embryoscope® time-lapse incubator (both Vitrolife AB, Sweden). With the
      built-in camera and microscope, images of the developing embryo were taken every 15 min in
      seven different layers. Definition of morphokinetic parameters was performed according to the
      criteria proposed by Ciray et al. and was analyzed with software developed for time-lapse
      image analysis (Embryoviewer® software; Vitrolife AB, Sweden).
    
  