
    
      Mitochondrial diseases, estimated prevalence 1 in 4,300 adults, are caused by pathogenic
      mutations in genes that ultimately encode mitochondrial proteins of the different enzyme
      complexes of the oxidative phosphorylation system (OXPHOS). Of these mutations, the 3243> G
      nucleotide change in the mitochondrially encoded transfer RNALeu (UUR) leucine 1 gene (MT TL
      1) is the most prevalent one. When mitochondria are defective, it can result in a wide
      variety of serious and debilitating diseases, especially in energy-demanding tissues such as
      the muscles and brain. Therefore, signs and symptoms of mitochondrial disease can include a
      variety of symptoms such as fatigue, exercise tolerance, muscle weakness, and ataxia, heart
      failure, deafness, blindness, stunted growth, and cognitive learning disabilities.

      Despite advances in understanding mitochondrial disease, treatment options are extremely
      limited and largely supportive to date. Therefore, there is an urgent need for new
      treatments. KH176, a pharmaceutical ingredient (API), is an orally bioavailable small
      molecule under development for the treatment of these conditions. KH176 acts as a potent
      intracellular redox modulating agent targeting the reactive oxygen species as demonstrated in
      a number of in vitro and in vivo assays. An earlier phase II study showed positive effects of
      KH176 on alertness and mood.

      The main objective of the current study is to enable continued treatment with KH176-202 for
      patients who have completed the KH176-202 study. Since KH176 is expected to be a chronic
      treatment for mitochondrial diseases, this study will examine long-term safety and explore
      long-term efficacy. To this end, the highest dose of 100 mg KH176 twice daily (safe and well
      tolerated by the target group in study KH176-201) will be used as the initial dose, to be
      administered over 1 year (minimum 365 days). Study KH176-202 uses doses of 50 mg twice daily
      and 100 mg twice daily. Currently, this study is still blinded, but a review of blinded
      safety data suggests that these doses are well tolerated.
    
  