
    
      The investigator proposes a three-phase project to improve awareness of use of advance
      directives, palliative care and hospice services among patients with metastatic cancer by
      creating and evaluating a multifaceted culturally sensitive intervention that targets
      specific previously identified barriers to EOL care for AAs, including: knowledge, attitudes,
      and awareness of options for care, conflict between patients' spiritual beliefs, and the
      general hospice and palliative medicine philosophy of care, and medical mistrust. Aim 1 will
      refine and validate the e-EOL computerized algorithm to identify persons with stage III and
      IV breast, lung, colorectal, or other serious cancer who are appropriate candidates for
      discussions about advance care planning, palliative care, and hospice in the outpatient
      setting. The work in Aim 1 seeks to overcome the upstream barrier that physicians often have
      difficulty with prognostication and are reluctant to discuss prognosis and EOL care options
      with patients. Aim 2 will involve continued stakeholder engagement and the conduct of focus
      groups with oncologists and primary care providers at Parkland Hospital and its affiliated
      clinics to determine how to make the intervention feasible and acceptable to patients,
      caregivers, and providers. The investigator also will obtain feedback on our newly developed
      video and written educational materials that communicate key messages about EOL care options
      and overcome common barriers. In Aim 3, the investigator will test the preliminary
      feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of the intervention that uses the e-EOL algorithm to
      identify AA patients with advanced cancer who are eligible for care discussions and then
      deploy a culturally concordant behavior change intervention that combines a Lay Health
      Advisor (LHA) and video and written materials. Use of an LHA will help overcome the
      providers' reluctance or lack of time to discuss EOL care issues and mitigate medical
      mistrust. The three linked studies provide the necessary sequence of research projects and
      multidisciplinary learning experiences needed to accomplish the PI's scientific and training
      goals. It will also lay the groundwork for a fully powered RCT to test the efficacy of a
      multifaceted EOL care counseling intervention vs. usual care.

      Details of Research Design and Methods for Aim 1: Refine an e-EOL algorithm to identify
      patients with metastatic cancer in the outpatient setting. Aim 1 will expand and validate the
      e-EOL algorithm to identify patients with advanced cancer who are appropriate candidates for
      discussions about EOL care options in the outpatient setting. The e-EOL algorithm will assist
      physicians with determining prognosis more accurately and will provide a mechanism for
      systematically identifying candidates for a subsequent EOL care counseling intervention
      outlined in Aim 3.

      Details of Research Design and Methods for Aim 2: The investigator will refine components of
      a culturally sensitive intervention to improve knowledge of and intent to consider EOL care
      options. Use of decision aids, educational videos, and LHAs has been shown to be effective in
      improving medical knowledge and shared decision making and reducing racial disparities for
      several clinical conditions. Though there have been few applications of these promising
      approaches to palliative and EOL care, recent use of decision aids in improving knowledge
      about the goals of care for persons with advanced dementia, have shown promise. Aim 2 will
      iteratively refine the intervention messages delivered through a combination of novel DVD
      segments that we have developed, print materials, and guided discussions by a culturally
      concordant LHA. Through qualitative methods, the team will test the language, framing, and
      communication strategies for conveying intervention messages and obtain feedback from primary
      care and oncology providers at Parkland Hospital to verify the appropriateness of these
      messages as intended by investigators.

      Details of Research Design and Methods for Aim 3: Assess the feasibility and acceptability of
      a multifaceted EOL care behavior change pilot intervention. The pilot intervention will
      combine the refined elements from Aims 1 and 2, to conduct a small pilot RCT comparing the
      intervention group to a usual care control group. All of these aims taken together lay the
      groundwork for a future, fully powered RCT.

      Description of the Pilot Intervention: The EOL LHA will meet with eligible patients and their
      caregivers to tell them their doctor approved of them receiving more information about their
      treatment options. The LHA will then assist the eligible patients and caregivers in watching
      the EOL care DVD segments (the video modules described in Aim 2 targeted to their
      pre-intervention survey needs assessment). After the patients and caregivers watch the DVD,
      the LHA will answer questions and provide additional information. They will then use
      counseling scripts created by the PI and research team to probe in more depth the patient's
      goals of care, and understanding of their clinical condition, prognosis, and treatment
      options. They will tailor the discussion to the patient's values, preferences, concerns, and
      clinical circumstances. Those who express interest in hearing more about EOL care options
      will be encouraged to discuss this with their doctor. The counselor will offer to update
      their physician on their discussion and help communicate the patient's desire for a
      palliative care consult or advance directive (if that is something they wanted). Specific
      questions about prognosis will be referred to the treating physician. Formal palliative care
      referrals will be ordered and performed in the usual fashion with the exception that the
      patient may ask the LHA to update the palliative care team on their prior discussions,
      concerns, and preferences. The LHA will follow up with patients the day after they view the
      educational video to answer any additional questions and again within one week to assist
      patients with advance care planning questions and referrals. All intervention sessions will
      be audiotaped to ensure intervention fidelity.

      Usual Care: Participants randomized to usual care will proceed with clinical care as already
      routinely implemented by their physicians. At the time of recruitment, they will be asked to
      identify their primary caregiver who will also be contacted. Patient-caregiver pairs who are
      randomized to usual care will also be asked if they would be willing to be contacted at 1, 3
      and 6-month intervals to complete the post-study assessment. All participants will be mailed
      a reminder letter that study staff will be contacting them to participate in follow-up
      surveys a couple of weeks prior to the 1-month surveys. The reminder letter will include an
      informational brochure that briefly and simply summarizes advance care planning options.

      Primary Outcomes: Feasibility and acceptability are the main process outcomes. Feasibility is
      success in accurately identifying eligible patients via the e-EOL algorithm (number flagged,
      specificity, positive predictive value), and numbers and rates of patients completing the
      pilot intervention and follow-up interviews. Acceptability will be measured with Likert scale
      items rating "understandability, informativeness, balance, right amount of information,
      helpfulness, and "recommending this to others" used in published trials of decision aids. The
      LHA will also ask open-ended questions on things patients did or did not like about the
      intervention. The primary decision making outcome is change in intent to discuss EOL care
      options based on the Transtheoretical Stages of Change Model, an approach used in many other
      realms. The investigator will categorize patients into the following stages: 1)
      Pre-contemplation: is unaware of EOL care options/has not thought about discussing this with
      a provider; 2) Contemplation: is aware of EOL care options/thinking about discussing options;
      3) Preparation: intends to discuss EOL care issues with the doctor/has a plan for talking
      about it; 4) Action: has a discussion with the provider about EOL care. The completion stage
      is not applicable in this medical situation because the goal of the intervention is for the
      patient to have an informed discussion about benefits and harms of all treatment options
      including EOL care. The intent is NOT to get all patients to choose palliative care or
      hospice, or complete and an advance directive, but for them to understand how palliative care
      may benefit them now or in the future, and how it can be combined with curative care. The
      goal is for the patient to make "the right decision for them" based on knowing all of the
      facts and options.

      Secondary Outcomes will measure: 1) Knowledge of prognosis and EOL care options: will be
      measured by a questionnaire from prior NCI-funded palliative care studies; 2) Decisional
      conflict will be assessed by the Decisional Conflict Scale, a validated 16 item scale
      measuring uncertainty about the best course of action and factors contributing to
      uncertainty. Scores <25 (on this 100-point scale) are associated with implementing decisions,
      and scores >38 with decisional delay; 3) Quality of life (QOL): will be assessed with the
      McGill QOL Questionnaire, a well-validated 20-item scale developed to measure QOL at the EOL;
      4) Healthcare utilization will include: outpatient visits (incl. palliative care), ED visits,
      hospitalizations, total hospital days, and use of hospice services (type and time to hospice
      initiation); 5) Date and place (hospital, hospice, home) of deaths within a 6 month follow-up
      period will also be recorded.
    
  