
    
      Participants recruited from the university community in the Southeast U.S. will participate
      in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled interventional study for approximately 8
      weeks following obtainment of informed consent. Participants will be asked to maintain their
      usual physical activity level as well as their usual diets with the exception of fermented
      foods, food containing added probiotics (e.g. yogurts with live, active cultures or
      supplements or probiotic supplements), or foods with added fiber supplements.

      After obtaining consent, participants will be randomized to receive either the probiotic or
      placebo daily for 8 weeks. All study days will be ± 3 days to account for variation in each
      participant's menstrual cycle. The study supplements will be distributed approximately 7 days
      before their first menstrual event. Participants will be instructed to begin taking the study
      supplement 3 days after they menstruate.

      At randomization, participants will be asked to start completing daily questionnaires
      inquiring about gastrointestinal symptoms, abdominal pain as measured by a visual analog
      scale, duration of abdominal pain, stool form and number, adverse events, and medications
      taken, including the dose and administration schedule. On the third day of their menstrual
      cycle (day 3/menstruation 1), they will begin consuming their study supplement (start of
      intervention). On the days participants experience gastrointestinal symptoms related to the
      menstrual cycle, they will answer an additional questionnaire asking about gastrointestinal
      symptoms. Approximately seven days prior to the first menstrual cycle (study day -7) and
      three days after each menstrual event (study day 3 and 31), participants will answer the
      Menstrual Symptom Questionnaire to assess symptoms leading up to and during menstruation.
      Seven days after each menstrual event (study days 7 and 35), participants will be
      administered the Perceived Stress Scale to assess stress levels over the previous month.
      Participants will also answer two validated weekly questionnaires inquiring about
      gastrointestinal symptoms and how symptoms affect quality of life each week they are in the
      study. Each participant will also complete a 24-hour dietary recall assessment at four points
      during the study (study day -7, 21, 28, and 35) in order to determine how dietary patterns
      fluctuate throughout the menstrual cycle. A subgroup of participants will be asked to provide
      six additional vaginal swab and stool samples and six additional dietary recalls.

      A subgroup of 20 participants per arm will also be consented to provide ten stool samples and
      vaginal swabs during the study (study day -7, 1, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42, 49, & 56).
      Participants will be provided with stool and vaginal swab collection kits. Participants will
      self collect both of these samples and may either collect them at home or may use a restroom
      in the Food Science and Human Nutrition building to self collect. Coolers will be left
      outside of the building and in these restrooms for participants to drop off their samples. If
      social distancing is required during this study, participants will be asked to collect the
      samples at home and drop them off in a cooler outside of the building to ensure social
      distancing. This subgroup will also complete additional 24-hour dietary recalls (study day 1,
      42, 49, & 56).

      Participants will continue to answer daily questionnaires until the third day of their third
      menstrual cycle, at which point they will discontinue answering questionnaires and consuming
      the study supplement. At the conclusion of the study, they will complete the final
      questionnaire that asks them which supplement they thought they were consuming to assess
      blinding efficacy. Participants will be instructed to return any unused supplements to the
      study site after the completion of the intervention.
    
  