five-year comparative study of hydrocephalus inchildren with and without operation (113 cases)on the basis of a 5-year study of 113 hy-drocephalic children of whom 65 were oper-ated on early with ventriculo-atrial shuntingand 48 were not operated on, all of them hav-ing been studied periodically in a similarmanner to determine mortality, morbidity,intelligence, and related factors, the follow-ing conclusions are justified:the program in which shunting opera-tions were done apparently gives significantadvantages to the children over the programin which no shunting operations were done(based on life-table data projected from birthto 10 years)survival: 61.8 per cent as compared to22.2 per cent;number of competent children (i.q. of75 or better): 33.8 per cent vs. 5.5 percent;number of noncompetitive children(i.q. below 75): 27.6 per cent vs. 16.7per cent.the major cause of death and morbid-ity in both groups is infection.in the operative group, morbidityassociated with the shunting procedure isrelated to obstruction of the shunt andsepticemia.  the early occlusions show acorrelation with abnormal, inflammatorytype of spinal fluid being shunted into theblood stream.  the late obstructions areassociated with mechanical breakage of theshunt or factors of growth causing retractionof the cardiac end from the atrium.  promptre-establishment of a functioning shunt hasbeen possible in all instances.  periodic follow-up examinations, irrespective of symptoms,have proved invaluable in early recognitionof malfunctioning shunts.  septicemia usuallyrequired removal of the shunt.from the program of periodic evalua-tions, including "bubble" ventriculograms,studies of clearance of risa, and psycho-logical testings, correlations showed:intellectual ability seemed associatedwith width of cerebral mantle;width of cerebral mantle in hydrocepha-lus decreases with ventricular pressuresof 120 or over; it increases with pres-sures less than this;prolonged shunting of cerebrospinalfluid can give dramatic increase inwidth of cerebral mantle, apparentlyirrespective of basic etiology of thehydrocephalus;intellectual capacity could not be cor-related with the basic etiology of thehydrocephalus, but did correlate in-versely with duration of increased in-tracranial pressure.the many etiologies of hydrocephalusrequire large numbers of patients in eachgroup for thorough evaluation.  factorsfavoring such studies should be carried out inmedical centers where appropriate disciplinescan study in depth.  prevention should be theultimate goal.in the operative group, only 1 patientcompensated his hydrocephalic process andno single patient demonstrated "arrest" of orrecovery from the basic hydrocephalus-pro-ducing process in spite of numerous attemptsto demonstrate this.  this might imply anecessity for life-long shunting of cerebro-spinal fluid in these cases.