
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Evidence shows a growing disparity in the prevalence of modifiable risk factors and incidence
      of cardiovascular disease between upper and lower socioeconomic status (SES) individuals.
      Trends in knowledge about risk factors and risk reduction strategies parallel these findings.
      Research determining the differential association between level of cardiovascular disease
      knowledge and subsequent clinical health status had not been conducted.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Analyses were stratified according to SES (via years of formal education), controlling for
      age, gender, and ethnicity (Latino/Anglo). Sociodemographic, physiologic, and knowledge
      measurements were available on each participant. Morbidity estimates and clinical health
      status indicators were available via primary and secondary discharge diagnostic codes from
      public-use hospital discharge databases collected on all California hospital admissions for
      the entire study period. The Stanford Five City Program data were merged with the hospital
      discharge data, matching on survey participant's social security number which was
      subsequently converted to a unique personal identifier. Baseline 1989/90 and 1991 through
      1995 longitudinal outcomes were assessed.

      There were three main aims, all of which had epidemiologic and cardiovascular disease health
      policy prevention implications: Aim 1: Characterize the distribution of hospitalized versus
      non-hospitalized SES sub-cohorts according to level of C.D. knowledge, physiologic risk
      factor prevalence, and clinical morbidity prevalence. Aim 2: Test the hypothesis that
      morbidity differences between hospitalized SES sub-cohorts would vary as a function of
      baseline level of cardiovascular disease knowledge and risk factor prevalence. Aim 3: Test
      the hypothesis that morbidity would rise among hospitalized lower SES sub-cohorts, resulting
      in widening health status disparities by the end of the study period. Parametric and
      nonparametric analytic methods were used, including analysis of variance and covariance, and
      various regression techniques.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  