
    
      There is heated debate in the United States about the extent to which waterborne infectious
      diseases may be transmitted to human beings through drinking water that meets federal
      standards for pathogen removal. This debate is even more pronounced among elderly
      immunocompromised persons and their health care providers because of the prolonged illness
      syndromes (generally gastrointestinal) and even death that may occur in these persons after
      the ingestion of infectious agents. Concerns about drinking water have been heightened by the
      findings of Payment et. al. in Canada which suggested that approximately 25% of "highly
      credible" gastrointestinal illness in a community might be due to drinking water.

      Gastrointestinal illness and diarrhea are recognized as a significant cause of morbidity and
      mortality in the elderly. One study showed that 51% of deaths caused by diarrhea over a
      9-year period occurred in individuals over the age of 74 years (Lew et al. 1991). In a review
      of sensitive populations, Gerba et al. (1996) reported case fatality rates for specific
      enteric pathogens 10 to 100 times higher in this group compared to the general population.
      Although many infectious diseases are more problematic in the elderly because of a decline in
      immune function and a higher incidence of pre-existing malnutrition and dehydration, it is
      still not known what the principal modes of transmission are and which infectious agents are
      responsible.

      Furthermore, studies on gastrointestinal illness in the elderly are important now because of
      an expanding elderly population and the heightened interest in the development of vaccine
      strategies. These developments necessitate a clearer understanding of the relative
      contribution of various pathogens to gastrointestinal illness in this population. Although
      many agents responsible for gastrointestinal illness have previously been difficult to
      identify reliably, state-of-the-art laboratory technology, including molecular methods, now
      make such study more feasible. We will use laboratory techniques to identify the specific
      causal agents of gastrointestinal illness in the intervention and placebo groups and to
      estimate the relative prevalence of these pathogens as a cause of gastrointestinal illness.

      This study is a randomized, triple-blinded, placebo-controlled, intervention trial in an
      elderly population (i.e. over 55 years of age). The intervention to be tested is
      household-level treatment of drinking water by joint use of ultraviolet light and filtration
      devices in the form of a point-of-use, countertop unit. The project site is the city of
      Sonoma, California, and adjacent regions of southern Sonoma County also served by the Sonoma
      County Water Agency, that receive their drinking water from ground water aquifers under the
      Russian River. The unit of randomization and intervention will be individual households. The
      unit of analysis will be the individual participants within households, adjusted for
      intra-household clustering (i.e. the within-household correlation). The participants, the
      study investigators and the data analysts will be blinded to the assignment of individual
      households to active or placebo device except for one study staff member who will keep the
      randomization codes. This un-blinded staff member will not have contact with any of the study
      participants, nor will he/she have access to any data on the study participants during the
      course of the study.

      The primary objective is to determine the incidence of gastrointestinal disease in a group of
      households using a home drinking water device (combined filtration/UV light) and in a group
      of households receiving a placebo device that is inactive but identical in appearance. This
      information will be used to estimate the burden of gastrointestinal illness in an elderly
      population due to the consumption, at home, of drinking water that meets regulatory standards
      but receives no additional treatment.

      A secondary objective is an estimate of the incidence of specific bacterial, viral, and
      protozoan agents in stool specimens collected from elderly individuals with gastrointestinal
      symptoms, and that might be related to water consumption. To determine the rates of
      asymptomatic infections, we will also test stool specimens from individuals who are not sick.
      Further questions about seroprevalence of these waterborne pathogens and the immune response
      they elicit will be answered by testing serum samples taken from all participants at critical
      junctures during the study.
    
  