
    
      Curtin and Bastian in 2006 first described KIT mutations in melanoma. Although uncommon in
      non-acral cutaneous melanoma, these mutations are frequent in mucosal and acral melanomas.
      The KIT mutations in melanoma are similar to the KIT mutations in gastrointestinal intestinal
      stromal sarcomas (GIST) and these are believed to be driver mutations. In melanomas these
      mutations occur in an exclusive pattern in tumors without NRAS, BRAF, or GNAQ mutations.
      There is evidence that stage four melanoma patients with KIT mutations have a worse prognosis
      than other patients with similar stage and primary site.

      Both imatinib and sunitinib are FDA approved for treatment of patients with GIST; these and
      other oral tyrosine kinase KIT inhibitors have been studied in melanoma patients with KIT
      mutations. Imatinib is the best studied with objective responses in 20% of patients in a
      multicenter trial, considerably lower than the efficacy seen in GIST. Sunitinib has the
      theoretical advantage of anti-angiogenic activity as well as anti -KIT activity and
      demonstrated objective responses in three of four patients in a small trial sponsored by
      Pfizer.(see citation).

      Immunotherapy has a major role in the treatment of metastatic melanoma, with the approval and
      use of both Interleukin-2 and ipilimumab because of the ability of immunotherapy to produce
      durable responses and prolonged survival in a minority, but a significant number, of patients
      . Both sunitinib and ipilimumab have intestinal perforation as an unusual but very
      significant toxicity, which argues against using those two agents in combination. The
      anti-PD-1 antibody Nivolumab, however, is an immunologic agent that yields rapid and durable
      responses in melanoma with less colitis and less risk of intestinal perforation than
      ipilimumab. Nivolumab was FDA approved in December 2014 and NCCN guidelines include it as a
      first-line option.

      Combining KIT receptor inhibition with sunitinib with immunotherapy with Nivolumab is an
      attractive investigational approach as the combination should produce complementary and
      perhaps synergistic efficacy.

      Asim et al reported at ASCO in June 2014 a phase one study of sunitinib and nivolumab for the
      treatment of metastatic renal cell cancer. Sunitinib (50 mg/day x 4 week, off 2 weeks and
      nivolumab at 2mg/kg or 5mg/kg q 3 weeks was administered to 33 patients. No dose-limiting
      toxicities were seen but grade 3-4 AEs were seen in 24 of 33 patients. The most common AEs
      were elevated ALT (18%), hypertension (15%) and hyponatremia (15%). Objective responses sere
      seen in 52% (17/33) indicating an "encouraging activity and a manageable safety profile" in
      patients with renal cell cancer. The Nivolumab dose of 5mg/kg Q 3 weeks (1.67mg/kg/week) on
      that study is slightly above the usual dose of 3mg/kg Q 2 weeks (1.5mg/kg/week).

      Study Design:

      This is an open-label multi-center phase 2 study of sunitinib and Nivolumab in combination in
      patients with KIT mutated metastatic melanoma. Study to begin after FDA approval of nivolumab
      Total number of study subjects will be approximately 12-18 patients.

      Objectives

      Primary objective:

        1. To describe the preliminary clinical efficacy of sunitinib when given in combination
           with nivolumab to patients with KIT-mutated melanoma

        2. To describe the immunologic effects of sunitinib when administered in combination with
           Nivolumab

      Co-primary endpoints:

        1. Objective response using RECIST 1.1 immune modified response criteria

        2. Progression-free survival using immune-modified response criteria

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Toxicities using CTAE criteria

        2. Changes in peripheral blood total lymphocyte counts and T and B cell count

        3. Overall survival The trial is sponsored by the California Pacific Medical Center
           Research Institute and the sunitinib will be provided by Pfizer. Commercial sources will
           be used for the nivolumab, whose use is in accord with NCCN guidelines.
    
  