
    
      Liver cancer is the fifth most common malignancy worldwide, but the mortality rate ranks
      third. China has a large population base, with more than 400,000 new cases each year, and
      more than half of the world's new liver cancer and deaths. More than 70% of liver cancer
      patients in China are diagnosed at mid-to-late stage and have lost the chance of surgery.
      Only 10%-15% of newly diagnosed patients can undergo radical resection, and the recurrence
      rate after 5 years is as high as 50%-80%. So far, sorafenib is still the only standard
      treatment that can prolong the overall survival of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. SHARP's
      latest research shows that sorafenib can only extend patients with advanced liver cancer for
      2.8 months, and many adverse reactions; regofenib can be used in patients with advanced liver
      cancer after taking sorafenib resistance, but the overall efficiency is still low. It is
      difficult to be widely used in patients with advanced liver cancer, and more alternative
      therapies are urgently needed.

      PD1/PDL1 inhibitor is widely used in treatment of various cancers in China now. The hepatic
      arterial chemotherapy infusion for advanced liver cancer, through the "first pass effect" of
      drug treatment, can significantly increase the local drug concentration of the tumor, improve
      the efficacy, reduce systemic adverse reactions, meanwhile Folfox regimen has been confirmed
      by the hepatic arterial chemotherapy infusion program. To the investigator's knowledge, no
      studies have been developed on the survival benefit of hepatic arterial infusion of
      immunotherapeutic agents in patients with advanced liver cancer. This phase III clinical
      trial was designed to compare the effects of PD1/PDL1 inhibitor via IA and IV on the survival
      benefit of patients with advanced liver cancer, including ORR, DCR, median survival time, and
      safety.
    
  