
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of
      various combinations with palbociclib in patients with relapsed and refractory leukemias.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess pharmacodynamic effects of palbociclib on the Cyclin-CDK-Rb axis in leukemic
      blasts of patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) leukemias.

      II. To explore the efficacy (complete response [CR], complete remission without platelet
      recovery [CRp], complete remission without blood count recovery [CRi], partial response [PR],
      or clinical benefit [CB]) of palbociclib as a single-agent and in combinations in patients
      with R/R leukemias.

      III. To explore biomarkers of response and resistance in patients with R/R leukemias treated
      with palbociclib.

      IV. To assess the safety and tolerability of one cycle of single-agent palbociclib in
      patients with R/R leukemias.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of sorafenib, decitabine, and dexamethasone.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive palbociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Patients also
      receive sorafenib PO QD on days 1-28 beginning on cycle 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive palbociclib as in Arm I. Beginning cycle 2, patients receive
      palbociclib PO QC on days 1-7 and decitabine intravenously (IV) QD over 1 hour on days 8-17
      of cycle 2 and days 8-12 of cycles 3-8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 8 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive palbociclib as in Arm I. Patients also receive dexamethasone PO QD
      or IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-4 and 15-18 beginning on cycle 2. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  