
    
      Treprostinil is a prostacyclin analogue, a drug that is widely used to treat pulmonary
      arterial hypertension (PAH). Its efficacy was confirmed in studies that compared it to
      placebo and to epoprostenol. Due to stability of treprostinil sodium solution and its
      relatively long (when compared to prostacyclin) half-life, the drug enabled PAH patients to
      receive safe long-term treatment. It is administered as a continuous subcutaneous infusion
      using an insulin pump. In the case of this route of administration, its half-life is about 3
      hours. Unfortunately, due to reaction at the infusion site many patients report significant
      deterioration of quality of life, and some of them (about 5-10%) even abandon treatment .
      There are trials in progress to find a more convenient method of administration for this
      drug. The efficacy of oral administration has been uncertain - reports are contradictory,
      while inhalations remain a valid alternative for patients in a less advanced stage of the
      disease. Therefore, for patients whose illness is more severe, only continuous parenteral
      administration of the drug remains an option.

      The Lenus Pro速 implantable pump appears to be a promising alternative to an external pump. By
      means of this method, treprostinil sodium is administered as a continuous intravenous
      infusion, and the drug reservoir is refilled every 28 days. Thermal stability of treprostinil
      at body temperature was confirmed during a 60-day observation; concentrations of the drug
      administered intravenously are comparable to subcutaneous administration, and the only
      differing parameter is a shorter half-life of less than 1 hour. The first experiences with
      implantable pumps originate in Austria and Germany and present this method of treatment as a
      milestone in PAH therapy. In Poland, the first implantation of a Lenus Pro速 pump took place
      in 2013 (18).

      The aim of this study is an analysis of efficacy and safety of treatment with intravenous
      treprostinil administered by means of the Lenus Pro速 implantable pump.

      Prior to pump implantation the subcutaneous dose of treprostinil is escalated up to the
      highest dose tolerated by a particular patient. The procedure of pump implantation is carried
      out under general anaesthesia Clinical and haemodynamic evaluation is performed at the time
      of initiating PAH therapy with treprostinil. Right before and during 2-9 months after Lenus
      Pro速 pump implantation, non-invasive clinical evaluation was made, including: WHO functional
      class, 6-minute walking test (6MWT), and concentration of NT-proBNP. Additionally patients
      fill in the SF36 quality of life questionnaire before implantation and 2-9 months after
      implantation.
    
  