
    
      Background:

        -  Whereas malignancies of diverse histologies express a variety of cancer testis antigens
           (CTAs), immune responses to these antigens appear uncommon in cancer patients, possibly
           due to low-level, heterogeneous antigen expression, as well as immunosuppressive
           regulatory T cells.

        -  In published studies we have demonstrated induction of NY-ESO-1 and MAGE-A3 in cancer
           cells of various histologies but not normal respiratory epithelial cells or fibroblasts
           following exposure to the DNA demethylating agent, Decitabine (DAC); up-regulation of
           these CTAs facilitated CTL-mediated lysis of tumor cells. We have also demonstrated
           eradication of pulmonary metastases in immunocompetent mice following systemic treatment
           with DAC and subsequent adoptive transfer of CTL recognizing the murine CTA, P1A. In a
           phase 1 trial, we demonstrated up-regulation of NY-ESO-1 and MAGE-A3 as well as
           reactivation of p16 in thoracic malignancies following intravenous 72hr DAC infusions.
           Chronic administration schedules are necessary for optimal gene induction in solid
           cancers.

        -  Additional studies using murine tumor models suggest that DNA demethylating agents may
           enhance the activity of immune checkpoint inhibitors not only by upregulating antigen
           presentation, but by inhibiting activity of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC).

        -  Presently, there is no information regarding gene modulation and antitumor activity of
           oral epigenetic therapy in patients with solid tumors.

        -  In this study, the optimal frequency/dose of DAC-THU administration will be established
           in patients with bilateral pulmonary metastases, then an additional cohort of patients
           will receive DAC-THU together with celecoxib to inhibit activity of immunosuppressive
           Treg and myeloid derived suppressor cells. Correlative experiments will be performed to
           ascertain if oral epigenetic therapy modulates gene expression in pulmonary metastases
           and enhances antitumor immunity to these neoplasms.

        -  This trial is intended to establish the rationale and conditions for the use of oral
           DAC-THU +/- celecoxib in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors or adoptive
           immunotherapy regimens targeting CTAs in patients with thoracic malignancies.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the pharmacokinetics, toxicities and maximum tolerated dose of oral DAC and THU
      with or without celecoxib in patients undergoing resection of pulmonary metastases

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically or cytologically proven sarcoma, melanoma, germ cell
           tumors, or epithelial malignancies with bilateral pleuro-pulmonary metastases who can be
           rendered no clinical evidence of active disease (NED) or minimal residual disease (MRD)
           by metastasectomy.

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years; ECOG performance status of 0-2, without
           evidence of unstable or decompensated myocardial disease; must have adequate pulmonary
           reserve evidenced by post-operative FEV1 and DLCO (Bullet) 40% predicted; pCO2 < 50 mm
           Hg and pO2 > 60 mm Hg on room air ABG; and be on no immunosuppressive medications except
           non-systemic corticosteroids.

        -  Patients must have a platelet count > 100,000, ANC greater than or equal to 1500 without
           transfusion or cytokine support, a normal PT, and adequate hepatic function as evidenced
           by a total bilirubin of < 1.5 times ULN. Serum creatinine less than or equal to 1.6
           mg/ml or creatinine clearance > 70 ml/min/1.73m(2) at the time DAC/THU +/- celecoxib
           treatment commences.

      Design:

        -  Eligible subjects with bilateral pulmonary metastases will undergo disease resection in
           one hemithorax

        -  Following recovery from initial hemithoracic metastasectomy (approximately 2-3 weeks),
           patients will begin oral DAC (0.2mg/kg)-THU (10 mg/kg) therapy 3-5 consecutive days/week
           depending on dose level. THU will be administered 60 minutes prior to DAC.

        -  If no dose limiting systemic toxicities (primarily myelosuppression) are observed, the
           frequency of DAC- THU will be sequentially increased to maximize intra-tumoral DNMT1
           depletion while avoiding grade 3 or greater systemic toxicities.

        -  Once the frequency of DAC-THU therapy has been optimized, additional patients will also
           receive oral celecoxib (400mg PO BID).

        -  Oral DAC-THU +/- celecoxib therapy will continue for 6 weeks. Patients will then have
           repeat imaging studies. Those patients who exhibit no evidence of disease recurrence in
           the operated lung with disease progression in the contralateral hemithorax will undergo
           metastasectomy if there are no standard of care contraindications such as progression of
           disease in extrathoracic sites. Those patients exhibiting response to therapy evidenced
           by stable or regressing nodules will continue DAC-THU therapy for 4 additional weeks,
           followed by metastasectomy.

        -  Systemic toxicities and response to therapy will be recorded. Gene expression and DNA
           methylation profiles in pre- and post-treatment metastases will be compared to determine
           if DAC-THU therapy has altered the epigenome of the metastases. Serologic responses to
           upregulated CTAs as well as cell mediated responses to epigenetically-modified
           autologous EBV-transformed B and autologous tumor cells (if available) will be assessed
           before and after treatment if there is evidence of CT gene activation following DAC-THU
           +/- celecoxib treatment.

        -  DNMT and CTA expression levels in PBMC and tumor tissues will be evaluated before and
           after treatment to ascertain if DAC-THU depletes systemic DNMT levels, and to determine
           if alterations in DNMT/CTA expression in PBMC can serve as surrogates of respective drug
           induced changes in tumor tissues.

        -  Following complete metastasectomy, patients will be followed in the clinic with routine
           staging scans per standard of care guidelines.

        -  As the exact set of comparisons and analyses to be performed will be determined
           following completion of the trial, and will be based on limited numbers of patients, the
           analyses will be considered exploratory and hypothesis generating rather than
           definitive.

        -  Approximately 46 patients will be accrued to this trial.
    
  