
    
      The primary objective is to compare intraoperative blood loss between surgeries performed
      with monopolar electrocautery and ultrasonic energy (as the primary means for soft tissue
      dissection) in patients diagnosed with adolescent scoliosis undergoing multilevel (>=6)
      posterior spinal fusion (PSF).

      This is a prospective, multicenter, pair-matched comparison study that will be carried out in
      two phases:

      Phase I Perioperative outcome variables (primary and secondary) will be collected from
      patients with adolescent scoliosis, meeting the study inclusion criteria, scheduled to
      undergo PSF using monopolar electrocautery and metal Cobb elevator (considered the current
      standard) for soft tissue dissection and removal from vertebral surfaces. This group will be
      the Electrocautery Dissection (ED) group.

      Phase II The same outcomes variables measured on the ED group during Phase I will be
      subsequently collected from a group of patients with adolescent scoliosis, meeting the study
      inclusion criteria and scheduled to undergo PSF surgery. For this study group, surgery will
      be performed with the Harmonic OSTEOVUE™ Spine Soft Tissue Dissector (referred to as the
      OSTEOVUE™ Dissector in this protocol) and metal Cobb elevator, as the primary means of soft
      tissue dissection and removal from vertebral surfaces. This group will be the Ultrasonic
      Dissection (UD) group.

      Patients in the UD group will be recruited from the existing patient population of PSF
      candidates at each participating site.

      Prior to recruitment of participants in Phase II, each Principal Investigator (PI) will have
      documented training/in service of the use the OSTEOVUE™ Dissector in at least 5 multilevel
      spine surgery cases.

      The proportion of neuromuscular versus idiopathic cases recruited in Phase II will be based
      on the proportion of patients with either of these conditions recruited in Phase I.

      Up to five US sites of orthopedic surgeons and/or neurosurgeons, with expertise in pediatric
      PSF surgery, will participate in the study. 100 subjects will be enrolled in this study (46
      in the ED group and 54 in the UD group).

      Propensity score matching will be utilized to match subjects in the ED group to subjects in
      the UD group. Propensity scores will be based on the variables known to influence blood loss,
      and full details of the matching methodology will be provided in a separate Statistical
      Analysis Plan.
    
  