
    
      Background Therapeutic Information In ovarian cancer, several single agent phase II trials of
      vinorelbine in recurrent OC have shown variable response rates of 3 - 30%. However, previous
      studies have involved "all-comers" and no reported trials have selected patients based on
      confirmed pure HGSOC or a biomarker of relevance. Preclinical studies suggest that genes
      involved in microtubule dynamics, are significantly over-expressed in C5 tumours.
      Importantly, increased sensitivity was demonstrated of C5-like cell lines to tubulin
      depolymerising agents like vincristine and vinorelbine compared with microtubule stabilizing
      agents like paclitaxel. Subsequent studies on patient derived xenograft (PDX) models of C5
      HGSOC (including platinum resistant models) showed responses for more than 50 days when
      treated with vinorelbine, providing preclinical proof that vinorelbine may be an effective
      therapeutic option in targeting the C5 subclass of HGSOC, including in platinum resistant or
      refractory disease.

      Risk/ Benefit of Intervention Vinorelbine is a hemisynthetic vinca alkaloid that is
      traditionally administered intravenously via an infusion. The mechanism of action is
      disruption of microtubules by their reversible binding to tubulin resulting in mitotic
      spindle dissolution and metaphase arrest in dividing cells. This trial will afford patients
      with C5 relapsed platinum resistant or refractory HGSOC additional treatment options that may
      potentially have greater benefit than standard chemotherapy.

      Tolerability The main dose limiting toxicity associated with IV vinorelbine in lung cancer is
      myelosuppression with Grade 3-4 neutropenia seen in up to 46% of patients. However, the
      febrile neutropenia rate was low at <5%. Mild to moderate gastrointestinal toxicity was
      observed with nausea and vomiting being the most common adverse effect. Grade 3/4 nausea or
      vomiting occurred in 7% - 17% of patients and primary prophylaxis is recommended.
      Neurotoxicity was also reported with the use of vinorelbine. Peripheral neuropathy was
      observed in up to 11% of patients,and neuroconstipation was documented to affect up to 24% of
      patients, however most of these cases were mild, grade 1-2. A similar toxicity profile was
      observed in patients with platinum resistant ovarian cancer treated with vinorelbine.
      Leukopenia was the most common dose limiting toxicity followed by anemia, fatigue and nausea.

      Aim and Objectives of the trial The purpose of this trial is to determine if targeting
      platinum resistant or refractory C5 high-grade serous, high grade endometrioid or
      undifferentiated ovarian, primary peritoneal and fallopian tube with vinorelbine can improve
      patient outcomes.
    
  