
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The primary endpoint is the response rate (CR+PR) for each stratum of sarcoma patients
      treated with sorafenib as defined by RECIST.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Progression-free survival (defined as CR + PR + SD, assessed at 3 months or 6 months).

      II. Overall survival. III. Pharmacokinetics of sorafenib in this patient population (all
      sites will participate).

      IV. Frequency of B-raf mutations in the patients' sarcomas treated as part of this study and
      correlation with response or resistance to sorafenib (all sites will participate).

      V. Ras-raf kinase pathway activation in pre-treatment existing tumor specimens (paraffin
      section immunohistochemistry; all sites will participate).

      VI. At MSKCC only: Pre and post treatment specimen changes in downstream events of ras
      signaling, specifically inhibition of ERK phosphorylation. Only patients with angiosarcoma
      and MPNST will undergo biopsy (up to 10 patients).

      VII. At MSKCC only: Circulating Endothelial Cells (CECs), VE-cadherin levels, and soluble
      protein levels (VEGF, bFGF, endostatin) as a measures of angiogenesis before and after
      starting sorafenib therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, non-randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to sarcoma histology (angiosarcoma vs malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor vs
      leiomyosarcoma [closed to accrual as of 11/29/06] vs high-grade undifferentiated pleomorphic
      sarcoma [i.e., malignant fibrous histiocytoma (including myxofibrosarcoma)(closed to accrual
      as of 11/29/06)] vs synovial sarcoma (closed to accrual as of 11/29/06) vs all other types of
      sarcoma).

      Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study, patients are followed at 4 weeks.
    
  