
    
      The initial goal of the project is to serve approximately thirty UFRJ servers at each
      edition. The project will be developed in up to two annual editions over a period of five
      years. After the selection of the candidates, an ambitious meeting will be held with all the
      participants in order to clarify the objectives and the other stages of the project.

      Participants will then be scheduled for laboratory tests and consultations for medical
      evaluation (exercise test), nutritional assessment and physical evaluation. The
      anthropometric evaluation will be performed according to previously established protocols.
      Measurements of body weight, height and waist, abdominal, neck and hip circumference will be
      performed. The evaluation of the body composition will be performed using the multi-frequency
      electrical bioimpedance apparatus (Biodynamics® model 450). The usual food consumption
      quality will be evaluated through dietary records of 3 days (typical 2 days and 1 atypical).
      In order to evaluate the possible changes in the routine of physical activity practice, the
      international physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ) will be used in short form. The
      nutritional consultations will be carried out by nutritionists in the Nutritional Assessment
      Laboratory (NAL) of the Josué de Castro Nutrition Institute (JCNI).

      Blood samples will be collected at the Laboratory of Clinical Analysis of the Faculty of
      Pharmacy of UFRJ or at the Clinical Pathology Service of the University Hospital Clementino
      Fraga Filho by properly trained personnel with disposable materials. Blood samples will be
      collected after a 12 hour fasting for analysis of the complete blood count, lipidogram, liver
      enzymes (aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase), glycemia, glycated hemoglobin,
      free thyroxine and thyroid stimulating hormone.

      After performing these evaluations, an individualized physical exercise program will be
      proposed according to each participant's level of physical activity and health conditions.
      Participants will also receive individualized nutritional guidance. In case of failure in the
      stress test the participant will not be able to participate in the physical exercise program,
      however, he will be invited to remain in activities aimed at promoting healthy eating habits.

      Throughout the project, collective motivational activities will be carried out to promote
      healthy eating (culinary workshops, talk wheels and others) and individual activities with
      all participants, in order to evaluate the adherence of nutritional guidelines and to
      exchange experiences among them.

      At the end of the project intervention period (12 weeks), the participants will again be
      submitted to laboratory examination and nutritional assessment: anthropometric and body
      composition evaluation and evaluation of changes in eating habits.

      A collective closure meeting will be held at the end of the project intervention stage and
      all participants will be informed and will have access to the results of their evaluations to
      date.

      In the next six months participants will be invited to monthly motivational collective
      activities (sporting challenges, conversation wheel, culinary workshop) as a way to stimulate
      them to maintain routine physical activities and changes in eating habits.

      At the end of three months after the end of the intervention period (6 months of follow-up),
      the participants will be submitted to nutritional assessment. At the end of the six months
      after the end of the intervention period, the participants will be submitted to the same
      evaluations performed three months after the intervention.
    
  