
    
      Introduction

      Endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) is a well-established treatment strategy for medically
      refractory chronic rhinosinusitis. Middle meatus spacers are currently used following ESS to
      prevent scarring, synechiae formation, and middle turbinate lateralization. A 2012 systematic
      review favored spacers compared to no spacers, with a follow up 2013 systematic review
      finding no difference between the use of absorbable and non-absorbable spacers. This review,
      however, noted that steroidal spacers may reduce middle meatus scarring and adhesions. More
      recent data has shown the effectiveness of steroid releasing middle meatus implants in
      preventing middle turbinate lateralization, reducing synechiae formation, and reducing
      revision surgery. However, these stents are costly, and may result in excess crusting
      postoperatively, which limits their use in some settings. Another study investigated the use
      of steroid-impregnated absorbable packing materials, and demonstrated the safety and utility
      of this method of middle meatus packing. However, a limitation to this study was overall low
      enrollment with only 19 total patients enrolled.

      The purpose of this project is to add to the existing body of evidence regarding middle
      meatus spacers, by studying the impact of steroid impregnated, bioabsorbable hemostatic
      packing (Hemopore®, Stryker) on postoperative visualization and scar formation.

      Research Design The proposed study will be a randomized controlled trial comparing steroid
      impregnated bioabsorbable and dissolvable nasal packing to non-steroid impregnated packing.
      Potential subjects will be adults, aged 18 and older, with a diagnosis of chronic
      rhinosinusitis based on the 2016 International Consensus Statement on Allergy and Rhinology:
      Rhinosinusitis definition, who have failed a trial of previous medical therapy, have
      bilateral sinus disease on CT imaging, and will undergo bilateral endoscopic sinus surgery.
      If the patient chooses to proceed with surgery for their medically refractory chronic
      rhinosinusitis they will be introduced to the research proposal and if willing to
      participate, the informed consent process will take place, during their preoperative visit.
      On the day of surgery the patient's right and left sinuses will be randomized to either
      steroid or no steroid middle meatus packing. At the end of the surgical procedure, the
      attending surgeon will soak the Hemopore in either 5 cc Duobiotic saline irrigation
      (bacitracin 50,000 units, polymyxin B 500,000 units in 0.9% sodium chloride 500mL) or 1 ml of
      triamcinolone 40 mg/ml (Kenalog-40, Bristol-Myers Squibb) mixed with 5 cc Duobiotic saline
      irrigation and label them 1 (no steroid) and 2 (steroid). The fellow or resident surgeon will
      then insert the packing into the middle meatus, with the steroid packing going into the side
      randomized for steroid, and the non-steroid packing going into the other side. A password
      protected data file will be maintained in UCLA Box, accessible to the investigators, where
      the side of placement of the packing will be recorded. Postoperative visits will be scheduled
      at the usual time points: 7-10 days, 24-30 days, and 2-3 months post-op. Nasal endoscopy will
      be performed at each visit, as a standard post op procedure. Video recording of the endoscopy
      will be saved for review at the conclusion of the study for determination of the patency of
      the postop cavity using the Lund-Kennedy endoscopic scoring system (LKES) and the
      perioperative sinus endoscopy (POSE) score . Symptom scores will also be collected and
      reviewed, as it is current practice for patients to respond to the sinonasal outcome test-22
      (SNOT-22) at preop and postop visits. LKES and POSE scores will be recorded in a password
      protected file in UCLA Box that is separate from the file containing the side of steroid
      packing.

      The investigators plan to enroll 50 consecutive patients in this study, over the course of
      about 4-6 months. At the end of the study period, the endoscopy scores (LKES and POSE) will
      be compared between the steroid and non-steroid sides. Each patient will serve as his/her own
      control. Statistical analysis will be performed using paired t tests for continuous variables
      and chi-square tests for categorical variables. A p value < 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.
    
  