
    
      The MindFit Project is a multicentric, prospective, parallel, single-blinded, randomized
      controlled trial with a sample of 135 participants at 3 to 60 months after stroke.
      Participants are randomly allocated to one of three arms (through a simple randomizing
      procedure with a 1:1:1 ratio created with a random sequence generator software).

      The first group (n=45) receives computer-based cognitive training (CCT) combined with a
      multicomponent physical exercise program. The second group (n=45) receives CCT combined with
      mindfulness-based stress reduction therapy. Finally, the third group (n=45), as an active
      control group, receives only CCT. All interventions last 12 weeks.

      Within two weeks before the start of the interventions, and again at 3 months after
      completing the interventions, medical, cognitive, and physical assessments, neuroimaging, and
      biological samples collection are performed.

      The objectives of this project are:

        1. To examine the effects of multimodal interventions in a population of chronic stroke
           patients on various domains: cognition, emotion, physical health, and quality of life.

        2. To examine specific plasticity effects of each of the three interventions regarding
           structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and how these changes may
           contribute to cognitive and emotional benefits.

        3. To study the molecular mechanisms by which the different types of interventions
           influence cognitive, emotional and brain benefits.

        4. To study interventions-induced microbiome changes and to explain how these changes may
           induce inflammatory and immune responses that may contribute to cognitive, emotional and
           brain benefits.

        5. To determine the demographic, clinical and genetic factors that may modulate cognitive,
           emotional and brain changes: baseline cognitive status; baseline cerebral status
           (atrophy, total intracranial volume); sex; age, educational level, intelligence.
    
  