
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a highly pruritic, chronic inflammatory skin disease that affects
      up to 25% of children and 10% of adults. Atopic skin disease is associated with significant
      morbidity as well as physical, psychological, and economical quality-of-life impairment. The
      economical impact of AD and the requirement for family support can be extraordinary and may
      be greater than what is typically found for asthma and type I diabetes, respectively. In many
      patients, the early onset of AD is the first clinical manifestation of allergic disease and
      often triggers the atopic march, the subsequent development of food allergy, allergic
      rhinitis, and asthma. The skin of AD patients is characterized by an increased Th2 axis,
      cellular infiltration and significant epithelial inflammation. These factors permit increased
      penetration of invading allergens and pathogens that further drive AD pathogenesis and
      pruritus (itch). Approximately 90% of AD patients are colonized with S. aureus, while only 5
      - 30% of non-atopic individuals are colonized. Novel therapeutic approaches are currently in
      clinical trials which provide the opportunity to target pathways integral to AD disease
      pathogenesis. In recent years, it has been shown that AD is more heterogeneous than initially
      perceived. Since novel therapeutics target different pathways, one therapeutic approach may
      not work for all AD patients and each therapy may provide a different level of clinical
      benefit. Additionally, since AD manifests primarily in the skin, blood collection and
      analysis may not be the most indicative measurement to determine which therapy is best for
      each patient. Despite improved understanding of AD, validated methods to non-invasively
      diagnose and monitor the development or progression of AD are sorely lacking. Additionally, a
      non-invasive method is needed to understand inflammation at the site of disease manifestation
      and potentially identify which biological pathways are most relevant for a given patient.
      This will allow a more personalized approach to treatment of patients with AD.

      The investigator has hypothesized that skin proteins are differentially expressed in the
      upper layers of disease versus non-disease skin tissue and that these may be used as
      biomarkers for skin changes linked to the development of AD. Previously a method for
      comparing expression of skin proteins by extracting proteins from tape strips and evaluating
      differences using mass spectrometry-based proteomics was developed. This non-invasive method
      is suitable for use in all AD patients and has been used to show an increase in specific skin
      proteins in AD patients versus normal controls. Despite this success, additional studies are
      needed to compare gene and protein expression obtained from tape strips with genomic and
      proteomic profiles from full thickness skin and whole blood. This proposed study will
      determine the validity of using non-invasive tape stripping, as a surrogate for skin biopsy
      and whole blood collection, to identify the inflammatory pathway most up-regulated in a given
      AD patient. This information will be used in defining biomarkers that will facilitate
      personalized medicine approaches using emerging novel therapeutics.
    
  