
    
      Background/Significance:

      Syndactyly is a congenital condition where children are born with webbing between their
      fingers. Syndactyly is the most common congenital hand condition in Caucasian children.
      Treatment for syndactyly is a syndactyly separation surgery, most commonly between 6 months
      and 3 years of age, depending on the severity of the syndactyly.

      Syndactyly release surgery is typically performed by rearranging skin on the fingers and hand
      to cover the separated digits. However, there is seldom enough skin to cover all surfaces
      after separation of the digits and 2 similarly size defects are left, one at the base of each
      finger. The gold standard for covering these remaining defects has been full-thickness
      autograft skin. However, harvesting the graft, closing the defect at the harvest site and
      suturing the grafts into place requires considerable time (the investigators estimate a total
      of 60 minutes per web space). With recent concerns arising over prolonged anesthesia and
      brain development in young children, pediatric surgeons are searching for ways to limit
      anesthesia exposure. In addition to the prolonged anesthesia time for harvesting and suturing
      the autograft, the donor site is left with a scar that could be avoided if a skin graft
      substitute were available.

      Hyaluronic acid matrix (Hyalomatrix®) is a FDA approved, commercially available, relatively
      inexpensive skin graft substitute. Each 1 inch by 1 inch sheet costs approximately $250.00
      and could be used to cover both defects in most cases. It is sutured into place over a defect
      with a stitch on each corner. Although good results for use of HA matrix in syndactyly
      surgery have been reported in the European literature, no comparison has been made with the
      gold standard full thickness skin autograft.

      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to compare a Hyaluronic acid matrix skin graft substitute with
      full thickness autograft in the surgical treatment of syndactyly. While there are reports of
      successful use of this skin graft substitute for syndactyly surgery, it is important to
      compare any new treatment to the gold standard. The investigators wish to assess scar
      formation in syndactyly release surgery after use of a skin graft substitute (Hyalomatrix®)
      compared with the gold standard full-thickness skin graft. If the results with Hyalomatrix®
      are at least as good, or better, than full thickness skin graft, use of this skin graft
      substitute may significantly reduce surgical time, donor site morbidity, surgical suite
      expense, and anesthesia exposure to the developing brain.

      Project Goals and Hypotheses:

      The goal of this project is to compare the effectiveness of skin graft substitute (i.e.,
      Hyalomatrix®) in syndactyly release surgery to the current gold standard full-thickness skin
      autograft. Utilization of a skin graft substitute following syndactyly surgery is presumed to
      be a safe and inexpensive method to promote wound healing, reduce scar formation, and
      consequently limit complications and scarring associated with skin autograft. Circumvention
      of the full-thickness skin graft not only decreases donor site morbidity, but is also
      expected to reduce the duration of surgery compared to using skin grafting alone, thus
      minimizing concerns associated with prolonged sedation in children. Currently, a single web
      syndactyly release takes approximately 2 hours, with approximately 1 hour of time for graft
      harvest and placement.

      The investigators hypothesize that there is no significant difference in scaring; healing and
      scar formation between the FDA approved skin graft substitute, Hyalomatrix®, and the gold
      standard full-thickness skin graft when used during syndactyly release surgery. This will be
      measured by comparing scores (on the Patient/Parent and Observer Scar Assessment (POSAS), the
      modified Hamilton burn scar rating by photographic analysis and the Web Creep Assessment) of
      the sites with full-thickness skin graft versus sites with Hyalomatrix. These measurement
      tools assess the thickness, color (darkness), pliability, appearance, and vascularity
      (redness) of a scar compared to normal skin and includes assessments by both provider and
      participant (parent).

      Study Design and Methodology:

      A randomized, single-blinded, within-subject controlled study will be performed to compare
      the effectiveness of skin graft substitute to the gold standard full-thickness skin
      autografts for children requiring syndactyly release surgery. The study will have two phases.
      Phase one will serve as a feasibility study and will include n=10 children undergoing
      surgical intervention for one, or more, syndactylized webs on their hand(s). Phase one will
      serve as a feasibility study to conduct power analysis, potential adverse events and identify
      issues in the protocol. The investigators do not have any specific safety concerns, as
      Hyalomatrix is FDA approved for use in children. However, the investigators do not have
      personal experience in its use. Preliminary analyses will be done after initial inclusion of
      10 webs, or approximately 5 children and again following the inclusion of all 10 children in
      phase one. Phase two will implement improvements identified in phase 1, and will include n=30
      new participants.

      In both phases, the participants and caregiver(s) will remain as blinded as possible to the
      specific location of the full-thickness skin graft and skin graft substitute (i.e., radial or
      ulnar side of the syndactyly-released web) until after the study has been completed. The
      provider removing the bandage will attempt to remove the silicone sheet from the Hyalomatrix
      site with the postop dressing. Thus each web will have an internal control, or gold-standard
      graft. This within-subject comparison is expected to minimize variability in intra- and
      inter-patient healing irregularities, as well as intra- and inter-surgeon performance and
      therefore provide a more valid comparison of the equivalency of the two techniques.

      Participants will be followed clinically, per standard of care, with the exception of
      long-term follow up (i.e., 24 month post-surgery assessments), in which parents will be asked
      to answer a set of questions online via a secure data collection tool called REDCap. Informed
      consent will be obtained from parent(s) or legal guardian(s) for children under the age of 18
      year old. Written assent will be obtained from study participants between the ages of 8 years
      old through 16 years old. For participants who are 8 and older and unable to sign the assent
      form, verbal consent will be documented on the assent form by the person leading the consent
      process.

      Participants, caregivers and providers will regularly complete the outcome measures below, at
      the treating surgeons' post-surgical standard of care follow-up visit schedule. Standard of
      care visits typically occur 0-4 weeks, and approximately at 8 weeks, 6 months, 12 months and
      24 months post-surgery. Scheduled completion of outcome measures is denoted below. Please
      note, the first post-operative visit is intended to remove the initial cast which may or may
      not require recasting. Due to variability in patient care, outcome measure for the study will
      not be collected beyond photographs and documenting any adverse events.

      Interventions:

      For consented and enrolled participants, each web that requires surgical-intervention will
      receive both a skin graft substitute (Hyalomatrix®) and a full-thickness skin autograft. The
      location of each (i.e., radial or ulnar side of the web) will be randomized and blinded. The
      participant and family will be blinded to which side of the web receives either the
      full-thickness graft or the skin substitute. The skin substitute will be sutured into place
      with standard absorbable sutures at the corners of the skin substitute. The skin substitute
      will overlap the edges of the normal skin by a few millimeters. At the three week visit, the
      Hand Service Nurse, surgeon, or trained staff will personally remove the cast of all
      participants enrolled in the study, along with the Hyalomatrix® backing (visible layer not
      present on the full-thickness graft, which may unblind the family), prior to the family
      seeing the wound. This precaution is intended to keep the family blinded to the specific
      location of the graft substitute.

      Upon completion of the study at 24 months post-surgery, parents will first be asked to
      self-identify the location of the gold-standard vs the skin graft substitute for each web,
      and both the parents and observers will complete a satisfaction/preference questionnaire,
      followed by formal unbinding via a letter. For participants who prematurely discontinue their
      participation prior to the conclusion of the study, the same unblinding letter will be sent
      the home revealing the location of the skin graft substitute and traditional graft.

      Surgery:

      REDCap will be used for the randomization of each web requiring surgical release.
      Specifically, for each web undergoing surgery, REDCap will assign the specific location
      (i.e., radial and ulnar side of each of the surgically released web) that the skin substitute
      and full-thickness skin graft are to be placed for each of the webs. Consequently, one side
      of a single web will have the gold-standard full-thickness skin autograft (i.e., control side
      of the web), and the other side will have the skin substitute.

      Secondary outcome measures:

      Secondary outcome measures include, participants' demographics, clinic visit information
      including radiographs, and surgery related measures. A satisfaction questionnaire will also
      be given to participants/families and observers at the end of the study to assess preferred
      grafted side (Hyalomatrix® vs full-thickness graft), equivalency of the two graft sites and
      donor scar, and surgical technique (for the observer only). These outcomes will be used in
      sub analyses or co-variates for the primary outcome measures.

      Data Analysis:

      For statistical analyses, the sample size will utilize matched-pairs of surgically operated
      webs (i.e., full-thickness skin graft versus Hyalomatrix®), rather than participants. It is
      expected that the sample size of webs will exceed the number of participants enrolled in the
      study (i.e., n=40 participants may result in approximately 60 webs). Preliminary statistical
      analyses will be performed at the conclusion of phase one, and will determine whether the
      sample size of n=30 participants provides sufficient statistical power.

      The effectiveness of skin graft substitute (i.e., Hyalomatrix®) in syndactyly release surgery
      compared to the current gold standard full-thickness skin autograft will be assessed by
      comparing the Patient Scar Assessment Scores, Observer Scar Assessment Scores, Hamilton
      scores and web creep for each web. The summated total scores of these tools will be compared
      using Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests with a matched pair (hyalomatrix vs full-thickness graft)
      design over time (8 weeks, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months post-surgery).

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describe participant demographics, clinic visit
      information, adverse events, and satisfaction surveys at the completion of the study.
    
  