
    
      Background

      Guidelines for antimicrobial prophylaxis for cardiac surgery advise using first generation
      cephalosporin for those children coming from home. Large number of children that pass cardiac
      surgery in Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, are hospitalized for several days before
      the operation in Pediatric Surgery department due to administrative reasons. These children
      receive broad spectrum antibiotics, vancomycin and ceftazidime, as a peri-operative
      prophylaxis, in order to prevent infection with hospital acquired flora with which they could
      become colonized with during this period. This policy causes exposure to broad spectrum
      antibiotics from the beginning in these children, and also providing an antimicrobial
      pressure in the intensive care unit, influencing the development of resistant flora.

      There is no documentation that these children acquire resistant flora during there
      hospitalization in the pre-operative period. We suggest checking microbial flora in those
      children hospitalized for cardiac surgery, in order to determine the need for broad spectrum
      antimicrobial prophylaxis.

      Goals

      To check microbial flora in children hospitalized for cardiac surgery on different time
      points: on admission and during hospitalization in Pediatric Surgery Department, on admission
      to PICU (immediately after operation),after 3 - 5 days,when drains are extracted.

      To document if there is a change in resistance pattern of microbial pathogens during these
      periods

      To determine the optimal regimen for antimicrobial prophylaxis for those children who need to
      be hospitalized in this department before the operation

      Methods

      Surveillance cultures would be taken from children who are hospitalized for cardiac surgery
      on several time points:

        1. on admission to Pediatric Surgery or other department pre-operatively

        2. once weekly afterwards, if they continue to be hospitalized without surgery

        3. on admission to PICU after surgery

        4. during their subsequent hospitalization in PICU after 3 - 5 days

        5. on the day of drains extraction

      These cultures will include the cultures of nostrils, throat,axillas, perineum and rectum and
      post operative wound.
    
  