
    
      The primary objective of this Center of Excellence is:

      Develop and refine methods for the study of the appropriateness of care in CAM.

      This Center of Excellence will have four Projects.

        -  Project 1: Clinician Based Appropriateness

        -  Project 2: Outcomes Based Appropriateness

        -  Project 3: Patient Preferences Appropriateness

        -  Project 4 : Resource Utilization Based Appropriateness

      Because much of CAM faces the challenge of limited evidence], and because these methods are
      well-established, we will have as our core project

      Project 1: Clinician-Based Appropriateness the application of the RAND approach to the
      determination of appropriate care for Manipulation/Mobilization (M/M) for chronic .low back
      pain (CLBP) and chronic cervical pain (CCP). This approach uses a mixed (CAM and non-CAM)
      panel of expert clinicians to interpret syntheses of all available data on safety, efficacy
      and effectiveness and clinical experience to apply these data to the question of care
      appropriateness for low back and cervical M/M. This approach has been applied successfully to
      M/M for low back pain and a literature review and expert panel was previously done for M/M
      for cervical manipulation.

      The main objectives of the core project (Project 1) are to develop a set of ratings of the
      appropriateness of M/M for chronic low back and chronic neck pain across various patient
      presentations, to be used in the determination of the prevalence of appropriate and
      inappropriate care in a national sample of these patients, and to provide feedback to the
      research community regarding the patient presentations where substantial uncertainty remains
      as to the appropriateness of M/M. We will also, however, in the Resource Utilization project
      examine M/M in relationship to other forms of a non-invasive therapy for cervical pain to get
      comparative ratings of appropriateness.

      Objectives of the Other Center Projects. The other projects in the Center each add to the
      RAND-based method in different ways by exploring the broader dimensions of appropriateness
      which may be applicable for CAM as well as health care in general. Project 2 (Outcomes Based
      Appropriateness) will examine the patient-assessed outcomes which, in part, contribute to the
      determination of appropriateness made by patients. Its objectives include developing
      CAM-sensitive PROMIS measures for patients using manipulation/mobilization for CLBP and CCP
      and to analyze data collected from a national study of chiropractic patients with CLBP and
      that can be used to evaluate appropriateness of their care from the patient's perspective.
      Given the prevalence of patient self-referral in CAM and the health system-wide focus on
      patient-centered care, Project 3 (Patient Preference Appropriateness) will examine how
      patient preferences affect what is considered to be appropriate care. Objectives here include
      understanding how CLBP and CCP patients decide to use M/M and determining what they believe
      is appropriate care. Finally, given the high proportion of out-of-pocket costs in CAM and the
      dramatic rise of healthcare costs in general, Project 4 (Resource Utilization Based
      Appropriateness) will examine how cost affects both which care is most appropriate and the
      appropriate course of care once implemented. Objectives here include providing data on the
      relative cost-effectiveness of care options for CLBP and CCP to the Appropriateness Panel
      (Project 1) to see if cost data changes their ratings, and analyzing data from our national
      sample to begin to understand the characteristics of an appropriate course of care once M/M
      is chosen.
    
  