
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the efficacy of a high-dose chemoradiotherapy regimen in patients with refractory
           or relapsed Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified into 1 of 3 treatment arms (0-1 adverse prognostic factors
      vs 2 adverse prognostic factors vs 3 adverse prognostic factors).

        -  Arm I (0-1 adverse prognostic factors): Patients receive ifosfamide by 24 hour infusion
           on day 2. Carboplatin is administered on day 2. Etoposide IV is administered once daily
           on days 1-3. Patients then receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV on days 5-12.
           Patients receive another course of ICE chemotherapy 2-3 weeks after the first course.

      Leukapheresis is performed once WBC reaches at least 3000/mm^3 and continues until enough
      peripheral blood stem cells are collected.

      Patients who have never received prior radiotherapy will receive accelerated
      hyperfractionated total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) twice a day for 5 days (days -10 to -6).
      Cyclophosphamide IV is then administered on days -5 and 4. Etoposide IV is administered by
      continuous infusion over 4 days (days -5 to -2).

      Patients who have had prior radiotherapy receive high dose chemotherapy. Cyclophosphamide IV
      is administered on days -6 and -5. Etoposide IV is administered by continuous infusion over 4
      days (days -6 to -3). Carmustine IV is administered on day -2.

      Peripheral blood stem cells are infused 24-36 hours after high-dose chemotherapy. G-CSF is
      administered beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Arm II (2 adverse prognostic factors): Patients receive the first course of ICE as in
           Arm I.

      Apheresis is performed once WBC is greater than 3000/mm^3 and continues until enough cells
      are collected. The second course of ICE is then administered.

      Ifosfamide is administered by 48 hour continuous infusion on days 1-2. Carboplatin is
      administered on day 3. Etoposide IV is administered every 12 hours for 3 doses beginning on
      day 1. Patients receive G-CSF on days 5-14.

      Patients who have never received prior radiotherapy will receive accelerated
      hyperfractionated TLI for 5 days (days -10 to -6). Cyclophosphamide IV is then administered
      every 12 hours on days -5 to -2. Etoposide IV is administered by continuous infusion over 4
      days (days -5 to -2).

      Patients who have had prior radiotherapy receive high-dose chemotherapy. Cyclophosphamide IV
      is administered every 12 hours on days -6 to -3. Etoposide IV is administered by continuous
      infusion over 4 days (days -6 to -3). Carmustine IV is administered on day -2.

      Peripheral blood stem cells are infused 24-36 hours after high dose chemotherapy. G-CSF is
      administered beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Arm III (3 adverse prognostic factors): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV daily for 2
           days, then G-CSF beginning on day 4 until blood stem cells are collected.

      Patients then undergo apheresis until enough cells are collected.

      Patients receive high-dose chemotherapy. Ifosfamide IV is administered for 1 hour. Etoposide
      is administered by continuous infusion for 12 hours. Carboplatin IV is administered for 1
      hour. Etoposide is again administered by continuous infusion for 12 hours. Treatment is
      repeated daily for 5 days.

      Peripheral blood stem cells are reinfused 24-36 hours after the last dose of chemotherapy.
      G-CSF is administered beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients who have never received prior radiation will now receive accelerated
      hyperfractionated TLI twice daily for 5 days. Patients receive a second course of high dose
      chemotherapy 45-90 days after reinfusion of cells. Etoposide IV and cytarabine IV are
      administered every 12 hours for 4 days (days -6 to -3). Melphalan IV is administered on day
      -2.

      Patients who have received prior radiation therapy receive a second course of high-dose
      chemotherapy. Carmustine IV is administered on day -7. Etoposide IV and cytarabine IV are
      administered every 12 hours for 4 days (days -6 to -3). Melphalan IV is administered on day
      -2.

      Peripheral blood stem cells are reinfused 24-48 hours after completion of second course
      chemotherapy. G-CSF is administered beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts
      recover.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for the first 2 years, every 4 months during years 3-5,
      and every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue 80 patients within 4 years.
    
  