
    
      Participant enrollment will consist of forty-eight University of Wyoming (UW) and Laramie
      County Community College (LCCC) students (24 ADHD group, 24 comparison group) with an even
      distribution of men and women in each group. Power analyses (G*Power 3.1) indicated a sample
      of at least this size is needed to provide 80% power to detect medium effects which have been
      observed in samples of children with ADHD. Students taking medications that may confound
      cognitive performance (e.g., antipsychotics, sedatives), are outside the age range (18-25
      years), or are at an elevated risk for physical exercise contraindications will be excluded.
      Prospective ADHD group participants will be recruited through four means. First, students who
      complete a separate study and endorse five or more inattention (IA) symptoms or report being
      previously diagnosed with ADHD will be invited for an eligibility assessment. Second,
      recruitment flyers will be posted on campus. Third, participants will be contacted from
      previous studies who were diagnosed with ADHD and consented to contact for future research.
      Fourth, university medical and mental health staff will advertise the study to student
      clients who have ADHD. Comparison group subjects will be composed of students who complete a
      separate study, who disavow being diagnosed with ADHD, and endorse three or fewer IA
      symptoms. As students enroll in the ADHD group, age- and sex-matched comparison subjects will
      be enrolled. Prior to study enrollment, prospective participants must stratify as being at
      low risk for physical exercise contraindications using a health history screening
      questionnaire. Prospective ADHD participants must also meet diagnostic criteria for ADHD on a
      structured clinical interview.

      All prospective participants will attend an in-lab appointment to confirm their eligibility,
      including (a) stratifying as being at low risk for physical exercise contraindications and
      (b) ADHD prospects meeting diagnostic threshold. After enrolling in the study, participants
      will be scheduled for two in-lab experimental appointments: sprint interval training (SIT)
      and Non-SIT. The ordering of experimental appointments will be counterbalanced. This will be
      done to evaluate possible appointment ordering effects and minimize confounding effects. Both
      appointments will be scheduled in the mornings, on the same day of the week and at the same
      time of day. Participants will be asked to wear athletic clothing, as well as abstain from
      exercise, alcohol, caffeine, and stimulant medication for 12 hours prior to their
      experimental appointments to minimize the influence they may have on our independent
      (exercise) and dependent variables (executive functioning). Participants will complete the
      execute functioning tasks (i.e., Continuous Performance Task or CPT, Digit Span,
      Letter-Number Sequencing, and Spatial Span or SS) during both the Non-SIT and SIT
      appointments. They will also be sent a modified mood (i.e., Depression, Anxiety, and Stress
      Scale or DASS) and ADHD symptoms (Barkley Adult ADHD Rating Scale or BAARS) questionnaire the
      morning following all experimental appointments. High-intensity SIT was chosen for the
      proposed study because moderate- to high-intensity aerobic exercises appears to lead to the
      greatest improvements in cognitive performance among youth with ADHD. The researcher will
      lead the participant through a set of stretches and 3 minutes of low-intensity cycling on a
      Schwinn AD2 Airdyne leg-cycling and arm-cranking ergometer to warm up and increase blood flow
      to active muscles. Participants will then complete 16 minutes of SIT, consisting of eight
      bouts of 20 seconds of cycling followed by 100 seconds of rest. After each interval,
      participants will be asked to provide their perceived exertion during the interval, and the
      researcher will record participant's peak interval heart rate (HR). These measurements are
      taken to validate that participants exercised at a high intensity. The experimenter will
      provide encouragement to the participant to work towards ≥85% of their maximum HR. After the
      eighth and last interval, the participant will rest for 15 minutes before completing the
      cognitive tasks (i.e., CPT, Digit Span, Letter-Number Sequencing, and SS).

      Prior to analyses, all variables will be screened. Violations of statistical assumptions will
      be addressed through data transformations or nonparametric statistics. Relative improvements
      on objective measurements of EF (i.e., CPT, Digit Span, Letter-Number Sequencing, and SS
      performance indices) will be examined through 2 (ADHD vs. comparison) x 2 (men vs. women) x 2
      (Non-SIT vs. SIT) repeated measures ANOVAs. When interaction effects are significant, paired
      samples t-tests will be used to evaluate group differences. When interaction effects fail to
      reach statistical significance, independent samples t-tests will be used to evaluate group
      differences. The magnitude of omnibus effects for repeated measures ANOVAs will be calculated
      using partial eta-squared (ηp2). Within-group effects (Cohen's d) and corresponding
      confidence intervals for within-group effect sizes will be standardized using the variability
      of non-SIT scores. Between-group effects will be calculated using Hedges g. Values for ηp2 of
      .01, .06, and .14 will be considered small, medium, and large effects, respectively;
      corresponding values for d and g are .20, .50, and .80.
    
  