
    
      Introduction: Episiotomy is the most common surgical intervention during vaginal delivery.
      Perineal damage during this incision causes perineal pain; pain and anxiety levels of women
      increase during episiotomy repair as well as during labor and delivery. In order to minimize
      this level of pain, local anesthetic agents are routinely administered to the episiotomy
      region. In recent years, in the literature, it is known that many non-pharmacological
      techniques are applied to reduce the pain of birth in addition to local anesthesia. One of
      these nonpharmacological methods is the application of pressure to LI4 point on hand with
      ice. Although there are studies conducted to reduce the pain with LI4 point in the
      literature, the studies done to reduce the pain experienced during episiotomy repair are
      quite limited.In this study, it was aimed to examine the effect of ice massage applied to the
      hand during episiotomy repair on perceived pain.

      Methods: The study was carried out in the delivery unit of a maternity hospital between April
      15, 2018 and November 15, 2018 with vaginal delivery for the first time, no complication
      developed during the delivery, with the study group being 45 and the control group being 60
      with 105 women. Immediately before the episiotomy repair was started (after exit of placenta
      and applying local anesthetic agent), women assigned to the study (massage) group were asked
      to place plastic gloves filled with ice pieces in the LI4 point on hand. This application was
      made for 5 minutes to the right hand and for 5 minutes to the left hand. The episiotomy was
      opened by the same midwife as all the women to the right mediolateral and repaired by the
      same midwife with the same technique and material.The ice massage was repeated until the
      episiotomy repair was over; total massage time and episiotomy repair time were recorded.
      Women were asked to mark the perceived pain level before the application and at the end of
      the application using the VAS (Visual Analog Scale) (perceived pain level during episiotomy
      repair). In the control group women were not excluded from routine practice; women were asked
      to mark the perceived pain level before episiotomy repair begin and at the end the repair
      using the VAS (Visual Analog Scale) (perceived pain level during episiotomy repair) like the
      study (massage) group. Data were evaluated by using chi square, student t test and ANOVA in
      SPSS 18.0 program.
    
  