
    
      2.0 SPECIFIC AIMS

      2.1. Aim 1. Improve intervention acceptability, buy-in, and usability by engaging a diverse
      group of stakeholders to collaboratively design key details of the study.

        -  Aim 1A: The stakeholder group work to identify and agree upon key principles and
           practical aspects of ACP in the NH setting.

        -  Aim 1B: Using the key principles and practical aspects, and existing evidence about
           beneficial approaches to ACP in NHs, the investigator group will devise an
           evidence-based, integrated ACP intervention that can be applied by existing NH
           personnel.

        -  Aim 1C: Guided by the results of the stakeholder meeting, the investigator group will
           identify characteristics of NH residents -- available from RAI data routinely and
           repeatedly available in Canadian NHs -- to identify a cohort of residents who are at the
           highest risk of dying in the following 6-12 months.

        -  Aim 1D: Informed by the results of the stakeholder meeting, and existing data, the
           investigator group, will agree upon the outcomes to be assessed in this study.

      2.2. Aim 2. Design and implement training of NH personnel in application of the systematic
      approach to ACP devised in Aim#1B.

      2.3. Aim 3. For each participating NH, devise an approach for real-time access to, and use
      of, the RAI data for residents.

      2.4. Aim 4. Applying the systematic approach to ACP devised in Aim#1B, to high-risk NH
      residents identified in Aim#1C, will result in improvement in relevant outcomes identified in
      Aim#1D.

      3.0 METHODOLOGICAL APPROACH

      3.1. Aim 1A. During a 1 day meeting in Toronto, the investigators will convene stakeholders
      including: investigators, NH residents and families, advocacy groups for the elderly, legal
      experts, NH management, NH staff, an expert on inter-professional care, NH physician,
      geriatrician, palliative care physician, ethicist, ICU physician, and dietitian. Directed
      discussions and breakout sessions will be utilized to identify key principles and practical
      components of ACP in the NH setting. All sessions will be recorded.

      3.2. Aim 1B. After the stakeholder meeting, the investigator group will conduct weekly
      telephone conferences to design an integrated, systematic, evidence-based ACP intervention --
      which will be referred to as "The BABEL Approach to ACP". It will be informed by both: (a)
      the stakeholder meeting, and (b) existing, published evidence about approaches to ACP in the
      long-term care setting that have been demonstrated to improve relevant outcomes. These latter
      include, but are not limited to: (i) "Let Me Decide", (ii) the methods of Morrison et al.,
      and (iii) "Respecting Choices". Criteria will include: likelihood to improve relevant
      outcomes, practicability, feasibility, scalability, sustainability and general acceptability.

      3.3 Aim 1C. This aim will utilize national RAI data on NH residents, maintained at the
      University of Waterloo by Dr. John Hirdes. Preliminary work in this direction indicates that
      44% of all NH residents in the country have one or more of the following, high-risk
      characteristics, all available from the RAI data: CHESS score ≥3, cancer, congestive heart
      failure, leave >25% of their food uneaten.

      3.4. Aim 1D. There will be discussion during the stakeholder meeting, specifically addressing
      which potential outcomes are relevant and should be tracked. Informed by those discussions,
      and outcomes studied in prior studies of ACP in long-term care, the investigator group will
      compile a final list of outcomes for the study.

      3.5. Aim 2. After design of The BABEL Approach to ACP, the investigator group will continue
      weekly conference calls to develop a detailed plan to train NH staff in implementing it. The
      investigators and study coordinators in each province will provide the training, which is
      expected to include (but may not be limited to) applied learning, intentional case studies,
      role-playing exercises, targeted discussions and adjunctive print, video, and web-based
      materials. Criteria for the training methods include: practicability, feasibility,
      acceptability, scalability, and sustainability. Training will occur in the NHs, and will not
      include actual residents.

      3.6. Aim 3. Local investigators and study coordinators will visit each participating NH, and
      working with NH personnel will: (i) locate how the NH staff conduct the quarterly RAI
      surveys, (ii) locate where the data is maintained in the NH, and (iii) devise a method, with
      the direct assistance of NH personnel, for using the RAI data to identify residents who meet
      targeting criteria (Aim#1C).

      3.7. Aim 4.

      3.7.A. GENERAL METHODS: This will be a cluster-randomized study in 24 NHs in Ontario,
      Manitoba, and Alberta, divided equally between intervention and control (total counts are:
      Ontario=13, Alberta=6, Manitoba=5). Informed consent will be obtained from cognitively intact
      residents, and from their substitute decision-maker (SDM).

      3.7.B. ACP IN CONTROL NURSING HOMES Eligible residents in the 12 control NHs will receive the
      prevalent approach to ACP. No elements of The BABEL Approach to ACP will be introduced in the
      control homes.

      3.7.C. ACP INTERVENTION NURSING HOMES The intervention comprises: (i) training on, and
      introduction of The BABEL Approach to ACP for targeted NH residents, and (ii) after these ACP
      discussions occur, notifying the resident's primary care physician of the residents' ACP
      preferences, as elicited by the ACP. Intervention homes will be asked to use the systematic,
      evidence-based approach to ACP for targeted residents. They will be free to use it in
      non-targeted residents, but it will not be specifically requested that they do so.

      3.7.D. INFORMED CONSENT In both intervention and control homes informed consent will be
      sought from eligible residents (or surrogate consent from SDMs, for residents deemed to lack
      capacity to provide informed consent), and separately from SDMs. As the ACP approach of our
      intervention is not investigational, the investigators believe it does not require informed
      consent, per se. However, informed consent from residents is required to obtain their
      personal information, track the course of their ACP wishes/decisions, obtain their clinical
      outcomes, and include their data in group form in analyses, reports and manuscripts from the
      research study.

      Residents' clinical outcome information will be obtained from a combination of: their nursing
      home records, their physician, emergency departments, urgent care, and hospitals. A separate
      page on the consent form serves specifically as consent to obtain such medical information.

      Informed consent from SDMs is required to contact them separately in order to send them a
      survey assessing their satisfaction with care at end-of-life provided to the NH resident.

      3.7.E. ANALYSIS OF RESIDENT OUTCOMES Most of these analyses will use hierarchical (2-level)
      random effects models to account for clustering within NHs, and possible differences between
      intervention and control groups that might occur, despite randomization. The provinces will
      be included as fixed effects; interaction terms between province and Intervention/Control
      will be included to account for possible influences of existing approaches to ACP undertaken
      by provinces (e.g. PoET in Ontario). Logistic regression will be used for binary outcomes,
      Poisson regression for rates, OLS regression for continuous variables. The time-to-event
      analysis will use Cox proportional hazards regression with fixed effects to represent the
      nursing homes.

      Resident-level covariates, obtained from NH records and RAI will be: age at NH admission
      (stratified), gender, marital status at study entry, elapsed time from NH admission to study
      entry (stratified), location immediately prior to NH entry (as home, assisted living, other
      LTC facility, hospital or other acute care facility, Chronic Continuing Care facility [in ON
      only]), medical conditions/diagnoses, CHESS score at study entry, whether at study entry
      resident was leaving ≥25% of NH food uneaten, and use of specific medications at study entry.
      Nursing home-level covariates will be: # of beds (stratified), ownership (public vs.
      private), and elements of pre-existing ACP approaches as derived from the Nursing Home
      Environmental Scan (specific variables still to be determined, but will do so before doing
      any analysis).

      3.7.F. ANALYSIS OF SDM OUTCOMES Analysis will use hierarchical (2-level) mixed models to
      account for clustering within NHs, and possible differences between intervention and control
      groups that might occur, despite randomization. The provinces will be included as fixed
      effects; interaction terms between province and Intervention/Control will be included to
      account for possible influences of existing provincial approaches to ACP (e.g. PoET in
      Ontario). Covariates, obtained from the SDM participants, NH records, and RAI will include
      all of the covariates from Section 3.7.E, and in addition: SDM age at resident death
      (stratified), SDM gender, and SDM relationship to deceased resident.

      3.7.G. ANALYSIS OF NH STAFF OUTCOMES Analysis of NH staff self-efficacy in ACP will compare
      the pre-study to post-study difference in self-efficacy ratings between intervention and
      control NHs.

      Analysis, in intervention NHs only, of NH staff perceptions of The BABEL Approach to ACP, and
      to the training in it's use will be mainly descriptive.

      Analysis of the semi-structured interview of NH personnel will involve thematic analysis,
      compared between Control and Intervention homes.

      3.7.H. ANALYSIS OF PROCESS OUTCOME OF THE RATE OF DOCUMENTED ACP DISCUSSIONS Analysis will
      use the hierarchical (2-level) random effects Poisson modeling strategy of section 3.7.E.

      3.7.I. SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION

        -  For this calculation, use was made of PASS 2008 sample size software (NCSS, LLC,
           Kaysville, Utah). Specifically, the calculation for Two Independent Means with a
           cluster-randomized design.

        -  This calculation was for the co-primary outcome of the ACP Audit survey given 6 weeks
           after study entry, specifically the fraction of items #1-7 answered 'Yes'. Thus, the
           scale goes from from 0-7.

        -  It used the following assumptions:

           • Mean±SD score:

        -  In Control homes = 5.0±1.5 (72% 'yes') (33, 34)

        -  In Intervention homes = 5.6±1.5 (85% 'yes')

             -  5% Type I error rate

             -  Average of 150 residents in each NH, of whom 0.5% are in respite care (2)

             -  44% of NH residents are at high risk of death or other acute outcomes, defined as
                any of: CHESS ≥ 3, cancer, congestive heart failure, or leave >25% of their food
                uneaten. (personal communication, Dr. John Hirdes, University of Waterloo)

             -  75% rate of consent among eligible NH residents

             -  Equal proportion of NHs in intervention and control groups

             -  Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for the primary outcome = 20% Using these
                assumptions, 12 NHs in each group (24 total) gives power of 83% (total N=1164).
    
  