
    
      Liver transplantation (LT) is potential curative for those with liver failure or
      hepatocellular carcinoma. In Hong Kong, where HBV infection remains endemic, chronic HBV
      (CHB) infection remains the leading indication for LT. Due to the low rate of organ donation,
      hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) negative donors who are anti-HBc positive are frequently
      used. There is potential for anti-HBc positive donors to harbor OBI, defined as the presence
      of liver and/or serum HBV DNA without serological evidence of chronic infection (HBsAg
      negative).1 Hence, there is a risk of transmitting HBV infection when these grafts are
      transplanted to HBsAg negative recipients (de novo HBV infection). Nonetheless, anti-HBc
      positive donors represent an important source of organs in HBV endemic area, including Hong
      Kong, with a high prevalence rate (37%) of HBsAg negative but anti-HBc positive population.

      After LT, long-term immunosuppressive therapy is required to prevent organ rejection.
      Therefore, for organs which may harbour OBI, there is a risk of reactivation which may result
      in liver graft failure. As a consequence, all patients who receive an anti-HBc positive graft
      will receive antiviral prophylaxis. Currently, all such patients will be commenced on
      life-long entecavir, which is highly effective in preventing reactivation.2 One major
      disadvantage of using such a blanket approach is that a significant proportion of anti-HBc
      donors may not actually have underlying occult HBV infection, and recipients of such grafts
      may not require lifelong antiviral therapy. Current markers such as HBsAg and HBV DNA are not
      sensitive enough to detect the presence of OBI.

      More recently a panel of novel HBV biomarkers have emerged.3,4 These include quantification
      of anti-HBc, HBV RNA, hepatitis B core-related antigen (HBcrAg), and intrahepatic covalently
      closed circular DNA (cccDNA) levels. Some of these markers have been associated with OBI, and
      may predict HBV reactivation for immunosuppressed patients.5,6

      This is the first trial proposed to look at the efficacy of these novel HBV biomarkers in
      identifying occult HBV infection when used in combination, and to identify patients who will
      not need long term antiviral prophylaxis
    
  