
    
      Post-surgical pain management is often suboptimal in pediatric patients, especially in those
      with complex past medical and past surgical histories. Physicians generally, and physicians
      at Boston Children's Hospital (BCH), in particular, are employing regional anesthetic
      techniques as either primary or adjunct measures for perioperative pain control. One of the
      benefits of regional anesthesia is the avoidance, or at least limitation of, opioid and
      benzodiazepine exposure.

      CUCWNB is a regional anesthesia technique that uses an indwelling catheter, placed under
      ultrasound guidance, which terminates in the paravertebral space for a paravertebral nerve
      block or at the base of the erector spinae muscle complex immediately lateral to the
      paravertebral space for an erector spinae nerve block. Introduction of local anesthetic
      through this catheter produces ipsilateral somatic and sympathetic nerve blockade in multiple
      contiguous dermatomes. The technique provides effective analgesia for unilateral thoracic and
      abdominal surgical procedures.

      CUCWNB using ropivacaine is used regularly at this institution for patients of all ages as a
      part of various multimodal intra- and post-operative pain management strategies. The success
      of CUCWNB implementation for infants and toddlers undergoing thoracotomies has been so marked
      that this technique has become essentially a de facto standard of care for this population at
      BCH.

      Unfortunately, even as of today, studies demonstrating the pharmacokinetic profile of
      ropivacaine CUCWNB in infants and toddlers are not available. A few studies have examined
      plasma levels of ropivacaine after single injection paravertebral nerve blocks in adult
      patients. For example, a single bolus injection of 2mg/kg was well tolerated, not exceeding
      peak plasma concentrations of 2.5 µg/ml, well below the concentration considered a threshold
      for ropivacaine local anesthetic systemic toxicity (LAST). However, it is unclear how
      applicable this data is to our complex pediatric surgical patients at BCH.

      In order to more fully understand plasma ropivacaine concentrations during CUCWNB, and
      particularly how these concentrations relate to known thresholds for ropivacaine-induced
      systemic local anesthetic toxicity, the investigators plan to measure plasma concentrations
      of ropivacaine at various time points following initiation of CUCWNB in infant and toddler
      patients having just undergone esophageal atresia repair with posterior tracheopexy.

      This study does not aim to alter the current standard clinical care received by participants.
      No additional treatments will be provided as part of the study. Continuous ropivacaine
      infusion via paravertebral nerve block catheter, the standard practice for this surgical
      population at the investigators' institution, will be administered to enrolled (and
      non-enrolled) patients undergoing esophageal atresia repair with posterior tracheopexy.
      Paravertebral ropivacaine infusion is directed by BCH Pain Treatment Service, using existing
      dosage and management protocols.

      The investigators' goal is to better understand plasma ropivacaine levels during continuous
      infusion and how they relate to currently understood thresholds for induced systemic local
      anesthetic toxicity in infants and toddlers, so as to develop evidence-based safety
      guidelines for ropivacaine infusion in infants and toddlers undergoing CUCWNB.

      The investigators expect to describe the pharmacokinetics of ropivacaine via CUCWNB for
      postoperative pain management of infants and toddlers following thoracotomies. Knowledge of
      the systemic absorption of ropivacaine delivered by CUCWNB may provide new insights into
      appropriate dosing in order to prevent LAST. This is of particular interest in the subgroup
      of infants for whom rates of metabolism and elimination of local anesthetic drugs are poorly
      understood.
    
  