
    
      Smoking is a public health epidemic. Over 20% of adults in the USA smoke according to the
      American Heart Association. Benefits of smoking cessation are realizable and readily
      apparent: reductions in the risk of heart, kidney, and lung disease, reduction in the risk of
      stroke and certain cancers, blood pressure improvement, increased life expectancy, economic
      benefits, and the positive externality in secondhand smoke reduction are some of the more
      common benefits cited by public health experts. Smoking remains the leading preventable cause
      of chronic illness in our country, and, despite the well-publicized benefits, quitting
      smoking remains difficult. Many smokers do not wish to undergo the negative physiological
      effects of detoxification from nicotine dependence. Others lack the resources, support and
      motivation to make this lifestyle change. Providers, moreover, struggle to find a simple,
      effective intervention that will help their smoking population kick the habit.

      Given this background, our research proposal has the following specific aims:

        1. The ED is an effective location within the domestic health system to provide preventive
           medical care, including counseling on smoking cessation.

        2. A simple intervention where ED patients who were motivated to quit smoking were put in
           direct phone contact with a trained smoking cessation counselor, during their ED stay,
           will have a realizable benefit in rates of smoking cessation beyond the placebo rate of
           cessation.

        3. We hypothesize that smokers who are motivated to quit will react positively to the
           national quit line and will have a higher rate of cessation at two months time compared
           to other motivated smokers in the ED department who are not put in immediate contact
           with a smoking cessation counselor.

      A background statistical analysis and literature review has already been conducted. A
      literature review has been attached for reference (see Appendix A). We have discussed this
      topic with our biostatistical liaison and we believe such a study can show statistical
      significance with appropriate power based on a target enrollment of 150 patients.

      Following anticipated IRB approval, we expect this study to be ready for enrollment. Mr.
      Pelster will be the lead enrollee within the Adult Emergency Department and has the full
      support of the ED faculty and staff for this work. He will be supervised directly by Dr.
      Benjamin Heavrin, Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, who will function as his faculty
      sponsor through the VUSM emphasis program. All patients presenting to the Adult Emergency
      Department are asked about smoking status through the triage note. Mr. Pelster will have
      access to this triage note and will approach patients who meet inclusion criteria. Our
      inclusion criteria includes: verbally consenting patients of the Adult ED who actively smoke,
      have normal vital signs, and are not emergency will based on triage criteria. Exclusion
      criteria includes patients unable to provide consent, unable to verbally communicate,
      patients with emergent illness defined by ESI triage protocols, patients with unstable
      vitals, and patients under the age of 18. Mr. Pelster will then approach these patients for
      possible enrollment. Prior to the beginning of this study, Mr. Pelster will become well read
      on current smoking statistics and on the medical and health related benefits of smoking
      cessation, should patient questions arise. He will be supervised in these verbal patient
      discussions by Dr. Heavrin.

      All patients will be asked for voluntary, verbal informed consent. Should consent not be
      given, or should consent not be able to be obtained, a patient will not be included in this
      study. Given that no harm could come from this intervention in the ED, and given that the
      "intervention" is simply a verbal discussion on the motivation to quit smoking and a
      telephone conversation with a 1-800-QUIT-NOW professional, we believe that verbal consent
      would be acceptable. Patients who consent to the study will be given a letter that briefly
      explains the purpose of the clinical trial (see Appendix B).

      Basic demographic data related to age, gender, race, smoking history, and contact information
      of the patient will be collected and stored on a secure electronic device as described below.
      Upon conclusion of enrollment, data analysis will begin using statistical software such as
      SPSS available through the Department of Emergency Medicine, Division of Research.

      Although our investigative team does not have experience in smoking cessation research,
      plenty of evidence exists within the medical literature to suggest that studies on smoking
      cessation are simple in design, context, and data acquisition and that patients respond
      positively to preventive health interventions. Our investigative team will be working under
      the Division of Research, Department of Emergency Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical
      Center. This department has plentiful resources to conduct this simple investigation,
      including biostatistical support, dedicated clinical trials associates, and a culture of
      rigorous and supportive academic investigation within the clinical wings of the department.

      We expect no negative impact of this investigating on clinical care, the timeliness of care,
      or the disposition and treatment of the patients enrolled.

      A literature search has been conducted and is included. Per our review, we do not believe
      that research into the utilization of the 1-800-QUIT-NOW line has occurred in an Adult ED
      population. Should our research prove our hypothesis, this would provide a simple
      intervention that would have large-scale positive public health ramifications for the ED
      smoking population.
    
  