
    
      1. Enrolled subjects must consent to the study and authorize release of health information.
           All studies obtained as part of this research study are considered part of routine care.

        2. Prior to testing, subjects must complete a questionnaire assessing quality of life. This
           is the same questionnaire that has been used in the previous portions of this study.

        3. The investigators will review results of cardiac imaging for all participants consisting
           of a cardiac MRI or cardiac CT obtained within the last 5 years. If this data does not
           exist or is outdated, participants will have a new study.

        4. The investigators will review results of cardiac imaging for all participants consisting
           of an echocardiogram within the last 5 years. If this data does not exist or is
           outdated, participants will have a new study.

        5. The investigators will review results of cardiac function testing for all participants
           consisting of an exercise stress test obtained within the last 5 years. If this data
           does not exist or is outdated, participants will have a new study. End criteria for the
           exercise stress test includes either

           a. Achieving two or more of the following: i. Heart rate of > 95% of age-predicted
           maximum (using equation 220-age = maximal heart rate) ii. RER > 1.1 iii. VO2 plateau
           defined as The VO2 plateau was defined as a change in VO2 during the final minute of
           exercise less than 2 SD below the mean of increases between previous workloads iv. RPE >
           8 on OMNI RPE scale v. Volitional exertion OR b. Achievement of any of the
           contraindications to exercise testing.

        6. The investigators will review results of cardiac rhythm monitoring for all participants
           consisting of a 24 hour Holter monitor obtained within the last 5 years. If this data
           does not exist or is outdated, participants will have a new study.
    
  