
    
      The obesity epidemic is one of the foremost threats to the health of children and adults in
      the U.S today. Multidisciplinary pediatric weight management programs have been deemed
      effective, with increased access to these programs strongly advocated. However, the
      effectiveness of these programs is limited by attrition, with dropout ranging from 27-73%,
      limiting health benefits to children and inefficiently utilizing already scarce resources. In
      addition to better understanding the drivers of attrition, being able to predict or forecast
      dropout holds great potential to improve adherence and outcomes, and modify treatment
      approaches to best serve the needs of families. Using a model that isolates variables
      associated with attrition from pediatric weight management to forecast participant dropout,
      this prospective, longitudinal observational study will collect comprehensive data on child
      and family-, obesity-, and treatment-related variables In Stage 1, investigators will install
      an attrition forecasting model, the Outcomes Forecasting System (OFS), in 3 pediatric weight
      management programs, and build its precision and calibration using a conceptual model of
      adherence. In Stage 2, we will establish external validation, installing the OFS in a fourth
      weight management program, and temporal validation through continued use of the OFS within
      the 3 original sites. The overall goal of this project is to increase the accuracy and power
      of an attrition prediction model through its installation in weight management programs and
      to demonstrate its internal, external, and temporal validity. A greater understanding of
      patient, family, and disease-specific factors that predict dropout from pediatric weight
      management can be utilized to prevent attrition. By identifying the most pertinent factors
      driving attrition across weight management sites, new avenues for treatment and prevention
      will be identified. This project will result in a valuable tool, available for dissemination
      across a diverse array of clinical programs to improve adherence, decrease costs, and improve
      outcomes.
    
  