
    
      Owing to the high prevalence of disability in stroke older adults, walking capacity and
      participation can be severely affected. According to the International Classification of
      Functioning, Disability and Health 2001, participation involves functioning in life. In
      Rehabilitation Medicine, there has been a growing concern about it as a way to assess success
      of treatment. However, appraisal of participation in stroke research is scarce.

      In all stages after a stroke, Physiotherapy interventions in favor of intensive high
      repetitive task-oriented and task-specific training have obtained benefits on trained actions
      and activities. But, the effect of this type of treatment on the impact the disease has on
      patient´s participation is under investigated.

      The aim of this study was to determine which kind of physiotherapy task-oriented training
      program could better improve participation in chronic stroke subjects: an upper limb strength
      training program (ULST) or a combined cardiovascular/task-oriented interval training (IT)
      program.

      Therefore, the goal of this study is to examine the effect of a combined
      cardiovascular/task-oriented interval training programme on the walking capacity of chronic
      stroke individuals and the improvement in their participation.

      A randomized single-blind controlled trial was carried out. Fourteen subjects with chronic
      hemiplegia resulting from stroke (onset >6m) were recruited. All participants were fully
      informed about the experimental procedures and the aim of the study. Written informed consent
      was signed by each subject prior to participate. Approval from the ethics committee of the
      University of Valencia was obtained for the study.

      Subjects were randomly allocated to an ULST program with elastic bands (n=7) or to a
      cardiovascular/task-oriented IT program (n=7), focused on walking capacity. In the ULST
      group, a nine 5-minute station circuit session was designed. Patients work 2+2 minutes in
      each exercise, with a 30-second rest between the 2-minute periods and between stations. The
      IT program consisted of a set of 8 cardiovascular exercises at moderate intensity,
      interrupted by 1-minute active breaks of task-oriented exercises. Duration of both programmes
      was 3 months (3 sessions/week).

      Participation was assessed by the Stroke Impact Scale (SIS-16) and the Frenchay Activities
      Index (FAI), before and after the intervention.
    
  