
    
      After a lesion to the central nervous system, many patients suffer from a diminished walking
      capability. During the first rehabilitation phase, specific cares help the recovery of motor
      function to offer the best chances of returning to normal walk. For example, the repeated
      practice of walking exercises facilitates the gain of muscular strength and stimulates motor
      relearning. However, in patients, who have finished the first rehabilitation phase, it is
      often observed strong limping, unsteady gait, and a bad management of obstacle clearance.
      Thus, these individuals fall frequently, with risk of severe injury. The aim of the study is
      to assess the efficacy of gait training on a treadmill equipped with an augmented reality
      system. Shapes are displayed onto the treadmill belt with a projector (beamer): the patient
      adapts his/her gait to the drawing that unfolds in front of him/her. It is possible to train
      gait symmetry for coordination enhancement or to exercise obstacle clearance and gait
      agility. Another advantage of this type of treadmill is the capability to continuously
      analyze gait with integrated sensors and, hence, to give real-time feedback to the patient.
      Whereas the method seems promising, thorough studies that would confirm its efficacy are
      lacking. Therefore, the investigators seek to conduct a randomized controlled trial to
      compare visually-guided gait training with a more classical training method. During four
      weeks, participants will train, according to their abilities, three to five times a week
      during 30 minutes on the augmented-reality treadmill. A group of control patients will train
      at comparable intensity but without the visual guidance of gait. Using the data collected
      during the training sessions, the investigators will study whether the evolution of locomotor
      function differs between both groups. Furthermore, several questionnaires will be filled in
      by the participants to document the self-evaluation of their progress. In the long term, the
      investigators expect to first improve the efficacy of gait rehabilitation and second to
      better understand the recovery process of locomotor function during the first months after a
      stroke.
    
  