
    
      Background: Until now, COPD secondary to biomass exposure is treated in similar way that COPD
      due to tobacco smoke. Unfortunately none of the clinical trial included patient with biomass
      exposure in their multicenter studies. COPD due to biomass exposure is very common in Mexico
      and in other sub-developed countries, and represent a high economy burden similar as the
      tobacco exposure. In Mexico, in a reference center of COPD (National Institute of Respiratory
      Disease) thirty percent of women who attended with COPD has only the antecedent to cook with
      biomass. These patients have a predominant airway component, rather than emphysema. These
      patients have chronic bronchitis as a main clinical picture and in consequence, more
      exacerbations. Additionally, they present more symptoms such as dyspnea, and as COPD
      secondary to tobacco exposure, the functional and inspiratory capacity are reduced. There are
      previous studies that described the acute effects of long acting bronchodilators like
      salmeterol on functional and inspiratory capacity. However, they were done in patients with
      COPD secondary to tobacco smoke and there are not studies done in patients with COPD
      secondary to biomass exposition. Indacaterol a novel long-acting bronchodilator provide 24 h
      bronchodilation on once-daily dosing with a fast onset of action. Assuming the conditions of
      patients with COPD secondary to biomass exposure (women, rural or suburban origin, etc.) it
      is necessary strategies that enhance the adherence. There is information about better
      adherence with the least frequency of a drug. Tiotropium provide 24 h bronchodilation on
      once-daily dosing with a slow onset of action, it was selected because it is widely used in
      the treatment of COPD and is the only drug of the therapeutic class (long acting
      antimuscarinic bronchodilator) available in the market.

      Until now there is no international nor national reported experience with any bronchodilators
      in COPD secondary to biomass.

      This will be the first clinical trial in the world that attempts to evaluate the acute
      effects (fast onset action) of those two long acting bronchodilators, in women with COPD
      secondary to biomass exposure. Besides, the results will help to highlight the need in the
      rest of the world to include these patients in the different multicenter studies.

      Primary objective:

      To compare changes in walked meters from baseline six minute walking test (6MWT) to 23:45
      hours after one dose of Indacaterol (150µg) vs Tiotropium (18µg) in patients with moderate to
      severe COPD secondary to biomass exposure.

      Secondary efficacy Objectives are:

        1. To compare changes in Inspiratory Capacity (IC) from baseline (-10 minutes) to 30, 60,
           240 minutes and 23:45 hours post dose of Indacaterol (150 µg) vs Tiotropium (18µg) in
           patients with with biomass smoke COPD.

        2. To compare changes in FEV1 from baseline (-10 minutes) to 30, 60, 240 min and 23:45
           hours post dose of Indacaterol (150 µg) vs Tiotropium (18µg) in patients with biomass
           smoke COPD.

        3. To compare the 'trough' FEV1 (mean of values at 23 h 10 min and 23 h 45 min post-dose)
           after one dose of indacaterol vs tiotropium in patients with COPD secondary to biomass
           exposure.

        4. To compare changes in dyspnea perception by using the Borg scale from baseline (-10
           minutes) to 30, 60, 240 min and 23:45 hours post dose of Indacaterol (150 µg) vs
           Tiotropium (18 µg) in patients with COPD secondary to biomass exposure.

        5. To compare the frequency of adverse events presented during the study, between
           indacaterol vs tiotropium arm.

      Methodology:

      This will be an open label study conducted at specialized respiratory care center (National
      Institute of Respiratory Diseases, Mexico) to compare the 24 hours response to two long
      acting bronchodilators (Indacaterol vs Tiotropium), after one inhaled dose.

      The primary endpoint will be changes in walked meters (6MWT) from baseline to 30, 60, 120 and
      240 minutes post dose of Indacaterol (150 µg) vs Tiotropium (18µg) in patients with moderate
      to severe COPD secondary to biomass exposure.

      The key secondary endpoint will be the 'trough' FEV1 in milliliters (mean of values at 23 h
      10 min and 23 h 45 min) post dose of Indacaterol (150 µg) vs Tiotropium (18 µg) in patients
      with moderate to severe COPD secondary to biomass exposure.

      The "trough" FEV1 value which was based on the mean of two measurements taken 23 h 10 min and
      23 h 45 min following the previous day's morning dose.

      Other secondary endpoints will be:

        -  FEV1 (in milliliters) and Inspiratory Capacity (IC in milliliters) will be measured frpm
           baseline (-10 min) to 30, 60, 90, 120 and 240 minutes post bronchodilators.

        -  Dyspnea perception will be measured by the 10 points Borg scale, from baseline to 30,
           60, 120 and 240 minutes post bronchodilators.

      In all patients spirometry will be performed serially over 24 h postdose. The design implies
      a crossover treatment in order to avoid variability between subjects and guarantee the
      outcome measures.

      There will be 40 intervention patients with 40 controls (crossover design). The study
      comprised a pre-screening visit, a 7-day screening period, and one day, 1-week treatment
      periods. At the baseline visit, eligible patients were randomized equally to one of two
      treatment sequences (A or B) to receive either indacaterol 150 µg once-daily or Tiotropium 18
      µg once-daily, followed by the other bronchodilator (Tiotropium or Indacaterol) each of them
      via a single-dose dry powder inhaler (SDDPI). Each treatment period was separated by a
      washout period of 7 days.

      Number of centers & patients: 1 center with 40 patients, sequentially exposed to the two
      option treatment and will be their own control. It was decided making a self control design
      with crossover treatment in order to avoid variability between subjects and guarantee the
      outcome measures.

      Sample size justification:

      The sample size was calculated considering a power of 80% and a alpha value of 0.05 and two
      tails. Taking the minimal clinical significance value for 6 minutes walking test of 54 meters
      and standard deviation of 95 meters (BODE study). Because of the design of the study the
      investigators expected minimal patient withdrawn (less than 10%).

      Population:

      It is known that COPD secondary to biomass exposure patients commonly have a frequent
      exacerbation phenotype compared with patients with COPD secondary to tobacco smoke, and the
      investigators also expect that this phenotype would have the major benefit of the therapy.
      That´s why there will be included COPD patients in groups B, C or D, according to GOLD update
      2011.

      Pharmacovigilance requirements:

      All the Adverse Events (AE) would be reported following the procedure for Serious Adverse
      Events (SAEs) Report. In order to guarantee the safety of the patient, any AE occurring after
      patients began with the treatment of indacaterol.

      All the recurrence, complications or progression of the original AE must be reported as
      follow up of the original event, no matter when it was presented. This report should be
      submitted during the first 24 hours after the treating physician receive the notification.
      Any AE that is not considered to be related to the previous reported AE, should be informed
      as a new event.

      All SAEs shall be collected and registered in Serious Adverse Event Report Form.

      Outcome measurements:

      Primary:

      Walked meters on six minute walking test.

      Secondary:

      inspiratory capacity and post bronchodilator measures changes from basal measures .

        1. Changes from baseline in pulmonary function and inspiratory capacity.

        2. Changes from baseline in the total score of the Borg scale for dyspnea measure.
    
  