
    
      Objectives

        -  To compare the efficacy of two different doses of Cytarabine during consolidation
           therapy for newly diagnosed patients of Non APML - Acute Myeloid Leukemia who are in CR
           post induction

        -  To compare the toxicity of the two different Cytarabine doses

      Primary end point

        -  Relapse free survival at 1 yr from randomization

        -  Relapse will be defined as >5 % leukemic blasts in the marrow aspirate or new
           extramedullary disease anytime after randomization

      Secondary end points

        -  Overall survival

        -  Median time to relapse

        -  Toxicity- Haematological and Non -Haematological

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Confirmation of Acute Myeloid Leukemia by morphologic, immunophenotypic analysis

        -  Suitable for HIDAC as consolidation

        -  AML with underlying MDS will be included

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Previous AML chemotherapy [Hydroxyurea - not an exclusion.]

        -  CML-BC

        -  Concurrent active malignancy

        -  HIV infection, Uncontrolled Hepatitis B/C

        -  Patients being considered for upfront PBSCT (before completion of CONSOLIDATION)

        -  Serum Bilirubin > 2

        -  APML

        -  Delayed recovery of blood counts /persistent active infection > 45 days from start of
           induction

        -  Patients receiving reinduction with HIDAC

        -  Therapy related AML Methodology

        -  The period of enrollment will be from July 1, 2012 to September 30 ,2013

        -  Baseline information will be recorded in a preformulated proforma designed for analysis
           at a later date

      Treatment

        -  Standard 3 + 7 INDUCTION with Daunomycin and Cytarabine with DNR at 60- 90 mg/m2 as per
           the PS and comorbidities/active infections at presentation

        -  Bone marrow examination - D+ 28 of induction or earlier if needed . Patients not in CR -
           reinduction regimen as per discretion of treating physician

        -  Patients in complete morphological remission ( after 1 or 2 inductions) : will receive
           consolidation with HIDAC and will be randomized into the two study arms after written
           Informed Consent: Arm A and B with 90 patients in each arm Arm A will receive HIDAC at
           18 gm/m2/cycle for 3 cycles , i.e. 3 gm/m2 BD , Day 1,3,5 Arm B will receive HIDAC at 12
           gm/m2/cycle for 3 cycles , i.e. 2 gm/m2 BD , Day 1,3,5

      sample size

        -  Assuming a RFS of 60 % at 1 yr in each arm and keeping a non-inferiority margin of 20 %
           , Alpha at 5 % ,75 patients are required in each arm on the basis of statistical
           calculation.

        -  15 patients added in each arm to account for losses

        -  Total required in each arm = 90

        -  ANC> 1000 , Platelet count > 1 lac required to start HIDAC

        -  Detailed information of the course of all the chemotherapy cycles will be recorded
           including-

             1. toxicity

             2. details of antimicrobials

             3. supportive care ( including transfusions)

             4. Use of growth factors

        -  Cytogenetic analysis using standard technique of chromosomal banding

        -  Molecular analysis for mutation of FLT3-ITD will be performed

        -  Risk stratification will be done as per guidelines

        -  Patients in both arms will be kept under close follow up and will be assessed with blood
           counts /PS , 2 monthly / or earlier as clinically indicated

      Statistical Analysis

        -  Qualitative data will be analyzed using the Chi-square test

        -  Quantitative data will be compared by using t-test /Mann Whitney test

        -  Besides this survival analysis will be carried out.
    
  