
    
      Randomized, double blind prospective multicenter study. Patients:-Inclusion criteria: (1)
      neonates in delivery room (2) Presence of repiratory distress syndrom requiring intubation
      (Silverman score> 3 and / or FiO2 greater than 30 % in premature infants under 30 weeks and
      over 40% after 30 weeks (3) hemodynamic stability (mean arterial pressure> 3° percentile)

        -  Exclusion criteria: (1) Need for intubation in extreme emergency (pneumothorax, meconium
           aspiration, congenital diaphragmatic hernia, perinatal asphyxia) (2) Birth in the
           absence of an independent appraiser (3) mother under general anesthesia.

        -  Number of subjects required: 120 patients (60 per group) over a period of two years.
           This number was calculated to show a difference in sedation effectiveness from 67 to 90%
           with an alpha risk of 5% and a beta risk of 20%.

        -  Study design:

      After obtaining parental consent, patients will be randomized in "Midazolam" arm or in
      "Ketamine" arm . Midazolam (0.2mg/kg = 0.2ml/kg) or Ketamine (2mg/kg = 0.2 ml/kg) are
      instilled in the nose, using a 1 ml syringe. The gesture will be directed by a physician
      having yet successfully completed a minimum of 50 intubations. After sedation completion,
      intubation decision will be taken at the onset of muscle relaxation or on the occurrence of
      apnea.

        -  The clinical pain score will be evaluated on film a posteriori by two independent
           observers using a scale of hetero pain assessment.-Pain will be evaluated through the
           study of skin conductance.

        -  The quality of intubation will be judged by the number of attempts required and by the
           duration of glottis exposure.

        -  Hemodynamic and respiratory tolerances will be judged by measuring respectively
           variations in blood pressure, heart rate, FiO2 and the oxygen saturation.

      The neurological follow-up will be carried out according to Brunet-Lezine developmental scale
      at the age of 2 years.
    
  