
    
      All participants will be recruited locally in the Boston area, and all study visits and
      procedures will be conducted through Partners and the Harvard Catalyst.

      Briefly, the trial-phase will consist of four visits, two as outpatient, and two as
      inpatient. The cohort-phase will consist of two additional outpatient visits. The screening
      outpatient visit will involve history taking, physical examinations (when appropriate),
      phlebotomy to measure circulating factors and urine pregnancy testing for female subjects.
      The 6-week outpatient check-up visit will be with a study coordinator. In addition to
      evaluating for adverse effects, the coordinator will perform a pill-count. Phlebotomy will be
      performed to measure circulating factors. The two inpatient visits will require two overnight
      stays each; the procedures performed for these two inpatient stays will be identical, and
      will include: timed urine collection, measurement of brachial artery flow mediated dilation,
      phlebotomy (including an IV protocol using low dose heparin), hyperinsulinemic euglycemic
      clamp, hyperglycemic clamp, central blood pressure, and placement of an ambulatory blood
      pressure monitor that the participant will wear home for 24 hours and return by pre-paid
      FedEx mailer. We will take blood samples at each visit, collecting about 54 tablespoons
      (798.5 mL) of blood over the 36-week course of the study.

      Outpatient visits: A screening visit will be scheduled when a participant expresses interest
      in the study and is deemed potentially eligible by the study coordinator after a telephone
      interview. At the screening visit, a study physician will obtain informed consent.
      Thereafter, a study physician will conduct a history and physical examination, and phlebotomy
      will be performed. Female subjects will provide urine for pregnancy testing. The purpose of
      the screening visit is to evaluate potential volunteers based upon the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria listed above, and to explain the purpose and procedures of the study to
      the volunteers. If someone is eligible and willing, a baseline inpatient visit will be
      scheduled.

      A 6-week check up will be scheduled after the subject completes the initial inpatient visit.
      In addition to evaluating for adverse effects, the coordinator will perform a pill-count.
      Phlebotomy will be performed to measure circulating factors.

      For the cohort phase, 24- and 36-week check up visits will be scheduled after the subject
      completes the final inpatient visit. At these visits, in addition to evaluating for adverse
      effects, the coordinator will perform a pill-count. Phlebotomy will be performed to measure
      circulating factors.

      Inpatient visits: Prior to each inpatient visit, participants will be mailed 9 bouillon
      packets (containing 50 mmol of sodium each) and instructed to consume 3 packets each day for
      three days prior to admission to the Clinical Trials Center; the purpose of this is to
      achieve high sodium balance, which is necessary for our measurements of the renin-angiotensin
      system. The high sodium diet will be continued during the inpatient setting. Female subjects
      will have a urine pregnancy test done at admission. The following measurements will be
      performed during the two inpatient visits, and the changes in these measurements (comparing
      the baseline value with the 8-week value) are the endpoints for this study:

        1. A hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp will be performed to measure peripheral insulin
           sensitivity. Intravenous catheters are placed within each arm (one for infusion, and one
           for blood collection). Then, a compound called insulin (supplied by the Investigational
           Drug Service (IDS)) is infused as a loading dose followed by a continuous infusion to
           achieve a steady state condition. Blood samples are collected every 5 minutes, and
           glucose levels are measured. Blood glucose levels will be controlled by the infusion of
           a 20% dextrose solution. The mean dextrose infusion rate (M) over the period between 120
           and 180 minutes will be used to measure insulin sensitivity. At 180 minutes, the study
           will conclude, and both infusions will be stopped.

        2. A hyperglycemic clamp will be performed to measure pancreatic β-cell function.
           Intravenous catheters are placed within each arm (one for infusion, and one for blood
           collection). After a baseline period of 30 minutes, the blood glucose level is increased
           with a loading dose of dextrose followed by a continuous infusion to achieve a steady
           state condition. Blood samples are collected every 5 minutes, and glucose levels are
           measured. Insulin levels are measured at 0, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120,
           140, 160, 180 minutes after the infusion. The 1st-phase insulin release is the sum of
           the plasma insulin concentrations at 2.5, 5.0, 7.5 and 10 minutes. The 2nd-phase is the
           average plasma insulin concentration during the final hour.

        3. Endothelial-dependent vasodilation using brachial artery diameter will be measured by
           ultrasound. A blood pressure cuff will be inflated on the arm to a supra-systolic
           pressure for 5 minutes. This results in vasodilation of the downstream blood vessels.
           Following release of the cuff, there is usually a 6 to 10-fold increase in flow through
           the brachial artery, i.e., reactive hyperemia. Flow is a physiologic stimulus that
           releases nitric oxide and causes dilation of the brachial artery, and hence, an increase
           in the diameter of the brachial artery; this can be measured using ultrasound. The
           maximal increase in brachial artery diameter occurs at one minute of reactive hyperemia
           and this dilation is mediated by nitric oxide. Endothelium-independent vasodilation (as
           a positive control) will be assessed by measuring brachial artery diameter under basal
           conditions and 3 minutes following the administration of sublingual nitroglycerin (0.4
           mg). Maximal brachial artery dilation occurs 3 to 4 minutes after the administration of
           sublingual nitroglycerin.

        4. Central aortic blood pressure measurement: The SphygmoCor XCEL System is a portable
           machine that will be used to measure central aortic blood pressure at each of the
           inpatient visits (this machine is FDA approved for measurement of central blood
           pressure). A thin pillow is placed under the subject's arm to align the arm with the
           heart. A blood pressure cuff is placed on the patient's arm, over the brachial artery to
           obtain this measurement. The entire procedure will take approximately 10 minutes to
           perform. Coded data is automatically stored via the SphygmoCor XCEL System and can be
           downloaded onto a secure research computer for storage and analysis.

        5. Phlebotomy will be performed to measure circulating melatonin, plasma renin activity,
           and angiotensin II. These assays are markers of the systemic renin angiotensin system.
           Phlebotomy will also measure adiponectin, leptin, ghrelin, and HbA1c. These assays are
           markers of glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity. In addition, intravenous access
           will be placed to permit blood draws every 2 hours from 7 pm until 9 am the following
           morning (ie, the morning of day 1). These nocturnal blood draws will be used to measure
           nocturnal serum melatonin levels. In order for these blood draws to be completed without
           entering the subject's room and possibly waking the subject, a specialized circadian IV
           protocol will be used whereby an antecubital IV line will be secured with a kerlix wrap
           and connected to a 12 foot IV tubing that will traverse a metal window in the wall that
           was constructed especially for such purposes and that is present in patient rooms in the
           BWH CCI. Patency of the IV tubing during the night will be ensured by infusing a low
           dose of unfractionated heparin (approximately 200 units per hour). The heparin will be
           stopped and the IV converted to a standard IV at approximately 9 am on Day 1. This is
           standard protocol in the BWH CCI for measuring overnight melatonin concentrations.

        6. A 24-urine will be collected to measure excretion of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and
           aldosterone.

        7. Ambulatory blood pressure (for 24 hours) will be measured using a standard technique
           employed commonly in clinical practice. An ambulatory blood pressure monitor will be
           placed on the participant's arm before the participant is discharged from the inpatient
           visit; the participant will also be instructed on its appropriate use, including how to
           shut the monitor off after a 24-hour period. The participant will be discharged from the
           inpatient visit with the cuff in place and will be given a pre-paid FedEx mailer so that
           the monitor can be returned to the study coordinator for data download and re-use.
    
  