
    
      Quitting smoking is the most effective way of reducing the risk of cancer. One way of helping
      people stop smoking is to provide them with free Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT; e.g.,
      nicotine patch), such as when NRT is sent to people by postal mail as part of a mass
      distribution initiative. Our previous research indicated that the impact of the mailed NRT
      intervention on increasing quit rates in rural areas may be substantial. The current research
      project seeks to confirm this finding and to understand the social determinants of health
      driving these anticipated large effects. This information is essential in order to target
      limited health resources to regions that are most in need, and who are likely to experience
      the greatest benefit.

      A two-stage recruitment process will be employed, in the context of a general population
      survey with a 6-month follow-up. Random digit dialling of telephone numbers from rural
      regions of Canada will identify households with adult (age 18 or over) smokers who smoke 10
      or more cigarettes a day and who are willing to take part in a smoking study that involves
      two interviews. Residence of participants in rural regions will be confirmed by postal code
      matching. As part of the baseline survey, eligible subjects will be identified for the second
      recruitment - randomization of smokers into experimental and control conditions to be offered
      versus not offered Nicotine Patches. A randomized half of the eligible participants will be
      assigned to the experimental condition and asked for their permission to have Nicotine
      Patches sent to their home. The 6-month follow-up survey will be conducted 6-months after the
      baseline survey.

      The primary hypothesis is that participants receiving the NRT package will display
      significantly greater quit rates (30 day abstinence) at 6-month follow-up as compared to
      those not offered the NRT package.
    
  