
    
      Background: Children who become critically ill and require Pediatric Intensive Care Unit
      (PICU) hospitalization may develop negative psychological outcomes following discharge.
      Despite this concern, there have been no systematic attempts to intervene with critically ill
      children to promote well-being, and prevent long term sequelae. The aim of this pilot study
      is to test the feasibility and acceptability of a PICU nursing intervention that seeks to
      enhance child comfort and promote sleep quality and duration in the PICU, potentially
      promoting psychological well-being post-discharge. The intervention is based on principles of
      Developmental Care, a philosophy of care that includes the child and family, and incorporates
      intervention strategies to reduce environmental stressors and improve quality of life. In
      view of the critically ill child's state of physical and emotional vulnerability, and the
      highly noxious environmental stimuli they are exposed to in the PICU, our proposed
      intervention has the potential to enhance physiological and psychological stability in this
      population. We will examine intervention effects on children's quality of sleep and sleep
      duration in the PICU, psychological distress post-PICU, and on parent anxiety during and
      following their child's PICU hospitalization.

      Objectives: (1) To test the feasibility and acceptability of a PICU comfort care intervention
      that can be administered by nursing staff; (2) to examine the feasibility and acceptability
      of data collection procedures; (3) to pilot test outcome measures; and (4) to determine
      effect sizes to inform sample size calculation for a future multi-centred randomized
      controlled trial (RCT).

      Design: A pilot study will be conducted using RCT design.

      Outcomes: Results of this pilot study will provide essential information regarding
      feasibility of recruitment and randomization, as well as feasibility and acceptability of the
      developmental care intervention and data collection procedures - all of which will be
      incorporated into a full-scale RCT. While sample size is insufficient to allow statistical
      analyses, we will obtain initial estimates regarding changes in sleep duration, sleep
      fragmentation, and psychological well-being post-intervention.
    
  