
    
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is the most common psychiatric disorder in
      children, with an estimated prevalence of 3-7% in school children (Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition, Text Revision [DSM-IV-TR]). The major symptoms of
      this disorder are developmentally inconsistent and chronic levels of inattention,
      impulsiveness, and hyperactivity.

      The numbers of patients visiting physicians for ADHD are increasing from year to year. Boys
      are diagnosed with ADHD three times more often than girls. Although the studies on
      adolescents are few, the data suggest that about half of the children diagnosed with ADHD
      will have persistent symptoms into adolescence and some symptoms persist into adulthood.

      The symptoms of ADHD, if not adequately managed, will have many life long effects on the
      patients, families, friends, peers, teachers and colleagues. For the patients, the disorder
      will impact on patient's academic, social and emotional performance, and behavioural
      development, leading to poor academic achievement, low occupational status, increased risk of
      substance abuse and delinquency. More than 30% of children with ADHD repeat a year in school
      and up to 56% require remedial tutoring.

      Drug therapy began in the 1930s; since the 1970s, stimulants such as dexamphetamine, and
      methylphenidate have increasingly been used as the treatment of choice, but remain
      controversial. Currently available psychological treatments for ADHD include behavioural
      training for teachers and parents, and parenting skills classes, behavioural therapy for
      children with ADHD. Psychosocial treatments are generally combined with medication because
      each treatment alone has only a partial effect on the core symptoms of the disorder.

      Growing scientific evidence, clinical experience and community attitudes are encouraging a
      shift to more natural and holistic forms of therapy as alternatives or adjuncts to
      pharmacological approaches in a variety of conditions. Meditation has a wide range of
      applications, but it is especially useful in treating stress and related disorders to promote
      calmness and enhance the attentional ability. A psychological oriented definition stated that
      meditation is a set of attentional practices leading to an altered state or trait of
      consciousness characterized by expanded awareness, greater presence, and a more integrated
      sense of self.

      Breathing Meditation could be classified as both concentrative meditation and mindfulness
      meditation. The concentrative ability is first developed at the beginning state and followed
      by mindful ability.

      The studies which use meditation therapy for ADHD are still scarce. In Thailand, Hassasiri A,
      et al (1995) had developed meditation program for children with ADHD based on Neo-humanist
      concept which comprised of meditation and imagery . The program was tested in pre-post test
      design with purposive sampling and yielded the statistical significant different at p < 0.05
      (unpublished data). There has never been research about the effectiveness of breathing
      meditation. We are interested in conducting a randomized controlled trial to study the
      effectiveness in patients with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
    
  