
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) robustly predicts anger and aggression (Olatunji,
      Ciesielski, & Tolin, 2010), and U.S. Iraq/Afghanistan-era Veterans report that controlling
      anger and aggressive urges are primary readjustment concerns (Sayer et al, 2010).
      Trauma-related anger and aggression are associated with functional impairments that
      significantly limit community reintegration (Rodriguez, Holowka, & Marx, 2012) and that may
      persist for decades (Koenen et al, 2003). As more troops return from multiple deployments to
      Iraq and Afghanistan, there is an urgent and growing need for the development and testing of
      psychosocial treatment for anger and aggression in combat Veterans with PTSD. VA clinicians
      are doing their best to be responsive to Veteran's needs by offering anger management
      treatment to Veterans: A survey of clinical practices within the VA found that 35-65% of VA
      PTSD specialists report providing anger management to their patients (Rosen et al., 2004).
      Yet to date only one randomized clinical trial (RCT), published in 1997, has investigated the
      efficacy of treatment of anger and aggression in Veterans with PTSD (Chemtob et al., 1997).

      A recent review noted that most researchers who have examined the effects of anger management
      interventions have not done so as part of a systematic program of research (DiGiuseppe and
      Tafrate, 2003). The proposed CDA-2 application outlines Training and Mentoring Plans that
      will provide the applicant with the foundation to establish a career systematically
      developing, testing, and refining treatments for PTSD-related anger and aggression in
      Veterans. The following specific Training Goals have been formulated: 1) To acquire the
      advanced skills in the development and evaluation of clinical interventions necessary to
      begin an independent research career within the VA; 2) To develop greater expertise in
      delivery of behavioral interventions to improve functional outcomes and community
      reintegration in Veterans with PTSD, anger problems, and aggression; 3) To acquire expertise
      in the development and evaluation of treatment innovations to help Veterans generalize
      treatment gains beyond the therapy setting; 4) To increase understanding of rehabilitation
      theory and methods in treatment practices and research; and 5) To achieve critical
      professional development milestones, including submission of a Merit Review proposal based on
      the pilot data generated from the CDA-2 project.

      The Research Plan proposes a pilot feasibility trial for an RCT of Cognitive-Behavioral
      Therapy for Anger and Aggression in Combat Veterans with PTSD (CBT-A). CBT-A is a 12-week
      manualized group treatment protocol that has been designed to address the specific needs of
      combat Veterans whose PTSD-related anger and aggression interfere with effective community
      reintegration. The group was implemented with 4 male Vietnam Veterans with severe
      combat-related PTSD who were referred for anger management treatment, and preliminary data
      were promising. The active comparison treatment for the pilot RCT will be group
      Present-Centered Therapy (PCT), a manualized treatment for PTSD that controls for treatment
      time, social support, and instillation of hope. The proposed research project will address
      the following Specific Aims: Aim 1: Characterize the differential effects of group CBT-A and
      group PCT on anger, aggression, and anger/aggression-related limitations to psychosocial
      functioning and community reintegration in combat Veterans with PTSD; and Aim 2: Evaluate
      study feasibility and treatment delivery procedures of an RCT comparing CBT-A to a PCT
      comparison condition. The results generated will guide the design of a full RCT to be funded
      by the end of the CDA-2 funding period. The research, training, and mentoring plans outlined
      here will provide the foundation for the PI's independent research career developing a
      systematic program of research in the treatment of anger and aggression among combat Veterans
      with PTSD. The availability of empirically-supported anger treatment would benefit the many
      Veterans with PTSD who return from combat reporting problems with anger and aggression.
    
  