
    
      A new MRI technique to examine the heart was recently developed. In this study, researchers
      will use this new technique to evaluate the heart in people who have recently had a heart
      attack to determine whether a specific pattern of heart muscle damage is related to sudden
      cardiac death. This fatal condition, also known as cardiac arrest, occurs when the heart
      abruptly stops pumping blood to the body, resulting in loss of consciousness, absence of
      pulse, and a stop in breathing. The most common cause of sudden cardiac death is a heart
      attack.

      In addition to evaluating the new heart MRI technique, this study will also examine the
      effects of fish oil supplementation in people who have recently had a heart attack. Recent
      research has shown that omega-3 fatty acids, commonly found in fish oil, may be beneficial
      for people with heart conditions. Lastly, the study will determine whether specific
      biomarkers and genetic factors can help predict the likelihood of a person dying from sudden
      cardiac death after previously experiencing a heart attack.

      Apart from studying the likelihood of sudden cardiac death, This study will measure the
      change in structure and pumping function of the heart (known as ventricular remodeling) and
      this study will determine if the high dose of fish oil treatment will result in an
      improvement of the heart.

      This study will enroll people who have had a heart attack in the 2 to 4 weeks before study
      entry. At a baseline study visit, participants will undergo an MRI of their heart and
      complete an exercise stress test on a treadmill. A blood sample will be collected, and women
      will provide a urine sample for a pregnancy test. Questionnaires asking about diet, medical
      history, and emotions will also be completed. Participants will then be randomly assigned to
      receive either fish oil supplements or placebo on a daily basis for 6 months. Every 2 to 3
      months, study researchers will call participants to check on their health and progress. At a
      study visit at Month 6, participants will undergo repeat baseline testing. After this visit,
      study researchers will call participants every 6 months for 3 years to follow up on
      participants' health status.
    
  