
    
      Background:

        -  TRC105 is an anti-angiogenic monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to CD105 (Endoglin), a
           transmembrane glycoprotein that is essential for angiogenesis, and expressed abundantly
           on activated vascular endothelial cells (ECs). CD105 is a member of the transforming
           growth factor-Beta (TGF-Beta) receptor superfamily, and modulates TGF-Beta signaling
           leading to EC proliferation and migration.

        -  Immunohistochemistry studies reveal that CD105 is preferentially expressed in blood
           vessels of tumor tissues as compared with normal mucosa. For patients with glioblastoma
           multiforme (GBM), increased expression of CD105 may correspond to worse survival times.
           Furthermore, expression of CD105 is essential for neovascularization, and is upregulated
           in the setting of (vascular endothelial growth factor ) VEGF inhibition.

        -  TRC105 binding to CD105 leads to inhibition of EC proliferation, neovascularization, and
           induces cell death via apoptosis. TRC105 may also mediate antibody-dependent cellular
           cytotoxicity (ADCC).

      Objectives:

      Primary

        -  To determine the radiographic response rate for patients with recurrent GBM treated with
           TRC105.

        -  To establish data regarding the anti-tumor activity of TRC105 in patients with GBM, as
           determined by progression free survival.

      Secondary

        -  To obtain information regarding the safety of TRC105 in patients with recurrent GBM.

        -  To evaluate the health-related quality of life (HRQL) in patients while on treatment
           with TRC105.

        -  To examine the effect of TRC105 on vascular permeability as measured by percent change
           from baseline in the forward contrast transfer rate (Ktrans) of dynamic
           contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI).

        -  To examine the effect of TRC105 on vascular perfusion as measured by percent change from
           baseline in cerebral blood volume (CBV), cerebral blood flow (CBF), and mean transit
           time (MTT) of dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging (DSC-MRI).

        -  To examine the effect of TRC105 on water diffusion as measured by percent change from
           baseline in apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and fractional anisotropy (FA) of
           diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

        -  To examine the effect of TRC105 on tumor metabolism as measured by percent change from
           baseline in fludeoxyglucose F18 injection (FDG) uptake of positron emission tomography
           (PET) scan.

        -  To obtain preliminary data regarding how changes in serial FDG-PET scans and
           physiological MRI correlate with radiographic response rates and with progression free
           survival in patients treated with TRC105.

      Eligibility:

      -This is a phase II trial in patients with recurrent GBM who are VEGF therapy naive.

      Design:

      -Prior to treatment start, patients will undergo a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including
      MRI perfusion and diffusion scans, as well as an FDG-PET scan. Patients will then receive
      TRC105 as a single agent (weekly dose of 10 mg/kg IV). A cycle will consist of 4 weeks of
      therapy. At the end of the first cycle, the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and FDG-PET scans
      will be repeated before continuing treatment. Patients who are clinically and neurologically
      stable, and who have radiographic stable or responding disease at the end of each cycle will
      continue treatment with TRC105. MRI perfusion and diffusion will be repeated after the
      completion of each cycle of therapy.
    
  