
    
      1. Study name: Efficacy and safety of a single-pill fixed combination of sufficient
           losartan/hydrochlorothiazide in Chinese hypertensive patients (FOCUS)

        2. Medicine: Losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg single-pill fixed combination;
           amlodipine besylate tablet (5 mg/tablet); hydrochlorothiazide tablets (25 mg/tablet)

        3. Rationale: Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) or angiotensin receptor
           blocker (ARB) combined with thiazide diuretic (DIU), which is the preferred combination
           for most hypertension guidelines. However, the efficacy and safety of losartan 100
           mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg single-pill fixed combination evaluated by ambulatory blood
           pressure are still lack of clinical evidence, especially randomized controlled clinical
           trials with ambulatory or home blood pressure monitoring as the main evaluation method.

        4. Objective The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of losartan 100
           mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg fixed combination for ambulatory blood pressure after 8
           weeks therapy in patients over 18 years with grade 1 or 2 hypertension either newly
           diagnosed or with blood pressure not controlled with monotherapy. The secondary
           objective are to compare the 24-hour, daytime, night-time, home and office systolic and
           diastolic blood pressure between the losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg group and
           the amlodipine besylate 5 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg group after 8 weeks of
           antihypertensive treatment; to compare the changes in blood glucose, blood lipids, blood
           electrolytes, serum creatinine, blood uric acid and other biochemical parameters.

        5. Study design: This study is a multi-center, randomized and controlled clinical trial
           with two equally sized treatment groups: losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg
           single-pill combination group and amlodipine besylate 5 mg+hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg
           group.

        6. Study population: Men or Women aged over 18 years (n=300) will be screened, who should
           never take antihypertensive drugs or stop antihypertensive drugs for more than 2 weeks
           with systolic blood pressure of 140-179 mmHg and / or diastolic blood pressure of 90-109
           mmHg or who is on monotherapy for at least 2 weeks with systolic blood pressure of
           140-179 mmHg and / or diastolic blood pressure of 90-109 mmHg will be screened. Before
           randomization, two visits should be performed and 6 clinic blood pressures should be
           recorded. The average of the 6 clinic blood pressures should be 140-179 mmHg in systolic
           and/or 90-109 mmHg in diastolic. Regardless of whether the office blood pressure meets
           the enrollment conditions, a one-week home blood pressure measurement should be
           performed before randomization. Patient should sign the written consent form before
           screening and be able to go to the clinic by him/herself. Exclusion criteria included:
           suspected or confirmed secondary hypertension; history of coronary heart disease,
           myocardial infarction, heart failure, stroke or dementia; taking other drugs that might
           affect blood pressure; liver dysfunction, serum creatinine ≥1.5 mg/dL (133 μmol/L),
           urine protein positive; serum potassium >5.5 mmol/L or <3.5 mmol/L; history of gout or
           serum uric acid ≥420 μmol/L for man and ≥360 μmol/L for women; elderly care patients; or
           patients who are participating in other clinical trials.

        7. Randomization and treatment: Patients should receive a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure
           monitoring measurement before randomization. After stratification by centers, eligible
           patients will be randomly divided into two groups, taking losartan 100
           mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg fixed combination once a day or amlodipine besylate tablets
           (5 mg/tablet) + hydrochlorothiazide tablets (25 mg/tablet) once a day.

        8. Follow up: Sitting office blood pressures should measured by an OMRON device. Medical
           history should be recorded. Clinical examinations including ambulatory blood pressure,
           home blood pressure, electrocardiogram, blood and urine routine tests and biochemical
           tests should be performed. During the 4-week follow-up visit, office blood pressures,
           serum electrolyte should be measure, adverse events and medication assignment should be
           recorded. A one-week home blood pressure measurements should be performed immediately
           before the follow-up visit. During the 8-week follow-up visit, clinical examinations
           similar with baseline including ambulatory blood pressure, home blood pressure,
           electrocardiogram, blood and urine routine tests and biochemical tests should be
           performed.

        9. Sample size and statistical analysis: At least 150 eligible patients should be enrolled
           in each group, and a total of 300 patients should be enrolled in total. Data will be
           analyzed by using the SAS software. T-tests will be used to compare the parameters
           between groups and the difference between the two groups with the calculation of 95%
           confidence interval. In addition, a covariance analysis will also be used in the
           analysis of baseline parameters.

       10. Timeline: After obtaining the approval of Ethics Committee of Ruijin Hospital in
           September 2018, recruitment will start. Patients enrollment will be performed between
           October 2018 to October 2020. All patients should be followed up before December 2020.
           Database construction and statistical analysis will be conducted at the same time,
           appropriate domestic and international conferences will be selected to publish the
           research results. The main results will be published in international professional
           medical journals.

       11. Organization: The Centre for Epidemiological Studies and Clinical Trials, Ruijin
           Hospital, Shanghai, China.
    
  