
    
      This is an open label pilot study; consenting subjects with dementia and identified as a fall
      risk, who meet inclusion criteria will undergo 3 phases of involvement. Phase 1 is a 1 week
      period before initiating study drug. Phase 2 is a 2 week treatment period with 10mg of
      Transdermal Methylphenidate. Phase 3 is the final two week treatment period with 15mg of
      Transdermal Methylphenidate.

      Measurements obtained at each phase will include:

      Vital Signs (blood pressure and pulse rate) weight , Timed Get Up and Go Test (TUG) , Tinetti
      Performance Oriented Mobility Assessment (POMA), Clinical Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES-C) and
      the St. Louis University Mental Status Examination (SLUMS).

      The primary endpoint is the change in TUG and POMA scores at end of phase 3 compared to
      beginning of phase 2

      Falls are a cause of substantial morbidity and mortality in patients with dementia and occur
      at twice the rate of older adults without cognitive impairment. The consequences of falls in
      older adults with dementia are serious; fallers with cognitive problems are approximately
      five times as likely to be admitted to institutional care as people with cognitive problems
      who do not fall.[3] They are also at high risk of major fall-related injuries such as
      fractures and head injuries that increase mortality risk.

      Walking requires paying attention to various environmental features and recovering from
      postural variations to avoid stumbles or falls. Consequently, deficits in attention and
      executive function are independently associated with risk of postural instability, impairment
      in activities of daily living, and fall risk.

      Executive function refers to higher cognitive processes that allocate attention among tasks
      and a critical cognitive resource for normal walking. Lower scores on executive function
      measures are associated with both dementia and a higher fall risk. Although significant
      progress towards understanding the factors involved in falls has been made, the number of
      falls and fall related injuries continue to increase.

      Changes in aging demographics are expected to dramatically increase the aging population and
      dementia prevalence, underscoring the importance of developing more effective fall prevention
      strategies.

      Recent studies have shown that improving certain aspects of cognition, specifically attention
      and executive function, in older adults can improve mobility decline and risk of falls.
      Particularly in cognitively impaired individuals, this may be critical to reducing fall risk.

      Why Methylphenidate?

      Pharmacological properties of psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate (MPH), are known to
      increase executive function. Methylphenidate was chosen because of the studies demonstrating
      the safe use of MPH for treatment of depression and apathy in the cognitively impaired
      elderly and the well-studied effects of MPH on executive function and attention in children
      and adults with ADHD.

      Also a small study published in April 2008 in J Am Geriatric Society, evaluated the use of
      methylphenidate in reducing fall risk among community living older adults. The study
      concluded that among study subjects receiving methylphenidate, significant improvement in
      mobility and gait assessments were observed as well as drug tolerability.

      The basis for our study is to further explore the pharmacotherapeutic role of Transdermal-MPH
      in reducing fall risk in dementia patients.

      Mobility and gait assessment performance is strongly correlated with fall risk. Therefore we
      will use subject's scores before, during and after medication administration to measure
      response and evaluate use as a fall prevention strategy.
    
  