
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) witnessed relevant therapeutic progress in the last decade. This
      notwithstanding, safety, quality of life and overtreatment remain elements of strong concern
      for the subjects. Safe and manageable therapies that can be used since the (biological) onset
      of the disease, without risk of overtreatment, are important unmet needs in MS.

      Following the extraordinary progress in the treatment of relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple
      sclerosis (MS), two major unmet needs remain to be addressed by translational research in
      this field: progressive MS and the "dream" of a world free of MS. As far as the latter is
      concerned, the investigators can hope to make the dream come true by understanding the
      etiology of the disease and hence design definitive cures. Unfortunately this perspective is
      neither at hand, nor it can be taken for granted that the etiologic targets, once discovered,
      will be readily treatable.

      A more realistic and pragmatic perspective may be the prevention of the clinical onset of the
      disease, a research field that promises to become increasingly important as the integration
      of genetic data with endophenotypes, magnetic resonance imaging and other biomarkers
      ameliorates the ability to predict the development of the disease under clinical
      circumstance.

      Epidemiological data supporting vitamin D supplementation and smoking avoidance are candidate
      approaches for primary and secondary prevention of the disease. Among other interventions
      that may have characteristics compatible with those of a preventive treatment, Bacille
      Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine has been tested with encouraging results in early MS and
      clinically isolated syndrome (CIS). The knowledge that disease-modifying therapies work best
      when used early in the demyelinating process raises the question about whether to try this
      approach - which is safe, cheap and handy - in individuals with radiologically isolated
      syndrome (RIS).

      Radiologically isolated syndrome is a new entity, diagnosed when the unanticipated magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) finding of brain spatial dissemination of focal white matter (WM)
      lesions highly suggestive of MS occurs in subjects without symptoms of MS, and with normal
      neurological examinations. Approximately one-third and two-thirds of individuals experience
      respectively clinical onset and/or radiological progression over a mean follow-up of five
      years. However, predictors (male sex, age < 37, spinal cord involvement) of higher risk of
      progression have been identified and conversion to clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) were
      described in 84% of RIS individuals with spinal cord lesions over a median time of 1.6 years
      from the date of the first MRI; the same predictors have recently been shown to precede
      evolution toward primary progressive MS. Whether or not to treat this condition remains
      currently a clinical conundrum.

      Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine may have these characteristics since it resulted
      beneficial in early MS and first demyelinating episodes. Being safe, cheap and handy, the
      investigators propose to explore its use to prevent progression of the demyelinating process
      in radiologically isolated syndrome.

      An approach such as BCG vaccine seems appropriate as a front-line immunomodulatory approach
      for RIS people. This project is proposed in the context of the activity of the Center for
      Experimental Neurological Therapies (CENTERS - a special project by the Fondazione Italiana
      Sclerosi Multipla - FISM). CENTERS is especially dedicated to phase II trials of this nature
      (independent, repurposing studies, that may be only funded by not-for-profit institutions).

      1.2 Preliminary Results

      Experimental and epidemiological evidences suggested benefit of exposure to microbial
      products (in the absence of infection, as is the case of vaccinations) in autoimmunity,
      including MS. In a pilot study BCG vaccine was safe and effective in reducing disease
      activity at MRI, and the risk of developing persistent T1-hypointense lesions ('black holes'
      -BH- expression of tissue damage) in subjects with MS. A placebo-controlled trial in people
      with clinically isolated syndrome supported the findings of the pilot study. The researchers
      observed benefit on disease activity at MRI, reduced development of BH, benefit on conversion
      to clinically definite MS over 5 years, during which the subjects took interferon beta
      beginning from six months after BCG or placebo.

      The investigators consider timely an extension of the adjuvant approach to subjects with RIS,
      also considering recent achievements in 'metrics' suitable to analyze this condition:
      neuroimaging has recently allowed to improve the characterization of RIS (including the
      identification of individuals at higher risk of progression to MS; and to disclose cortical
      lesions and axonal damage in RIS brain; immune-metabolic profiling provides a complex
      correlation between immunometabolic cellular variables, that seems especially apt to analyze
      preclinical phase of neuroinflammation and to study an approach whose underlying mechanisms
      of actions remain largely unknown, in spite of encouraging clinical results.

      1.3 Scientific rationale and main objectives

      BCG vaccine showed beneficial effects on disease activity and possibly on tissue damage in
      relapsing-remitting MS and clinically isolated syndrome. The investigators now propose to
      evaluate whether and how BCG vaccine exerts favorable biological effects in individuals with
      RIS.

      At present it is unclear whether the neuroprotective/neurorepair potential of BCG is a
      consequence of its ability to reduce central nervous system (CNS) inflammation or it depends
      on additional and specific mechanisms. Notably, neuroprotection after BCG vaccination was
      reported in models of Parkinson disease, suggesting a neuroprotective vaccine paradigm in
      which general (nonself-reactive) immune stimulation in the periphery can limit potentially
      deleterious microglial responses to a neuronal insult. Accordingly, convergent evidences
      suggest a role of BCG, as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-inducer, in another immune-mediated
      disease, type I diabetes: TNF receptor 2 may mediate, at least in part, beneficial effects of
      BCG in neuroinflammation and type 1 diabetes by favoring apoptosis of autoreactive T cells,
      counteracting T cell regulatory deficit and last, but not least, fostering tissue repair.

      Metabolic abnormalities suggestive of axonal damage were reported in a substantial proportion
      of RIS subjects and cortical lesions of fronto-temporal lobes were associated with predictors
      of evolution to multiple sclerosis (MS), such as spinal cord involvement, presence of
      oligoclonal bands on cerebrospinal fluid and dissemination in time on brain MRI. The
      researchers aim at verifying potential beneficial effects of BCG vaccination in people with
      RIS, evaluating MRI metrics of macroscopic brain damage, as well as subtle tissue damage as
      assessed by both conventional and non conventional MRI techniques. On the immunological side
      the investigators will assess the immune-metabolic status of RIS people as well as their
      regulatory T cell potential: a multiple parameter analysis will provide a meta-immunologic
      profiling that has been recently shown to be impaired in MS. This will be aimed at creating a
      follow-up scheme which should allow to monitor RIS people over time, before and after BCG
      vaccine.

      To reach the above purposes the investigators propose a 3 years longitudinal study project,
      considered appropriate taking into account the relative rarity of RIS condition as well as
      the need of an adequate follow-up to obtain informative outcome measures (see methods).

      The groups that engendered the above achievements are collaborators of this project, thus
      warranting the experience and competence to pursue the proposed research.
    
  