
    
      Nearly forty years ago Berran and coworkers tested an analog oxygen controller to maintain
      incubator oxygen levels for infants suffering neonatal respiratory disease in order to
      prevent hyperoxia.

        1. The system was able to regulate to within 1% of the set inspired oxygen level and
           resulted in stable infant arterial oxygen levels measured transcutaneously. Twenty years
           later, with the advent of pulse oximetry and computer technology, open loop control of
           infant oxygen saturation was studied in newborns using computer programs incorporating
           fuzzy logic and clinical algorithms.

        2. During computer-assisted inspired oxygen adjustment there was less variability in pulse
           oximeter oxygen saturation levels (SpO2) and patients spent more time within the target
           oxygen saturation range. The next technology step was to move from open to closed loop
           control, as was done by Claure et al in 2001.

        3. These investigators found that closed loop control of inspired oxygen was at least as
           effective as a fully dedicated nurse in maintaining SpO2 within the target range, and
           that it may be more effective than a nurse working under routine conditions. Percent of
           recording time spent at normoxia increased from 66% to 75%. Other bench research
           suggests that closed loop oxygen controllers based on SpO2 monitoring can have response
           times within 20 seconds and be able to maintain SpO2 within three percent saturation.

        4. In a clinical crossover trial it was shown that compared to routine inspired oxygen
           control management by bedside personnel, closed loop control of inspired oxygen
           concentration significantly increased time within target saturation range from 82% to
           91%.

        5. The importance of controlling oxygen exposure in neonates has been long standing,
           especially as it relates to retinopathy of prematurity and bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
           The prospect for decreasing oxygen related morbidities is still a real and an ongoing
           topic for process change directed to overcoming treatment barriers.

        6. Maintaining oxygen saturation tightly within appropriate treatment ranges appears to
           improve both short and long term outcomes, including developmental indices.

        7. Given the improvement in oxygen exposure that can be realized by closed-loop control of
           inspired oxygen concentration as demonstrated above, the development of commercial
           devices that incorporate this technology is highly desirable and a positive move toward
           uniform control of oxygen exposure for neonates. There are at least three clinical
           issues that this technology addresses: the first is avoidance of episodic hyperoxia; the
           second is decreasing episodic hypoxia; and the third is lowering cumulative oxygen
           exposure.
    
  