
    
      The purpose of the study is to investigate the acute effect of a beginner martial art class
      and aerobic exercise on cognitive performance in college age students. Cognitive performance
      is a term that encompasses our cognitive processes such as working memory, and executive
      functioning (response inhibition); research has found that externally paced (EP) exercise
      improves cognitive performance and executive functioning (EF). EP activities require decision
      making skills and higher-level executive functioning. Internally paced (IP) exercise requires
      less attention on task, which may result in less significant improvements in cognitive
      performance and executive function. Previous research studies have shown that acute as well
      as long term aerobic exercise improves cognitive performance. However, there is limited
      research examining the effect that a martial art class, an external paced exercise, has on
      these higher-level cognitive functions in college -aged subjects. A study performed by Douris
      et. al provides a more accurate measure of EP exercise and cognition. Martial arts were used
      as the complex EP activity. EF in the martial arts group showed greater improvement than the
      aerobic exercise condition. This was attributed to the complexities of the movement patterns
      and the associated cortical demands. This study aligns with our current belief that EP
      activities will have a greater effect than IP activities. The research on the comparison of
      martial art exercise (externally paced exercise) versus aerobic exercise (internally paced
      exercise) on executive function is limited to the previous study by the principal
      investigator utilizing experienced middle-aged martial artists and we presently intend to
      investigate college aged adults as compared to the previously investigated middle -aged..The
      current study looks to determine how complex exercise would impact executive functioning.
      Martial art training requires reactionary movements, quick thinking and decision making, all
      of which are components of EF. Walking is a relatively simple task that does not require much
      conscious or cortical control. The investigators plan to have the participants participate in
      a beginning martial art class and a one hour walk.. Theoretically, the martial art class will
      improve provide greater stimulation to the higher levels of the brain, causing a greater
      improvement in the executive function scores when compared to walking. This leads to the
      question, are externally paced aerobic activities more effective than an acute bout of
      aerobic exercise in improving executive function in college-aged adults? The proposed
      research design will be utilizing a randomized cross over repeated measures design. The
      independent variables are the two one-hour conditions and the dependent variables are the
      change in Stroop test scores, and stress Visual Analog Scale (VAS) results. In order to test
      the hypothesis, the investigators will perform a dependent t-test for each dependent
      variable. An alpha level of p<0.05 will be used for all statistical comparisons. The
      hypothesis is that an externally paced activity such as martial art exercise will have a
      greater effect on enhancing executive functioning and will improve stress levels in college
      aged young adults when compared to an internally paced activity such as walking.
    
  