
    
      Approximately 30,000 new cases of local-regionally advanced head and neck carcinoma (HNC) and
      head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are diagnosed each year for which surgery is
      either insufficient, non-curative or not feasible. For these patients, radiation therapy is
      the mainstay of treatment often with the use of concurrent chemotherapy and/or concurrent
      cetuximab therapy. Radiation therapy is also commonly employed in the post-operative setting
      for patients with high risk features predisposing to recurrent disease. Although progress has
      been made, the prominent pattern of failure among these aggressively treated patients remains
      loco-regional failure.

      The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), a member of the ErbB family of receptor tyrosine
      kinases, is abnormally activated in nearly all epithelial cancers, including HNC. Nearly all
      HNC expressing high levels of EGFR have been associated with poor outcomes. Radiation therapy
      can lead to increased expression of EGFR in cancer cells, and blockade of EGFR signaling has
      been shown to sensitize cells to ionizing radiation. The use of monoclonal antibodies
      directed against EGFR has a rich pre-clinical record. However, it was not until the
      publication of the Bonner trial that combined radiotherapy plus anti-EGFR therapy was shown
      to be successful in the clinic to treat HNSCC. This study showed that the addition of single
      agent cetuximab 250 mg/m2 given weekly with concurrent radiation therapy improved median
      overall survival from 29 to 49 months. Furthermore, progression-free survival was improved
      from 12 to 17.1 months. In addition, patients were able to tolerate the regimen with no
      difference in rates of mucositis. Other toxicities were also similar to radiotherapy alone,
      with the exceptions of a small risk of infusion reactions, and the common - but non-dose
      limiting - occurrence of an acneiform rash.

      Temsirolimus is a specific inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), an enzyme
      that regulates cell growth and proliferation. Temsirolimus prevents progression from the G1
      phase to the S phase of the cell cycle through inhibition of mTOR, which is a novel mechanism
      of action for an anticancer drug. This is also important for concurrent treatment with
      radiation, since S-phase represents the most radiation resistant phase of the cell cycle.

      Temsirolimus is a structural analog of sirolimus (rapamycin) that has been formulated for IV
      or oral administration for the treatment of various malignancies. Sirolimus was shown to have
      potent immunosuppressive as well as antifungal and antitumor properties. Its mechanism of
      action results in part from binding to an intracellular cytoplasmic protein, FK506
      (tacrolimus) binding protein (FKBP)-12. The complex of sirolimus bound to FKBP-12 blocks the
      activity of mTOR.

      Cetuximab is an important agent in the treatment of HNSCC; however its success may be limited
      by downstream signaling molecules which may up-regulate and cause the malignant phenotype to
      persist. MET proto-oncogene amplification has been hypothesized to lead to EGFR-independent
      activation of the PI3K-Akt-mTOR pathway through activation of HER3-dependent signaling. We
      hypothesize that attacking HNC at two key points in the cellular proliferation and survival
      system will maximize HNC cell killing and irradicate subpopulations of cells which may be
      able to bypass the EGFR inhibition with independent activation of the PI3K-Akt-mTOR pathway.
      The concomitant use of cetuximab and temsirolimus permits active inhibition of both EGF, and
      the VEGF pathway related with angiogenesis, with synergistic responses as seen in
      experimental models.

      Although patients who have pre-existing renal or functional conditions - preventing the
      administration of cisplatin - receive cetuximab concurrently with radiation as standard of
      care, there is a clear phenomenon of the development of EGFR inhibitor resistance. Therefore,
      the ability to target one of the escape pathways of EGFR inhibitor resistance via blockade of
      the PI3K pathway, possibly in the synergistic manner, provides an important and novel method
      for achieving high rates of complete and durable response to treatment in patients who are
      unable to tolerate traditional chemotherapeutic agents.

      In most patients who do not have pre-existing renal or functional conditions, cisplatin is
      considered the standard of care. However, given the relatively poor rates of disease free
      survival with platinum and radiation combinations, the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group
      (RTOG) 0522 phase III trial of a combination of accelerated radiation therapy with cisplatin
      and cetuximab was completed to accrual in March 2009. The results of that trial are still
      pending, although the fact that it closed to accrual indicates that it was a tolerable
      regimen.

      In patients who can receive cisplatin, they will receive temsirolimus together with
      cisplatin, cetuximab and radiation in a phase I study. In patients judged by the medical
      oncologist as being unable to receive cisplatin, they will receive temsirolimus together with
      cetuximab and radiation in a separate arm in this phase I study. We will show the maximum
      tolerated doses of temsirolimus as a primary objective, with a secondary objective of
      examining progression-free survival at 12 months in each of these two arms.
    
  