
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether 10-21 days of treatment with ACTOplus met XR will result in a
      decrease in proliferation index (Ki-67) expression in oral cavity/oropharyngeal tumor tissue
      as compared to placebo.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare differences in proliferation index (Ki-67) expression from baseline to
      post-exposure in visually normal appearing oral cavity/oropharyngeal tissue.

      II. Compare immunohistochemical differences in the apoptosis biomarker cleaved caspase 3 from
      baseline to post-exposure in oral cavity/oropharyngeal adjacent visually normal appearing
      tissue and tumor tissue samples.

      III. Compare immunohistochemical differences from baseline to post-exposure in oral
      cavity/oropharyngeal tumor tissue samples with regard to cyclin D1, p21 and biguanide or PPAR
      gamma associated pathway biomarkers; prospective biomarkers on the panel will include
      phosphorylated (p)AKT, pAMPK, pS6 (metformin), and PPAR gamma.

      IV. Compare immunohistochemical differences from baseline to post-exposure of oral
      cavity/oropharyngeal tumor tissue samples with regard to tumor infiltrating immune cells
      (effector CD8 [CD8+]), regulatory CD4 T regulatory (Treg) (CD4+Foxp3+), tumor associated
      myeloid cells (CD68), PD1 and PD-L1.

      V. Compare and correlate pre- and post-ACTOplus met XR treatment human ribonucleic acid
      (RNA)-sequencing (seq) gene analysis on total RNA samples from oral cavity/oropharyngeal
      adjacent visually normal appearing tissue and tumor tissue pre-and post-study treatment.

      VI. Determine human papillomavirus (HPV) status in pre-treatment tumor tissue using p16
      immunohistochemistry.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES I. Compare pre- and post-study treatment fludeoxyglucose F-18
      (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scans with regard to
      standardized uptake value (SUV) of FDG and tumor burden using Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 in those participants with a preintervention standard
      of care staging FDG-PET/CT.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive ACTOplus met XR orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 10-21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue ACTOplus met
      XR PO QD for a maximum of 25 days if end of treatment biopsy/surgical treatment is delayed
      beyond day 22.

      GROUP II: Patients receive placebo PO QD daily for 10-21 days.
    
  