
    
      This international registry will collect prospective treatment and outcomes data on specific,
      key non-pathological fractures in children with open physes. The long-term goal is to build
      this registry to include all fractures according to the AO pediatric fracture classification
      (AO PCCF). However, to establish proof-of-principle and study feasibility, the investigators
      aim to first begin with the inclusion of a limited number of key long bone fracture types for
      which optimal treatment and management are under particular debate, or for which substantial
      clinical equipoise exists. Consequently, the investigators aim to begin with separate
      registry arms based on defined fracture segments in specific bones. Each registry arm will be
      defined by a customized set of outcomes to be collected. Participants will be enrolled into
      these specific arms according to their injury diagnosis. The registry arms will be
      categorized as follows:

        -  Proximal humerus fractures

        -  Distal humerus fractures

        -  Proximal radius fractures

        -  Forearm shaft fractures

        -  Tibial shaft fractures (with/without fibula fracture)

      All participants enrolled in the registry will be followed over the course of their treatment
      from the time of enrolment to end of treatment in accordance with the treating surgeon's
      regular clinical practice. All relevant information will be recorded at baseline and at each
      follow-up visit that participants attend at the orthopedic clinic, according to standard of
      care for each fracture type. A standardized set of prospective data including demographic
      information, baseline injury information, diagnosis, treatment details and clinical,
      radiographic, functional, and PROs will be collected for each participant. Data involving
      additional outcomes or variables may also be collected depending on the specific sub-study or
      registry arm that the participant is enrolled in.
    
  