
    
      Background and purpose

      Stroke is the main cause of brain injury in Denmark, is the most common cause of invalidity
      among adults and affects 11,000 Danes annually. By comparison, the second most common cause
      of brain damage is traumatic brain injury, affecting 3,000 Danes annually. In total, approx.
      22,000 children and adults annually experience brain injury in Denmark.

      In Denmark, about 120,000 people suffer from brain damage, of whom approx. 75,000 with brain
      damage after stroke. Serious and often lasting vision impairments affect 20% to 35% of people
      with stroke. In general, vision is the most important sense in humans, thus even small
      permanent deficits can dramatically affect the quality of life.

      Lack of vision (anopia) after brain damage limits rehabilitation and enhances other
      invalidating effects. Impaired vision results in impaired balance, increased risk of serious
      falls, increased support needs, reduced quality of life and impaired ability to perform
      activities of daily living. Recovery of visual field deficits occurs primarily and only to a
      modest extent the first month after brain injury, and thus the time window for spontaneous
      improvements is very limited. Hence, brain-impaired persons with visual impairment will most
      likely experience chronically impaired vision already 4 weeks after brain injury, and the
      need for visual compensatory rehabilitation is substantial.

      Neuro Vision Technology (NVT) is a supervised training course where people with visual field
      deficits are trained in compensatory and restorative techniques. The course includes a
      special computer program, a light panel and a special training program, and the course is
      conducted with Certified Orientation & Mobility Instructors (O & M instructors) with visual
      expertise. Through the NVT course, the individual's specific vision deficits are carefully
      identified through a five-step program. Personal data is used to organize individual training
      and thereby teaching the individual to cope with situations that cause problems in everyday
      life. In spite of reported positive results of NVT training among several individuals, there
      are currently few and insufficient scientific studies on whether rehabilitation with NVT
      results in lasting and clinically significant improvements in people with severe and chronic
      visual field impairments.

      The purpose of this study is to test whether rehabilitation with NVT can lead to significant
      and lasting improvements in persons with chronic visual impairments after brain injury.
      Improving eyesight is expected to increase both physical and mental functioning, thus
      improving the quality of life. Study participants will be investigated in terms of both
      visual and mental functions, including quality of life, cognition and depression.

      Design and methods

      This study is designed as a controlled prospective study in which the same subject is
      examined before and after the intervention. These are subjects with chronic visual field
      impairments, who will not experience significant spontaneous remission or deterioration.
      These subjects have typically experienced a stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic) or traumatic
      brain injury. There is a high risk of injury worsening in persons with malignant or
      progressive tumors, making it difficult or impossible to document a beneficial effect of the
      intervention; People with such progressive diseases will be excluded from participation in
      the trial.

      Intervention: NVT and Mobility

      The term O & M is understood as the ability to move safely in physical space and in the
      surrounding community. By controlling orientation and mobility techniques, a person with a
      restricted field of vision can be able to move not only safely, but also freely and
      independently. The Neuro Vision Technology method uses a special device in the form of light
      panels and neurological vision tests that give an overview of cognitive difficulties. This
      light panel is connected to a computer.

      Static scanning is investigated using the special light panel with 24 light bulbs divided
      into two rows, the panel length corresponding to the 180 degrees that normal and
      well-functioning human eyes can see. Where it is considered relevant, the study participants
      are referred to the ophthalmologist, specialist optician, or a reading / visual clinic to
      ensure participants the optimal starting point for using his or her vision. Records are
      obtained in which the test results are stored.

      At the start of the intervention, cognitive tests are performed as well as a standardized
      route training (mobility route training) that the subject must be able to perform
      independently. On the route there are a number of targets (stars) that study participants
      should try to locate. Investigators measure the time spent by study participants on the
      route, as well as the number of targets ignored by any participant.

      Study participants are then placed at the light panel, where the scan pattern is automated
      and gradually transferred to indoor mobility routes.

      When the procedures are automated, the exercise is done outdoors using progressively
      increasing complexity. Training also Involves the use of public transport and exercises in
      order to safely move in the traffic. A NVT course includes 3 hours of cognitive (baseline)
      testing, then a total of 22 hours of teaching given twice a week for 2½ to 3 months. A
      re-test of 3 hours duration is performed 6 weeks after the NVT course has been finished.

      Blinding

      Participants are randomized to intervention or control groups. As far as possible, it is
      ensured that the investigator who measures the subjects' functional level at the end of
      intervention has not previously had contact with, or knowledge of, the particular
      participant. Thus, the levels of function of the participants is evaluated by different
      persons before and after intervention to ensure impartial assessments.

      Recruitment

      Suitable subjects are consecutively included from the Institute for Blind and Partially
      Sighted (IBOS), Herlev University Hospital, especially Neurological Department, and other
      neurological departments. A screening will be performed to assess the suitability of a person
      to participate in the trial. Attendance is voluntary and all sessions are free for the
      participant.

      Sample Size Estimation

      The primary endpoint is the ability to perform the mobility route test with the lowest
      possible number of errors. After trial start, 40% of the correct targets are expected to rise
      to 65% at the end of the trial. As a basis for power calculation, α = 0.05 and β = 0.5 are
      used. Sample size is calculated to 22 participants in each group. Due to age, difficulty in
      transport and the time-consuming intervention, up to 25% dropouts are expected, thus we aim
      to include 56 participants.

      Study Participants

      At least 56 people with permanent visual impairment after brain damage corresponding to
      hemianopia, quadrant hemianopia or scotoma resulting in functional impairment at activity or
      participation level.

      Data collection

      Data collection and databases are prepared for registration and data processing. Data at
      baseline include: Age, living single / cohabitant at home, in-home care services, mobility
      aids, social network, height, weight, smoking, alcohol consumption etc.

      Statistical analysis

      Due to the limited group sizes, data can not be assumed to be normally distributed and
      non-parametric statistics will be used. Mann-Whitney's test will be used for comparing two
      individual groups (unpaired observations), while Spearman's rankorder correlation test will
      be used for ranked pairs. Fisher's exact probability test will be used for categorical data
      comparisons resulting from classifying data in two different ways. Group-specific test score
      changes at baseline and after the NVT intervention will be evaluated using Wilcoxon's
      signed-rank test for paired observations.

      Lack of data is acceptable as long as an assessment of the primary endpoint is still
      possible.

      Data from participants that make it possible to assess the primary endpoint will be used as a
      minimum; However, we hope that data from all subjects can be used to evaluate secondary
      effect targets.

      Ethics

      The project is in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration, has been assessed by the
      Scientific Ethics Committee, Protocol No.: H-17001534 and can be initiated. The law of
      protecting personal data will be uphold.

      Adverse events

      There are no invasive treatments, and no adverse events or risks are expected in the trial.
      Regardless of the reason, any subject may at any time cease to participate in the trial.
    
  