
    
      Specific Aims

      Aim 1: Determine the level, patterns, and correlates of objectively measured ART adherence in
      early and advanced-stage disease, among pregnant and non-pregnant individuals, to determine
      the need and nature of interventions to support early ART adherence in Uganda and South
      Africa. Outcomes include: i) average adherence, ii) incidence of any 28-day period with <80%
      adherence, iii) number of ART interruptions >72 hours (which could lead to loss of viral
      suppression), and iv) detectable HIV RNA >400 copies/Ml at 6 and 12 months. Guided by prior
      work and the Theory of Vulnerable Populations, we hypothesize that incomplete adherence will
      be associated with a) early-stage, asymptomatic disease, b) pregnancy and postpartum periods,
      and c) multiple social and economic factors. Individuals with CD4 200-350 will not be studied
      in order to most efficiently identify differences at the extremes of early and advanced
      disease.

      Aim 2: Given the known importance of social networks and social support for adherence in
      advanced-stage disease in some RLS, we will determine the extent to which social network
      cohesion, HIV serostatus disclosure within the network, and receipt of social support explain
      differential ART adherence in early and advanced-stage disease. We hypothesize that: i)
      compared to people with advanced-stage disease, people with early-stage disease will have
      less cohesive social networks, disclose their seropositivity to fewer network members, and
      receive less social support; ii) social network cohesion, serostatus disclosure, and social
      support will be associated with greater ART adherence; and iii) these associations will
      explain a significant portion of differential ART adherence in early versus advanced-stage
      disease. Additionally, although these factors have been well established previously in
      Uganda, prospective data is needed to account for secular trends related to treatment
      expansion and comparable data are needed from South Africa.

      Aim 3: We will use qualitative methods to identify, describe and explain influences on ART
      adherence in early-stage disease to guide intervention development. In-depth understanding of
      influences on ART adherence among individuals with early-stage HIV disease will inform the
      focus of any needed ART adherence interventions for this population. We will conduct
      in-depth, adherence-focused qualitative interviews with (a) 50 HIV+ men and non-pregnant
      women, and (b) 50 HIV+ pregnant women, who initiate ART with early-stage disease. Interviews
      with pregnant women may be post-partum by the time of the interview. Equal numbers of
      individuals in these two groups will be drawn from the Uganda and South Africa sites.

      Study Procedures

      Aims 1, 2:

      Upon recruitment, participants will receive a baseline interview and phlebotomy. Women <50
      years will be given a urine pregnancy test. Participants will be given a Wisepill device, and
      instructed on how to use it using training procedures established in prior studies by this
      group. The RA will then fill the Wisepill device with the antiretroviral medication. If
      feasible and acceptable to participants, participants will then be driven to their place of
      residence for global positioning system (GPS) mapping (given that GPS-measured distance has
      been associated with clinic visit adherence). If available, existing GPS map data may be used
      in lieu of driving to the participant's place of residence and collecting GPS coordinates.
      Structured interviews will be conducted at enrollment, 6 and 12 months. Interviews will
      typically take place at the clinic. If feasible and desirable, they may be offered at home or
      another location of the participant's choosing. It will be explained clearly to the
      participant that if they do not have adequate cellular reception for reliable data
      transmission via the Wisepill device they need to bring the Wisepill device to clinic for
      pharmacy refill will be emphasized. Additionally, if they permanently move to an area that is
      more than 60 km from the clinic, they will be disenrolled from the study.

      The 6 and 12-month follow up visits will be held separately from routine clinic visits to
      avoid potential influence on routine clinic attendance and/or adherence (e.g., easier
      transportation or higher motivation to attend due to study visit incentives). Participants
      may be sought by phone or at home for study procedures if they do not attend their scheduled
      6 and 12-month clinic visits. Individuals may also be contacted if the study team becomes
      aware of technical problems with the Wisepill device. In that event, the study team will try
      to reach the participant by phone, but if they are unable, they may go to the participant's
      house to assess the technical difficulties.

      As noted above, participants will be seen at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months for structured
      interviews, phlebotomy (viral load, sample storage), and for women, pregnancy testing.
      Because of the dynamic relationship between adherence and HIV RNA suppression, the first year
      is the most critical period for adherence and because the greatest decline in adherence is
      usually seen over the first year, a full year of observation is planned to determine if stage
      of disease is associated with adherence.

      Structured interviews will cover the following topics: demographics, health status,
      socio-economic status, structural barriers to clinic access, food security, physical and
      mental health, depression, coping, sexual behavior, transactional sex/intimate partner
      violence, beliefs/satisfaction, necessity/concerns, alcohol and recreational drug use,
      stigma, adherence, and medical mistrust/conspiracy. We will also define social networks.

      Adherence will be measured in real-time with the Wisepill device, which automatically
      captures and reports, once daily via cellular technology, the participant's medication
      adherence data. A second signal is transmitted daily to report battery level and confirm
      device functionality.

      Aim 3:

      We will use purposeful sampling to systematically represent subgroups of early disease
      adherers (both low and high) and create the conditions for in-depth qualitative analysis.
      Starting at 6 months of follow-up, we will identify from the larger cohorts of participants,
      25 pregnant early disease adherers and 25 non-pregnant early disease adherers at each of the
      two (Ugandan and South African) study sites (total qualitative sample size = 100
      individuals). Interviews with pregnant women may occur during the post-partum period. Each
      qualitative participant will take part in a single, in-depth individual interview conducted
      by a research assistant trained in the collection of in depth qualitative interviews.
      Interviews will target the actual adherence experiences and behavior of interviewees and
      systematically cover a range of relevant topics, including: (a) the circumstances under which
      pills are taken (dosing behavior); (2) missed doses and why they happened; (3) what obstacles
      impede adherence; (3) who helps with adherence and how (social support). Interviews will be
      transcribed into English, if needed, to produce the qualitative data set of 100 interview
      transcripts.
    
  