
    
      The current standard regimen for advanced biliary tract cancers as per NCCN guidelines
      (version 2.2019) is gemcitabine plus cisplatin. However, since no single chemotherapy agent
      or combination regimen has consistently led to durable tumor regression, prevention of
      recurrent obstruction following palliative intervention, and extension of survival beyond 8
      to 15 months, there is a pressing need for new treatment approaches in patients with dismal
      prognosis. Recent discoveries in tumor immunology, paralleled by technological advances in
      radiation therapy, have provided promising role for combining ablative radiotherapy with
      targeted immune modulators (El Chediak et al., 2017).

      objectives: Primary: To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) at 8 months and the
      disease control rate (DCR) in patients with non-resectable locally-advanced or metastatic or
      recurrent intrahepatic or extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) following BMS-936558
      /stereotactic ablative radiation therapy (SBRT) treatment.

      Secondary:

      1) To evaluate the overall survival (OS) rate in patients with advanced intrahepatic or
      extrahepatic CCA following BMS-936558/SBRT treatment. .

      3) To evaluate tumor response rates at the primary and secondary sites using the response
      evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST1.1) criteria.

      4) To evaluate the duration of response at non-irradiated tumor sites in patients with Stage
      IV disease.

      5) To evaluate the following biomarkers: CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ T cell infiltration, and
      changes in PD-L1 expression at baseline and following first cycle of BMS-936558 and SBRT.

      6) To assess the safety and tolerability of BMS-936558/SBRT according to the National Cancer
      Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAEv5).

      7) To assess the quality of life of the patients through completed FACT-Hep questionnaires.
    
  