
    
      Background and Rationale: Symptomatic sickle cell disease (SCD) is worldwide the most
      frequent cause for hereditary hemolytic anemia with recurrent pain crises. Hemolysis, vaso-
      occlusive and pain crises are hallmarks of this disease and are causative for an important
      socio-economic burden worldwide, especially in Africa.

      Aside from allogenic stem cell transplantation, which is rarely available and very expensive,
      at present there is no curative treatment for patients with SCD. The current standard of care
      includes treatment with Hydroxyurea and symptomatic care such as transfusions,
      antibiotic/analgesic treatment. Recent findings allowed the investigators to come up with a
      novel pharmacological target for prophylactic treatment of this group of patients. N-methyl
      D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are substantially up-regulated in circulating red blood cells
      (RBCs) of SCD patients. Ca2+ uptake via these non-selective cation channels has major impact
      on RBC hydration and facilitates polymerization of deoxygenated hemoglobin S variant in RBCs
      of patients. In vitro inhibition of NMDARs with Memantine caused re-hydration and largely
      prevented hypoxia-induced sickling in RBCs. A pilot trial MemSID (NCT02615847) was conducted
      in August 2015-March 2017 at the Hematology Division of University Hospital Zurich. A small
      cohort of adult SCD patients was treated with 20 mg Memantine daily to test safety,
      tolerability and efficacy of this drug and to assess the effect of Memantine on hemolytic
      activity and RBC stability. Pilot data reveal safety and an impressive therapeutic potential
      of Memantine in treating SCD patients. Due to a small number of SCD patients in Switzerland,
      an extended trial including larger number of adult and adolescent patients will be performed
      at the Pediatric Hematology Unit of the Emek Medical Center in Afula, Israel.

      Objective(s): Primary objective:

      To evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of low doses of Memantine Teva速 treatment
      in adult and adolescent patients with symptomatic SCD.

      Secondary objective:

      To asses and evaluate the long-term effects of Memantine Teva速 on the clinical and laboratory
      parameters in adult and adolescent patients with symptomatic SCD.

      The following laboratory parameters will be assessed and evaluated:

        -  Complete blood count.

        -  Hemolytic activity (reticulocytes, indirect bilirubin and LDH).

        -  Iron status (ferritin, serum iron, transferrin and transferrin saturation).

        -  Fetal hemoglobin levels Additional parameters related to red cell volume, density,
           membrane stability, adherablilty, inflammatory markers and metabolic activity will be
           detected by the external laboratory (Red Cell Research Group, University of Zurich)
           Study design: It is a single center and open label study.

      Laboratory analysis including hematology, coagulation and chemistry test will be performed
      and urine samples will be also analyzed. In addition, at each visit a physical examination
      and measurement of vital signs will be performed.

      The number of total admissions, hospital days and emergency consultations will be recorded.
      The amount and type of analgesic medication given. The amount of RBC transfusions, the number
      of days that antibiotics were prescribed will be also recorded.

      At screening and at the end of the study SCD specific assessments will be performed, which
      include cardiologic examination (ECG, ECHO), abdominal sonography, ophthalmological
      examination, lung function testing and neuroangiologic examination.

      The impact on working ability assessed by the number of days with inability to work. For the
      impact on work ability and social life activities a questionnaire of quality of life will be
      filled out by the patient once a month.

      - Evaluation of Cognitive function will be also performed at screening and at the end of the
      study Study Product / Intervention: Memantine Teva速 is a low-moderate affinity,
      uncompetitive, NMDAR antagonist and is licensed in Switzerland and in Israel for the
      treatment of Alzheimer disease.

      Memantine Teva速 film-coated tablets (Memantine hydrochloride) is produced by Teva Pharma AG
      and will be provided as 5 mg, 10 mg, and 20 mg tablets packed in blister.

      The study drug will be taken once a day per os, during Number of Participants with Rationale:
      In this study 40 patients with SCD will be included. Twenty patients aged 18 years or older
      (cohort 1) and twenty patients 10 - 17 years old (cohort 2).

      Study Duration: The study lasts 15 month per patient.
    
  