
    
      Decision analysis techniques will be utilized to construct and estimate a model for the
      diagnosis, treatment, outcomes and costs among patients with dilated or ischemic
      cardiomyopathy referred for clinically indicated rest transthoracic echocardiography. We will
      first perform a systematic review of the literature regarding the use of contrast
      echocardiography for detection of LV thrombus, in order to ensure that model design
      accurately reflects clinical practice and current outcomes. Patients will begin the model in
      a state of dilated or ischemic cardiomyopathy with possible LV thrombus, and will progress
      through the model's various health states based on event probabilities that will be
      influenced by whether the patient received contrast during their initial echocardiogram. The
      probability of events occurring (e.g., stroke, bleeding complication, death) will be
      estimated using data from the literature and the DEDUCE database. The cost of inpatient,
      outpatient, and extended care for health states will be derived from available sources,
      including Medical Expenditure Panel Survey data, National Nursing Home Survey data, and
      published literature. Appropriate statistical methods, including inverse probability weighted
      partitioned estimators, will be used to correctly impute long-term resource utilization,
      given that the data include patients who are censored due to loss to follow-up. Quality of
      life adjustment factors for health states will be drawn from the literature. For temporary
      event states such as bleeding, a utility decrement will be subtracted from the baseline
      utility value.

      The model will have a long-term horizon, and model outcomes will include long-term costs as
      well as QALYs. There will be a number of scenario analyses to evaluate alternative modeling
      assumptions. For example, we will simulate the selective use of contrast in only those
      patients with a technically inadequate study versus the routine use of contrast in the
      primary analysis. We will also evaluate cost-effectiveness from alternative perspectives
      (U.S. health care system; provider; payer), under various reimbursement schemes of interest
      (e.g., fee-for-service; accountable care organization setting) and assuming short term time
      horizons (e.g., index episode of care through 90 days after testing; three year horizon). We
      will also test the model's robustness through a series of sensitivity analyses. These will
      include univariate (one-way) sensitivity analyses in which we will assess the model's
      robustness to alternative values of each input parameter individually. Examples of parameters
      for which sensitivity analyses will be conducted include costs, thrombus incidence, and event
      rates. In addition to univariate sensitivity analyses, we will also perform probabilistic
      (many-way) sensitivity analyses in which we use Monte Carlo methods to assess the model's
      global stability. Cost-effectiveness acceptability frontiers will be generated to illustrate
      model sensitivity. All modeling will be performed in a manner consistent with current
      International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research Good Research Practices
      guidance. In order to incorporate variability in willingness-to-pay thresholds in United
      States payers, we will report our results across a range of cost-effectiveness thresholds
      from $50,000 - $200,000 per QALY, with $100,000 per QALY pre-specified as the primary
      threshold.
    
  