
    
      Background:

        -  Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable plasma cell neoplasm with a median survival of 3-4
           years.

        -  Smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) is a premalignant plasma cell disorder characterized
           by monoclonal protein greater than or equal to 3 g/dL or bone marrow plasma cells
           greater than or equal to 10 percent in the absence of myeloma-related tissue impairment
           with 51 percent progression to MM at 5 years.

        -  Current recommendations do not endorse treatment of SMM with chemotherapy.

        -  Transplanted Natural Killer (NK) Cells have anti-myeloma activity.

        -  Anti-KIR (IPH2101) is a monoclonal antibody that facilitates NK cell mediated killing of
           myeloma cells by blocking inhibitory receptors (KIR) on NK cells.

      Objectives:

        -  To assess the response rate of anti-KIR(IPH2101) in patients with SMM

        -  To evaluate the toxicity of anti-KIR(IPH2101) in patients with SMM

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetic parameters and biological activity of anti-KIR (IPH2101)

      Eligibility:

        -  A confirmed diagnosis of SMM

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status in the range of 0-1.

        -  Without serious co-morbidity that would interfere with receipt of anti-KIR(IPH2101)

      Design:

        -  Single-arm Phase II trial of anti-KIR(IPH2101) for patients with SMM.

        -  All patients will have initial evaluation and confirmation of diagnosis.

        -  Patients will receive anti-KIR(IPH2101) (1mg/kg) every other month for 6 cycles.

        -  Patients will have routine blood work with serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP) and
           immunofixation monthly.

        -  Pre- and post-treatment bone marrow biopsies will be obtained for confirmation of
           diagnosis and correlative studies.

        -  Patients may donate cellular products or tissues as appropriate for research purposes.

        -  Optimal two-stage phase II design will be employed, initially enrolling 9 patients. If 3
           or more have a positive outcome, then a total of 21 patients will be enrolled in this
           study.
    
  