
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and the dose limiting toxicity of tirapazamine when
      administered with cyclophosphamide as intravenous infusions to children with refractory solid
      tumors.

      II. Determine the incidence and severity of other toxicities of tirapazamine and
      cyclophosphamide in these patients.

      III. Determine a safe and tolerable dose of tirapazamine administered with cyclophosphamide
      for a phase II study for the same indications.

      IV. Determine the pharmacokinetics of tirapazamine in children and adolescents receiving the
      combination of tirapazamine and cyclophosphamide.

      V. Determine the preliminary evidence of antitumor activity of tirapazamine and
      cyclophosphamide.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

      Patients receive tirapazamine by 2 hour intravenous infusion (hours 0-2) followed 2 hours
      later by a 30 minute intravenous infusion of cyclophosphamide. This course is repeated every
      3 weeks in patients with partial/complete response or stable disease for a maximum of 1 year.
      Cohorts of 3-6 patients each are treated at each dose level of tirapazamine. Dose escalation
      of tirapazamine occurs when 0 of 3 patients or 1 of 6 patients has experienced dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT). If DLT is experienced in 1 of 3 patients at a given dose level, up to 3
      additional patients are treated at that same dose level. If none of the 3 additional patients
      at that dose level experiences DLT, the dose is escalated. If DLT is experienced in 1 or more
      of the additional 3 patients, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been exceeded and 3
      patients are treated at the next lower dose level (defined as the MTD). A total of six
      patients are treated at the MTD. If DLT is proved to be neutropenia, patients must then also
      meet the additional eligibility criteria listed for stratum 2. If neutropenia continues to be
      the DLT in stratum 2, then additional patients receive subcutaneous filgrastim (granulocyte
      colony-stimulating factor; G-CSF) beginning 24 hours after cyclophosphamide. A second MTD may
      be determined for chemotherapy with G-CSF. Patients are followed every 6 months for 4 years,
      and then annually thereafter.
    
  