
    
      Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is regularly performed in patients with a femoral neck fracture.
      However, dislocation is very common after THA in hip fracture patients, and this complication
      is deleterious to health and quality of life. The dual mobility cup offers a technical
      solution that potentially reduces the risk of dislocation. There is however no high-level
      evidence to support the general use of dual mobility cups in patients with displaced femoral
      neck fractures, and the purpose of the proposed study is to provide evidence to support or
      refute the use of this concept in the very large group of hip fracture patients.

      We a register-nested, pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT) to investigate the safety
      and efficacy of dual mobility cups that were designed to minimize the risk of dislocation
      after THA. Our aim is thus to investigate whether the incidence of dislocations after THA
      surgery performed due to femoral neck fracture can be reduced by the use of this device.

      The intervention group receives a dual mobility cup (of any brand that is in general use in
      Sweden), and the control group receives a standard cup (of any brand that is in general use
      in Sweden). The choice of cup or stem fixation (cemented or uncemented), femoral head size,
      brand of stem type, surgical approach, antibiotic prophylaxis, and postoperative mobilization
      are up to the surgeon's choice and the routines that are relevant at each study site.

      The necessary infrastructure for this register-nested RCT is present within the Swedish Hip
      Arthroplasty Register (SHAR) and the Swedish Fracture Register (SFR). Pre-operative
      registration of fractures is already established within the SFR, and an online platform to
      screen, include and randomize eligible patients is established. Cross-matching of data from
      the SFR and the SHAR with the database of the Swedish Patient Register (SPR) is performed in
      order to catch endpoint not routinely collected by the SHAR.
    
  