
    
      Work from the McDermott research team and that of other investigators shows that patients
      with lower extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD) have greater functional impairment,
      faster functional decline, and higher rates of mobility loss compared to people without PAD.
      In patients with PAD, ischemia results in calf muscle injury that includes myofiber loss and
      calf muscle mitochondrial dysfunction. Therapies to regenerate calf skeletal muscle cells,
      improve mitochondrial function, and increase calf muscle capillary density may improve
      functioning and prevent mobility loss in people with PAD. Yet few effective therapies
      currently exist for patients with PAD.

      This pilot study will investigate the therapeutic potential of unacylated ghrelin to promote
      capillary growth, increase calf muscle perfusion, and reverse PAD-related skeletal muscle
      abnormalities, thereby improving PAD-related functional impairment. Ghrelin is a peptide and
      hormone that circulates in acylated and unacylated forms. Unacylated ghrelin promotes
      skeletal muscle cell regeneration, improves mitochondrial function, and increases muscle
      capillary density. Unlike acylated ghrelin, unacylated ghrelin does not increase appetite, or
      cause insulin resistance.

      The proposed GIFT Trial will provide preliminary data to test the hypothesis that unacylated
      ghrelin improves walking performance and prevents mobility loss in older patients with PAD.
      Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize that the favorable effect of unacylated ghrelin
      will be mediated by increased myofiber regeneration, increased muscle capillary density, and
      improved muscle mitochondria function. If preliminary data support these hypotheses, results
      will be used to design a large randomized trial of unacylated ghrelin therapy, in subsequent
      study, to improve functioning and prevent mobility loss in older people with PAD.

      Investigators will conduct a pilot randomized trial in 30 participants age 55 and older with
      PAD, to gather preliminary evidence about whether daily subcutaneously administered
      unacylated improves the six-minute walk distance (primary outcome), maximal treadmill walking
      time(secondary outcome), and calf muscle perfusion (secondary outcome), compared to placebo.
      Investigators will also perform calf muscle biopsies at baseline and follow up to determine
      whether unacylated ghrelin increases Type 1 skeletal muscle myofibers, satellite cell number,
      capillary density, and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) mitochondrial activity in calf skeletal
      muscle, compared to placebo. If these hypotheses are correct, results will be used to design
      a large, definitive randomized trial of unacylated ghrelin to improve lower extremity
      functioning and prevent mobility loss in the large and growing number of older people who are
      disabled by PAD.
    
  