
    
      Surgical treatment of breast cancer is associated with significant disability, and pain is
      often reported as a primary cause for declines in the ability to perform activities of daily
      living. Surgical treatments can also negatively influence social exposure and alter
      self-perception and sexual health. Reconstruction of the breast mound following mastectomy
      has several benefits in psychosocial functioning, body image and satisfaction with breast
      appearance, and sexual well-being. However, reconstruction at the same time as mastectomy has
      been linked to higher postoperative pain. Compared to autologous breast reconstruction,
      implant based techniques have been linked to higher requirements of postoperative
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, opioids, and benzodiazepines as well as higher pain
      scores in the immediate postoperative period and one year after surgery. Recent publications
      report that intensity of pain in the operative area prior to surgery, body mass index (BMI),
      presence of axillary operation, intensity of acute postoperative pain, and amount of opioid
      required to achieve satisfactory analgesia in the acute postoperative period are also risk
      factors for persistent pain following breast cancer surgery (PPBCS). Since severity of acute
      postoperative pain is consistently observed as a risk factor for persistent pain, there has
      been interest in determining whether better acute pain control reduces this risk.
      Infiltration of the surgical site with bupivacaine decreases intraoperative and postoperative
      narcotic use, and has been associated with decreased pain scores in the immediate
      postoperative period. A novel approach to hemithoracic analgesia has been introduced which
      proposed less risk of anatomic trespass by doing a local anesthetic injection into the
      fascial planes of the chest wall. These procedures have demonstrated improved analgesia for
      breast surgeries. Unfortunately, there is a lack of large, multicenter, prospective, and
      randomized trials comparing these analgesic modalities and evaluating the response to these
      acute postoperative analgesic interventions with regard to PPBCS and other metrics of daily
      function, satisfaction with pain control, and self-perception of well-being and predictors of
      recovery from the pain state. The goals of this research are to provide short-term surrogate
      measures for prevention or treatment trials and to develop methods enabling practitioners to
      forecast recovery in real-time and that are translatable to patients in understandable
      references regarding risk over time.
    
  