
    
      This study will be a secondary use of data, focusing on patients treated with various
      treatment regimens (including obinutuzumab based regimen) used in the Czech Republic in a
      non-interventional, open label, national, multicenter setting. Retrospective analysis of data
      coming from registry database CLLEAR that capture data on clinical and treatment practices in
      CLL. This study is not a face to face analysis of treatment regimens. The results of this
      study could be used to compare with the results from other studies.

      Analytical population, selection criteria and sample size

      All CLL patients diagnosed, treated or followed in seven leading hematology centers in the
      Czech Republic since 2011 onward are included in the CLLEAR registry; there are no exclusion
      criteria. These centers include University Hospital (UH) Brno, General Faculty Hospital in
      Prague, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, University Hospital Olomouc, University Hospital
      Ostrava, University Hospital Plzen and Oncology Center Novy Jicin.

      In this study, all patients treated with Obi-Clb, R-B and R-Clb regimens and included into
      the CLLEAR database will be analyzed. There no other selection criteria.

      It is estimated that 400 patients will be analyzed in the study.

      Primary and secondary objectives

      General To assess effectiveness and disability accrual in Czech CLL patients treated with
      various treatment regimens in similar demographic population using available real-world data
      from the CLLEAR registry. The results of this study could be used to compare with the results
      from other studies.

      Primary objective

        1. Patients 'profile - Patients´ demographic characteristics such as age, gender,
           occurrence of comorbidities, level of Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS score),
           renal function etc. in patients treated with various treatment regimens
           (Obinutuzumab+chlorambucil (Obi-Clb), rituximab+chlorambucil (R-Clb),
           rituximab+bendamustin (R-B)).

        2. Effectiveness of the treatment regimens (Obi-Clb, R-Clb, R-B) in patients with above
           defined demographic characteristics based on measured parameters as indication/direct
           correlation of effectiveness - overall response rate (ORR), complete response (CR),
           Progression-free Survival (PFS), Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) negativity.

      Secondary objectives

      The secondary objectives of this study are as follows:

        1. The frequency (in %) of both hematologic adverse events (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia)
           and non-hematologic (grade ≥3 infections and Infusion Related Reaction - IRRs) in
           patient population.

        2. The frequency of comorbidities in patient population.

        3. The need for treatment adjustment (e.g. decreases in number of cycles) in patients.

        4. The percentage of adverse events (infections) in above defined patient population
           requiring hospitalization.

      Data protection and data monitoring

      All data will be analyzed from the CLLEAR registry. Personal data protection and
      implementation of appropriate legislation regarding personal data protection (GDPR) is dealt
      with within registry CLLEAR. In the database CLLEAR, there are strict rules on the protection
      of personal data due to Czech law.

      All patients' data are anonymized. All patients have to sign informed consent. The registry
      was approved by multicentric ethics committee. It is an incremental data set that is updated
      periodically, every 6 months, and regularly validated by an independent central data manager.
      No monitoring of centers is performed.

      Regulatory and legislative requirements

      General Informed Consent is not part of this study as this study uses data from separate
      registry CLLEAR. Registry has its own Informed Consents. Informed consent based essentially
      on the data privacy clause is obtained from each patient prior to data collection into the
      registry CLLEAR as two original documents signed by the patient. One original Informed
      Consent Form (ICF) is filed with the patient´s documentation in the clinical center and the
      second original ICF is given to the patient.

      This is a non-interventional post-registration study that must follow all local law or
      regulations and medical practice. Local legislative requirements of the Czech Republic will
      be applied.

      Quality assurance and control

      The project will be carried in accordance with IBA (Institute of Biostatistics and Analyses)
      internal quality management system and procedures (established Quality Management System
      according to the norm of the International Organization for Standardization - ISO 9001:2012
      including the quality manual; system Information technology according to ISO/IEC
      20000-1:2012).

      Study data analysis

      This study is secondary data use, observational, with data and analysis gathered as indicated
      in the following sections.

      The following general /baseline and therapeutic characteristics and measures will be
      collected: age, gender, comorbidities, level of CIRS score, renal function (e.g. creatinine
      level), side effects hematology related and unrelated and the need for hospitalization,
      number of chemotherapeutic cycles, response to treatment (i.e. complete or partial
      remission), occurrence of progression and presence of minimal residual disease (MRD).
    
  