
    
      Objectives: The general objective is to analyze whether a new algorithm approach of severe
      pneumonia in pediatric intensive unit (PICU) improves the quality of care. Objectives: 1- To
      analyze the sensitivity and specificity of lung ultrasound (LUS) compared respect to the
      chest radiography (CXR) in severe pneumonia and if LUS discriminates between bacterial and
      viral one. 2- If there is a lower CXR indication. 3- If is possible to reduce the dose of
      irradiation and costs associated with CXR. 4- To analyze the interobserver agreement of the
      LUS. 5- determine whether a diagnosis of pneumonia algorithm using LUS and procalcitonin may
      be useful in directing the indication of antibiotic therapy and / or the duration thereof.

      Methodology: clinical, prospective, controlled, randomized, blinded intervention and 3-year
      trial. Inclusion of children under 18 years, with severe pneumonia, who enter (PICU).
      Experimental Group 1: pediatrician researcher (PR) will conduct a LUS at admission time, as a
      first test of lung image; in Group 2, CXR is conduced as first image. Patients will be
      classified into 3 subgroups, in both branches: a) if PCT is <1 ng /L and LUS is not
      suggestive of bacterial pneumonia, no antibiotic will be prescribed; b) if LUS is suggestive
      of bacterial pneumonia, regardless of the PCT, it will be recommended to start antibiotic
      therapy; c) If the ultrasound is suggestive of bacterial pneumonia but PCT is> 1 ng / L,
      antibiotic therapy will be recommended to cover other causes of infection. The same attitude
      will be performed, but depending on the CXR instead of the LUS, in group 2. Clinical
      variables, complementary tests and evolution data will be collected. Statistics by SPPS®
      20.0. Informed consent will be requested and the study will be conducted according to the
      Helsinki Declaration guidelines and Good Clinical Practice.
    
  