
    
      Congestive heart failure (HF) is the leading cause of hospitalization among older Americans.1
      Approximately half of affected patients have apparently normal systolic function (HF with
      preserved ejection fraction, HFpEF).2-4 In contrast to HF with low EF, there are no proven
      treatments for HFpEF, due largely to a lack of mechanistic understanding.4 HFpEF patients are
      typically older, hypertensive and female,2,3 and each of these characteristics is associated
      with vascular stiffening and dysfunction.5-7 Diastolic abnormalities may contribute to
      symptoms of exertional intolerance3,8, but non-cardiac limitations have recently been shown
      to be equally important.9-11 Patients with HFpEF display impaired decreases in mean vascular
      resistance in response to exercise, significantly limiting performance,9 yet this represents
      only one component of ventricular afterload. With aging and particularly in HFpEF, pulsatile
      load due to vascular stiffening and increased wave reflections becomes more magnified.6,12
      The latter can be quantified by pulse wave velocity, arterial compliance and carotid
      augmentation index. These can be determined noninvasively, and while they have been shown to
      be abnormal in HFpEF patients at rest10,11, little is known about changes in each during
      exercise stress, or how this might modulate ventricular performance. Recent evidence
      indicates that endothelial and autonomic dysfunction are present in HFpEF9, but it is not
      known how these abnormalities might limit ventricular-vascular function with exercise. The
      primary objective of this proposal is to compare resting and exercise-induced changes in
      vascular function in patients with HFpEF and age-matched controls, to determine how these
      factors may affect exercise performance and cardiovascular reserve function.

      Specific Aim 1. Contrast resting and exercise-induced changes in vascular stiffness,
      endothelial function, and afterload in patients with HFpEF to age-matched controls. Net,
      mean, and late components of afterload will be assessed by arterial elastance (Ea), systemic
      vascular resistance (SVR), and central augmentation index (AI). Vascular stiffness will be
      quantified by pulse wave velocity and total arterial compliance. Stiffness and afterload are
      dynamically modulated by endothelial and autonomic function, and these responses will be
      assessed by finger volume plethysmography. Parameters will be measured at rest, during
      upright cycle ergometry, and immediately post exercise by noninvasive blood pressure,
      tonometry and comprehensive echo-Doppler examination with tissue Doppler echo (TDE).

      Specific Aim 2. Determine how baseline and exercise-induced changes in the vascular
      parameters measured in specific aim 1 are related to LV systolic and diastolic functional
      reserve, cardiac output response, metabolic exercise performance, and changes in pulmonary
      capillary blood volume. LV systolic and diastolic function will be assessed by echo-Doppler
      and TDE parameters at rest and immediately after peak exercise. Cardiac output response will
      be determined by the product of echo-Doppler stroke volume and heart rate. Exercise
      performance will quantified by expired gas analysis. Pulmonary blood volume will be estimated
      based upon the ratio of diffusion capacity of nitric oxide and carbon monoxide, obtained both
      at rest and immediately post exercise. Regression analyses will then be performed using the
      measured components of afterload and vascular stiffness as the independent variable and each
      of the above parameters as dependent output variables to delineate the role of vascular
      stiffening on exercise performance, reserve and ventricular-vascular coupling.

      Specific Aim 3. Determine if vascular and ventricular stiffness properties measured in
      specific aim 1 are associated with abnormal neurohormonal responses to exercise. Blood
      samples will be obtained from HFpEF subjects and controls prior to and immediately after peak
      exercise to contrast exercise-induced changes in B-type natriuretic peptide levels and cyclic
      guanosine monophosphate levels.
    
  