
    
      Purpose of the study The purpose of this registry is to capture clinical data of the
      BioMatrix NeoFlex™ stent (an improved version of the delivery system of the Biolimus
      A9™-eluting BioMatrix Flex stent) in relation to safety and effectiveness in the VALIDATE
      SWEDEHEART trial and in a group of patients not taking part in VALIDATE SWEDEHEART in
      addition to a group of patients with stable angina pectoris.

      Clinical relevance The European Union has a focus on and encourages the conductance of post
      marketing surveillance studies of medical devices 3. This focus should be seen in the light
      of limitations to clinical data available in the pre-market phase owing to duration of
      pre-market clinical investigations, the number of subjects and investigators involved in an
      investigation, the relative heterogeneity of subjects and investigators and the controlled
      setting of a clinical investigation versus the full range of clinical conditions encountered
      in general medical practice. The extent of the data that can be gathered in the pre-market
      phase does not necessarily enable detection of rare complications or problems that only
      become apparent after widespread or long term use of the device. Because the study device
      (BioMatrix NeoFlex™) is a CE-marked updated version of the BioMatrix Flex stent it is
      important to document that the assumed improvements in delivery design also reflect
      improvements in a clinical setting.

      Patients and methods

      Patients A total of 6000 patients will be included in the VALIDATE SWEDEHEART trial. 3000
      STEMI and 3000 NSTEMI. The ambition is that approximately 1000 of these patients are also
      included in the BASIC VALIDATE stent registry. In addition, and in order to achieve
      post-market information from the entire spectrum of PCI, another 1000 patients with stable
      angina pectoris, STEMI or NSTEMI will be included in the registry at VALIDATE SWEDEHEART
      centers but unrelated to the VALIDATE SWEDEHEART trial.

      Treatment strategy During the index procedure, only BioMatrix NeoFlex™ stents will be
      implanted. The investigator will choose the appropriate length and diameter of the stents to
      be implanted by visual estimate. The choice of the length of the stent should ensure complete
      coverage of the lesion. In case of insufficient stent expansion, post-dilatation is highly
      recommended. In the event that a staged procedure is expected or planned it is recommended
      NOT to include the patient in the BASIC VALIDATE registry because the nature of follow-up of
      patients (registry only) means that staged procedures will be classified as events ("repeat"
      revascularizations).

      After the index PCI, lifelong acetylsalicylic acid in a dose of 75-160 mg per day will be
      prescribed. Duration and choice of post-PCI P2Y12 inhibition is left to the discretion of the
      treating physician.

      Endpoints Primary endpoint A composite of time to death, myocardial infarction, stent
      thrombosis or repeat revascularization at 12 months.

      Secondary endpoints

        -  Time to death at 1, 3 and 5 years.

        -  Time to myocardial infarction at 1, 3 and 5 years.

        -  Time to stent thrombosis at 1, 3 and 5 years.

        -  Time to repeat revascularization at 1, 3 and 5 years.

        -  Analysis of the primary endpoint in the NSTEMI and STEMI groups separately.

      All endpoint results will be compared to matched populations of patients treated with
      drug-eluting coronary stents as documented in the SCAAR/SWEDEHEART registries.
    
  