
    
      The availability of antiretroviral therapy (cART) for HIV-1 infection has led to a reduction
      in morbidity in patients with chronic HIV infection. However, cART does not eliminate HIV-1
      that persists as a latent infection in cellular reservoirs. Usually, HIV viremia rapidly
      rebounds if antiretroviral therapy is interrupted. Consequently, HIV infected individuals
      must commit to expensive, life-long therapies and must tackle problems associated with
      chronic infection and uninterrupted cART, including continuous clinical and laboratory
      monitoring, drug toxicities, and chronic immune activation/inflammation.

      Currently, there is an emerging interest in developing safe and affordable curative
      strategies that would eliminate the need for lifelong therapy. However, to date only
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) has shown results in
      decreasing the HIV-1 reservoirs.

      The IciStem Consortium (www.icistem.org) has assembled the largest and most exhaustive
      observational cohort for the study of HIV reservoir dynamics in allo-HSCT HIV+ individuals
      with severe hematological malignancies worldwide. Within the cohort, only individuals
      transplanted with a donor with thw CCR5A32 mutation have shown signs of HIV remission. On the
      other side broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) have shown the potential to control HIV
      infection. This study intends to evaluate if the allo-HSCT combined with the additional
      application of bNAbs is effective to control HIV replication.

      Detailed Description:

      The implementation of highly effective, convenient, and well-tolerated combination
      antiretroviral therapy (cART) for HIV-1 infection has substantially reduced AIDS-related
      morbidity and mortality. However, cART does not eliminate HIV-1 that persists as a latent
      infection in cellular reservoirs, including resting memory CD4+ T cells, leading to an
      underlying raised state of immune activation and subsequent immune senescence. Of note, HIV
      viremia rapidly rebounds if antiretroviral therapy is interrupted. Consequently, HIV infected
      individuals must commit to expensive, life-long therapies and must tackle problems associated
      with chronic infection and uninterrupted cART, including continuous clinical and laboratory
      monitoring, drug toxicities, and chronic immune activation/inflammation. Therefore, there is
      an emerging interest in developing safe and affordable curative strategies that would
      eliminate the need for lifelong therapy while improving the health of infected subjects and
      reducing the risk of viral transmission to uninfected individuals. So far, allogeneic
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is the only intervention to date that
      systematically reduces HIV-1 reservoirs to undetectable levels regardless of the CCR5Δ32
      donor status.

      IciStem is a prospective observational project to investigate cases of allo-HSCT in
      HIV-1-infected individuals and their putative remission. Over the last few years, the IciStem
      Consortium (www.icistem.org) has assembled the largest and most exhaustive observational
      cohort for the study of HIV reservoir dynamics in allo-HSCT HIV+ individuals with severe
      hematological malignancies worldwide. 39 individuals have already been transplanted and
      followed up in the IciStem cohort and subsequent undetectable HIV reservoirs in blood and
      tissues have been described in those with 100% chimerism while still on antiretroviral
      treatment (ART).

      Detailed analysis of CCR5wt allo-HSCT cases within the IciStem cohort has provided insights
      on additional factors such as conditioning regimen, total body irradiation, graft versus host
      disease, and viral tropism that contribute to eradication of the potentially infectious viral
      reservoir in addition to the lack of a functional CCR5 receptor. Allo-HSCT has proved a
      profound effect on the HIV reservoir. So far, only participants with homozygous CCR5Δ32
      mutation have shown signs of HIV remission whereas participants without the CCR5Δ32 mutation
      had a delayed rebound during ATI. bNAbs have shown the potential to control HIV infection.
      Consequently, the combination of allo-HSCT with these antibodies is one of the aims of the
      study by which new cases of HIV remission might be achieved in this setting.

      During the last 48 months IciStem has generated a prospective observational cohort of 39
      cases of allo-HSCT in HIV-positive participants with severe hematological malignancies in 21
      clinical sites in 9 countries (Europe and Canada). Those 39 cases (from the 45 registered)
      have been followed up with continuous sample collection and high-resolution state of the art
      virological and immunological analysis. A summary of preliminary studies and achievements is
      listed below

        1. Nine transplants involved CCR5Δ32/Δ32 donors, and 18 involved CCR5wt donors.

        2. Mean post-HSCT follow-up is 1656 days, with 18 participants alive in active follow-up (4
           transplanted with CCRΔ32/Δ32 donor); 13 IciStem participants are beyond the 2nd year
           post-HSCT, respectively. From those, 8 are out of immune suppression and with
           minimal-undetectable HIV latent reservoirs.

        3. Five participants from the IciStem Cohort are currently suitable to enter in the first
           ITATI approach within the IciStem core. Those 5 participants have no detectable
           replication competent HIV reservoir in presence of cART and have been followed up for
           the longest time.

      The therapeutically intervention for these participants will be an analytical treatment
      interruption with additional application of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) that
      recently have been described as safe and effective to control HIV replication in infected
      participants. The rationale for application of these bNAbs during the treatment interruption
      of the IciStem participants:

        -  To help prevent viral rebound in absence of cART, due to their proven capacity to
           potently and durably suppress any possible residual HIV replication

        -  To rapidly eliminate a cell producing virus via mechanisms such as ADCC (Antibody
           dependent cellular cytotoxicity)

        -  To facilitate the development of a broad CTL (Cytotoxic T lymphocytes) response
           sufficient to maintain remission, as demonstrated in macaques/SHIV studies (Nishimura,
           2017)

        -  To protect the individuals from a putative viral rebound with a safe system, as bNAbs
           application has few side effects and rarely causes adverse events

        -  To achieve a highly specific targeting and inhibition of HIV to avoid massive overall
           bystander activation of the immune system that in effect could lead to a higher chance
           of HIV reinfection of activated CD4+ T cells.

      Despite cART has substantially reduced HIV-related morbidity and mortality, HIV reservoirs
      are still present and represent a key concern currently for HIV remission. This fact has
      resulted in a chronicity of HIV infection, leading to emotional disturbances and
      psychological burden associated with this perpetuation of the disease in the daily living. In
      the setting of HIV eradication trials, analytical interruption of antiretroviral therapy is a
      requirement to investigate HIV remission, control, and potential viral rebound. However,
      discontinuation of cART is linked to psychological issues that should be considered in the
      setting of HIV cure trials:

        1. Stopping cART may lead to variable clinical detriments. Those detriments may induce
           worry and psychological distress, which can not only worsen the quality of life, but
           also cause an instability of the emotional status. At the same time, that breakdown of
           the emotional system may influence the clinical status. Even when clinical consequences
           are not manifested or self-perceived, beliefs about unfavorable health-related results
           and desperation for HIV remission may arise.

        2. Interrupting cART may increase the risk to infect other people. Those who discontinue
           cART may not be willing therefore to put their sexual partners at risk. Even after
           deciding to participate and to interrupt cART, they may develop worries and fears about
           infecting others.

        3. This sort of HIV remission trial comprises a very specific collective of people. People
           who have suffered from a hematologic medical complication indicative for stem cell
           transplantation and have survived this severe health problem.

      This fact already indicates an impacted emotional status (without even considering the
      ITATI). Besides, specifically in the current study, additional medical strategies will be
      applied. Those interventions will be new for the participants (i.e., immune therapy) and will
      require multiple additional medical appointments. Those characteristics add complexity to the
      psychological management during the participation in the study.

      For all the reasons presented, the participants' psychological predisposition to ITATI and
      the participation in the study and the emotional status will be monitored carefully
      throughout the trial. This will be managed at 2 levels: first by continuous assessment of the
      emotional status and second by offering emotional support whenever required, especially
      considering the cessation of cART and initiation of the immune therapy.
    
  