
    
      Cardiac Output and Central Venous Oxygen Saturation Monitoring Using the Vigileo FloTrac
      Sensor Versus Conventional Thermodilution Method Using the Pulmonary Artery Catheter: A
      Prospective Study

      OBJECTIVE: To study the role of Vigileo monitor using the FloTrac sensor to measure cardiac
      output using the pulse contour analysis as well as central venous oxygen saturation
      monitoring as a guide for tissue perfusion. The accuracy of the Vigileo monitoring was
      compared with the conventional thermodilution method for measuring cardiac output using the
      pulmonary artery catheter and mixed venous oxygen saturation for assessing global tissue
      perfusion.

      DESIGN: A prospective clinical study conducted at the cardiothoracic operating theatre and
      the cardiothoracic intensive care unit of Sultanah Aminah Hospital Johor Bahru.

      PARTICIPANTS: 60 patients from the time of induction of anaesthesia to post operative Day 1
      in the cardiothoracic intensive care unit.

      INTERVENTIONS: Simultaneous cardiac output measurements using the Vigileo FloTrac sensor and
      thermodilution method using the PAC will be obtained at the following intervals: Post
      Induction( T0), Pre CPB( T1), Post CPB( T2), 1 hour post ICU admission( T3), 4 hours post ICU
      admission( T4), 1 hour post extubation( T5) and post operative Day 1 at 0700(T6). Central
      venous oxygen saturation measurements and mixed venous oxygen saturation using the PAC was
      also obtained at similar interval times as above. Low central venous oxygen saturation is
      defined as less than 70% while low mixed venous oxygen saturation was fixed as less than 65%
      for appropriate interventions to be instituted to improve oxygen delivery. Arterial blood
      gases will also be done at the scheduled interval to validate whether the presence of
      metabolic acidosis can be used to correlate with central or mixed venous oxygen saturation
      measurements.

      MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Demographic data that was recorded include age, sex, body weight,
      height, and body mass index, type of surgery, ejection fraction, time on cardiopulmonary
      bypass, Euroscore, haemoglobin and haematocrit levels.

      At the scheduled interval, cardiac output measurements using the thermodilution method as
      well as the pulse contour analysis method using the Vigileo FloTrac system will be done.
      Mixed venous oxygen (SvO2) will be sampled simultaneously with the central venous oxygen
      saturation (ScvO2 ).

      Demographic data will be summarized as mean ± SD where appropriate. Bland -Altman plot will
      be done to compare both methods for obtaining the cardiac output measurements. Linear
      regression analysis, Bland-Altman plot and Pearson test will be used to evaluate the
      correlation between SvO2 and ScvO2. A p-value of < 0.05 will be considered as significant.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA: Patients will be excluded if they are on Intra Aortic Balloon Pump
      (IABP), requiring emergency chest reopening, significant arrhythmia which causes an irregular
      arterial waveform and tricuspid regurgitation as ruled out during the pre operative
      echocardiogram.
    
  