
    
      Pilonidal disease is an inflammatory and infectious condition most often affecting young
      adult males. Though the pathogenesis is still debated, it is thought that tears in hair
      follicles of the natal cleft form small crevices where hairs and debris can collect. Over
      time, constant friction and stretching from daily movement pulls the debris deeper into the
      cavity creating a sinus. The patient is susceptible to recurrent infections because of the
      constant warmth, humidity, and exposure to skin and gut flora in the affected area. The
      clinical presentation of this condition may be acute or chronic and ranges from small,
      asymptomatic pits in the skin, to large abscesses with purulent and blood drainage.

      Initial treatments for pilonidal disease typically include trials of conservative treatments
      such as improved personal hygiene with regular shaving or laser hair removal, before surgical
      interventions are considered. Minimally invasive options include injection of phenol, fibrin
      glue, cyanoacrylate into the affected areas. For patients failing conservative management, or
      with extensive disease, surgical management has been the standard of care.

      There are a wide variety of surgical techniques for refractory pilonidal disease. These
      include excision with lay open or primary closure, incision and marsupialization, excision
      with V-Y, W-, and Z-plasty flap. Other procedures described include rhomboid excision and
      Limberg flap, and excision with off-midline closure. This lack of standardization suggests a
      complex problem without optimal treatment. The MIPE procedure with trephine excision of pits
      and sinuses provides an elegant solution for the majority of patients, maximizing clearance
      of hair follicles and diseased tissue while minimizing morbidity.

      Discrepancies in recurrence rates, lengths of hospital course, time to return to work, and
      patients' aesthetic satisfaction between the various treatment options has led to great
      controversy over the best approach. Among the surgical options, some studies have reported
      shorter operative time, hospital stay, and time for wound healing with the excision with
      primary closure method, whereas flap techniques generally have a lower incidence of
      recurrence. However, other studies have shown shorter hospital duration and time to return to
      work specifically for the Limberg flap in comparison to primary closure. Controversy aside,
      the various surgical methods prioritize complete excision of diseased tissue at the expense
      of dissatisfying wound aesthetics.

      MIPE with trephination was introduced by Gips et al, as an alternative excision strategy that
      allows for thorough pilonidal debridement while minimizing the need for general anesthesia,
      inpatient post-operative care, and disfiguring wound healing. Though there is an increased
      recurrence rate, this simple outpatient procedure allows for repeat excision at the onset of
      disease recurrence.

      The investigators aim to study the use of this procedure in children and young adults.
    
  