
    
      An observational, descriptive, cross-sectional, prospective and multicenter study was
      conducted to know the usual practice (audit) in critical care units and about the assessment
      of pain, sedation, delirium and the use of mechanical restraints.

      At the same time, the level of pain, sedation / agitation and presence of delirium were
      evaluated in all adult patients who were admitted to the participating units with a minimum
      stay of 24 hours in the unit.

      Process In order to obtain the largest representation of Spanish Intensive Care Units, a
      network of research nurses was created with coordinators in each autonomous community. The
      function of the coordinators was to contact and recruit units of adult critical patients
      within their community. Each coordinator contacted the centers (public and private), creating
      a network of collaborating nurses from those units who expressed their willingness to
      participate and who obtained the authorization of their Research Ethics Committee. Each unit
      was asked to contact a collaborating nurse for the project.

      Once the national network of collaborating nurses was created, through the community
      coordinators, each password was given to each nurse to access the platform created for data
      entry. The platform offered access to all the documents (methodology, timeline, recommended
      assessment tools, navigation tutorial for the platform).

      Data collection The tool used was an ad hoc survey with online access which consisted of 2
      blocks. The first block asked about the characteristics of the units, the nurse-patient
      ratio, the existence of protocols and the usual practice for the control of pain, sedation /
      agitation, delirium and the use of mechanical restraints in the unit.

      In the second block, questions were asked about aspects of direct assistance to patients, and
      direct evaluation of pain level, sedation / agitation of patients as well as the presence of
      delirium and mechanical containment.

      Evaluation of patients included The data collection was done by direct observation and in the
      same period in all participating units. These data were entered into the platform through a
      "Patient Code", created automatically by the system.

      To assess pain in patients, the investigators used two scales, for patients with the ability
      to communicate, the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scale was recommended and for patients
      without the ability to communicate the Scale of Behavioral Indicators of Pain (ESCID). The
      evaluation of the level of sedation / agitation was recommended to be carried out with the
      Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) and delirium with the Confusion Assessment Method
      for the Intensive Care Unit (CAM-ICU).

      The data on the use of tools to assess pain, sedation / agitation and delirium, as well as
      the recording of the use of mechanical restraints, were collected retrospectively on the
      nursing records of the patients evaluated, the day after their assessment.

      Statistic analysis First, a descriptive analysis was made of the general characteristics of
      the participating units and the study population, presenting the data with means and standard
      deviations (SD) or medians and interquartile ranges (RIC), as appropriate. Group comparison
      was performed with the Student t test for quantitative variables or nonparametric tests, as
      appropriate, and Fischer's test or chi-square for qualitative variables. The data was
      analyzed with the statistical package IBM SPSS Statistics 21.0 for Windows
    
  