
    
      Primary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the asthma control in children and adolescents with persistent asthma, and
           its relationship with patient characteristics, treatment and health-related variables
           (treatment adherence, inhalation technique, inhaler device, asthma triggers, and smoking
           exposure, among others).

        2. To assess the health-related quality of life of children and adolescents with persistent
           asthma, and its relationship with patient characteristics, treatment and health-related
           variables (asthma control, treatment adherence and inhalation technique, inhaler device,
           asthma triggers, and smoking exposure, among others).

        3. To assess the risk of severe asthma exacerbations in children and adolescents with
           persistent asthma and its relationship with patient characteristics, treatment, and
           health-related variables (asthma control, treatment adherence and inhalation technique,
           inhaler device, health-related quality of life, asthma triggers, and smoking exposure,
           among others).

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the effect of monitoring inhalation techniques on patients' performance
           according to recommended actions when using inhalers, and outcomes such as asthma
           control, health-related quality of life, and asthma exacerbations.

        2. To assess the treatment adherence in children and adolescents with persistent asthma,
           and its relationship with other treatment-related factors (inhaler technique, inhaler
           device, adherence attitudes, and beliefs about illness, inhaler and exacerbations, among
           others).

        3. To evaluate health inequalities in children and adolescents with asthma in Spain.

      ARCA is a prospective multicenter observational study in children and adolescents with a
      clinical diagnosis of persistent asthma. This clinical diagnosis of asthma is defined as the
      presence of wheezing three times in the last year that improves with the use of
      bronchodilators. Participants are consecutively recruited in outpatient pediatric pulmonology
      hospital consultations and primary care physicians.

      Patient-reported information is obtained by computer-assisted telephone interviews (CATI) and
      a mobile application (ARCA App). Telephone interviews are performed by trained interviewers
      to children 8-16 years old and parents/caregivers of children 6-7 years of age, immediately
      after recruitment and every 6 months. It includes the evaluation of asthma control,
      prescribed asthma treatment, adherence, and severe asthma exacerbations. Information about
      inhalation techniques, socioeconomic status, smoking exposure, triggers, use of peak flow,
      symptom diary, perceived asthma care, adherence attitudes, and beliefs about illness, inhaler
      and exacerbations is also collected.

      The 'ARCA app' combines 3 age versions: parents/guardians (proxy response) for children 6-7
      years old, children aged 8-11 years (self-response), and adolescents aged 12-16 years
      (self-response). The application consists in an interactive chat, simulating a conversation
      by Short Message Service (SMS) or Instant Messaging Application (WhatsApp) with someone in
      real time. It includes the monthly administration of 2 questions (global rating of change and
      severe asthma exacerbations). At the beginning, after downloading the app, and every two
      months different standardized questionnaires are administered by turns: the EuroQol (EQ-5D),
      the Pediatric Asthma Impact Scale (PAIS), inhalation techniques scale, and environment
      support. These latter scales are administered randomly to two groups of equal size, defined
      within the subsample recruited by each pediatrician.

      All the information that each participant answers through the app can be viewed by the
      pediatrician through a specific platform. The results of the different questionnaires are
      shown in charts reflecting the patient's answers over time, using the traffic lights code:
      green for good outcomes, amber for intermediate, and red for poor. Clinical data is
      registered at recruitment and annually during the follow-up.

      Sample size: To detect differences between two groups in the Asthma Control Questionnaire
      score of 0.3 SD, 175 patients per group would be required to have a statistical power of 80%,
      at a significance level of 5%.
    
  