
    
      3.2.1 Allocation concealment The volunteers are randomized using sealed opaque envelopes with
      a 1:1 ratio. The randomization defines which leg will be used for insertion of a catheter in
      the long-axis plane and which leg will be used for insertion in the short-axis plane of the
      adductor canal. The envelopes are prepared by health personnel with no relation to the study
      based on a computer-generated list.

      3.2.2 Blinding Volunteers will be blinded to allocation. An opaque sterile draping will be
      used for insertion to prevent volunteers from observing the catheter insertion. After
      insertion the catheters will be covered with bandages to prevent unblinding of the
      volunteers. The investigator responsible for insertion of the catheters will leave the room
      after insertion and a separate assessor blinded to allocation will perform outcome
      assessments. On day 2 the investigator responsible for primary insertion will assess catheter
      position with ultra-sound (US), record a video for the assessors, injection of local
      anesthetics and cover the catheter in bandages. A separate blinded assessor will again
      perform the outcome assessment

      3.2.3 Execution During catheter placement the volunteers are monitored using pulse oximetry
      and a secure intravenous access is obtained. A baseline sensory assessment is performed where
      cold sensation on the medial side of the lower leg is tested using alcohol swabs.

      A peripheral nerve catheter will be inserted on each side under US guidance. This involves
      skin punctures at the site of insertion and at the exit site. To facilitate insertion the
      skin is locally infiltrated with lidocaine. Intravenous analgesia is provided if necessary
      (alfentanil 0.5mg/ml).

      One catheter is inserted in the short-axis plane of the adductor canal using an in plane
      technique. The second catheter is inserted in the long-axis plane using a dynamic combination
      of in plane and out of plane techniques. 10ml of normal saline is used for hydro dissection
      in both catheters. When the catheters are in place 15 mL of LA (lidocaine 10mg/ml) is
      injected in each catheter. Distance from catheter orifice to artery is noted in the short
      axis group and distance from catheter orifice to fascia penetration is noted in the long axis
      group. After injection, the catheters are fixated to the skin with dressings.

      Successful primary placement of the catheters will be tested 30 minutes after injection by a
      blinded investigator using a bilateral assessment of sensory function as described
      previously. Furthermore, cutaneous mapping is performed to assess affected cutaneous area.

      Subsequently the volunteers are sent home with the catheter in situ and return the following
      day. The volunteers are instructed not to exercise -i.e. running, cycling, weight training
      etc.

      On day 2 the catheter position is assessed with US during injection of LA and the distance
      from catheter orifice to artery/fascia is determined. A sensory assessment is performed. If
      there is no loss of cold sensation the catheter is registered as displaced and is therefore
      manually repositioned and injected with LA using US guidance. Assessment of cold sensation is
      repeated. Further, two investigators will independently watch a video clip of the injection
      procedure to assess whether the position is within the adductor canal. Total duration of
      participation for the individual volunteers will be 2 days.
    
  