
    
      Background

      Despite current academic debates percutaneous vertebroplasty (VP) has been convincingly used
      for the treatment of osteoporotic compression fractures all around the world.
      Polymethylmethacrylate bone cement is directly injected into a fractured vertebral body
      through one or two bone biopsy needles to stabilize the fracture fragments and to possibly
      improve the vertebral body height. The fracture pain represents a significant burden for the
      patients, limiting physical function, quality of life and increasing social isolation.

      The immediate and clinically relevant pain alleviation after vertebroplasty does therefore
      have a large impact on patients' mobility, autonomy and quality of life.

      The current state of the art in the treatment of acute osteoporotic vertebral compression
      fractures that are nonresponsive to conservative treatment is still augmentation of the
      fractures with VP or balloon kyphoplasty (BKP) given an intact posterior vertebral body wall.
      BKP is claimed to be saver by reducing the occurrence of cement leakages and more effective
      in reducing the fracture, i.e. reconstituting vertebral body height. While the first argument
      largely depends on the definition of an adverse event, i.e. is an asymptomatic radiologically
      visible cement leakage truly a complication, the second argument could not hold its promise
      since the regained vertebral body height is partially lost after balloon deflation. This
      problem is tackled by further developed BKP technologies like vertebral body stenting (VBS).
      From a cost-effectiveness perspective, VP is superior to conservative medical care and one
      can postulate that it is hence also more cost-effective than BKP which is a much more costly
      treatment option.In addition, it is the only prophylactic augmentation option that does not
      "destroy" intact unfractured bone structures by deployment of the balloon but does only
      augment them. It is hence the least aggressive augmentation option for prophylaxis.

      Osteoporosis as the underlying disease leads to an increased risk of fractures of the
      adjacent vertebral bodies, with incidences up to 22% in the first year. After fracture
      augmentation new fractures in the spine can occur. This leads to reoperations in a frail
      population with high numbers of American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) 3-4 patients.
      Any non-life-saving surgical intervention in these patients needs to be avoided. Therefore,
      prophylactic augmentation of the adjacent non-fractured vertebral bodies is a treatment
      option which is safe and may reduce reoperation rates. Since VP is currently under scientific
      and clinical scrutiny and calls for level-one-evidence become audible everywhere, the
      investigators plan to assess the hypothesis that prophylactic augmentation significantly
      decreases reoperation rates for adjacent new fractures with a randomized controlled trial.

      Objective

      The aim of the proposed study is to show the effect of preventive augmentations of adjacent
      vertebral bodies on 6 (12) months reoperation rates.

      Subjects with an acute (<= 6 weeks) single level osteoporotic compression fracture, meeting
      the inclusion criteria and having no exclusion criterion will be randomized to either single
      level fracture fixation with vertebroplasty or triple level augmentation with VP fixation of
      the fracture and additional prophylactic vertebroplasty in both adjacent levels. The
      hypothesis is that prophylactic VP augmentation of both adjacent vertebral bodies in acute
      single level osteoporotic compression fractures results in significantly lower reoperation
      rates for new spinal fractures within 6 months after surgery compared to isolated single
      level fracture fixation.

      Methods

      This is an open label mono-center randomized controlled pilot trial. Given the timeframe and
      budget of the study, the investigators aim at conducting a pilot trial for clinically
      verifying the sample size calculation in order to have a sound basis of information for
      planning a larger multicenter trial. The inclusion of primary cases will last for 12 months,
      the followup intervals for each case will be 2 and 6 months since the large majority of new
      fractures appears within that time window. 12 months followup will be conducted by
      mail/telephone interview. Preliminary calculation of results, i.e. a new corrected sample
      size will hence be carried out at the end of one and a half years. Two treatment groups will
      be compared:

      Group 1: single level fracture fixation with vertebroplasty, Group 2: triple level
      augmentation with VP fixation of the fracture and additional prophylactic vertebroplasty in
      both the adjacent levels.
    
  