
    
      A significant increase in the number of patients receiving hip or knee replacements can be
      expected in the coming years, for two main reasons: an increase in the number of elderly
      patients in the society and the fact that joint replacements are offered to younger patients
      because of an improvement in materials, designs, and survivorship of prostheses in general.
      As a result, healthcare institutions are facing pressure to provide more services, while
      decreasing overall spending.

      H么pital Montfort is an important component of the healthcare structure in Ottawa and Eastern
      Ontario, providing hip or knee replacements to roughly 1200 patients every year. These
      include total hip and knee replacements, partial medial and lateral knee replacements, and
      patellafemoral replacements. Some partial knee replacement surgeries are bilateral, meaning
      both knees are operated at the same sitting.An increase in the demand for joint replacements
      is expected. This will follow the national trend of the last 5 years (2012-2017): 17.8%
      increase in hip replacements and 15.5% increase in knee replacements. This in turn will
      continue to place an unbearable financial burden on the healthcare system, as implanted
      components are very expensive. Furthermore, patients undergoing joint replacement also often
      require the use of ancillary services such as physiotherapy, occupational therapy, and
      inpatient rehabilitation. However, the healthcare system is under tremendous strain, as
      budgets can no longer allow previous levels of spending. It is this current economic context
      that is forcing healthcare professionals to find ways to decrease costs as much as possible,
      while maintaining productivity.

      Over 95% of joint replacements at H么pital Montfort are performed under spinal anesthetic.
      Intrathecal morphine is added to standard anesthetic medication for better immediate
      post-operative pain control, which in turn facilitates rapid patient mobilization. However,
      most orthopedic surgeons would prefer to avoid morphine, because of a recognized higher
      incidence of post-operative side-effects, mainly urinary retention, nausea, and vomiting. It
      is very difficult to send patients home when they cannot urinate, tolerate oral intake, or
      mobilize safely. Patients who experience one of these post-operative complications stay in
      hospital. Discharging these patients home can be unsafe, but also leads to patient
      dissatisfaction, and the perception of uncaring and unsympathetic care. Many patients do not
      understand the financial implications of a prolonged stay in hospital, and expect that they
      can stay as long as they want.

      A medication that can meet all our patients' needs: effective analgesia, early mobilization,
      and minimal negative side effects, is still to be found, so patients can go home sooner, The
      anesthesia literature seems to indicate that hydromorphone might be the right choice, but no
      study compared intrathecal morphine and hydromorphone usage in the adult population.

      QUESTIONS

        -  Will the use of intrathecal hydromorphone (compared to morphine and placebo) for
           patients undergoing joint replacement:

             -  diminish the incidence of urinary retention requiring catheterization?

             -  diminish the incidence of nausea and vomiting?

             -  be associated with equivalent or better pain control?

             -  be associated with equivalent or better post-operative function and mobilization?

             -  allow earlier discharge, with shorter LOS?

             -  cause unpredicted negative outcomes, such as higher rate of post-operative
                emergency department visit or readmission before first post-operative visit?

        -  Will patients in thecontrol group do as well as patients in the intrathecal narcotic
           groups, with respect to pain control and mobilization, as well as negative secondary
           side effects? OBJECTIVES

        -  Main objective: compare intrathecal hydromorphone to morphine and control, looking
           specifically for differences in post-operative negative effects (urinary retention,
           nausea and vomiting, pain levels, mobilization and function)

        -  Secondary objectives:

             -  Patient specific: improve patient experience by offering improved spinal anesthetic
                that will provide the best possible patient experience by facilitating recovery and
                decreasing post-operative complications related to anesthetic medications.

             -  Hospital-specific: identify which spinal anesthetic combination of medications will
                allow earliest discharge from hospital, thereby saving money for the hospital

             -  System-specific: identify which spinal anesthetic combination of medications will
                allow us to extrapolate this to a potential out-patient total joint replacement
                program.

      HYPOTHESIS

        -  Spinal anesthetic with intrathecal narcotic has been shown to increase post-operative
           urinary retention, with rates ranging from 40% (14) to 60%, and even as high as 70% in
           one review article. Some centres are therefore avoiding intrathecal narcotics
           altogether, and finding non-inferior results by adding adductor canal blocks and local
           infiltration to the spinal. Based on a preliminary review of the literature, the
           investigators expect to show that intrathecal hydromorphone is associated with less
           urinary retention, nausea and vomiting, than morphine, without jeopardizing pain control
           and patient mobilization. This will allow to exploit the positive analgesic benefits of
           intrathecal narcotics, without risking the possible side effects associated with the
           large volumes of local anesthetic required for blocks and peri-articular infiltration.

        -  Therefore a shorter lenght of stay is expected.

        -  Bboth forms of intrathecal narcotic to provide better pain control than spinal without
           narcotic.

        -  Spinal without narcotic leads to lower incidence of urinary retention, nausea and
           vomiting.

      METHODOLOGY

      Design and procedures:

      Subject to hospital ethics review, the investigators will conduct a prospective randomized
      double-blind study of patients undergoing total hip or knee replacement, as well as partial
      knee replacements (medial, lateral, patellafemoral, or bilateral). All groups will be matched
      for age, sex, American Society of Anesthesiologists class, and type of surgery. An attempt
      will be made to achieve a similar proportion of THA, TKA, and partial knee replacements in
      each group. Patients will be assigned to one of the following groups:

        1. Patients receiving spinal anesthetic with standard painkillers without intrathecal
           narcotics

        2. Patients receiving spinal anesthetic with 100 micrograms of intrathecal morphine

        3. Patients receiving spinal anesthetic with 20 micrograms of intrathecal hydromorphone
           (which has a potency of 5:1 relative to morphine) All the prepared syringes will be 0.2
           ml in volume. Medication syringes will be prepared ahead of time by Pharmacy, and
           distributed according to the randomization process (see below). The surgeon will follow
           his or her regular surgical technique, while the anesthetist will be responsible for all
           aspects of anesthetic care. The investigators will follow our pre-established hip and
           knee protocols, which cover pre-medication (prophylaxis for pain, nausea, vomiting),
           post-operative management, physiotherapy and occupational therapy, etc.

      Recruitment and randomization:

      The sample size for this study was determined based on analyses for the primary outcome of
      urinary retention. As mentioned above, previous studies have reported variable incidence
      rates of post-operative urinary retention and catheterization for arthroplasty, anywhere from
      0 to 70%. Although statistics for 2017-2018 at H么pital Montfort revealed a relatively low
      incidence rate (less than 10%), the lack of consistent diagnostic and reporting criteria
      render this value unreliable (and likely underreported) for sample size computations.

      The investigators therefore assumed a more realistic incidence of approximately 30%
      consistent with previous studies, taking into account factors such as sex, surgery type,
      anesthesia, etc. Using GPower, the investigators calculated that 155 patients would be
      required in each study arm to show a 50% percent reduction in the rate of urinary retention
      between treatment groups (two-tailed). This number of subjects (465 in total) would give 80%
      power at the 0.02 level (.05 divided by 3 comparisons).

      The H么pital Montfort Arthroplasty Clinic physiotherapist assessors, who do the preliminary
      assessments and education for all of patients, will identify eligible patients. Consent to
      participate in this study will not be obtained until patients have met first with their
      orthopedic surgeon (to go over the surgical procedure and post-operative expectations), and
      then seen an anaesthetist in the pre-admission clinic to go over the anaesthetic protocol,
      and the three anesthetic options associated with this study. The consent form will be signed
      in the pre-admission clinic, and witnessed by a nurse or the anaesthetist consultant, once
      the patient expresses understanding and acceptance of the principles of this study.

      Patients will be randomized into the three groups by computer-generated random assignment
      using SPSS software.

      Allocations will be generated using permuted blocks of randomly varying lengths of 3 or 6 to
      maintain close balance of the numbers of patients in each treatment group at any time during
      the trial and to ensure allocation concealment.

      Primary and secondary analyses. All data will be entered and analyzed in SPSS version 22.
      Data will be cleaned and summary statistics will be computed, notably means, medians and
      standard deviation for continuous variables and frequencies (%) for categorical variables.
      The primary outcome of urinary retention will be analyzed via chi square test with p < .02
      (adjusted for multiple comparisons). A backward stepwise logistic regression model yielding
      odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) will be performed to analyze the treatment
      effect when adjusting for possible covariates (e.g., age, sex, type of surgery,
      post-operative care, etc.). The goodness of fit of the regression model will be evaluated by
      the Hosmer-Lemeshow test. Secondary binary outcomes (i.e., incidence of nausea and vomiting)
      will be analyzed in the same fashion.

      The strategy for analyzing count variables (e.g., episodes of vomiting, analgesics) will
      depend on the distribution of the data, though the chi-square test will be the preferred
      initial approach to examine the unique effect of group (two-tailed, alpha adjusted for
      multiple comparisons). A negative binomial regression model will allow for examining the
      contributing influence of possible covariates listed above.

      The effect of treatment group on continuous outcome variables (e.g., length of stay, patient
      questionnaire scores) will initially be analyzed via one-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)
      with post-hoc pairwise comparisons (with Bonferroni correction). Non-parametric tests (i.e.,
      Mann-Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis) will be considered for non-normally distributed data. Despite
      some contention regarding the analyses of visual analogue scales (i.e., pain measurement),
      non-parametric approaches seem to be favoured and therefore a Kruskal-Wallis test will be
      applied (with post-hoc pairwise comparisons). Next, multiple step-wise linear regression
      models will be considered to examine the effect of possible baseline covariates.
    
  