
    
      The investigators wish to study the effect of nuts on glycemic control and to confirm their
      lipid lowering effects in type 2 diabetes. The consumption of nuts with their high
      unsaturated fat, vegetable protein (arginine) and fiber contents will decrease the glycemic
      load of the diet and improve glycemic control. The investigators anticipate that the
      favorable fatty acid profile of nuts along with the vegetable protein will improve the blood
      lipid profile in type 2 diabetes and thereby establish a cardiovascular risk reduction
      associated with nuts in this population.

      Furthermore, flavonoids and vitamin E present in high concentrations in nuts, and known to
      have antioxidant activity may help to counter the elevated oxidative stress and inflammation
      experienced by diabetics. The investigators will therefore determine the effect of nut
      feeding on measures of oxidative stress (including oxidized low-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol (LDL-C), considered to be of direct relevance to coronary heart disease),
      inflammation (C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A and interleukin-6) and nitric oxide
      metabolism (blood nitric oxide and nitrotyrosine levels). These data would further add to
      interest in nuts in relation to cardiovascular disease risk reduction and diabetic
      complications.

      Background Diet: A diet conforming to the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and National
      Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines. Nuts, soy and
      dietary supplements (vitamins, minerals, herbal remedies) will be excluded in the background
      diet during all phases of the study.

      Treatment diets:(1) Full-Dose Nut Diet: Raw nuts will be added as supplements to the
      subject's usual diet. Subjects with calorie needs of 2,400 kcal or greater, assessed by Lipid
      Research Clinic (LRC) tables, will receive the full-dose supplement (100 g/d of nuts,
      approximately 600 kcal). Subjects requiring between 1,600-2,400 kcal daily will receive 75%
      of the full-dose supplement (75 g/d of nuts, approximately 450 kcal). Subjects requiring less
      than 1,600 kcal daily will receive 50% of the full-dose supplement (50 g/d of nuts,
      approximately 300 kcal). (2) Half-Dose Nut Diet: Raw nuts will be added as supplements to the
      subject's usual diet. Subjects with calorie needs of 2,400 kcal or greater, assessed by LRC
      tables, will receive half of the full dose of the nut supplement (50 g/d of nuts,
      approximately 300 kcal) with the rest of the calories provided by the muffin (2 muffins are
      300 kcal) for a total of 600 kcal. Subjects requiring between 1,600-2,400 kcal daily will
      receive 75% of the half-dose supplement (37.5 g/d of nuts and 1.5 muffins, approximately 450
      kcal). Subjects requiring less than 1,600 kcal daily will receive 50% of the half-dose
      supplement (25 g/d of nuts and 1 muffin, approximately 300 kcal). (3): The full-dose control
      supplement will be four 150 kcal muffins. Control supplements will be matched with the energy
      content of the nut supplements, i.e. either 600 kcal/d (4 muffins); 450 kcal/d (3 muffins);
      300 kcal/d (2 muffins). The macronutrient composition of the muffins will conform to an NCEP
      Step 2 diet with 25% total fat, <7% saturated fat by use of corn oil as the oil commonly used
      in healthy baked goods, with 18% protein (the average for our subject population) using added
      skim milk powder, and zero cholesterol. Muffins will be made with whole wheat flour.

      Diet History: one-week weighed diet histories will be obtained prior to the start and at
      weeks 4, 8 and 12 of the study for assessment of macronutrients, dietary fiber and fatty
      acids.

      Palatability/Satiety: for palatability and satiety, subjects will record their ratings using
      a 7-point bipolar semantic scale at monthly intervals during each study phase.

      Anthropometry and Blood Pressure: height at recruitment and body weight, blood pressure,
      waist and hip circumference, and body composition will be taken immediately prior to and at
      each clinic visit (wk 0, 2, 4, 8, 10, 12) during the study.
    
  