
    
      The objective of this study is to better define how the genes that cause primary ciliary
      dyskinesia (PCD) are related to the clinical symptoms of individuals with PCD. PCD is a rare
      disease that affects the function of motor cilia throughout the body. This results in a
      variety of clinical symptoms, but chief among them are a chronic wet cough, recurrent
      sinusitis, and frequent pneumonia. These clinical symptoms can result in further structural
      lung disease, including bronchiectasis, with eventual worsening of lung function. The
      treatment for this condition largely focuses on augmenting airway clearance and appropriate
      use of antimicrobial therapies, in conjunction with monitoring for evidence of pulmonary
      impairment. Thus, it is important to identify and diagnose individuals with PCD early in
      life.

      Making a diagnosis of PCD can be difficult as their is some overlap of the clinical symptoms
      with other conditions and there are limitation in the current diagnostic testing modalities.
      Historically, the diagnosis has been made by identification of structural abnormalities in
      cilia by electron microscopy (ciliary biopsy). However, this testing has limitations
      secondary to the somewhat invasive nature of the procedures and often inconclusive results
      secondary to sampling challenges (getting enough cilia). Furthermore, a normal ciliary biopsy
      result does not rule-out PCD as it is now known that there are individuals with PCD who have
      ciliary dysfunction secondary to ciliary abnormalities that are not routinely identified on
      standard electron micrograph. Genetic testing for PCD is available, but current testing only
      accounts for about 60-65% of the PCD population. Thus normal results in this regard do not
      rule-out PCD either. Nasal nitric oxide (nNO) testing is an emerging research-based testing
      that is being used more frequently to identify individuals with PCD. More specifically, it
      has been frequently observed that individuals with PCD have low levels of nitric oxide in
      their sinus cavities. Measuring a low level of nitric oxide of multiple different occasions
      has proven to have diagnostic utility in an individual with a clinical symptom history
      consistent with PCD. While nNO testing is helpful for identifying individuals likely to have
      PCD, this testing does not give further information as to reason for ciliary dysfunction.
      Current testing availability has resulted in a group of individuals who are being managed as
      "probable PCD" which is defined by having clinical symptoms consistent with PCD (such as
      year-round wet cough and rhinitis) at least two separate positive (low value) nNO testing
      results, but negative PCD genetics and a non diagnostic ciliary biopsy. While these
      individuals are often managed the same as other individuals with more defined PCD, including
      augmentation of airway clearance therapies, in order for more specific care to be applied in
      the future it is important to better define the ciliary structural reason for their clinical
      symptoms. This could also be described as needing to better understand the genotype-phenotype
      of all individuals with PCD.

      This investigation seeks to better define the genotypic-phenotypic relationship of
      individuals by initially focusing on new gene discovery in individuals with probable PCD.
      More specifically, through whole-exome evaluation of individuals with probable PCD and
      unaffected first-degree relatives, we will focus on identifying new mutations in ciliary
      structural proteins and other related pulmonary genes. New gene targets will then be further
      studied through analysis of ciliary structure and function.
    
  