
    
      Hyperthyroidism is defined by a decrease in thyrotropin (TSH) level associated with elevated
      or normal free T4 and T3 (subclinical hyperthyroidism). The most frequent etiology in the
      older population is toxic adenoma or toxic multinodular goiter. Several studies have
      demonstrated that such hyperthyroid status was associated with an increase in cardiac
      arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation) and an increase in cardiovascular mortality. Nevertheless,
      the management of patients presenting with subclinical hyperthyroidism remains controversial.

      Surgery is indicated in case of large toxic adenomas especially in young patients. In
      European countries, radioiodine treatment is indicated in older patients, especially
      presenting with cardiothyreosis or when surgery is contraindicated. Radioiodine is a simple,
      cost-effective, and safe procedure in the treatment of autonomously hyperfunctioning thyroid
      nodule. In a prospective study [Nygaard, 1999], there was a 45% decrease in the total thyroid
      volume within 3 months after radio-iodine treatment, and 75% of patients with no previous
      anti-thyroid drug treatment normalized for thyroid function within 3 months. In another
      recently published prospective study [Endorgan, 2004], there was a decrease in hot nodules
      volume assessed by US of 28.8% 3 months, 46.2% 6 months and 54% 12 months after radioiodine
      treatment, and 66.7% of patients were euthyroid at 3 months, 71.8% at 6 months, 76.9% at 12
      months. The AACE guidelines for the diagnosis and management of thyroid nodules [Feld, 1996]
      recommend that all patients with toxic autonomous thyroid nodules require treatment and
      remind that radioactive iodine is the treatment of choice for most patients with toxic
      nodules. Nevertheless, at the present time there are no published data that demonstrate the
      effectiveness of radioiodine treatment on the prevention of cardiac complications in case of
      subclinical hyperthyroidism. When radioiodine treatment is proposed, physicians must follow
      regulations and policies on 131I in Europe and US. The European Union recently adopted the
      main international commission on radiological protection (ICRP) recommendations on radiation
      protection. Such regulation may raise a number of practical problems for 131I treated
      patients. With the exception of a few countries as Germany and Switzerland, there often is no
      legislation defining the maximal dose of radioiodine that can be administered on an
      ambulatory basis. Policies and recommendations have been proposed to reduce the radiation
      hazards for the public or the family leaving around the radioiodine treated patients.

      Therefore, because of these radioprotection recommendations, and because of contraindication
      to surgery and to radioiodine in some cases, an alternative treatment for toxic nodular
      nodules, HIFU, may be suggested.

      The aim of the study is to assess the efficacy and safety of HIFU treatment for autonomous
      hyperfunctioning thyroid nodules. The main objective of the study is to assess the rate of
      patients with TSH normalization (or increase). US changes of treated nodules, especially the
      nodule volume, will be evaluated.
    
  