
    
      Nonadherence to cardiovascular medications and daily weight monitoring are critical issues in
      readmissions to the hospital for heart failure. Only 60% of patients adhere to prescribed
      cardiovascular medications on at least 80% of days, and only 40% monitor their weight daily,
      despite owning scales. Nationally, nonadherence contributes to excessive HF readmission rates
      of 50% within 6 months, and 24% within 30 days of discharge. To raise awareness and
      accountability, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) began reporting these
      rates in 2009, and the Affordable Care Act and value-based contracts with payers have
      established financial penalties to spur provider-based solutions.

      Telehealth interventions are an ideal, low-cost, scalable method to reduce readmissions by
      remotely enhancing patient support. Telehealth interventions for HF that target medication
      compliance and self-weighing have demonstrated reductions in readmission rates by 80% or
      more, but these are not yet widely adopted in clinical practice due to a lack of randomized,
      controlled studies. We are thus proposing a randomized, controlled study of a proprietary
      telehealth platform at University Medical Center of Princeton at Plainsboro (UMCPP) to enable
      remote support for HF patients through a mobile app combined with financial incentives to
      motivate adherence to medication and self-weighing. Patients admitted to UMCPP with the
      primary admitting or discharge diagnosis of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
      (EF<40%) (ICD-10 codes I50.2_) will be invited to participate in the study.

      Each patient in the intervention arm will be offered $150 in incentives along with the Wellth
      app loaded on to his or her smartphone. When users first log in to the app, which will occur
      with the guidance of a healthcare provider trained in its use, they will be shown a large
      dollar amount that they have earned by enrolling in the program - in this study $150 will be
      offered for 90 days of perfect adherence to medications and daily self-weighing using
      connected digital scales provided by Wellth. Instructions will also be given stating that
      missed weight and medication check-ins will result in a $2 deduction per day from the account
      to be paid out at each monthly pay period.

      If a 2 lb. or greater daily increase in weight, or a 5 lb. weekly increase in weight, is
      detected in any patient, a UMCPP physician or nurse will be alerted via automatic email and
      text. A physician or a nurse will then call the patient to assess the patient's symptoms
      (i.e. increasing shortness of breath or decreases in exertional tolerance, medication and
      dietary adherence). Once a weight gain alert has been triggered, the team will continue to
      receive additional data about the patient for the next 7 days to see if weight continues to
      increase which would trigger an additional phone call and patient physician notification.

      After a call is made to the patient, if, in the clinical judgment of the physician or nurse
      that there are increasing heart failure symptoms, the physician or nurse will suggest to the
      patient that they make an appointment and see their doctor within the next 48 hours.

      Benefits of this study to the intervention arm include better health, reduced risk of
      readmission, and concomitant reduction in healthcare burden, as well as a small but tangible
      financial gain. Benefits for society, assuming widely applicable success, include reduction
      in population-wide readmission rates due to greater health, and reduction in healthcare
      spending.
    
  