
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, phase II-III trial conducted to
      assess safety and efficacy of the live attenuated Towne CMV vaccine in seronegative women who
      have children in daycare. Only one dosage and one route of administration will be used. The
      primary objective of the study is to evaluate safety and efficacy of the Towne vaccine in
      preventing CMV infection in seronegative women with children in daycare. The secondary
      objective is to define the antibody response to CMV, specifically neutralizing, avidity,
      isotype response, antigen specificity, and cellular responses which are markers for
      protection against infection or viremia. The primary study endpoint is the percentage of
      people who develop evidence of a primary CMV infection. Each participant, after providing
      consent, will be screened for evidence of previous CMV infection (CMV antibody). Seronegative
      participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive a single immunization with either the CMV
      vaccine (SC) or one dose of Havrix (hepatitis A vaccine, IM), which will act as the control.
      A second Havrix dose will be offered at the termination of the study. All subjects will be
      offered a dose of Havrix if exposed to hepatitis A. Although only seronegative women will be
      enrolled, women will not be told their serologic status. An explanation will be given for
      this action. Participants receiving the CMV vaccine will receive 6000 PFU and participants
      receiving the hepatitis A vaccine will receive the standard licensed dose of 1440 EL.U. for
      adults at enrollment and will be offered another dose of 1440 EL.U. at the end of study
      participation. Participants and study personnel will be unaware of the route of
      administration and will be blinded as to whether the participants receive vaccine or placebo.
      A total of 180 women between the ages of 18 and 45 will be enrolled. Subjects who discontinue
      prematurely will not be replaced. The duration of each individual's participation after
      enrollment will be 36 months or less. In order to determine a subject's household exposure to
      CMV, all family members are asked to provide urine and saliva for CMV culture every 3 months
      for up to 3 years. Seronegative fathers or sexual partners provide sera every 3 to 6 months
      to determine the infection rate among male spouses or partners since they may be a source of
      maternal infection. Safety data will include local and systemic reactogenicity after the dose
      of vaccine collected in a systematic format. For 30 minutes after vaccine administration
      subjects will under continuous observation by the study nurse with local and systemic
      assessment. Subjects will be monitored for vaccine associated illness as follows: (1)
      subjects will maintain a temperature chart for two weeks following vaccination. (2) subjects
      will be contacted by the research nurse every three days for two weeks following vaccination.
      If any local pain, swelling, or delayed hypersensitivity reaction develops, these symptoms
      will be inspected by the research nurse who will then measure the degree and duration of
      swelling. In addition, the nurse will determine the degree of severity of local reaction on a
      scale of 1 - 4, 1 being very mild and 4 being very severe. (3) At the time of each follow-up
      visit, a written interval history will be obtained from the participant regarding acute
      illnesses, hospitalization, drug or medications, or any changes in medical history or
      problems. Urine, saliva, will be collected every 2 months for 12 months and serum will be
      collected 1,2,4,6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36 months after vaccination. All children born to
      vaccinees will be tested for congenital CMV infection to determine if reactivated vaccine
      virus is transmitted transplacentally. The investigators will use PCR analysis of the DNAs of
      all viral isolates.
    
  