
    
      History and current related studies Femoral neck fracture is a common fracture that accounts
      for 3.58% of all fractures, easily occurs in the elderly with a gradually increased
      incidence, predisposes to bone nonunion, and greatly influences patient's mental and physical
      health. Bone nonunion easily occurs after femoral neck fracture because of anatomic position,
      biomechanical property and local blood supply. The objective of treatment of femoral neck
      fracture in patients aged 65 years and above is to rapidly restore lower limb function and
      reduce the complications caused by long term bed rest. Surgery for treatment of femoral neck
      fracture in the elderly is a satisfactory option because it not only contributes to recovery
      of joint function, but also decreases the incidence of complications. Several concerns are
      addressed during the process from design of internal fixation equipment to selection of
      clinical treatment protocol including minimizing surgical trauma, shortening length of
      surgery, and promoting functional recovery of hip joint. Osteoporosis is generally considered
      the most difficult problem to be solved after surgery for femoral neck fracture in the
      elderly patients. The key points of internal fixation for femoral neck fracture are to
      optimize bone space and strengthen fractured bone trabecula, yielding strong fixation
      biomechanically. Percutaneous internal fixation with cannulated compression screws has become
      a preferred treatment method of osteoporotic femoral neck fracture in elderly patients
      because of its short length of surgery and less blood loss, but insufficient holding power of
      used screws in the femoral neck cannot lead to strong fixation. Therefore, joint prosthesis
      is recommended for repair of femoral neck fracture in elderly patients. Implantation of
      femoral stem for treatment of early proximal femoral neck fracture has achieved confirmed
      clinical efficacy, but the long-term therapeutic effects in the treatment of osteoporotic
      fracture of proximal femoral neck remain poorly understood in patients with avascular
      necrosis of the femoral head.

      Novelty of this study The investigators performed a search of PubMed, Web of Science and
      Wanfang Database up to August 2016 for articles regarding artificial prosthesis treatment of
      osteoporotic femoral neck fracture and found that the majority of previous reports focused on
      early femoral neck fracture and patients were generally followed up no more than 6 months. In
      this study, we will for the first time investigate the feasibility of implantation of
      cemented femoral stem versus percutaneous internal fixation with cannulated compression
      screws in the treatment of osteoporotic femoral neck fracture in the elderly patients with
      avascular necrosis of the femoral head necrosis through a 12 month follow up observation in
      terms of hip joint function, pain, histocompatibility of biomaterial with host tissue, and
      postoperative complications.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open access An electronic data capture (EDC) system
      will be used for data collection and management. All study data will be in time recorded on
      the electronic case report form provided by the sponsor after patient's visits for recheck
      unless the outcomes cannot be achieved immediately. Thus, the recorded information can
      reflect patient's latest outcomes. Information accuracy will be rechecked after all included
      patients are followed up. The electronic data capture system will be locked by the project
      manager and will not be altered. All information relating to this trial will be preserved by
      Qinghai University Affiliated Hospital. The electronic data will be fully disclosed to a
      professional statistician for statistical analysis. Anonymized trial data will be published
      at http: www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis Normally distributed continuous variables will be expressed as the mean
      ±SD and non-normally distributed variables will be expressed as median and quartile.
      Categorical variables will be expressed as counts and percentages. All data will be
      statistically analyzed using SPSS 19.0 software (IBM Corp., Armonk, NU, USA). Two-samples
      t-test or Mann-Whitney U test will be used for comparisons of Harris hip scores and VAS
      scores between percutaneous internal fixation with cannulated compression screws and
      implantation of femoral stem. The chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used for
      comparison of histocompatibility of biomaterial with host tissue. A level of P < 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.

      Confidentiality Only the necessary data limited to studying the effectiveness and safety of
      percutaneous internal fixation with cannulated compression screws/implantation of femoral
      stem in the treatment of osteoporotic femoral neck fracture in the elderly patients will be
      collected and processed.

      The privacy of information regarding the patients will be safeguarded during data collection
      and processing, and related laws and regulations should be abided by as follows:

        -  The process of data collection is fair and legal.

        -  The objective of data collection is specialized, identified and legal.

        -  The collected data are abundant, relative but not excessive to the study objective, and
           the data unrelated to study objective will not be collected.

        -  The collected data are accurate and will be updated if necessary.

        -  Consent regarding data collection will be acquired before data collection.

        -  The collected data will not be disclosed to any non-authorized persons or unlawfully
           mistaken, lost or altered. During the whole study period, the sponsor persons who have
           the rights to read the patient's information will not disclose the information.

      Advantages and limitations of this study Advantages: This is a prospective, randomized
      controlled, open-label trial, in which we will evaluate the feasibility of percutaneous
      internal fixation with cannulated compression screws and implantation of cemented femoral
      stem in the treatment of osteoporotic femoral neck fracture complicated by avascular necrosis
      of the femoral head in the elderly patients through evaluating the safety and efficacy of
      these two surgical methods. In addition, scant information is reported on the
      biocompatibility of implants with host tissue in patients with osteoporotic femoral neck
      fracture in the elderly patients. Therefore, our findings will fill the gap.

      Limitations: Quality of life and daily activities are also important indices used to evaluate
      the efficacy of surgery. But this study will be limited to human and material sources, so
      evaluations on but not limited to Short Form (36) Health Survey and Barthel Index of
      Activities of Daily Living will not be performed, which will be considered in future studies.
    
  