
    
      The strong relationship between posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and interpersonal
      problems is well documented. PTSD is highly associated with relationship discord, increased
      intimate partner violence, and difficulties in connecting with others, leading to social
      isolation. These types of conflicts, as well as the social withdrawal that is common among
      Veterans with PTSD, diminish the Veteran's opportunities for interaction with supportive
      others, and serve as a barrier to successful posttraumatic adjustment. Treatments that have
      been "rolled out" nationally in VAMCs, e.g., Prolonged Exposure, Cognitive Processing
      Therapy, and Trauma-Focused CBT, do not directly target these relationship difficulties.
      Furthermore, data show that only a limited number of Veterans has fully engaged with these
      interventions. Evidence-based interventions of couples therapy are available, but are not
      logistically feasible for many couples and do not address the problems of those who are
      socially isolated. This application proposes a randomized clinical trial of Interpersonal
      Psychotherapy (IPT-PTSD) as a treatment for Veterans with PTSD and relationship problems.
      Pilot data suggest that this type of treatment may provide a useful alternative strategy for
      Veterans who would prefer an individual, relationship-focused approach. The investigators
      propose comparing IPT-PTSD with Prolonged Exposure (PE), an evidence based treatment for PTSD
      used in the VHA system. The investigators hypothesize that IPT-PTSD will be statistically
      equivalent to PE in reducing PTSD symptom severity, and superior to PE in improving
      interpersonal functioning. IPT-PTSD is also hypothesized to be more effective than PE in
      improving social adjustment and quality of life. Exploratory analyses will examine whether
      IPT-PTSD is more effective than PE in reducing suicidal ideation, and will examine
      hypothesized mediators of improvement in PTSD symptoms in IPT-PTSD.
    
  