
    
      At birth, the estimated gestational age and birth weight will be recorded, as well as the
      presence and type of other congenital anomalies.

      Prior to operation, the length of time from birth to repair will be recorded. To determine
      the severity of physiologic compromise, the need and type of ventilator support as well as
      the need and length of ECMO support will be recorded. The amount of time between ECMO
      discontinuation and repair will be recorded. The respiratory support required at the time of
      operation will be recorded.

      At operation, the size of the defect will be measured and recorded. The location (right
      versus left) will be recorded and special notation will be recorded regarding any areas where
      no diaphragmatic rim is present. The operative time and charges will be recorded.

      After the operation, the length of ventilator support, time to feeds, hospital stay, and
      hospital charges will be recorded. Post-operative complications such as bleeding
      complications, pneumonia, sepsis, gastroesophageal reflux, early recurrence and bowel
      obstruction will be recorded. Future operations and type of procedure will be recorded. If
      future operations in the abdomen are required, the amount and severity of intraperitoneal
      adhesions will be noted and recorded. Mortality will be recorded.

      After discharge, commensurate with standard current clinical practice, all patients will
      receive a follow-up appointment with a chest x-ray at 6 months and 1 year of life. After this
      time, follow-up appointments will be made each year for the first 5 years of life and imaging
      will be obtained on the basis of symptoms. Any further follow-up will be as needed for
      symptoms. Oxygen requirements, findings at follow-up and future hospitalization will be
      recorded, particularly looking at the presence or absence of hernia recurrence. The study
      will mature and effectively close when all subjects have reached 5 year follow-up.
    
  