
    
      Peripheral pulmonary lesions (PPLs), which include pulmonary nodules and masses, are a common
      problem in pulmonology practice. The incidence of PPLs will likely increase given the growing
      adoption of chest CT screening for lung cancer. There are several guidelines available for
      management of PPLs. If bronchoscopy is selected as the method of diagnosis, conventional
      bronchoscopy has been one platform used for decades to diagnose PPLs. However, conventional
      bronchoscopic techniques have significant limitations and overall low diagnostic yield for
      most PPLs. As a result, innovative bronchoscopic techniques and technologies have evolved
      over the last decade to diagnose PPLs more accurately. However, accessing to PPLs located in
      the most peripheral part is still challenging.

      As a new method to diagnose and localize cancers, photodynamic diagnosis (PDD) has been
      gaining attention. PDD is a new technique where a photosensitizer injected intravenously
      accumulates in the abnormal lesion, then its fluorescence can be detected by a detector. To
      conduct PDD for PPLs, we collaboratively developed a parallel-type composite optical
      fiberscope (COF) with an outer tip diameter of 0.97 mm with OK Fiber Technology (Kyoto,
      Japan). Its small size and flexibility of the tip enable it to be inserted into animal
      ultrasmall airways. The outer membrane of the fiberscope is made from polytetrafluoroethylene
      in the COF's insertable section and is hydrophilic coated, which reduces frictional forces
      when in the contact with the bronchial wall resulting in smooth insertion of the fiberscope.
      As the COF has illumination fibers and a laser fiber inside, simultaneous white-light and
      fluorescence imaging with real-time monitoring can be performed to confirm the tip position
      of the fiberscope during laser irradiation. In this study, we want to evaluate the COF
      regarding the quality of white-light images and the accessibility of lung tumors located in
      the peripheral area of the lung.
    
  