
    
      Background:

      Obesity is a complex chronic condition that negatively impacts individuals, society, and the
      healthcare system. Family physicians are one of many health practitioners tasked with the
      long-term care of patients with obesity and its associated co-morbidities. However, focus
      groups conducted by the 5As Team (5AsT) have identified critical gaps in medical school
      curricula on obesity, leading to a wave of new family physicians who are unconfident and
      poorly equipped to manage obesity with their patients. To address this education gap, the 5As
      team developed a comprehensive training module on obesity management for family medicine
      residents at the University of Alberta.

      Study Objectives:

      This study aimed to evaluate the impact of this course on the residents' attitudes and
      beliefs about obesity, as well as confidence levels using key aspects of the 5As of obesity
      management to help their patients.

      Methods:

      Based on focus groups conducted with medical students and practicing physicians during a
      summer project, a list of learning objectives was made to address known deficiencies in
      obesity education. These learning objectives were adapted to a two-day training module on
      obesity management for first year family medicine residents. All 2015/2016 and 2016/2017
      first year medical residents were required to take a 2 day Obesity Management Workshop as
      part of their Doctor-Patient Relationship course. Prior to the workshop, residents were asked
      to complete a pre-workshop assessment which asked them to rate their level of confidence
      counselling patients on several aspects of obesity management. In addition, residents
      enrolled in the year 2015/2016 were asked to complete the Attitudes Toward Obese Persons
      (ATOP) and Beliefs About Obese Persons BAOP questionnaires, residents enrolled in the
      2016/2017 year were asked to complete the NEW Attitudes Scale. The first day consisted of
      didactic lectures on the basic pathophysiology of obesity, obesity management in pediatrics
      and pregnancy, and an introduction to the 5As of obesity management. Residents were also
      given the opportunity to experience wearing a bariatric suit in a simulated living
      environment after which they were asked to complete their first narrative reflection
      assignment. The second day of the workshop consisted of didactic lectures on lifestyle
      management and bariatric surgery, followed by practice sessions with standardized patients.
      Residents were then asked to find a patient with lived experience in their own clinic and
      practice using the 5As approach with their own patient and then complete their second
      narrative reflection assignment.

      Consent:

      Residents were informed about the 5AsT MD2 study on the first day of the 2-day workshop and
      asked if they would like to participate. If a resident declined to participate, they were
      still able to take part in the workshop and were still required to complete the course
      assignments listed above, however, their course materials were not provided to the research
      team.

      Study Procedures:

      Those residents who consented to participate in the study, were asked to place their required
      course materials into a sealed envelope and will then submit them to a neutral, third party.
      The neutral, third party was an employee in the Department of Family Medicine and had no
      responsibilities with regards to evaluation of the medical residents. The neutral, third
      party recorded that the resident had completed their assignment for the course, assigned an
      Identification (ID) number to each resident and labelled each document as well as the
      envelope with the resident's ID number. Using a paper cutter, the neutral, third party
      removed the resident's name from each document. A master list was kept by the neutral, third
      party, which allowed her to track which ID number corresponded to which resident so that she
      could appropriately label all of the post-workshop documents with the resident's assigned ID
      number. Only the neutral, third party had access to the master last with the residents names.

      Following the workshop on the second day, the residents who consented to participate, were
      asked to submit their post-workshop course materials, in a sealed envelope, to the neutral
      third party. The neutral, third party recorded that the resident completed their assignment
      for the course, labelled their documents and envelope with the correct ID number and then
      removed the resident's name from the documents. The de-identified materials of those
      residents who consented to participate were given to study staff. The narrative reflective
      exercises for both part 1 and part 2 of the workshop were due 2 weeks post-workshop event.

      Results:

      Participants completed the validated ATOP (Attitudes Toward Obese Persons) and BAOP (Beliefs
      About Obese Persons) questionnaires, as well as pre- and post- workshop assessment
      questionnaires to measure their level of confidence in performing key aspects of obesity
      management. All questionnaires were de-identified, but responses were tracked both before and
      after the training module to quantify the change seen in each study participant. Participants
      also wrote two de-identified narrative reflections to be used for qualitative analysis. The
      first was on the weight bias bariatric suit experience, and the second was on the application
      of the lessons of the workshop in clinical practice.
    
  