
    
      Two hundred and thirty nine ASA class I and II patients, scheduled for elective c-section
      will be assigned randomly to receive either 1g ginger tablet PO (Group 1) or 1 g placebo PO
      (Group 2) preoperatively, immediately before surgery. The usual preoperative anti-emetic and
      antacid regimen will be continued for both groups. Initial blood pressure, pulse and
      hemoglobin and hematocrit will be documented by the researcher prior to the arrival of the
      patient into the operating room. A baseline questionnaire will be given to the patients to
      assess risk factors for nausea and vomiting. Questions will include: age, BMI, parity, weeks
      gestation, h/o seasickness, h/o of hyperemesis gravidrum in this or prior pregnancies, h/o
      PONV, medical problems, any medication used within past 24 hrs, education and occupation.

      Intraoperatively, both groups will receive combined spinal-epidural anesthesia in the usual
      manner. All standard monitoring will be applied and vital signs recorded for the entirety of
      the procedure. The number and dose of ephedrine or phenylephrine boluses and the number and
      severity of nausea episodes (using a Visual Analog Scale (VANS)) and number of vomiting
      episodes will be noted. In addition the following will be recorded: if uterus was
      exteriorized, any medications used by the anesthesiologist (other than ephedrine and
      phenylephrine), and estimated blood loss.

      Postoperatively, patients will receive either a one time dose of the 1g ginger PO (Group 1)
      or 1 g placebo PO (Group 2) 2 hours after entering the postanesthesia care unit (PACU).
      Thirty minutes after the medication is given, patients will be asked to rate their nausea,
      level of analgesia, and level of pruritus on a VANS, and vomiting episodes will be recorded.
      Medications given for nausea will be continued in the post-operative period for both groups.
      The doses of Zofran will be counted in the 24 hr postoperative period. Twenty-four hours
      after surgery, blood will be drawn to assess hemoglobin and hematocrit as well as to assess
      platelet function.
    
  