
    
      This multi-site study is intended to collect data and samples from a nationwide cohort of
      children with Pediatric Acute-onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome (PANS). PANS is defined by
      three clinical criteria:

        1. Abrupt, dramatic onset of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) or severely restricted

           food intake AND

        2. Concurrent presence of additional neuropsychiatric symptoms, with similarly severe and
           acute onset, from at least two of the following seven categories:

             -  Anxiety (particularly separation anxiety)

             -  Emotional lability and depression

             -  Irritability, aggression, and/or severely oppositional behaviors

             -  Behavioral (developmental) regression

             -  Deterioration in school performance (due to inattention, concentration
                difficulties, memory deficits, or others)

             -  Sensory or motor abnormalities

             -  Somatic signs and symptoms, including sleep disturbances, enuresis, or urinary
                frequency

        3. Symptoms are not better explained by a known neurologic or medical disorder, such as
           Sydenham chorea, systemic lupus erythematosus, Tourette disorder, or others.

      As a clinical syndrome, PANS likely represents a number of different disorders with unique
      symptom constellations, disease mechanisms, and etiologies. The purpose of this investigation
      is to identify these distinctive disorders by carefully documenting, archiving, and analyzing
      the clinical features of each case of PANS, including not only details of the onset and
      course of symptoms, but also results of physical examination, laboratory assays, and
      paraclinical assessments, such as electroencephalography (EEG), polysomnography (PSG), brain
      imaging (e.g., magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] scans), and others. In addition to defining
      the unique clinical features associated with a specific disorder, we also hope to identify
      biomarkers of risk and disease severity, including not only determinant genes, but also
      environmental triggers, such as those producing post-infectious autoimmunity (e.g., Pediatric
      Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal infection, or PANDAS). To
      accomplish this, we propose to collect and archive clinical information and biospecimens at
      different stages of the illness (e.g., initial onset, first exacerbation, following known
      environmental triggers, during convalescence, etc.) and also to compare these results against
      data and specimens obtained from healthy controls and children with non-PANDAS OCD, tics,
      anxiety disorders, or eating disorder. Clinical, laboratory, and biomedical data will be
      stored in the NIMH database (housed on the Clinical Trials Database [CTDB] of NICHD) and
      blood, genetic material, and other biospecimens, including microbial cultures, stored in the
      NIMH Genetics/Biological Repository. There are two types of baseline evaluations within this
      protocol. The first is limited to participants with acute-onset neuropsychiatric symptoms
      (PANS subjects) and will be conducted in the NIH Clinical Center by investigators from the
      NIMH Section on Behavioral Pediatrics (Drs. Swedo, Grant, and Hommer.) These in-depth
      phenotyping evaluations will include medical and psychiatric history, family history,
      completion of standardized questionnaires, physical and neurological examinations,
      neuropsychological testing, MRI scan, throat swab (for microbiologic testing), cheek swab (to
      obtain genetic samples), and phlebotomy to obtain blood for laboratory assays and genetic
      testing. Children with undiagnosed acute-onset neuropsychiatric symptoms may undergo
      additional testing as part of the diagnostic evaluation; these assessments might include
      (among others), electroencephalography (EEG), echocardiogram/electrocardiogram (ECHO/ECG)
      and/or polysomnography (PSG). If the child s clinical presentation warrants a lumbar puncture
      as part of the diagnostic evaluation, (e.g. abnormal findings on neurologic exam, EEG or PSG,
      or lab abnormalities suggestive of systemic autoimmunity or neuroinflammation), a sample of
      cerebrospinal fluid will be collected for research, as well as for clinical testing. Sedation
      will not be used for these lumbar punctures, nor will it be used for any research purposes in
      this protocol.

      The second type of baseline evaluation will be used at NIMH for subjects with non-PANDAS
      psychiatric disorders and healthy volunteers. At participating extramural institutions, this
      is the evaluation that will be used for all participants (PANS, non-PANS, healthy volunteers)
      evaluated. These evaluations will include standardized questionnaires, medical and
      psychiatric history, family history, physical examination, throat swab (for microbiologic
      testing), cheek swab (to obtain genetic samples), and phlebotomy to obtain blood for clinical
      assays and research, including genetic studies. The assessments will generally be completed
      in an outpatient clinic at the participating site, but also might be performed on
      hospitalized children, if their medical condition permits research participation. Family
      members of PANS probands will have a medical and psychiatric history and physical exam and
      provide a blood sample (or cheek swab) for genetic research.

      The Affected Probands, Healthy Volunteers, and Subjects with Non-PANS Psychiatric Disorders
      will have follow-up evaluations annually, as well as on Ad Hoc basis. The Annual check-ups
      will include an interim clinical history and relevant symptom ratings (tailored to the
      subject s clinical profile). These follow-up evaluations may be done by phone or
      videoconference. Ad hoc evaluations will occur during periods of health (if not healthy at
      baseline) and during an episode of acute illness (either infectious illness or
      neuropsychiatric symptom exacerbations) and convalescence (at least 8 weeks after recovery).
      These in-person evaluations will include an interim clinical history, relevant symptom
      ratings, phlebotomy to obtain research bloods, and in some cases, acquisition of microbial
      samples (oral, nasal, nasopharyngeal and/or pharyngeal swabs, and feces). To identify
      biomarkers of disease and recovery, children with PANS may be followed until their 18th
      birthday, even if fully recovered from their acute illness. Healthy volunteers and
      psychiatric controls will be followed no longer than 3 years from study entry.

      This is a natural history study, with the primary goal of collecting clinical data and
      biospecimens in order to identify subgroups of patients sharing a common disease mechanism
      and thus provide opportunities for development of new treatment and prevention strategies.
      The wealth of clinical information and the large number of biologic and genetic samples
      acquired in this prospective, longitudinal investigation also permits us to address four
      specific aims:

        1. Identify unique and distinctive clinical, paraclinical, and laboratory features of
           acuteonset neuropsychiatric disorders among patients meeting criteria for PANS.

        2. Determine the role of environmental pathogens, such as Group A streptococci, in the
           etiopathogenesis of acute-onset neuropsychiatric disorders.

        3. Investigate factors influencing host susceptibility and resistance.

        4. Elucidate the role of immune dysfunction in PANS or a subgroup of its patients.

        5. Provide clinical diagnostic assessments to children with undiagnosed acute-onset
           neuropsychiatric symptoms.
    
  