
    
      The diagnosis of splenomegaly (abnormal enlargement of the spleen) is extremely important in
      managing patients with many medical conditions. The ability to recognize an enlarged spleen
      in a timely manner can impact patient outcomes. Although the physical exam can be used to
      confidently diagnosis massive enlargement of the spleen, evaluating lesser degrees of
      splenomegaly at the bedside proves more difficult. In current practice, the gold standard for
      diagnosis of splenomegaly is the standard abdominal ultrasound. The prevalence of
      splenomegaly in patients with several medical conditions such as blood disorders and
      cirrhosis is relatively high. Therefore, the demand for abdominal ultrasound is evergrowing
      and similarly the cost of caring for patients with these diseases increases.

      Examination of the spleen is one of the core competencies that we expect our students and
      residents to learn as part of their training. This physical diagnosis manoeuver is frequently
      used to examine residents at the Royal College level and determine their fitness to practice.
      Unfortunately, the sensitivity and specificity of examination of the spleen at the bedside is
      not very good.

      With the introduction of handheld ultrasound (HCU) devices, rapid bedside assessment of a
      patient is now possible. The Pocket-sized Vscan Ultrasound device (Vscan) (GE Healthcare,
      USA) allows for 2D imaging on a 3.5 inch display and has been shown to have comparable image
      quality to standard ultrasound for some applications. The Vscan and other HCU devices have
      been used at point of care to evaluate a number of conditions and can greatly impact
      treatment decisions in medical patients at the bedside. The ability to recognize splenomegaly
      in a timely manner can impact patient outcomes. In addition, the use of this technology could
      significantly impact training standards for students and residents.

      It remains unclear whether bedside evaluation with the Vscan is able to accurately measure
      spleen size. Our study aims to determine the diagnostic accuracy of the Vscan when used by
      trained ultrasonographers, in patients with varying degrees of splenomegaly. If we can
      reliably show that a trained ultrasonographer can accurately characterize spleen size at the
      bedside with a handheld device, the next stage of the study will involve training medical
      residents in the use of handheld ultrasound to see if they can also reliably assess spleen
      size.
    
  