
    
      The study (CYCLUS trial, CY-cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, Chemotherapy, LUng cancer, Survival)
      is a prospective randomized double-blind multicenter trial. Patients are randomized to
      receive celecoxib at a dose of 400 mg b.i.d. or placebo. Primary endpoint of the trial is
      survival. Secondary endpoints are: quality of life, progression-free survival, toxicity,
      cardiovascular events, and biological parameters (plasma VEGF and proteomics).

      The rationale behind the study consists of preclinical observations of antitumor effect of
      celecoxib in NSCLC. Inhibition of angiogenesis and proliferation as well as increased
      apoptosis has been demonstrated. In addition, pilot studies have shown that the combination
      of chemotherapy and celecoxib is feasible. No unexpected toxicity has been recorded in such
      trials. Furthermore, a randomized study of indomethacin, prednisolone or placebo in other
      types of advanced cancer, mainly gastrointestinal, showed a survival advantage for patients
      receiving antiinflammatory treatment.

      Chemotherapy is given according to the current standard of the participating institution. In
      practice, patients will usually receive either carboplatin + gemcitabine or carboplatin +
      vinorelbine. Treatment duration with chemotherapy is 4 cycles (cycle length 3 weeks) in the
      absence of tumour progression or prohibitive toxicity.

      Treatment with the study drug starts on the first day of cancer chemotherapy. Maximum
      treatment duration is one year. Treatment will be stopped earlier in case of objective tumor
      progression, serious toxicity that is considered to be related to the study drug or if the
      patient wants to stop treatment.

      The size of the study is based on the hypothesis that celecoxib could prolong median survival
      by 8 weeks as compared to 7.5 months in the placebo group. With standard statistical
      requirements (type I error 5%, type II error 20%), the calculated number of patients was 760.

      The study was supported by the Swedish Lung Cancer Study Group and organized as a multicenter
      trial, with participation of seven university hospitals and six smaller hospitals. The number
      of new cases of NSCLC stage IIIB-IV and performance status 0-2 in Sweden is around 1200/year.
      It was expected that 20% of the patients could be included in the study, which would make
      completion possible in three years.

      The study was opened for randomization on May 31, 2006. Recruitment of patients was lower
      than expected. The study was closed for further randomization on May 31, 2009, as originally
      planned. 319 patients were included. Since maximum duration of treatment with the study drug
      is one year, the code will be broken after May 31, 2010. Data analysis is planned to take
      place in summer and autumn, 2010.
    
  