
    
      This study has a multi-center, open-label, prospective, and randomized clinical trial design.
      One hundred KTRs who fill out the informed consent form are registered and randomized 1:1
      into the ICT-based centralized clinical trial monitoring group (n=50) or the ambulatory
      follow-up group (n=50). The planned follow-up duration is 6 months. The ICT-based centralized
      clinical trial monitoring group is given a smart pill box equipped with personal
      identification system. Fingerprint registration is required in advance, so that it would be
      used for authentication before each use of the smart pill box later. The adherence-related
      information obtained from the pill box is saved, monitored, and sent out via a
      home-monitoring system. In the ICT-based centralized clinical trial monitoring group,
      feedback is sent to both patients and medical staff in the form of texts and pill box alarms
      if there is a dosage/dosing time error or a missed dose.

      Both groups are to make 6 office visits after randomization at 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24
      weeks. Each visit requires measurement of blood drug level, creatinine level, and estimated
      glomerular filtration rate. Serum BK virus is assessed at 12 weeks, and panel reactive
      antibody at 24 weeks. Both groups keep a drug administration diary that specifies date, a
      dose taken or not, dosing time, and dosage. At each visit, subjects go over the diary with
      investigators and fill out a questionnaire using the Modified Morisky Scale. The ICT-based
      centralized clinical trial monitoring group completes a patient satisfaction questionnaire
      developed by the ICT clinical trial support center at 4 and 12 weeks.

      The objective of this study is

        1. to evaluate the effectiveness of ICT based centralized clinical trial monitoring system
           on adherence of immunosuppressive agents

        2. to study the influence of ICT based centralized monitoring on immunosuppressive and
           clinical outcomes including therapeutic trough level

        3. to evaluate patient's satisfaction about ICT based clinical trial monitoring system
    
  