
    
      In clinical practice blood gas analysis is an essential tool for monitoring respiratory
      status. The gold-standard method is arterial blood gas analysis (ABG) of blood from the
      patient's radial or femoral artery. An alternative to arterial sampling commonly used is
      arterialized capillary blood gas analysis from the earlobe (CBGE). Though CBGE is less
      invasive and can be performed by non-medical staff, it is less useful in the acute setting
      because an adequate vasodilatation is needed which typically lasts for at least 10 minutes
      and the quality of results tends to be operator dependable. Different trials have evaluated
      the agreement between ABG and CBGE. Whereas a close agreement between ABG and CBGE has been
      found for evaluating pH and the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO2), several trials
      showed considerable variations for the partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) and that CBGE tends
      to underestimate PO2. Similar findings apply for capillary blood gas analysis from the
      fingertip (CBGF) which is even less accurate compared to CBGE in estimating PO2. Recently a
      method has been developed to calculate ABG values mathematically from peripheral venous
      blood, supplemented with oxygen saturation (SpO2) measurement by pulse oximetry, by use of
      venous-to-arterial conversion (v-TAC) software (OBI Medical, Denmark). The principle of the
      method is a mathematical transformation of venous blood gas analysis (VBG) values to
      arterialised values (aVBG) by simulating the transport of blood back through the tissue (6).
      This approach leads to a clinically acceptable agreement between ABG and aVBG for pH and
      PCO2. For PO2 the limits of agreement of aVBG are similar to those of PO2 from CBGE for
      values below 75 mmHg and with mean bias close to zero. However, it has not been evaluated
      previously whether v-TAC software can be used to calculate ABG values from CBGE (aCBGE) or
      CBGF (aCBGF). As CBGE and CBGF values are much closer to ABG values, compared to VBG values,
      the agreement between aCBGE/aCBGF and ABG in terms of pH, PCO2 and pO2 might be better
      compared to CBG without mathematical arterialisation by v-TAC.
    
  