
    
      Background: An extensive body of literature points towards neuronal brain injury in human
      immunodeficiency virus positive (HIV-positive) subjects despite virological suppression of
      the virus in the periphery under the effect of antiretroviral therapies (ART). Existing
      evidence suggests that the central nervous system (CNS) could be an important reservoir for
      human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) regardless of cumulative time on treatment. This results
      in progressive neurocognitive dysfunction despite optimal treatment and peripheral control of
      the infection. Even though structural imaging studies have described abnormalities in
      optimally-treated HIV-positive subject population, there has been only a few attempts at
      deciphering the cellular levels of brain damage in those subjects using in vivo molecular
      imaging biomarkers. As part of CNS involvement, specific neurotransmitter systems including
      the dopaminergic and serotonergic systems are thought to be affected by the infection with
      distinct neurological, cognitive and psychological manifestations, even in optimally-treated
      subjects.

      Objective: This protocol aims at identifying aspects of dopaminergic and serotonergic
      dysfunction in optimally-treated HIV-positive subjects using high resolution positron
      emission tomography (PET) of the brain and radioligands targeted against the dopaminergic
      (18F-FDOPA) and serotonergic (11C-DASB) systems.

      Study population: We will identify 25 eligible HIV-infected individuals and 50 eligible
      HIV-negative (HIV-) individuals for the dopaminergic arm, and 20 HIV-infected individuals and
      20 HIV-negative individuals for the serotonergic arm. Subjects will be selected from protocol
      #13-N-0149 ("Screening and Recruitment for HIV-associated Neurocognitive Disorders (HAND)
      Studies" and "An Evaluation of HIV-associated Neurocognitive Disorders in Virologically
      Controlled Patients", PI Dr. Avindra Nath; ALL HANDS protocol) and those who meet eligibility
      criteria will be offered enrollment in our study.

      Design: Subjects will undergo either a one-time 18F-FDOPA PET scan or a one-time 11C-DASB PET
      scan or both, if eligible. HIV-positive subjects and HIV-negative individuals will be
      included in the study.

      Outcome Measures: Influx constant (Ki) for 18F-FDOPA PET and Binding potential relative to

      non-displaceable binding (BPND) values for 11C-DASB PET
    
  