
    
      A young women with Symmetric Lipomatosis associated with Neuropathy (SLN) was seen at the
      department of Internal Medicine-Endocrinology and the department of Neurology at the Erasmus
      MC, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. SLN is a rare disorder characterized by symmetric lipomas and
      neuropathy due to a homozygous mutation of c.2119C>T p.R707W in the MFN2 gene. Only seven
      cases of SLN are known in the literature. The patient presented with balance problems due to
      neuropathy and prominent cervical and genital lipomas. In the past, the patient had been
      treated with steroids (prednisolone) for a short period, because of a suspicion of adrenal
      insufficiency. The patient noticed that, as a 'side effect', during this treatment period the
      lipomas shrank and that the balance problems nearly disappeared. However, as a synacthen test
      showed that adrenal function was normal, steroid treatment was tapered and the complaints
      reappeared. In a follow-up visit at our outpatient clinic, the patient requested to be
      treated again with steroids for the complaints. As there is no literature on the effects of
      treatment with steroids on balance problems and on the size of lipomas in patients with SLN,
      the usefulness of steroid treatment in this single patient is investigated in an N-of-1 trial
      in order to improve the clinical care for this patient.

      Primary objective: to determine the efficacy of hydrocortisone treatment for neuropathy on an
      individual level in a patient with SLN as assessed with the Rasch-built Overall Disability
      Scale (RODS).

      Secondary objectives: to determine the effect of hydrocortisone treatment on the size of a
      lipoma in the neck, on the Medical Research Council (MRC) sum score and on specific
      personalized goals that are important to the patient and the patients' environment (Goal
      Attainment Scaling (GAS)).
    
  