
    
      Over one-third of children in the U.S. are overweight or obese and at risk for short-term and
      long-term health consequences, including diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and certain
      types of cancer. Substantial evidence exists on reducing sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB)
      consumption as a critical dietary target for childhood obesity prevention. Efficacious
      behavioral interventions targeting SSBs are lacking, particularly among low-income and ethnic
      minority early and pre-adolescent youth who have higher SSB intake and obesity risk. Youth
      empowerment interventions hold potential for catalyzing behavior change in childhood obesity
      intervention contexts and may be particularly engaging for low-income and ethnic minority
      youth. However, few studies of youth empowerment health interventions have utilized rigorous
      study designs or examined empowerment as a mediator/mechanism of change. To this gap, the
      research team has worked collaboratively with Boys and Girls Clubs of America (BGCs), a
      national system of after-school care that reaches 4 million youth annually, to develop and
      pilot-test a community-based youth empowerment intervention on reducing SSB intake and
      preventing childhood obesity. Grounded in Empowerment Theory, the intervention targets SSB
      consumption through health sessions that empower youth through developing their confidence
      and skills; narrative sessions that empower youth through cultivating critical thinking, and
      youth-led activities that empower youth through opportunities to produce change within their
      families. The resulting H2GO! intervention is designed to be delivered within BGCs by BGC
      staff. Building on the successful pilot study of H2GO!, the research team is now positioned
      to test the efficacy of the H2GO! intervention in collaboration with the BGC network in MA,
      which collectively serves over 160,000 children each year. Using a cluster-randomized design,
      a total of 10 BGC sites will be randomly assigned to the H2GO! intervention or a wait-list,
      usual care condition. A total of 450 parent-child pairs (N=45 parent-child pairs per site)
      will be enrolled. Data will be collected at baseline, 2 months, 6 months, and 12 months and
      include child anthropometrics, SSB and water intake, and youth empowerment. Specific aims of
      the proposal include: 1) test the efficacy of the H2GO! intervention on child BMI z scores
      using a cluster randomized controlled trial; 2) test the efficacy of the H2GO! intervention
      on child SSB and water intake; 3) examine youth empowerment as a mediator of intervention
      effects. Findings from this proposal will provide evidence of youth empowerment as an
      approach to reduce SSB intake and obesity risk and contribute to a long-term goal of
      producing an intervention model for childhood obesity prevention that is well-positioned for
      dissemination through youth-based settings.
    
  