
    
      To make donor-derived multiTAA-specific T cells, the investigators will collect blood from
      the patient's stem cell donor, and mix the donor's T cells with small pieces of the tumor
      proteins WT1, PRAME and Survivin. These protein fragments stimulate the donor T cells to grow
      and react against these proteins in such a way that they will recognize and kill cancer cells
      that express these proteins. Once sufficient numbers of multiTAA-specific T cells have been
      made, the investigators test them to make sure they target the patient's cancer cells, but
      not their normal healthy cells.

      The multiTAA-specific T cells will be administered as a single intravenous (IV) infusion over
      10 minutes. The patient's cancer will be assessed within 4 weeks prior to the T cell
      infusion, at 4-6 weeks, and again at 8-12 weeks after the infusion. If at least 4 weeks after
      the infusion there is no change or a reduction in the number of cancer cells measured in the
      bone marrow, or a decline in cancer-specific markers in the blood, patients may receive up to
      six (6) additional doses of the T cells at least 4 weeks apart. All of the treatments will be
      given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Houston Methodist Hospital or Texas
      Children's Hospital.

      For at least 4 weeks after the infusion, patients may not receive any other anti-cancer
      treatments, such as radiation therapy or chemotherapy, with the exception of drugs like
      dasatinib. Patients who do receive any other therapies will be taken off treatment, and will
      not be able to receive additional doses of T cells.

      This is a dose escalation study, which means that at the beginning, patients will be started
      on the lowest dose (1 of 3 different levels) of T cells. Once that dose level proves safe,
      the next group of patients will be started at the next highest dose. This process will
      continue until all 3 dose levels have been studied. If side-effects are too severe, the dose
      will be lowered or the T cell injections will be stopped.

      Before being treated, patients will undergo a series of standard medical tests:

        -  Physical exam.

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

        -  Measurement of ALL (done by a bone marrow biopsy or blood tests).

        -  Pregnancy test, if patient is a female who can have children.

      Patients will undergo standard medical tests both during the T cell infusions and after:

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

        -  Measurement of disease 4-6 weeks and 8-12 weeks after the T cell infusion (done by bone
           marrow biopsy or blood tests).

      Active participation in this study will last for approximately one (1) year. If the patient
      receives additional doses of the T cells as described above, their active participation will
      last until one (1) year after the last dose of T cells. We will then contact the patient once
      a year for up to 4 additional years (total of 5 years follow-up) in order to evaluate disease
      response long-term.
    
  