
    
      Potential participants self-identify themselves to study personnel by contacting the PI via
      office phone or IU email. Potential participants were informed of the research study through
      word-of-mouth and fliers at pain and prosthetic clinics and amputee support groups in the
      Indianapolis area which will invite interested individuals to contact the PI for more
      information and a telephone screening for eligibility. If an interested individual screens
      eligible and is interested after hearing more about the study, an appointment for an Informed
      Consent Visit will be made.

      All subjects who enroll in the study will receive the intervention. There is no
      randomization.

      Study Procedures

      Subjects were initially informed of what the study entails upon completion of the phone
      screening for eligibility and their indication of interest. After the study details were
      described, the potential subject was invited to schedule a time to come to campus for a
      formal informed consent and familiarization session. Time between the phone discussion and
      the scheduled appointment could range from hours to days. The actual environment for
      collecting informed consent was in the PI's lab were all study activity took place. The
      Informed Consent Document was reviewed in its entirety and potential subjects given the
      opportunity to ask any additional questions. After all questions were answered, the potential
      subject was invited to provide their informed consent by signing the IC document. After
      consent was obtained, the familiarization session and collection of baseline measures
      commenced.

      The proof-of-concept experimental study examines the feasibility and outcomes of a combined
      massage and mirror therapy treatment for individuals with lower limb phantom limb pain.
      Phantom pain severity, intensity, and interference, were measured with visual analogue scales
      (collected twice weekly for the study's duration) and the Brief Pain Index (collected 4 total
      times across 12 weeks) using a single-subject, withdrawal design with three, 4-week study
      phases; also referred to as an ABA withdrawal design. Study intervention consisted of twice
      weekly, 20-minute treatments for four weeks and is delivered during the second 4-week study
      phase. Tailored treatments addressed individual phantom pain experience as if occurring on
      the corresponding, non-removed limb. Participants viewed treatment as though it were being
      applied to the amputated limb.

      Study participation was approximately 3 months long for each subject and involved 11 on-site
      (IUPUI campus) study visits. All information and data gathered from subjects were self-report
      and in the form of pencil and paper surveys. Data for each subject was collected at baseline
      and twice weekly, 2-5 days apart, over a 12-week time period. For data collection during
      off-site collection points (first and final 4-week study phases), participants were prompted
      to complete the measures (provided in a binder at the start of the study) via a phone call,
      text message, or email reminder from the PI or research assistant. Measures completed
      off-site during the first 4 week study phase was collected by the PI or research assistant at
      the study visit appointment which also began the intervention study phase. During the second
      4-week study phase, all data was collected on site just prior to and after the massage
      intervention. Measures completed off-site during the final 4-week study phase (withdrawal
      phase) was collected by the PI or research assistant at the final on-site, data collection
      study visit.

      Payments in the form of $20 gift cards were made to participants at six points totaling $120
      if all aspects of the study were completed. Gift cards were distributed at the beginning and
      completion of each study phase and at the 4th and 8th intervention visit.

      All 8 massage treatments will be administered by a trained massage therapy provider in line
      with Indiana practice specifications. Subjects will not disrobe and will be asked to wear or
      bring shorts for treatments. Massage providers will be independent contractors hired and
      trained specifically for this purpose. Based on the PLP experienced by the subject as
      described in a pretreatment interview, the massage provider will develop and apply a tailored
      treatment to address the specific PLP experience as if the subject experienced the pain in
      the intact limb. Massage treatments will be administered in 20-25 minute timeframes on the
      intact limb that corresponds with the amputated limb. The massage provider will document the
      treatment in the form of SOAP (treatment) notes.

      During the application of each massage treatment, a digital camera is positioned to view,
      stream, and record the applied treatment on the intact limb. The only images captured by the
      camera will be the bare intact limb, the therapist hands, portions of the therapist's body
      (dressed in black), and minimal surrounding environment which will be draped in black cloth
      for visual neutralization. The resulting effect: Subjects will see on the monitor, a mirror
      image of their intact limb being massaged in the place of their amputated limb. Subjects will
      be asked to watch the monitor during the treatment.

      Considering the exploratory nature and small N of the study, descriptive statistics will
      primarily be used to consider and report results. Of particular interest is whether or not
      and the extent to which massage therapy that incorporates principles from mirror therapy
      affects PLP when applied to the intact limb. For the primary outcome variables (VAS 1-3), an
      average of each VAS measured in the first A phase will serve as baseline for each subject.
      Acute effects will be quantified by considering the change score (Δ) from baseline VAS
      measures to the VAS measures collected just before the 2nd massage treatment application
      (after one massage treatment). Cumulative effects will be quantified by considering the Δ
      from baseline VAS measures to the VAS measures collected at the first collection point in the
      second A phase of the study (after all massage treatments).
    
  