
    
      Pain following shoulder surgery is reported as severe for 70% of patients, and is a major
      concern in both hospitalised and ambulatory surgery patients. Pain control is particularly
      important, as adequate analgesia allows rapid mobilisation of the operated shoulder and
      prevents complications related to immobility. Several methods have been proposed to treat
      this pain, the most promising being the interscalene nerve block. The injection of local
      anesthetics reduces sensation from the shoulder and provides better pain relief after surgery
      than narcotic medication. To prolong the duration of the analgesia, a catheter must be
      positioned next to the brachial plexus. Through this catheter, small quantities of local
      anesthetics can be continuously delivered for several hours after surgery, effectively
      relieving the worst of the pain.

      To date, the continuous interscalene nerve block has been shown to improve pain relief, to
      reduce nausea, vomiting, pruritus and sleep disturbances after shoulder surgery. It also
      reduces the need for opioids.

      Until recently, catheter techniques were not frequently used due to technical difficulties
      encountered with catheter installation and catheter displacement after surgery. Due to recent
      improvements in nerve and catheter localisation, catheter installation has become easier,
      more precise and more reliable. However, the distance at which the catheter must be advanced
      next to the brachial plexus in order to provide the best pain relief remains unknown.
      Insertion distance could influence the initial quality and distribution of the freezing, its
      duration, or both. Therefore, this study is designed to compare two catheter insertion
      distances, in order to help determine which is best for pain relief after shoulder surgery.

      Methods :

        1. Insertion of the catheter :

           Patients will be randomly assigned to the following groups :

             -  Group 1 : 2 cm insertion

             -  Group 2 : 6 cm insertion

           The anesthesiologist will insert the interscalene catheter before the beginning of
           anesthesia for surgery. The usual medication will be used to make the installation of
           the catheter comfortable. Standard non-invasive monitoring will be used. The exact
           location where the catheter will be put in place will be identified using an ultrasound
           machine. This device will allow the anesthesiologist to identify the various anatomical
           structures. A specially designed needle will be inserted next to the brachial plexus and
           its position will be confirmed with a neurostimulator. Once the adequacy of needle
           position is confirmed, the anesthesiologist will introduce 2 cm (Group 1) or 6 cm (Group
           2) of the catheter through the needle, and then will withdraw the needle. The catheter
           will be fixed in place to avoid displacement.

           Patients will receive standard regional or general anesthesia for this type of surgery.

        2. Post-operative analgesia :

             -  All patients : patients will receive, through the interscalene catheter, a
                continuous infusion of bupivacaine 0,15% at the rate of 5 mL/h for at least 24
                hours post-operatively After surgery, pain will be assessed using a verbal numeric
                pain scale. Patients will be asked to fill out a pain intensity measurement form
                using a 0-10 pain scale at 3, 6 and 24 hours after surgery.

             -  Inpatients : along with the infusion; a Patient Controlled Analgesia pump will be
                provided to the patients.

             -  Ambulatory patients : the infusion will be given through a disposable elastomeric
                pump. Along with the infusion, patients will receive oral hydromorphone to complete
                pain relief. Patients will receive standard post-operative instructions on the use
                of the pump and catheter. Telephone and pager numbers for physicians available at
                all time will also be provided to each patient. They will be asked to record their
                opioid use on a medication log for the first 24 hours post-operatively.

           Sensory block will be assessed in the major nerve distributions of the arm at 24 h after
           surgery. Ambulatory patients will be invited to return to the hospital to have this
           assessment performed.

        3. Follow-up

      All patients will receive a phone call from the research team one week after surgery to
      assess their satisfaction towards the analgesia and to inquire about potential complications
      of the interscalene block.
    
  