
    
      Background: Cardiovascular diseases are the number 1 cause of death globally and represent a
      major economic burden on health care systems. Positive effects of disease management programs
      have been shown for patients with heart failure (HF). Remote monitoring and telemonitoring
      with active intervention are beneficial in atrial fibrillation (AF) and therapy resistant
      hypertension (TRH), respectively. For these patients, the investigators have developed a
      novel integrated care concept (NICC) which combines telemedicine with intensive support by a
      call center, an integrated care network including in- and outpatient care providers and
      guideline therapy for patients.

      Methods: The aim of the study is to demonstrate the superiority of NICC over guideline
      therapy alone. The trial is designed as open-label bi-center parallel-group design with two
      groups. Patients will be included if they are either inpatients or if they are referred to
      the outpatient clinic of the hospitals by their treating physician. Randomization will be
      done individually with stratification by cardiovascular disease (AF, HF, TRH), center and
      admission type. Primary endpoints are based on the 1-year observation period after
      randomization. The first primary endpoint is the composite endpoint consisting of mortality,
      stroke and myocardial infarction. The number of hospitalizations form the second primary
      endpoint. The third primary endpoint is identical to the first primary endpoint plus cardiac
      decompensation. Adjustments for multiple testing are done using a fall back strategy.
      Secondary endpoints include patient adherence, health care costs, quality of life and safety.
      The power for the second primary endpoint is 80% at the two-sided 2.5% test-level with a
      sample size of 890 patients.

      Discussion: This study will inform care providers whether quality of care can be improved by
      an integrated care concept providing telemedicine through a 24/7 care center approach. We
      expect that cost of the NICC will be lower than standard care because of reduced
      hospitalizations. If the study has a positive result, NICC is planned to be immediately
      rolled out in the state of Mecklenburg-West Pomerania. The trial will also guide additional
      research to disentangle the effects of this complex intervention.
    
  