
    
      Background:

      Overview of venous stasis ulcers (1-3): Venous stasis ulceration is a common complication of
      venous insufficiency in the United States. Venous stasis ulcers (VSU) are associated with
      very significant morbidity, including patient disability, moderate to severe pain, and
      frequent leg infections. There is also a large cost associated with the medical care needed
      for this condition and the inability of patients to work. In some patients, this condition
      can be life- or limb-threatening.

      Current standard of care for VSU: It is widely accepted that VSU should be treated by an
      individualized program of compression wrapping therapy (3-5). This therapy is designed to
      counteract the presumed pathophysiology of VSU, which develop as a result of valvular reflux
      and venous hypertension. However, the efficacy of compression therapy alone is suboptimal,
      with healing rates of roughly 34% reported after 12 weeks of therapy (6). Various adjunctive
      treatments have been studied, including artificial skin grafts (6-8). However, none of these
      adjunctive modalities have become widely accepted for the treatment of VSU.

      Potential role of compression pumps: Intermittent sequential compression pumps are widely
      used as an adjunctive modality in the treatment of VSU. These pumps use high compression and
      are expensive, but this expense may be outweighed by improved healing of VSU. The use of
      compression pumps is consistent with the pathophysiology of VSU, but data regarding the
      efficacy of such therapy is scarce. To date, no study has adequately assessed the efficacy of
      compression pump therapy in the treatment of VSU (9).

      Flexitouch System: The Flexitouch System was designed by a therapist trained in manual
      lymphatic drainage therapy and is produced by Tactile Systems Technology, Inc. The Flexitouch
      System was designed to simulate MLD techniques and is intended for home use during the
      self-management phase of CDT. MLD is one (of four) component(s) of Complete Decongestive
      Therapy, considered the "Gold Standard" for treatment of lymphedema. MLD is a gentle, manual
      technique producing very light directional pressure/stretch on the skin with manipulation of
      healthy lymph nodes and vessels. The effects of properly applied MLD include increased intake
      of lymphatic loads into the lymphatic system, increased lymphangiomotoricity, increased
      volume of transported lymph fluid, increased venous return in the superficial venous system,
      promotion of parasympathetic response and pain control. Treatment is always initiated at the
      trunk segments, with decongestion of proximal areas, prior to addressing the involved
      extremity (to clear central areas and promote decongestion of more distal areas). The
      extremity is then treated in segments, starting with the proximal segments and then
      progressing from distal to proximal regions. The Flexitouch® System is not intended to
      replace the intensive phase of CDT. However, it follows the principles of MLD in many ways.
      Flexitouch system provides limb treatment, but in addition, it addresses trunk congestion.
      The lower extremity garment set consists of two garments, one garment fits over the affected
      lower extremity and the other fits over the lower abdomen/trunk. Each garment is made up of
      multiple inflatable chambers within a flexible, stretchable fabric. The treatment consists of
      a 2-phase program. As in MLD, the preparation phase begins the treatment starting at the
      inguinal quadrant. Each curved trunk chamber inflates and deflates sequentially to facilitate
      the movement of edema fluid into the systemic circulation. The cycle is repeated several
      times. The inflation/deflation cycle is then repeated in each limb region from the knee to
      the groin, from the ankle to the knee, and finally from the toes to the ankle. The second
      phase, drainage, begins the sequential inflation/deflation cycle at the toes and continues
      moving up the leg to the quadrant of the trunk to facilitate the movement of edema fluid from
      the inguinal quadrant into the system circulation.

      Choice of compression pump device for study of VSU treatment: A variety of inflatable
      compression pumps are available, but there are no data to help choose among these devices
      (9). No compression device is accepted as a standard of care for VSU. Flexitouch system
      differs from standard (intermittent sequential) compression pumps in significant ways. As
      described above, Flexitouch system is unique as a compression device, because it provides not
      only sequential limb compression, but also trunk compression. Flexitouch system's two-phase
      program (preparation and drainage) also makes it different from other compression devices.
      The fact that the system was created for lymphedema may be an advantage in the treatment of
      VSU, because many authors (10;11) believe that secondary lymphedema plays an important role
      among VSU patients.

      Study Outline:

      Patient enrollment procedure

        -  An approved consent form and authorization permitting release of personal health
           information must be signed by the patient or guardian.

        -  All eligibility requirements indicated in Section 3.0 must be satisfied.

        -  The patient must be registered by calling the study coordinator Lisa Rudman, at
           Allegheny General Hospital (412-359-4325).

      General treatment plan: After enrollment, all patients will be seen once per week for a
      12-week period for standard compression wrapping. At each visit, treatment and assessment
      will be undertaken as described below. The Flexitouch group only will use the Flexitouch
      System both at home (once daily) and in-clinic (once per week).

      Essential elements of treatment and assessment:

      Applicable to ALL patients

        -  The patients will be seen at the wound center one(1) times per week for 12 weeks.

        -  Patients will receive compression wrapping as standard of care therapy. The precise
           amount of compression will be individualized according to patient tolerance using 3M
           Coban 2 layer Compression System.

        -  The wound area will be measured and photographed weekly, using wound tracing and
           planimetry software.

        -  The limb volume will be measured weekly, using available software (NetHealth, Pittsburgh
           PA).

        -  The presence or absence of wound infection will be assessed. The need for wound
           debridement will be recorded.

        -  The wound will be scored as to whether or not it has healed. If the wound healed at a
           previous visit, the presence of recurrent ulceration will be assessed.

        -  The occurrence of treatment failure will be recorded (see section 7d).

        -  Comprehensive standard wound care treatment including gentle wound cleansing with saline
           solution at each visit, maintaining moisture balance in the wound and periwound with
           appropriate dressings (alginate, foam, hydrogel or hydrocolloid), reminding subjects of
           the importance of proper nutrition, leg elevation at rest and activity, including
           frequent ambulation and ankle ROM exercises through the day.

      Additional steps applicable to patients randomized to Flexitouch arm:

        -  Patients will be provided a home Flexitouch unit. They will be given instructions to use
           the Flexitouch system on a once daily basis. They will not need remove the compression
           wrap for the home therapy.

        -  In addition to the home use, at each clinic visit, the patient's trunk and affected limb
           will be treated for 60 minutes with the Flexitouch system.

        -  The patient will be asked to indicate their level of comfort with the in-clinic
           Flexitouch session (scale of 0 to 5; 0 = very comfortable, 5 = very uncomfortable).
    
  