
    
      Healthcare is changing towards more patient focused care. The organization of the care
      process related to quality, efficiency and accessibility is one of the main areas of interest
      within the next years for clinicians, healthcare managers and policy makers. A main method to
      (re)organize a care process is the development and implementation of a care pathway. Care
      pathways, also known as clinical pathways or critical pathways, are used worldwide for a
      variety of patient groups. The European Pathway Association (E-P-A) defines a care pathway
      as: "A complex intervention for the mutual decision making and organization of predictable
      care for a well-defined group of patients during a well defined period. Defining
      characteristics of pathways includes: an explicit statement of the goals and key elements of
      care based on evidence, best practice and patient expectations; the facilitations of the
      communication and coordination of roles, and sequencing the activities of the
      multidisciplinary care team, patients and their relatives; the documentation, monitoring, and
      evaluation of variances and outcomes; and the identification of relevant resources".

      Some prospective studies have been performed and published on the impact of pathways on
      quality and efficiency of care. The European Quality of Care Pathways (EQCP)-study will
      involve proximal femur fracture (PFF) to evaluate pathway effectiveness. Literature shows
      that adherence to international guidelines with regard to inhospital management of PFF is low
      for both pre-operative and post-operative care. Currently, some non-randomized trials
      (controlled clinical trials, cohort and case-control studies) and protocols about the impact
      of a care pathway for inpatient management of proximal femur fracture are published. The
      studies are conducted between 1992 and 2004, and the methodology is often doubtful. However,
      the studies indicate that care pathways for PFF improves performance with regard to
      pre-operative and post-operative interventions (i.e. time before surgery and time before
      mobilisation after surgery), and that they diminish length of stay (acute and total),
      in-hospital mortality, 30-day mortality, 1-year mortality, readmission rate and some
      post-operative complications like pressure sores or ulcers.

      In the context of the high volume of PFF patients, high costs and high risk, and the complex
      coordination of care among multiple caregivers, a care pathway could enhance the quality of
      care in these patients by improving patient outcomes, promoting patient safety, increasing
      patient satisfaction, improving multidisciplinary teamwork and optimizing the use of
      resources.

      The goal of the European Quality of Care Pathways (EQCP) study is:

        -  To evaluate the care pathway effectiveness in acute hospitals and their immediate link
           with primary care;

        -  To evaluate the effect of care pathways on team processes and team perceived
           organization of care.
    
  