
    
      Rapid sequence induction (RSI) is a well-established anesthetic procedure routinely used in
      emergency and trauma setting, and in elective situations when there is high risk of
      regurgitation/aspiration The ideal neuromuscular relaxant agent used for RSI should have a
      quick onset of action, which is a major advantage in trauma setting as it mitigates the risk
      of aspiration and desaturation when endotracheal intubation should be performed as early as
      possible. It also should have a quick offset to ensure that if trials at endotracheal
      intubation were unsuccessful, there would be quick neuromuscular recovery, with return to
      spontaneous breathing before the patient start desaturation. Moreover, it should have minimal
      cardiovascular or systemic side effects.

      Typically, succinyl choline has been the neuromuscular agent of choice for RSI as it has the
      quickest onset and offset of action compared to other muscle relaxants. However, it has
      potentially risky- sometimes fatal- side effects that make it far from being ideal
      neuromuscular blocking agent in RSI.

      Owing to its fast onset of action and stable hemodynamics Rocuronium, a non-depolarizing
      muscle blocker, has been suggested as possible alternative to succinyl choline in RSI. The
      standard rocuronium intubating dose of during routine anesthesia is 0.6 mg/ kg, which results
      in adequate intubation conditions within 60 seconds in nearly all patients.

      The recommended rocuronium intubating dose during RSI anesthesia is 1.0-1.2 mg/kg, after
      which optimum tracheal intubation conditions are also achieved within 60 seconds in nearly
      all patients. If the standard dose of 0.6 mg/ kg is given on RSI of anesthesia, it is advised
      to wait 90 seconds before attempting to intubate the trachea.

      Nevertheless, this high dose has long duration of action and may pose a risk in patients with
      unpredictable difficult intubation.

      Dexmedetomidine (DEX), is a selective centrally acting α 2-adrenergic receptors agonist that
      has been used successfully as procedural adjuvant, e.g., to minimize the stress response to
      laryngoscopy during endotracheal intubation and has gained popularity in the peri-operative
      period, due to its unique action as anxiolytic, sedative with no respiratory depression,
      analgesic, opioid sparing effect, and Its ability to decrease overall anesthetic
      requirements.

      The aim of our study is to compare a combination of standard intubating dose of DEX and
      rocuronium (0.6 mg /kg) to succinyl choline as regard endotracheal intubation condition
      during RSI.

      Material and method

      Patients will be randomly allocated to one of two groups, of 120 each. The Dex pretreatment/
      rocuronium group (DR group), and saline pretreatment/succinyl group (SS group). In the DR
      group, patients shall receive pretreatment with Dex 1 µg / kg in 10 ml 0.9% saline over 10
      minutes and rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg is the intubating muscle relaxant. In the SS group, patients
      receive pretreatment with 10 ml 0.9% saline over 10 minutes, and succinyl choline 1mg/ kg is
      the intubating muscle relaxant. Pretreatments will be given over 10 minutes using infusion
      pump.

      As soon as the pretreatment is completed, intravenous (IV) fentanyl 0.1 μg / kg and
      preoxygenation for 3 minutes with a facemask, after which anesthesia is induced with IV
      propofol 2 mg/ kg. Standardized intubating procedure is carried out that on loss of
      consciousness, the neuromuscular relaxant drug is given per protocol, and 45 seconds later
      the intubating anesthetist will be called in the operating room, at 50 seconds laryngoscopy
      is introduced and at 60 seconds, the trachea would be expectedly successfully intubated. To
      minimize interobserver bias, all intubations will be conducted by two designated senior
      consultants. No ventilation will be carried out before orotracheal intubation. No cricoid
      pressure shall be performed.
    
  