
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the progression-free survival at 4 months of patients treated with this
           regimen.

      Secondary

        -  To determine overall survival of these patients.

        -  To determine if dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) can be
           used to measure decrease in tumor perfusion and vascular permeability as a result of
           treatment with sunitinib malate in combination with TACE, and if it can be useful in
           prognosis.

        -  To examine the safety and tolerability of this regimen.

        -  To determine if a change in circulating endothelial precursor cell number and total
           monocyte count on days 3, 8, 10, and 35 of therapy (as compared with levels at baseline)
           and decrease in soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 in serum on days 8
           (before TACE), 10, and 35 of therapy (as compared with baseline) correlate with improved
           response and survival.

        -  To determine the effect of this therapy on quality of life as measured by the FACT-HEP
           scale prior to each course of therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-7 and 15-35 in course 1 and on
      days 1-28 in all subsequent courses. Patients undergo hepatic artery chemoembolization with
      doxorubicin hydrochloride on day 8 of course 1 only. Treatment with sunitinib malate repeats
      every 6 weeks* in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Course 1 is 7 weeks in duration; all subsequent courses are 6 weeks in duration.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study to measure circulating
      endothelial precursor cell levels, total monocyte count, and soluble vascular endothelial
      growth factor receptor-2.

      Quality of life is assessed by the FACT-HEP scale at baseline, prior to each course of
      treatment, and then at the completion of treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months.
    
  