
    
      Hypothesis: Asacol taken once a day is equally effective (non-inferior) as conventional
      (twice or three times a day) dosing at maintaining remission in quiescent ulcerative colitis.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To assess the efficacy of once daily Asacol in the short and long-term maintenance of
           remission in quiescent ulcerative colitis.

        2. To assess the medication consumption rate (adherence) in patients prescribed once daily
           Asacol compared to a bid or tid regimen.

      Background:

      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is an idiopathic, chronic inflammatory disease of the large intestine
      characterized by episodes of relapse and remission. Relapses are often not predictable,
      although factors such as smoking cessation, chronic non-steroidal antiinflammatory use and
      psychological stress are thought to cause symptom exacerbation in some individuals.

      Multiple studies have demonstrated the efficacy of aminosalicylates to induce and maintain
      remission in UC. Because of its chronic nature, therapy often must continue on an indefinite
      basis. Many patients openly admit they do not take their medications as prescribed;
      medication-taking probably makes patients more uncomfortably aware of their chronic illness
      status, they have a fear of long-term side effects from medications, and they question the
      need for medication in the setting of quiescent disease.

      Previous work done at the University of Chicago demonstrated that using objective pharmacy
      data, rather than patient-derived information, the prevalence of medication non-adherence was
      60% in patients with quiescent UC. The average amount of medication consumed was 70% of that
      prescribed. In a prospective study, those patients non-adherent with medications had a higher
      risk of relapse than those who consumed greater than 75% of their prescribed regimen.

      It is difficult to get patients to take medication when they feel well, because the rationale
      for continued use remains unclear to them. The long-term goals of improving adherence are to
      reduce frequency of relapse, lower the incidence of long-term complications (i.e. colon
      cancer), and lower overall health costs. Making a regimen easy for patients is a key factor
      in increasing adherence.

      Hussain recently showed that in normal subjects, median peak concentrations, trough
      concentrations and areas under the curve were similar for Asacol consumed either as a once or
      three times daily dosing regimen. Twenty-four hour urinary and fecal excretions, total
      recovery, and rectal tissue concentrations also were similar in both groups. The authors
      concluded that the steady-state pharmacokinetics of delayed-release Asacol was similar
      whether the drug was administered in three divided doses throughout the day or as a single
      daily dose.

      There are data to suggest that the motility and function of the colon in patients with
      quiescent ulcerative colitis is similar to that of normal subjects. If this is indeed the
      case, then the pharmacokinetics of Asacol should mimic those of healthy controls. In a small
      pilot study, we were able to show that in a 6-month time, patients were no more likely to
      experience a flare of their disease and actually consumed more medication in a once daily
      regimen than in a standard regimen. The aim of this study is to test this hypothesis in a
      larger number of patients, and assess the efficacy of once daily Asacol in patients with
      quiescent ulcerative colitis compared to a twice or three times daily regimen. In addition,
      we wish to compare the rates of medication consumption between groups over a prolonged period
      of time.

      Methods:

      Patients eligible will be asked to sign informed consent prior to participation. As part of
      the consent process, the phone number of the patient pharmacy will be collected. Patients
      will then be randomized to one of two groups: once daily or usual (twice daily or three times
      daily) therapy. Assignment will be via the use of opaque sealed envelopes, containing
      assignment based on a randomization table. Once enrolled, each patient will be assigned a
      study number, which will be used on the questionnaires to maintain confidentiality. The
      patients will be instructed to conceal their regimen from any research investigator.

      Patients will be followed prospectively and assessed at 3 month intervals from enrollment.
      The three and nine-month follow up will be via phone contact by one of the study nurses.
      Disease assessment and quality of life will be obtained by the nurse in a standard fashion.
      At time intervals 6 and 12 months, patients will be assessed during a scheduled clinic visit,
      using the same assessment tools along with a physical exam. These visits will not be
      additional or extra visits, but part of standard of care for ulcerative colitis. There will
      be no additional blood draws or endoscopy as part of the protocol, lab work and endoscopy for
      patient care as determined by each treating physician will be documented.

      Medication consumption rates at months 3, 6, 9 and 12 will be calculated using pharmacy data
      as obtained by telephone by the PI and the validated formula as described by Steiner and
      colleagues. The end point of the study is disease relapse or the 12-month study period. An
      investigator blinded to the treatment regimen will assess the outcomes and medication
      consumption rates for each group. Patients experiencing a flare during the study period will
      be treated as deemed necessary by their treating physician.
    
  