
    
      Nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC) is a predominantly Asian disease, with approximately 80% of the
      world's 86000 cases occurring in Asian countries (12). With advances in radiation technology
      such as intensity modulation radiotherapy (IMRT), local and nodal control exceeds 85-90% in
      most reported series. Distant metastasis remains the main mode of failure, particularly in
      locally advanced NPC. As an example, in a study by Pan et al (13), 5 years local and nodal
      control of 86% and 89% was achieved with concurrent chemo-IMRT respectively, but distant
      failure free survival of 77% and 72% was reported for patients with T4 and N3 disease
      respectively (AJCC 8th edition).

      Current strategies to reduce distant metastasis, including the use of adjuvant chemotherapy
      have been inconclusive. One major disadvantage of adjuvant chemotherapy following the
      completion of chemoradiation is that approximately half of patients are unable to complete
      the full 3 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy, due to treatment related toxicities. The use of
      induction chemotherapy has two potential benefits: the first is to downsize the tumour,
      making radiotherapy more tolerable; the second, it allows for patients to be able to complete
      the chemotherapy before the onset of chemoradiation associated toxicities.

      There are at least two studies now supporting the use of induction chemotherapy. A recent
      publication by Ma et al (14), showed the addition of induction docetaxel, cisplatin and
      fluorouracil prior to concurrent chemoradiation resulted in 8% improvement (80% vs 72%) in
      3-year failure-free survival. Similarly, Cao et al showed that 2 cycles of cisplatin and
      fluorouracil prior to chemoradiation improved the 3 years disease free survival in patients
      (15).

      Gemcitabine and cisplatin has been shown to be more effective than 5-FU plus cisplatin as
      first-line treatment for recurrent or metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma (16). There are
      currently no studies looking at the addition of anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody such as
      pembrolizumab either in the in the induction or maintenance setting. Hence, we are proposing
      the use of pembrolizumab in combination with 2 cycles of gemcitabine and cisplatin
      chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiation. Following completion of chemoradiation,
      patients will receive maintenance pembrolizumab for total treatment duration of one year. The
      main objective of this Phase II study is to test the safety, efficacy and tolerability of
      this combination in the setting of locally advanced NPC (limited to T4 or N3, stage IVA by
      UICC 8th edition), as this group has the greatest risk of recurrence after the current
      standard treatment.

      Preliminary evidence supporting the clinical efficacy of pembrolizumab monotherapy in NPC
      came from the KEYNOTE-028 trial, which was a global, nonrandomized, multi-cohort, phase Ib
      trial of pembrolizumab in patients with PD-L1-positive advanced solid tumors (17). Key
      eligibility criteria for the NPC cohort included unresectable or metastatic disease, failure
      on prior standard therapy, and PD-L1 expression in 1% or more of tumor cells or
      tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. Patients received pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks up to
      2 years or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. In the initial report,
      twenty-seven NPC patients was evaluated. Median age was 52.0 years (range, 18 to 68 years);
      92.6% received prior therapies for recurrent or metastatic NPC; 70.4% had received three or
      more therapies. Partial response and stable disease were observed in seven and 14 patients,
      respectively, for an ORR of 25.9% (95% CI, 11.1 to 46.3) over a median follow-up of 20
      months. Drug-related adverse events that occurred in 15% or more of patients included rash
      (25.9%), pruritus (25.9%), pain (22.2%), hypothyroidism (18.5%), and fatigue (18.5%). Grade ≥
      3 drug-related adverse events occurred in eight patients (29.6%), and there was one
      drug-related death (sepsis). It was concluded that pembrolizumab demonstrated antitumor
      activity and a manageable safety profile in patients with recurrent or metastatic NPC.
    
  