
    
      In light of the high cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality, promoting simple
      interventions to improve serum lipids and decrease oxidative stress are warranted to help
      prevent chronic diseases. Commonly prescribed dietary interventions for cardiovascular
      disease risk reduction include the use of functional foods known to have beneficial effects
      on risk factors.

      Because of their fiber content, nopales (prickly pear cactus pads from the Opuntia species)
      are commonly regarded among Mexicans as a medicinal plant for glycemic and cholesterol
      control. However, the literature documenting their purported hypocholesterolemic potential is
      scarce. Most studies have focused on the prickly pear fruit, rather than the actual nopales
      cactus pads. Given the unique composition and potential benefits of nopales, their use may be
      an ideal approach as an adjunct therapy for the reduction in cardiometabolic risk factors.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a 2-week intervention with nopales pads
      for the reduction of established CVD risk factors (serum lipids) in comparison to a control
      food with lower antioxidant and fiber content (cucumber) among adults with moderate
      hypercholesterolemia in a randomized controlled crossover trial. Because limited data exists
      on the effects of nopales supplementation on other factors associated with cardiometabolic
      risk, an exploratory assessment of how biomarkers of insulin sensitivity, inflammation (high
      sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP]) and oxidative stress (LDL oxidizability and total
      antioxidant capacity) will also be conducted.

      In this randomized crossover trial, healthy adults with moderate hypercholesterolemia
      (LDL-cholesterol ≥ 120 mg/dL) but otherwise healthy will be randomly assigned to
      supplementation with 2 cups/day of nopales (300 g; intervention) or cucumbers (208 g;
      control), divided into two 1 cup daily doses with each of two main meals. After a 3-week
      washout period, each group will receive the alternative treatment for an additional 2 weeks.
      Participants will be asked to refrain from making any additional changes to their usual diet
      throughout the duration of the entire study.

      Fasting blood samples will be collected at the beginning and end of each dietary
      intervention. At the beginning and end of each dietary intervention an additional fasting
      blood sample will be collected at least one day apart from the main blood collection day for
      measurement of serum lipids to account for day-to-day variability. Outcome measures include a
      complete lipid panel (total cholesterol, HDL-c, LDL-c, and triglycerides), fasting glucose,
      insulin, oxidized LDL and LDL susceptibility to oxidation, total antioxidant capacity (TAC),
      and vitamin C.
    
  