
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether a strategy of complete surgical resection followed by surveillance can
      maintain an overall survival rate of at least 95.7% at two years for pediatric, adolescent
      and adult patients with stage I (low risk) malignant germ cell tumors, and at least 95% for
      patients with ovarian pure immature teratoma.

      II. To compare the event-free survival of a carboplatin versus (vs.) cisplatin-based regimen
      in the treatment of pediatric, adolescent and young adult patients with standard risk
      non-seminomatous germ cell tumors.

      IIa. To compare the event free survival (EFS) of a carboplatin-based regimen (carboplatin [C]
      etoposide [E] bleomycin [b]) vs. a cisplatin-based regimen (cisplatin [P]Eb) in children
      (less than 11 years in age) with standard risk germ cell tumors (GCT).

      IIb. To compare the EFS of a carboplatin-based regimen (BEC) vs. a cisplatin-based regimen
      (BEP) in adolescents and young adults (ages 11 - < 25 years) with standard risk GCT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the incidence of ototoxicity in children, adolescents and young adults with
      standard risk germ cell tumors treated with carboplatin-based chemotherapy as compared to
      cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

      II. To refine and validate a novel patient-reported measure of hearing outcomes for children,
      adolescents and young adults with standard risk germ cell tumors.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To prospectively determine the correlation of tumor marker decline (alpha-fetoprotein [FP]
      and beta-human chorionic gonadotropin [HCG]) with clinical outcome in low and standard risk
      germ cell tumor patients.

      II. To compare self-reported peripheral neuropathy and other patient-reported outcomes
      between children, adolescents and young adults with standard risk germ cell tumors treated
      with carboplatin-based chemotherapy as compared to cisplatin based chemotherapy.

      III. Assess the relationship between hearing loss as measured by audiometry with the effects
      of tinnitus as assessed on the Adolescent and Young Adult Hearing Screening (AYA-HEARS)
      instrument.

      IV. To evaluate the prognostic significance of serum micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA)s in stage
      I testicular cancer (seminoma and non-seminoma) patients by collecting clinical data and
      serum specimens for future analysis.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients with low-risk stage I grade 2, 3 ovarian immature teratoma or stage I non-seminoma
      malignant germ cell tumors (MGCT)s undergo observation and can transfer to standard risk arm
      when eligibility criteria are met. Patients with stage I seminoma testicular MGCT undergo
      observation, and those with residual/recurrent disease are treated at the discretion of their
      physician.

      Patients with standard risk 1 are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (CEb): Patients receive bleomycin intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes and carboplatin IV
      over 1 hour on day 1. Patients also receive etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (PEb): Patients receive bleomycin IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive
      etoposide IV over 1-2 hours and cisplatin IV over 1-3 hours on days 1-5. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients with standard risk 2 are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM III (BEC): Patients receive bleomycin IV over 10 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, etoposide
      IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM IV (BEP): Patients receive bleomycin IV over 10 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, etoposide IV
      over 1-2 hours on days 1-5, and cisplatin IV over 1-3 hours on days 1-5. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 12 months,
      every 3-6 months to 24 months, every 6 months for years 3-5, and then annually for up to 10
      years.
    
  