
    
      In Aim 1, participants (N=42) will receive both an in-person (standard of care) and remote
      (experimental) comprehensive audiological evaluation.Participants will be randomized to
      receive both sessions in a particular sequence (in-person, remote versus remote, in-person)
      to reduce order effect. Remote audiological sessions will involve face-to-face communication
      and testing over a high-speed hard wired connection (10 Mgb/s) conducted within the
      University of Kentucky firewall protection using a Polycom 500 series teleconference audio
      and live video set-up. The audiologist will direct the remote audiological evaluation with
      the participant (in the UK Otolaryngology (ENT) practice in Morehead, KY) from a work station
      at the Otolaryngology (ENT) practice in Lexington, KY. Evaluations will include pure-tone air
      and bone conduction thresholds (level of hearing ability) along with speech audiometry
      (speech recognition thresholds and word recognition scores). Scores from the Arizona
      Biological (AzBio) test (speech recognition) completed remotely and in-person will be
      compared for each person to determine equivalence. Upon enrollment, participants will fill
      out a demographic questionnaire along with an adapted version of the University of Rhode
      Island Change Assessment (URICA) questionnaire, assessing their current stage of change
      toward seeking hearing rehabilitation.

      Aim 2 will involve participants from Aim 1 (N=12). Half of the cohort (n=6) will be
      randomized to receive a remote cochlear implant counseling session (experimental) and the
      other half (n=6) will be randomized to receive an in-person cochlear implant counseling
      session (standard of care). Both sessions will occur in the ENT practice in Morehead, KY with
      an audiologist but the audiologist will be physically located in the ENT practice in
      Lexington, KY directing the session during the remote sessions. The counseling session lasts
      30-45 minutes and consists of 5 key components: an explanation of the patient's hearing
      testing results, a discussion of the impact of hearing loss on the patient's life, treatment
      options for hearing loss including hearing aid amplification and cochlear implantation, an
      explanation of how cochlear implants function and the necessary steps in candidacy and
      rehabilitation, and an outline of the expected outcomes following cochlear implantation.
      After participants receive either remote or in-person session, they will complete a
      satisfaction questionnaire on the session and the URICA questionnaire.The URICA questionnaire
      is a validated assessment tool measuring an individuals' motivation for change by providing a
      score that places them within one of the four categories: precontemplation, contemplation,
      action and maintenance (Laplante-Lavesque, Hickson, & Worral, 2013). After each session, the
      audiologist will fill out a satisfaction questionnaire.
    
  