
    
      BACKGROUND: Metastatic breast cancer remains to this day a mostly incurable disease, with
      less than 10% of patients reaching a long-term disease free survival. This study proposes
      using an immune-depleting chemotherapy as platform for immunotherapy. It is based on the
      following hypotheses and understanding:

        -  The combination of dose-intensive followed by immune-depleting chemotherapy provides a
           platform for subsequent immunotherapy by:

             1. Lengthening the progression-free survival period, thus allowing time for a slow
                acting therapy such as vaccination to be effective.

             2. Maximally decreasing the patient's tumor burden. This has been shown both in
                clinical and experimental settings to be desirable if not necessary for
                immunotherapy to be effective.

             3. Decreasing the tumor burden which may also decrease a tumor-induced
                immuno-suppressive effect linked to tumor bulk.

             4. Providing tumor antigen exposure following immune depletion in the form of repeated
                immunizations. This may take advantage of the pattern of immune reconstitution
                following immune depleting therapy at early time points (antigen-driven peripheral
                expansion of T-cells) and the renewal of a T-cell repertoire biased towards tumor
                antigens and anti-tumor responses at later time points.

        -  Low antigenicity of tumor antigens and immune tolerance may be overcome in a clinically
           relevant fashion by providing exposure to the tumor antigens (the carcino-embryonic
           antigen CEA) in a more immunogenic presentation along with added co-stimulatory signal
           (in the form of two poxvirus-based recombinant vaccines).

        -  Due to the post immune depletion defects and delay in immune reconstitution, an adequate
           immune response to vaccines may not occur unless the patients are provided, following
           immune depletion, with unaltered T-cells in the form of re-infusion of pre-chemotherapy
           lymphocytes.

      The late recovery of thymic function (18 to 24 months) with reappearance of naive T-cells may
      play a determinant role in the prevention of later disease progression. It is the rationale
      for a late series of immunizations.

      ELIGIBILITY: Patients with metastatic breast cancer untreated with chemotherapy or radiation
      in the previous 18 months with CEA positivity in either the tumor or the serum.

      OBJECTIVES: The primary objectives are to evaluate biologically this immunization strategy by
      assessing CEA specific T-cell responses as well as clinically by comparing the patient event
      free survival (EFS) to our historical control (protocol 96-C-0104) in which patients have
      received the same conventional therapy but no immunization

      DESIGN: Before any chemotherapy patients will be immunized with one of two tumor-specific,
      recombinant, poxvirus-based deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) Tricom vaccines and sensitized
      lymphocytes will be cryopreserved. Patients will then receive conventional induction therapy
      with Paclitaxel, Cyclophosphamide and Doxorubicin, surgery and / or radiation as indicated
      for local control, then immune depleting chemotherapy with Fludarabine & Cyclophosphamide.
      Following immune depletion, patients will receive 9 immunization boosts over the next 30
      months. Patients whose disease progress through the vaccination schedule, may, under certain
      circumstances, receive further vaccinations under a more intensive schedule (monthly).
    
  