
    
      Tissue-invasive helminth parasites infect close to 500 million people worldwide and are
      associated with strong T helper (Th)2 responses and regulatory networks that downregulate
      potentially protective Th1 responses. The two common tissue invasive helminth parasites are
      Wuchereria bancrofti, that causes lymphatic filariasis and Strongyloides stercoralis, that
      causes stronyloidiasis. Previous studies have shown that the intestinal helminth coinfection
      is accompanied by lowered in vitro production of interferon-gamma and elevated production of
      interleukin 10 in individuals with active pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). Our team has recently
      shown that co-existent filarial TB infections down-regulate Th1 and Th17 responses, which are
      necessary for protection against active TB.

      The current study will compare immune responses to mycobacterial antigens in individuals with
      latent tuberculosis (LTBI+) and concomitant helminth infection (Hel+), including those with
      filarial (Fil+) and strongyloides (STR+) infection versus those with LTBI+ without
      concomitant helminth infection (Hel-). Immune responses to mycobacterial antigens from
      co-infected individuals will also be evaluated before and after treatment for helminth
      infection. Individuals (n=4000) will sign a screening consent prior to undergoing any study
      procedures. Every participant will have their medical history collected and will undergo a
      physical exam and a tuberculin 2TU purified protein derivative (PPD) skin test; women of
      childbearing potential will also undergo a urine pregnancy test, and those with positive test
      results will be excluded from the study. Individuals with positive PPD skin test results (>
      or = 5 mm) and no symptoms of active TB will have their blood drawn (5 mL) as part of the
      screening procedures to confirm LTBI+ status, evaluate circulating filarial antigenemia,
      determine Strongyloides status by ELISA, measure hematocrit levels, and for storage of serum
      samples; those with PPD skin test results less than or equal to 5 mm will be excluded from
      the study. Individuals with positive symptoms for TB will also be excluded from the study,
      but sputum will be collected from them, and those with positive smears will be referred for
      treatment. Individuals will be matched for age, gender, and geographic location, and they
      will be assigned to one of two groups, LTBI+ Hel+ (n=100) or LTBI+ Hel- (n=100).

      Within 3 months of screening, individuals will be asked to sign an on-study consent and will
      undergo a second blood draw (10 mL) for immunological investigations and storage of serum
      samples; women of childbearing potential will undergo a repeat urine pregnancy test, and
      those with positive test results will be excluded from further study. Stool samples will also
      be collected for microscopic evaluation of ova and parasites. LTBI+ Fil+ individuals will be
      treated with a single standard dose of albendazole (400 mg) and single standard dose of
      diethylcarbamazine citrate (300 mg), which are available through the National Programme for
      the Elimination of Lymphatic Filariasis in India. LTBI+ STR+ individuals will be treated with
      a single standard dose of ivermectin (12mg) and a single standard dose of albendazole
      (400mg). These individuals will be asked to return 6 months after treatment to undergo a
      third blood draw (10 mL) for additional immunological investigations and storage of serum
      samples. LTBI+ Hel-individuals who test positive for other intestinal helminth infection will
      be treated with a single standard dose of albendazole (400 mg).
    
  