
    
      Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) aid prognostication of cancer by predicting the presence of
      microscopic metastases. This is important in pancreatic cancer, which is associated with a
      poor prognosis even in resectable disease, due to microscopic metastases that are not
      detectable on pre-operative cross-sectional imaging. In pancreatic cancer, blood is sampled
      from the portal circulation to overcome the "hepatic sieve" effect, where CTCs are filtered
      out in the capillary beds of the liver before entering the peripheral circulation. Minimally
      invasive blood sampling from the portal vein can now be done via endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)
      guidance, allowing CTC analyses to be done pre-operatively.

      CTCs have traditionally been isolated in various cancers using a cell surface marker-based
      platform (CellSearch™). This involves the use of antibodies to identify, isolate and quantify
      CTCs based on presence of specific epithelial cell markers. However, CTCs are now known to
      undergo epithelial-mesenchymal transformation. The current epithelial cell surface
      marker-based method of CTC isolation is limited by its inability to detect mesenchymal-type
      CTCs, potentially under estimating the CTC count, affecting quantification and subsequent CTC
      molecular analyses.

      The use of a novel silicon microsieve device will overcome these limitations. It will
      simplify the isolation of CTCs by its characteristic size, enable both epithelial and
      mesenchymal types of CTCs to be isolated and results in greater cell viability, aiding in
      subsequent cell culture and organoid growth.

      The investigators will compare a novel silicon microsieve size-based cell filtration device
      against the cell surface marker label-based CellSearch™ platform for the identification of
      pancreatic cancer CTCs in portal venous blood obtained via an Endoscopic Ultrasound
      (EUS)-guided puncture. The investigators will compare the yield of epithelial-type CTCs
      isolated using both methods. The investigators will investigate whether the isolation of
      mesenchymal-type CTCs via a sized-based cell filtration device leads to a significant
      increase in total CTC yield.

      The investigators expect our study to show that the new technique of size-based CTC isolation
      improves CTC yield in pancreatic cancer. This preliminary data would be crucial for future
      research into patient selection for neoadjuvant chemotherapy and individualized treatment
      from patient-specific tumor tissue, which the investigators intend to embark upon.
    
  