
    
      Technique of closed reduction Preoperative Patients were admitted one day before operation in
      the pediatric ward and when possible skin traction was applied for the affected side. Blood
      sample was extracted for basic lab work investigations Blood bank was contacted to prepare
      cross matching for blood in case of shifting the procedure to open reduction. The side of DDH
      was marked and patient kept fasting starting from midnight before operation.The consent was
      signed by the legal guardian and we included the possibility of turning closed to open
      reduction in case of failure to obtain concentric reduction intraoperatively Operative
      technique After induction of general anesthesia with proper muscle relaxant,the patient was
      examined gently for hip mobility and possibility of closed reduction.Vigorous maneuvers were
      avoided.The hip was reduced by placing it in flexion beyond 90 degrees and gradually
      abducting it while gently lifting the greater trochanter, as is done during the Ortolani
      maneuver. The minimum possible force was applied and after a palpable reduction was felt, the
      hip was moved to determine the range of motion in which it remained reduce as described by
      Ramsey and associates. The hip was adducted to the point of redislocation, and that position
      was noted. The hip was again reduced and then extended until it dislocates, and the point of
      dislocation was noted. If the hip required internal rotation to maintain reduction, this was
      also noted

      Tenotomy

      At times, an adductor tenotomy was used to increase the safe zone by allowing for a wider
      range of abduction. However,wide abduction should never be used because It is known that this
      can predispose to AVN.Excessive internal rotation is also a known cause of AVN and thus must
      be avoided.A percutaneous adductor tenotomy under sterile conditions was performed for mild
      adduction contractures. For more severe adduction contracture or one of long duration,an open
      adductor tenotomy through a small transverse incision was done

      Technique of cast application Closed reduction of the hip should be performed under general
      anesthesia in the operating room to provide adequate muscle paralysis. The reduction maneuver
      involves longitudinal traction, flexion, and abduction of the hip, all while applying
      posterior pressure on the greater trochanter [12]. Frequently an adductor tenotomy is
      necessary via an open or percutaneous technique, which relieves one of the opposing forces
      and widens the "safe zone." After reduction of the hip, intraoperative arthrography will
      confirm a concentric reduction of the femoral head by demonstrating a collection of dye in
      the space between the femoral head and medial border of the acetabulum of less than 5-7 mm
      [13]. The previously described collection of dye is often referred to as the "medial dye
      pool." If the medial dye pool measures greater than 7 mm, it is an indication to proceed with
      an open reduction [13]. Once reduction of the hip has been documented, the stable zones of
      the hip in all planes of direction (abduction/adduction, flexion/extension, internal/
      external rotation) should be identified to ensure stability of the hip in the "human
      position" prior to applying the spica cast. The purpose of the spica cast is to maintain the
      hip in 100 of flexion and 40-50 of abduction, which is commonly referred to as the "human
      position" of the hip . The spica cast is technically demanding, but close attention to detail
      can ensure hip positioning and maintenance of the reduction. Because the padding over the
      anterior aspect of the hip has a tendency to extend the hip, it is prudent to maintain
      necessary flexion until the casting material has hardened. The femoral head will often
      migrate posteriorly leading to a loss in the reduction, but the use of a greater trochanter
      mold can help prevent the migration .

      Confirming of closed reduction by arthrography inter operative and C T /MRI post-operative
    
  