
    
      Background

      Malignant melanoma (MM) is a deadly cancer, claiming globally about 160000 new cases per year
      and 48000 deaths [1]. The incidence rate for MM ascended between 1950 and 2007 more than
      17-fold in men (1.9 to 33.5 per 100,000) and more than 9-fold in women (2.6 to 25.3 per
      100,000) [2]. It is estimated that 76000 new cases and 9000 deaths are diagnosed/ year (US,
      only, 2017) [3]. European Countries yield 22000/yr. stage 4 melanomas.

      MM starts de novo in about 70% of subjects, with a small 2 millimeters or more superficial
      skin lesion which, if left undiagnosed, might develop into a more advanced stage cancer,
      followed by silent lymph node spreading and invasion of vital organs such as liver and brain.
      MM is staged by either direct invasion into the skin, the Breslow scale in mm, or by its skin
      level involvement, a Clark 1-5 structural skin level of involvement. Both methods of
      assessment are predictors of long term survival, which is almost unchanged at a Breslow depth
      beneath 1 mm and much decreased beyond Clark III stage. Therefore early detection of
      melanoma, generally tagged as small melanoma, is critical.

      Present Methodologies of MM detection

      The following different methods and diagnostic means for detection of the cutaneous melanoma
      are currently employed as a means of diagnosis:

        1. Visual recognition by an Asymmetry, Border, Color, Diameter and Evolvement (ABCDE rule).
           A 30 year old methodology and still running, assessing: ABCDE. It is used by part of US
           dermatologists who trust their clinical skills and instincts [4]. Due to its innate
           complexity and myriad of recognition patterns, dermoscopy by epiluminescence microscopy
           is considered as ineffective by 60% of the non users dermatologists and 30% report it as
           time consuming, rendering it impracticable. The abovementioned rule was reviewed in 2015
           [5] and teaches the use of a diameter greater than 6 mm as a criteria for melanoma
           recognition. Consequently, it does not contribute to early detection of a melanoma,
           which might be life saving, since 70-80% of melanomas start de novo as small melanomas.
           An attempt to change the Diameter criteria, i.e. a decrease in the postulated 6 mm
           Diameter, leads to a major decrease in sensitivity and specificity, rendering the ABCDE
           ineffective for early melanoma detection. It is concluded that these basic visual
           criteria, although widely used, are a non effective prevention method due to their
           innate criteria which misses the evolving melanomas, since all melanomas start as small
           melanomas.

        2. Epiluminescence microscopy is a 65 years old art, which is considered the golden
           standard of evaluation. It is highly dependent on the skills and knowledge of the
           diagnostician. Epiluminescence microscopy is a the bridge between clinical observation
           and histopathological diagnosis. It allows visualization of skin pigments up to the
           papillary dermis and improves detection sensitivity and specificity. Analysis is made by
           a clinician based on dermoscopy rules [6], which are based on a complicated dermoscopic
           pattern analysis.

           Complete dermoscopic pattern analysis of a lesion is the mainstream of diagnosis. Each
           of the dermoscopic patterns can diverge in extent, diameter, general or local
           appearance, or evolve as multi patterns with various area of expression on the same
           lesion and rendering the diagnosis beyond an encyclopedic task.

           Due to the complexity of the dermoscopic pattern analysis method, different
           modifications were proposed, such as a simplified ABCD rule, an intermediate 7 rules
           assessment and a 11 rules checklist. The myriad of data and its interpretation render
           even experts in dermoscopy to identify melanomas with a relative low ratio from 5:1 to
           15:1, i.e. the number of biopsies of benign lesions performed in order to make the
           diagnosis of one skin melanoma.

           Furthermore, there are claims that one diagnostic sign might be more sensitive that
           other signs, alike the criteria of a light brown structureless area. Dermatologists
           commonly fail in diagnosing early small melanoma which is the critical period of growth
           of the tumor and most efficacious prevention.

        3. Visual recognition by temporal total body photography is yet non standardized
           methodology, a time consuming and patient expensive procedure. It uses the human
           comparison assessment and is subjected to biases of pixel photo during performance of
           the measurement, due to lighting, background and camera position. Addition of patient
           assessment by artificial intelligence, an analysis based on computer evaluation of
           different colorimetric and geometric parameters of a lesion in real time, confer a
           limited advantage only, yielding sometimes more false positives compared to
           inexperienced or even experienced clinicians.

        4. Multi Spectrometry devices, which provide measurements of melanin, collagen and
           hemoglobin with further use of image analysis, do not confer any advantage to
           epiluminescence microscopy. Although displaying a higher sensitivity, these
           methodologies specificity are considerably below that of simple epiluminescence
           microscopy in melanoma identification rate .

        5. Confocal scanning microscopy, a procedure which uses a low power laser for a 3D imaging.
           An effective means of diagnosis. However, the use of this methodology is limited by its
           high cost, a prolonged (6 mo) learning curve of 2000-4000 images, and the requirement
           for a highly specialized and trained personal, since this methodology is highly
           subjected to artifacts.

        6. Experimental under development methods: alike Electrical impedance spectroscopy, Optical
           coherence tomography, High frequency ultrasound, Laser doppler perfusion imaging,
           Dynamic thermal imaging, Photoacoustic microscopy, to be further developed and proved.

      Clinical Requirements

      It is desirable to identify a new non invasive methodology which will

        1. Improve Sensitivity of diagnosis of pigmented skin lesions, alike dysplastic nevi, Spitz
           nevi and MM

        2. Identify small MM,

        3. Increase Specificity of lesions to be biopsied

        4. Non invasive fast technology.

      Common Practice

      Commonly, a patient is evaluated by a physician due to either a skin lesion complaint or,
      with high risk patients, a summon to visit on a regular basis.

      Only some of the dermatologists employ dermoscopy or are skilled to use it since it may seem
      to be time consuming. There is no international standard of degree of skill. Even a golden
      standard textbook of dermoscopy is not existent.

      Upon recognition of suspicious lesion, patient is referred to a surgeon for biopsy.

      As recently reviewed and in view of the above-mentioned, the incidence of melanoma is
      continuing to increase. All present methods commonly do not diagnose melanoma at an early
      stage and epiluminescence microscopy is highly user dependant and commonly misses the
      diagnosis . Early excision is the only strategy to reduce the death toll associated with
      melanoma. Unnecessary excision of benign lesions increases morbidity and raise healthcare
      costs associated with melanoma screening, resulting in recommended restrictions to a total
      body screening by Surgeon General (2016) and questioning the efficacy of such a screening.

      The requirement for a more systemized methodology and system is obvious in view of the
      expected increase in melanoma incidence to a 1:15 within the next 15 years. A new device able
      to capture the window of opportunity of Dysplastic Nevus to small melanoma is highly useful
      for today healthcare systems.

      Primary Study Objectives

        -  A Sensitivity of at least 75% for Classifier results as compared to biopsy Sensitivity
           is the percentage of correctly diagnosed dysplastic nevi, Spitz nevi or melanomas. [
           Designated as safety issue: No ].

        -  A Sensitivity of at least 85% for an Modified Classifier Technology (MCT) results as
           compared to biopsy. Sensitivity is the percentage of correctly diagnosed dysplastic
           nevi, Spitz nevi or melanomas. [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  A Specificity of at least 33% for Classifier results as compared to biopsy. Specificity
           is the percentage of correctly identified dysplastic nevi, Spitz nevi or melanomas. [
           Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  A Specificity of at least 33% for MCT results as compared to biopsy. Specificity is the
           percentage of correctly identified dysplastic nevi, Spitz nevi or melanomas. [
           Designated as safety issue: No ]

      Secondary Study Objectives

        -  The positive predictive value of MCT, compared to the biopsy result [ Designated as
           safety issue: No ]

        -  The negative predictive value of MCT, [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  The false positive rate of MCT, [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  The false negative rate of MCT, [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  The difference between two dermoscopes, [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  The positive predictive value of Classifier, compared to the biopsy result [ Designated
           as safety issue: No ]

        -  The negative predictive value of Classifier, [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  The false positive rate of Classifier, [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  The false negative rate of Classifier, [ Designated as safety issue: No ]

        -  Clinical decision Sensitivity and Specificity rates.
    
  