
    
      Objective

      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the leading cause of death and disability in people under age
      45 in industrialized countries 5;6. Significant numbers of US veterans from the wars in Iraq
      and Afghanistan return with TBI7. However, to date, there are no specific neuroprotective
      treatment options with proven clinical efficacy 8. Erythropoietin (EPO) is approved by the
      FDA to treat anemia and has comprehensive preclinical data supporting its neuroprotective and
      neuroregenerative efficacy following traumatic (TBI) and a wide range of other acquired brain
      insults. Injury to small and medium-sized cerebral blood vessels is a well recognized
      consequence of TBI. EPO increases production of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) 4;9 and
      promotes angiogenesis and neovascularization after TBI. EPO also promotes neurogenesis and
      improves functional recovery in animals after experimental stroke10-12 and TBI.13;14
      Neovascularization is coupled with neurogenesis, and augmentation of both processes by EPO
      may result in lessened cognitive deficits. Neovascularization by EPO may prevent
      post-traumatic deficits in cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR), which can be measured
      noninvasively using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      This proposal is for a randomized, placebo-controlled pilot clinical trial designed to obtain
      data on the effects of EPO in humans with persistent post-concussive symptoms after TBI. The
      primary objective is to evaluate effect of 4 week administration of recombinant
      erythropoietin on numbers of circulating endothelial progenitor cells in patients with
      persistent symptoms during the subacute period after TBI. This information will guide the
      design of a future definitive study.

      Study Population

      The study population will include 30 males and females with persistent post-concussive
      symptoms continuing up to 7 days after TBI. Participants will be military service members or
      civilians presenting as outpatients for clinical management of TBI or post-concussive
      symptoms at the Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine (CNRM)-affiliated
      hospitals. These include the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center (WRNMMC), Suburban
      Hospital (SH), and Washington Hospital Center (WHC).

      Design

      Participants will be referred to the NIH Clinical Center (CC) from participating hospitals or
      will be recruited by advertisements through CNRM Recruitment core to receive EPO or placebo.
      Telephone screening will be carried out to determine tentative eligibility. At the baseline
      visit, participants will be screened, consented and randomized 2:1 to receive either EPO or
      placebo with a dose of 40,000 IU EPO subcutaneously (s.c.) (n=20) once weekly for 4 weeks or
      placebo (n=10). Each participant will have 6 outpatient visits (visits 1-6) performed at the
      NIH CC. Placebo or active drug will be administered s.c. based on the randomization at visits
      1-4; blood will be collected for EPC assays and safety laboratory measurements during each
      visit. Brain MRI and neuropsychological tests will be performed during visit 1 (before
      administering EPO or placebo), and visit 5 (one week after final drug administration) and
      visit 6 (6 months after study enrollment).

      Outcome Measures

      Primary outcome:

        1. . Effect of 4 weeks of EPO administration on numbers of circulating EPCs in patients
           with persistent symptoms during the subacute period after TBI (within subject
           comparison).

           Secondary outcomes:

        2. . Comparison of the change of numbers of circulating EPC s between EPO and placebo
           groups.

        3. . Effect of 4 weeks of EPO administration on MRI biomarkers of TBI recovery (such as CVR
           on hypercapnia and global and regional brain volumes by MRI).

        4. . Effect of 4 weeks of EPO administration on plasma biomarkers of angiogenesis and
           inflammation, such as stem cell factor (SCF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
           stromal-derived factor (SDF-1 ); and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9).

        5. . Effect of 4 weeks of placebo administration on numbers of circulating EPCs in patients
           with persistent symptoms during the subacute period after TBI.

           Tertiary outcome:

        6. . Relationship between EPC levels at baseline and after 4 weeks and neuropsychological
           performance following TBI.
    
  