
    
      This project explores the relationship between sleep and learning in childhood with tic
      disorders, such as Tourette syndrome (TS) and chronic tic disorders (CTD).

      TS/CTD are movement disorders characterized by repetitive involuntary movements and/or
      vocalizations called tics. Sleep related problems are commonly reported for children with
      TS/CTD and may include problems getting to sleep, waking up frequently during the night,
      early wakening and tic-related movements in sleep. For typically developing children, sleep
      disturbances have been linked to problems with mood, behaviour and learning. To date, the
      relationship between sleep and learning has not been explored for children with TS/CTD.

      The aim of this project is to investigate whether there is a relationship between sleep
      efficiency and learning in boys with and without TS/CTD aged 11-14 years.

      Sleep efficiency will be measured using a small actigraphy watch, which will collect
      information about movements during sleep, night time waking and light exposure. Children will
      be required to wear the watch for 14 days and nights. Before one night of sleep and again the
      next morning, children will be asked to complete some tasks on an iPad Air to assess
      learning. These include 1) 'popping' balloons with faces on them according to specific rules
      (e.g. boys faces, happy faces), 2) learning novel animal names, 3) navigating a 3D maze.
      Children will also be administered some standard tests to look at level of intellectual
      functioning, memory and other thinking skills that may contribute to performance on the
      computerized tasks. Additionally, children and their parents will be asked to complete
      questionnaires to assess tics, quality of life, mood and behaviour. The findings of this
      study will help improve understanding of sleep problems for children with tic disorders to
      aid the development of specific interventions for this group.
    
  