
    
      Design: This study is designed as a pilot and feasibility trial, using a step-wedged design,
      and designed in line with CONSORT guidance. Pilot trials are used in advance of a larger
      future definitive randomised controlled trial (RCT) to focus on the development and
      refinement of the intervention, assess potential effectiveness, intervention acceptability
      and to determine whether a larger RCT is feasible. In step-wedged designs, all participants
      begin the study as 'control participants' and at regular 'steps' one group crosses from the
      control to the intervention condition, until all groups have completed the intervention. The
      step-wedged design is a pragmatic and financially viable design which reconciles the need for
      robust evaluations and logistical time constraints, as each participant acts as their own
      control. On conclusion of group participation, all participants will be invited to take part
      in one-to-one interviews with the lead researcher to discuss their experiences of MBSR+MBCL,
      to assess the acceptability of the intervention and inform future adaptations prior to larger
      trial.

      Recruitment: Eligible and consenting participants will be identified in two ways. Firstly, by
      clinical staff at Sheffield Teaching Hospital (NHS) specialist IBD gastroenterology service
      and secondly, by poster and email advertisements at the University of Sheffield and through
      relevant charitable organisations. Participants will be recruited on an ongoing basis and
      allocated to the next available group, or another, if the dates of the next group are not
      convenient.

      Procedure: All consenting and eligible participants will meet with the lead researcher who
      will induct them into the trial and inform them of group allocation, and when they will
      commence the intervention. As in most psychological intervention trials, it will be
      impossible to blind participants to the interventions they are receiving. All outcome
      measures will be completed online via the Qualtrics platform.

      Interventions: MBSR is an 8-week intervention consisting of 2.5 hour weekly sessions which
      involves the teaching and practice of formal mindfulness exercises, aimed at promoting the
      use of mindfulness in daily life for individuals experiencing stress, pain and/or illness.
      Participants are asked to engage in homework exercises which are intended to reinforce the
      techniques learnt each week. The intervention will aim to establish home practice and
      introduce self-compassion. MBCL is designed to be a follow-up intervention to a MBI. MBCL is
      a group intervention, also eight weeks in length and the sessions last 2.5 hours. The
      sessions contain a mixture of mindfulness practice, group discussion and didactic and
      interactive teaching. However, the content of the practices are different to traditional
      MBSR, focusing on turning towards suffering and developing a kind attitude to the self. Both
      MBSR and MBCL interventions will be taught by one of two accredited mindfulness teachers who
      have extensive experience in teaching MBIs, and who will complete the MBCL teaching training
      prior to the trial commencing. Adherence to the interventions will be measured by attendance
      at the group sessions and by participants home practice diaries. Fidelity to the
      interventions will be evaluated in line with guidance from previous studies and the
      application of a fidelity checklist.

      Control condition: Prior to entering the intervention phase of the study, all individuals
      will begin in the control condition which consists of the routine medical monitoring and
      psychosocial support provided by gastroenterologists and IBD nurse specialists. Participants
      will be requested not to change their medication during the study, if at all possible, and to
      refrain from beginning any other psychological interventions.

      Sample size: MBIs group sizes vary between 8 and 15 participants. Four groups will be
      conducted during the life of the grant, recruiting up to 60 participants. Despite being a
      pilot study we aim to achieve a sufficient sample size to adequately determine effectiveness.
      In line with previous studies of MBSR in chronic health conditions, assuming a conservative
      estimated medium effect size of d = .6 for our primary outcomes (e.g. depression and anxiety
      in diabetes) and a significance level of alpha = .05 (two-tailed), data from 45 participants
      would achieve 80% power45 and provide robust data for analysis.

      Quantitative analysis: Statistical analysis will be carried out according to the principles
      of intention to treat. Repeated measures ANCOVAs will be conducted across all outcome
      measures, controlling for baseline measurements, to assess the potential impact of the
      intervention. Cohen's d effect sizes will be calculated to assess the magnitude of any
      potential change. In addition to the effectiveness of MBSR, and subsequently MBSR+MBCL,
      additional analyses to explore moderators of the treatment effects, such as disease type, age
      of diagnosis, current medication will be conducted. Sustainability of effects will be
      analysed via 3 and 6 month follow up data. The feasibility of the intervention will be
      evaluated via quantitative data on recruitment, enrolment, retention, attrition, missing data
      and fidelity to the model. Guidance on pilot and feasibility will be fully adhered to in
      reporting.

      Qualitative Analysis: To assess the acceptability of the intervention, ascertain its value to
      participants and seek service-user views on any adaptations that would need to be made prior
      to a larger evaluation of the intervention, one-to-one interviews will be conducted with a
      sample of participants across the groups (aiming for a minimum of 12 participant interviews).
      All participants will be invited to take part, at the end of their respective group. The
      one-to-one interviews will be conducted by the lead researcher and be guided by an
      interview-schedule, designed to explore participants experience of the intervention in an
      open non-directive manner. Data will be transcribed and will be analysed using thematic
      analysis, which focuses on eliciting themes from participants' description of their
      experiences. Thematic analysis has been chosen as the methodology is not tied to a particular
      theoretical position, but offers a systematic approach to discerning themes in participant's
      accounts of their experiences.

      Quality assurance plan: All aspects of the safety, monitoring and quality control of the data
      will be monitored by the a representative from the sponsor, there will be no separate Data
      Safety and Monitoring Board involved.
    
  