
    
      In the urgency of the COVID-19 outbreak, Medable will enable an observational study protocol
      under which clinical trials can rapidly be conducted. The observational study protocol will
      include the conduct of smartphone based research to capture an essential dataset to improve
      our understanding of disease evolution, risk factors, and outcomes as well as enable
      population-based monitoring to reduce the spread of disease. Under this protocol, sub-studies
      and clinical trials can be conducted for interventions, including vaccine trials. The work
      may include new tools such as surface environmental or personal swabs to test for presence or
      absence of disease. Data collection efforts on behalf of rapidly evolving multiple study
      designs and participant opt-in data sharing, will enable the compilation of critical
      epidemiological and other data across the United States to accelerate the understanding for
      effective mitigation and treatment of COVID-19.

      ACCESS (American COVID-19 Collaborative Enabling Seamless Science), a novel COVID-19 digital
      research infrastructure, provides a mobile app tool for participants to report specific data
      and facilitate remote access to accelerate critical research and clinical treatment
      development.

      ACCESS leverages leading digital health technologies to facilitate at-home research, clinical
      trials, and population-based long-term outcome studies and data de-identification measures
      (data coding/tokenization). The infrastructure combines opt-in wearable sensors, patient
      reported data and outcomes, opt-in data aggregation and additional opportunities for users to
      participate in clinical trials and share their de-identified data based upon reported
      information.

      Prior to COVID-19, the FDA expressed an interest in expediting drug development through
      developing trial designs that test multiple drugs and/or multiple subpopulations in parallel
      under a single protocol, without a need to develop new protocols for every trial. This has
      become even more important during the COVID-19 pandemic. This type of work will also be
      enabled under the ACCESS system.
    
  