
    
      Background In Switzerland, many patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) are treated with
      physiotherapy. Muscle weakness is a common symptom. Particularly in progressive disease
      courses, motor dysfunction is a major contributor to the reduced mobility and quality of
      life. Therefore, improving the motor dysfunction is an important goal for therapy and is
      evaluated with a variety of muscle function tests. The 6 level British Medical Research
      Council (BMRC) manual muscle test is the most widely used test in MS and is a part of the
      Neurostatus-Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) assessment, which has been adopted as the
      standard in most of the pivotal trials that have led to the approval of the current MS
      treatments. In MS patients, testing muscle function can be confounded by many factors, such
      as spasticity and ataxia, which are not considered by the existing tests and may cause biased
      test results. Steinlin Egli described a Modified Manual Muscle Test (MMMT) that considers
      spasticity and may provide a more reliable and valid muscle function test for MS patients.

      Aim of the study is to evaluate the inter- and intra-rater reliability of the Modified Manual
      Muscle Test in MS and evaluate the validity of the Modified MMT according to the criteria of
      the Neurostatus BMRC manual muscle test and the microFET2 handhold dynamometer.

      Methods This is a single-centre, prospective cross-sectional study with a test-retest design.
      The Neurostatus BMRC manual muscle test and the microFET2 hand held dynamometer are used as
      the criteria. The primary endpoint is the ordinal MMMT level. The intra-class correlation
      coefficient (ICC) of the ranked MMMT levels will be estimated. The investigator aims to show
      that the MMMT results are clinically relevant with a high level of ICC.

      The secondary endpoints include the Neurostatus BMRC levels, the muscle strength as measured
      by the microFET2 dynamometer and fatigue using a numeric rating scale (NRS). Subgroup
      analyses will determine whether the MMMT is less sensitive to the influence of spasticity
      than the Neurostatus BMRC.

      28 patients with MS will be tested in 2 days. In each day, six examiners will test seven
      patients in the morning and seven patients in the afternoon. Three MS-therapists from the
      Specialized Group Physiotherapy in MS and three neurologists from the Department of Neurology
      at the University Hospital Basel will be tester. All examiners will be blinded to the results
      of the other examiners. All test persons will be blinded to their test results. First, the
      patient will rate his fatigue using the NRS. Muscle function will be tested with the
      microFET2 and spasticity will be assessed using the modified Tardieu Scale. Then, the first
      round of manual testing will be executed. After each test, there will be a break that is long
      enough for the patients to recuperate. The order of the examiners will be randomized. The
      retest round will proceed in a different order. Finally, spasticity will be tested again
      using the modified Tardieu Scale, and the patients will rate their fatigue.

      Statistical Analysis The study data will be analysed using the internet-based program R. The
      descriptive statistics will describe the sample characteristics. The inter-rater reliability
      will be estimated by the ICC of the MMMT ranks. The ICC will be estimated by a two-way
      random-effects ANOVA and reported with 95% CI. If the lower limit of the CI is larger than
      the pre-specified clinically relevant ICC margin, the MMMT will be considered a reliable tool
      for evaluating muscle strength in MS patients.

      The inter-rater reliability the Neurostatus BMRC will be estimated similarly by the ICC. The
      ICC of both tests will be compared. The test-retest reliability of the MMMT and Neurostatus
      BMRC will be estimated using two-way random-effects ANOVA and will be reported by ICC
      estimates. The influence of potential fatigue will be analysed by plotting the test and
      retest results against the NRS and investigating the associations and interactions using a
      linear mixed effects model. The pairwise correlations of the MMMT and the Neurostatus BMRC
      with the microFET2 will be graphically analysed (scatterplots and/or boxplots), and
      Spearman's ρ will be calculated. The primary and secondary analyses will be repeated for
      subgroups with high and low spasticity patients to compare the sensitivity of the MMMT and
      Neurostatus BMRC to spasticity.

      Expected results: The investigators expect the MMMT for MS to be a reliable and valid manual
      muscle function test that can be used in the evaluation of the long-term treatment of MS
      patients with physical therapy.
    
  