
    
      Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common, underdiagnosed neurological movement disorder of
      undetermined aetiology. RLS is a collective sensory-motor neural condition that is described
      by deep restlessness, unpleasant creeping/crawling perceptions profound inside the lower
      limbs and sleep disturbance, accompanied by a need to move the limb often at bedtime.
      Usually, the sensory-motor complaints of Restless Leg Syndrome arise or aggravate
      nocturnally, presenting a day-to-day pattern. These sensations typically occur before sleep
      onset and cause sleep disturbance in patients. Restless leg syndrome is associated with
      different conditions including diabetes, diabetic neuropathy, pregnancy, uremia, iron
      deficiency, hypertension and coronary heart diseases. The Pathophysiology of restless leg
      syndrome is not clear. Firstly, it was thought to be peripheral nerve disorder, later in last
      two eras, the authors agreed that origin of Restless Leg Syndrome is in Central Nervous
      System and there is variation in complex combination between CNS and PNS structures. There is
      an unusual sensory-motor combination and boosted spinal cord impulsiveness. The positive
      outcomes of the dopaminergic treatment show that restless leg syndrome may be caused by
      dopamine dysfunction and iron deficiency in CNS. Prevalence of RLS was found 27%.

      One of the most important risk factors of RLS is diabetes. According to a study by in 2019
      stated Diabetes type 2 prevalence is 80.0%. Various Studies on Restless Leg Syndrome in
      diabetes is conducted showing a significant association between RLS and type 2 diabetes. A
      study was done in Saudi Arabia reported that RLS can affect diabetic patients and it is
      important to treat RLS, for even better diabetes control. Prevalence of RLS in diabetic
      patient is 28.6%. Mostly RLS is mixed with other sleep disorder known as a periodic limb
      movement disorder. Restless leg syndrome also causes strong sleep disturbances (e.g., chronic
      insomnia, sleep apnea) which have a major impact on health and quality of life, its adverse
      impact can usually be reversed by on-time diagnosis and treatment. The primary treatments for
      restless legs syndrome are pharmacological but recently non-pharmacological treatment is
      being used. A single-blinded RCT was done in 2013 on the physical therapy management of
      restless leg syndrome in hemodialysis patients stated progressive exercise training program
      appears to be a safe and effective approach in reducing RLS symptom severity in HD patients.
      It seems that exercise-induced adaptations to the whole body are mostly responsible for the
      reduction in RLS severity score. Another study in 2016 was done in which it was reported that
      muscle stretching exercise seems to be very effective and can reduce RLS symptoms. A 12-week
      trial in restless leg syndrome patient. The exercise group was prescribed a conditioning
      program of the aerobic and control group was prescribed lower-body resistance training, both
      groups had a positive effect on decreasing severity but the exercise group had a significant
      improvement in symptoms compared with the control group. Diabetes is one of the most
      prevalent risk factors of "Restless leg syndrome" but unluckily there were limited studies
      done here in Pakistan for severity control. Our study differs from other literature in sense
      of its an RCT investigator is trying to find out better treatment option by comparing two
      treatments (aerobic training and strengthening exercise) for diabetic patients suffering from
      restless leg syndrome.
    
  