
    
      Germ-cell tumours (GCTs) are extraordinarily chemosensitive and resemble the clinical and
      biological characteristics of a model for the cure of cancer. Nonetheless, a small proportion
      of patients do not have a durable complete remission (CR) with initial chemotherapy. Only
      20-40% of them will be cured with the use of platinum-containing standard-dose or high-dose
      salvage chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). Patients who fail to
      be cured after second-line salvage therapy have an extremely poor prognosis and long term
      survival had been documented in <5%. Paclitaxel plus ifosfamide and cisplatin is considered
      as a standard salvage chemotherapy in relapsed good prognosis GCTs, however, up to 40% of
      favourable prognosis patients failed to achieve durable response to this combination, and
      therefore new treatment strategies are warranted.

      Previously, it was showed that cisplatin resistant TGCTs overexpress ALDH isoforms and
      inhibition of ALDH activity by disulfiram is associated with reconstitution of cisplatin
      sensitivity. Cisplatin-resistant TGCTs exhibited increased sensitivity to ALDH inhibitor
      disulfiram in vitro. Although Disulfiram (Antabuse) is an approved drug to support the
      treatment of chronic alcoholism, it may serve as an antitumor agent suitable for the drug
      repurposing in combination therapy in order to inhibit ALDH activity thus overcoming a
      cisplatin resistance in refractory TGCTs. Indeed, disulfiram in combination with cisplatin
      very efficiently eradicated platinum-resistant NTERA-2 model spheroids and significantly
      inhibited xenograft growth in vivo in our experimental system.

      Based on aforementioned data, investigators suggest that there is strong rationale to inhibit
      ALDH in TGCT. Investigators hypothesize that inactivation of ALDH by disulfiram recover
      cisplatin sensitivity in patients with progressing or relapsing germ cell cancer.
    
  