
    
      Website development: The www.nmac.in.th website contains the learning courseware database.
      The program is interactive, with personal files for each student along with other details
      like code, password, name, surname, date-month-year, test scores, and log-in periods and
      time.

      Students can, on their own, plan their learning for each subject; they are free to record and
      copy the articles on the website. There is no log-in limit from any place with internet
      connection around the clock.

      Learning courseware: We developed a set of learning courseware of the specified topics as
      activities and diagnostic tests for arterial blood gases (ABGs).

      The activities covered topics under the table of specification, whereas the diagnostic tests
      probed the weaknesses of students' understanding of activities so as to assess their learning
      skills in analytical thinking of patients' problems under assorted circumstances to be faced
      in clinical practice.

      Each set of courseware contained three levels: beginner, intermediate, and advanced.

      Students are required to pass each in an orderly way, at least once with a minimum score of
      80% before advancing to the next level.

      Once they have passed certain courseware, they are free to review all learning courseware as
      often as they wanted to.

      Learning sources: Interactive with students, the program identifies learning weaknesses while
      avoiding giving them direct answers immediately after each test.

      What it does is instead to link the student to begin a search for the well-prepared content,
      which contains details of the subject.

      Construction of test forms: Pre-test and post-test forms are designed to be parallel under
      the table of specification, thus preventing the carry-over effect by testing them three weeks
      afterward and alternating the questions or changing them.

      The tests underwent verification for content validity and had their index of item objective
      congruence (IOC) determined by four clinical experts.

      Deciding whether the tests and behavioral objectives aligned, they set the IOCs at 0.79 for
      pre-tests and 0.73 for post-tests.

        -  Two sets of pre-tests and post-tests of 10 questions each, with each question containing
           four sub-items requiring short answers

        -  15 activities and 10 diagnostic tests of the multiple-choice (4) questions

      System testing: We introduced the elements, namely the learning courseware, tests, and
      sources of learning, to the developed system before testing it under the research and
      development approach, the logical approach, and empirical approach.

      Different sample sizes were used, and logical comments were analyzed to test the system
      efficiency under three stages:

      First-stage system development and assessment:

        -  The sample group was 4 sixth year medical students who underwent system testing during a
           three-week period

        -  Objectives:

        -  To test system operating units and system log-ins

        -  To test the objectivity of the tools

        -  Findings:

        -  The system operating units were flexible to students' interactive behavior, instruction
           responsiveness, and network connection. Access to the system through the website
           provided ready access to the information, was user-friendly, and was stable.

        -  The tools were objective, covered complete details, and were clear, with elements of the
           subject content in proper order.

        -  Improvement:

        -  Making the system interactive with the network; focusing on conciseness; adding channels
           for answering questionnaires through the website; adding the record on downloading
           articles from the website; notifying students of their performance on the tests,
           question by question; and enabling the website to accommodate no less than 100
           concurrent users.

        -  Adjustment of fonts to match general personal-computer sets and updating the wording of
           the questions to be more relevant with the circumstances of patients.

      Second-stage system development and assessment:

        -  The sample group was 32 nurse anesthetist students and 21 first year residents in
           anesthesiology who underwent system testing during a three-week period.

        -  Objectives

        -  To test criterion-referenced tool quality

        -  To determine learning achievement

        -  Findings:

        -  The pre-test and post-test registered 0.48 and 0.50 in item difficulty (p) values; 0.72
           and 0.73 in sensitivity indices (s); 0.85 and 0.88 in content validity; concurrent
           validity through calculation of Pearson Product moment against a standard test of 0.82;
           and 0.91 reliability for the internal consistency by the Kuder-Richardson method 20.

        -  The diagnostic tests registered 0.87, 0.91, 0.87 and 0.93, 0.93, 0.86 in item difficulty
           (p) values; 0.17, 0.11, 0.20 and 0.15, 0.08, 0.21 in sensitivity indices; 0.89, 0.80,
           0.95 in content validity; and 0.85, 0.66, 0.95 and 0.91, 0.77, 0.88 reliability for the
           internal consistency.

        -  Learning achievement:

        -  The post-test scores with a full mark of 40, were significantly higher than pre-test
           scores: 4.52 ± 3.04 against 23.90 ± 7.69 among the nurse student group and 7.60 ± 5.69
           and 26.96 ± 7.47 among the resident group.

        -  Improvement: We chose quality test questions and introduced 'distracters' most often
           picked by respondents in each pre-test and post-test in developing the tests for our
           target group.

      Third-stage development and assessment: Consisting in a trial application on the target
      preclinical 3rd year medical students and nurses in critical care unit throughout the country
      who volunteer to join the study. They are asked to log in to a website to study the required
      subjects in three weeks. Students' profiles are periodically updated.
    
  