
    
      The investigators hypothesize that it is feasible and acceptable to identify people with knee
      pain and osteoarthritis (OA) who are interested in individualized exercise programs through a
      web-based osteoarthritis treatment diagnosis application; to assess their exercise barriers,
      facilitators, motivators and preferences; and engage them in an exercise program tailored to
      meet their needs by a Certified Fitness Trainer.

      The investigators will accomplish this by:

        1. Evaluating the feasibility of identifying patients using a web-based preference
           diagnosis tool (PDx) who have knee pain and osteoarthritis and do not meet exercise
           guidelines but are interested in tailored exercise programs;

        2. Evaluating the feasibility and acceptability of using self-report assessment tools to
           identify barriers, facilitators, motivators, and preferences for exercise and to screen
           participants for health problems that will limit their ability to exercise safely; and

        3. Evaluating the feasibility and potential effectiveness of using the exercise assessment
           tool by patients with knee pain and osteoarthritis to select an individualized exercise
           program with the help of a Certified Fitness Trainer and to engage in routine physical
           exercise.

      3. Study Design

      Study design: The investigators will use a pre-post pilot study design. The assessments will
      be held at either the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center (One Medical Center Drive, Lebanon
      NH 03756), or The Dartmouth Centers for Health and Aging (46 Centerra Parkway, Lebanon, NH
      03766). Assessments will be conducted by the principal investigator (PI), and/or a research
      assistant (RA). Consent and approval of the Committee for the Protections of Human Subjects
      of Dartmouth College will be obtained prior to starting the study. Volunteer non-exercising
      and under-exercising participants aged 50-85 will be recruited through flyers and provider
      referral. Recruitment will continue until 10 participants answer "yes" to the exercise
      question on PDx. Written informed consent will be obtained for all participants.

      Aim 1 Methods: Feasibility of identifying patients using a web-based preference diagnosis
      tool (PDx) who have knee pain and osteoarthritis and do not exercise at recommended levels
      but are interested in tailored exercise programs.

      Volunteer participants will be screened by the RA for eligibility for the study. Demographics
      of age and sex will be recorded at screening. After obtaining written informed consent, each
      eligible participant will complete the Preference Diagnosis (PDx) web-based software program
      and respond "yes" or "no" to the question "I am interested in an exercise program tailored to
      meet my needs" at the end of the program. PDx is a software application under development at
      The Dartmouth Center for Health Care Delivery Science (TDC) that uses weighted values and
      patient assessments of perceived unfavorable aspects or "costs", versus perceived benefits,
      to develop a profile of preferences around knee OA treatment. An RA (trained by Catalina
      Gorla of TDC to administer PDx) will coach participants through using the PDx program which
      will be administered on a lap top computer in a private room. All participants will have
      their height, weight, and waist circumference measured prior to starting the application
      using a standardized protocol. Feasibility will be assessed by the proportion of potentially
      eligible participants who endorse the exercise question within a 3-month period until a
      maximum of 10 is reached.

      Aim 2 Methods: Feasibility and acceptability of using a self-report assessment to identify
      barriers, facilitators, motivators, and preferences for exercise and to screen participants
      for health problems that will limit their ability to exercise safely.

      Participants who answer "yes" to the exercise question (the final question of the tool) will
      immediately complete a self-report screening tool: Exercise Barriers, Facilitators,
      Motivators, and Preferences in Older Adults (appendix A).24 The exercise assessment tool is
      currently under iterative development and will incorporate expertise of the Certified Fitness
      Trainer. Participants who are age 69 or less will also complete Personal Assessment of
      Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q) (appendix B).21 As PAR-Q is not validated in adults over 69
      years, participants who answer yes to any of the questions (with the excpetion of question 5)
      on the PAR-Q and those older than 69 will complete a medical screening prior to participation
      in exercise portion of the study. If question 5 (Do you have any bone or joint problem (for
      example, back, knee or hip) that could be made worse by a change in your physical activity?)
      on the PAR-Q is endorsed, the following questions will be asked:

        1. Do you have a bone or joint problem other than osteoarthritis of the knee? If no, then
           they will be allowed to participate in the study; If yes, they will be asked:

        2. Do you have inflammatory arthritis such as Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis,
           Gout, or Infectious Arthritis, such as Lyme disease? If yes, they will be excluded from
           participation.

        3. If uncertain, they will be referred for medical screening prior to participation.

      The RA will assist participants in completing assessments, if needed, and help arrange
      medical follow up. Feasibility will be assessed by the proportion of participants who
      answered "yes" to the exercise question who complete the Barriers, Facilitators, Motivators
      and Preferences screening and the PAR-Q and/or medical screening. Acceptability will be
      assessed by qualitative semi-structured one-hour interviews of the 10 participants at 3
      months that will be conducted by the RA based upon questions developed by the research team
      (Appendix D). Interviews will be transcribed, de-indentified, coded and analyzed for themes
      using grounded theory.

      Aim 3 Methods: Feasibility and potential effectiveness of using the self-report exercise
      assessment by patients with knee pain and OA to select an individualized exercise program and
      engage in routine physical exercise with the support of a Certified Fitness Trainer.

      Participants will meet with a Certified Fitness Trainer and engage in shared goal setting and
      selection of a CDC-recommended exercise program for OA that best fits their needs and
      preferences, specifically addressing any identified barriers. The Trainer will use programs
      from a vetted list of programs that are appropriate for older adults with knee OA, and modify
      as needed. This list will be developed with the Certified Fitness Trainer and the PI. The
      Trainer will be available to answer questions and will contact each participant by phone
      every two weeks to find out how participants are doing; make adjustments to the program, if
      needed; and provide motivation and encouragement. Feasibility will be evaluated by
      quantifying the proportion of participants who complete the assessments within a 3-month
      period. Potential effectiveness will be evaluated based on pre-post difference in the mean
      number of self-reported minutes spent in mild, moderate, or vigorous exercise in the previous
      week; the proportion of participants who have adopted any exercise routine, and change in
      health goal attainment confidence. Pain as measured on a 10 cm visual analog scale will be
      collected as an exploratory measure. (see descriptions of measures below).
    
  