
    
      The majority of elective and emergency cesarean deliveries are done under neuraxial
      anesthesia (spinal, epidural, combined spinal epidural) where the nerves to the lower half of
      the body are anesthetised with local anesthetic injected into the spine by the
      anesthesiologist. The injection is done at a low level in the spine and the local anesthetic
      rises within the cerebrospinal fluid to "block" or "freeze" higher nerves. The maximum level
      of sensory block anesthesia is determined by the cephalad distribution of the local
      anesthetic in the CSF, the total dose administered and uptake by neuronal tissue. The height
      of block is important to ensure that the woman is comfortable during cesarean delivery;
      generally a loss of cold sensation to ice at the dermatome level of T4 (the level of the
      nipples) is considered appropriate to commence surgery. If the block is below the level of
      T4, the woman is likely to feel discomfort and potentially pain, whereas too high a level can
      result in hemodynamic instability and difficulty breathing.

      Conventionally patients are positioned on the operating table for surgery in a flat or
      horizontal (supine) position with a pillow under the head and a wedge positioned under the
      right hip to prevent aortocaval compression. Many women find lying completely flat while
      awake very uncomfortable and it is not uncommon for them to request that the head of the bed
      be elevated for comfort.

      Difficult or failed intubation in obstetrics has been responsible for a number of maternal
      deaths over the years. The incidence of failed intubation is approximately 1 in 280 in the
      obstetric population compared to 1 in 2230 in the general surgical population. This is the
      result of a number of factors, including increased airway swelling due to progesterone.
      However, much of the perceived difficulty is due to anatomical factors such as increased
      breast size obstructing the levering hand when trying to insert the laryngoscope into the
      anesthetised patient's mouth. There have been numerous reports of similar problems with
      intubating the airway in bariatric (obese) parturients but recently the myth of obesity
      causing a difficult airway has been debunked providing the patient is positioned properly.
      Correct positioning of the patient in a "ramped" position with the patients head clearly
      elevated above their shoulders improves laryngeal exposure in obese patients. Collins et al.
      showed that "ramping" the patient until there was horizontal alignment between the external
      auditory meatus and sternal notch improved the laryngeal view when compared to the standard
      "sniff" position. Other benefits of the "ramped" position include better pre-oxygenation and
      bag mask ventilation in the 25 degree head up position than in the supine position in the
      severely obese patient. Studies in term parturients have shown an increase in the functional
      residual capacity (FRC) and slower desaturation rates in the head up position compared to the
      supine position. Some parturients require general anesthesia and endotracheal intubation for
      caesarean delivery. This may be due to the urgency of the situation, failure of neuraxial
      anesthesia or due to prolonged, difficult surgery. Having the woman adequately positioned for
      possible induction of general anesthesia, even though she is having a neuraxial technique,
      would be ideal and perhaps safer.

      The ramped position can be achieved a number of ways including folded blankets stacked under
      the patient's body, neck and head. Most operating tables can be manipulated using the
      electronic or manual controls into a back/trunk up position. Commercial devices have been
      designed including the TROOP® elevation pillow, designed by an American bariatric
      anesthesiologist Dr Craig Troop. It is a plastic covered foam pillow with an elevation angle
      of 20 degrees which can simply be placed on the operating table. For the purposes of
      standardization we will be using the TROOP pillow as a means of achieving head elevation.

      Taking these factors into consideration it would seem sensible to head elevate the parturient
      when positioned on the operating table. However, as the majority of obstetric surgeries are
      done under neuraxial anesthesia with only 1% undergoing general anesthesia in the elective
      situation and 3% in the emergency situation, the concern is that the position may result in a
      slower rise of the anesthetic block thereby delaying the start of surgery. The factors
      affecting the level of the anesthetic block are variable; gravity may play a part and the
      action of raising the head of parturient might logically result in a slower rise of
      anesthetic block resulting in an inadequate level for surgery, particularly with the commonly
      used hyperbaric local anesthetic. However, there is a large variability in patients and
      factors including dural sac compression from epidural venous plexus engorgement secondary to
      a degree of venal caval compression in the supine wedged position which may push the local
      anesthetic in a cephalad direction, and this may play a more significant role than simple
      gravity.

      The effect of the ramped positioning on the level of spinal anesthesia has not been studied.
      Much of the work has been to look at the effects of lateral versus sitting posture for
      insertion of the spinal anesthetic on rise of block and hemodynamic stability. These studies
      showed a slower onset of anesthesia in the sitting group versus lateral with conflicting
      results in reduction in hypotension. The slower rise may be beneficial in preventing
      hemodynamic instability. Mardirosoff et al., when looking at the effects of sensory block
      extension during CSE in non obstetric patients, showed no significant change in block level
      when patients were sitting for 5 minutes following subarachnoid anesthesia; the mean level of
      block in all groups was to T4.

      As there is no strong evidence either to support or oppose the rise of block against gravity,
      we will be doing a CSE anesthetic so that should the spinal block not rise to a sufficient
      level in any of the groups we will be able to supplement the block with local anesthetic
      injected into the epidural space to help raise the block by epidural volume expansion and/or
      by local anesthesia of the spinal nerves in the epidural space.
    
  