
    
      Cardiovascular events are a leading cause of mortality and morbidity in western countries. In
      the European Union, 47% of total mortality is caused by cardiovascular disease2. Aspirin is a
      cornerstone in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease because of its inhibitory
      effects on platelet aggregation. It reduces the risk of recurrent cardiovascular events with
      about a quarter3. Although not supported by evidence, aspirin is usually taken in the
      morning, but it may be more beneficial to take aspirin at bedtime instead of on awakening. It
      has been convincingly shown that platelet activity follows a circadian rhythm, with a peak of
      platelet reactivity in the morning4-8. This might in part explain the increase in
      cardiovascular events in the early morning, with the highest incidence between 6 and 12 AM1.

      Since platelet reactivity follows a circadian rhythm, the timing of aspirin intake may
      influence its inhibitory effect on platelets. Due to its short half-life, aspirin only
      inhibits platelets which are present at the time of intake. New platelets are released at a
      rate of 10%/day, predominantly during the night9. Because they are more reactive and not
      inhibited by aspirin taken in the preceding morning, these young platelets contribute to the
      morning peak of platelet reactivity10, 11. It has been argued that intake of aspirin at
      bedtime could better prevent the early morning increase in platelet reactivity than intake on
      awakening, assuming that intake on awakening would be too late to prevent this morning peak
      in platelet reactivity12. Additionally, a recent study showed significant recovery of
      platelet aggregation after 24 hours in patients using low-dose aspirin on a daily basis13.
      This supports the hypothesis that aspirin intake at bedtime could be beneficial in reducing
      the morning peak of platelet reactivity, thereby possibly also reducing the incidence of
      arterial thrombotic events in the morning. However, this has never been studied before.
    
  