
    
      High tibial osteotomy (HTO) is an established treatment method for medial compartment
      osteoarthritis with varus knee deformity in a relatively young patient group. Excellent
      outcomes of HTO have been reported. However, about 10-30% of patients are not satisfied with
      the results after surgery. After proximal tibial osteotomy, studies on the factors of
      dissatisfaction have been actively conducted, but studies on the medial and lateral meniscus
      extrusion, which can be the cause, are insufficient. The relationship between the prolapse of
      the medial meniscus and articular cartilage is already well known and is known as an
      important factor in the progression of arthritis. As such, the association between the knee
      joint with meniscus extrusion and the general knee joint has been studied, but the effect on
      the clinical outcome after proximal tibial osteotomy has not been studied. Therefore, in this
      study, the investigators are planning to investigate the differences in clinical outcomes
      such as the degree and change of medial and lateral meniscus extrusion through non-invasive
      ultrasound examination before and after surgery in patients who undergo medial open proximal
      tibial osteotomy.

      This study will enroll the patients with knee medial compartment osteoarthritis of the knee
      joint who undergo open proximal tibial osteotomy. The degree of medial and lateral meniscus
      extrusion will be measured through ultrasound measurements before and after surgery. Also,
      demographic factors and radiographic measurements will be also investigated before and after
      surgery. In addition, preoperative, postoperative 3, 6, and 1 year clinical results including
      meniscus extrusion will be compared and judged, and the evaluation will be evaluated by an
      orthopedic surgeon who has not participated in the operation among registered researchers.
    
  