
    
      In the United States, a variety of farming operations can generate significant amounts of
      dust. Chronic organic dust exposure to workers in this industry can result in several
      respiratory health conditions including chronic bronchitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD), and exacerbations of asthma. Organic dust is a complex mixture containing
      particulate matter and microbial-associated components from gram positive and gram negative
      bacteria. Airway macrophages are key innate immune cells that are rapidly activated by
      exposure to inhaled toxins and organic dust.

      The literature indicates that subjects with tobacco-induced chronic bronchitis/COPD have
      alveolar macrophages that have impaired function. It has been hypothesized that the impaired
      lung macrophage function may contribute to the increased susceptibility to infections and
      chronic bacterial colonization that is a central feature in subjects with chronic
      bronchitis/COPD. It is unknown at this time if impaired macrophage function is secondary to
      tobacco-induced effects, or is a central pathologic feature of chronic bronchitis/COPD.

      We will explore the expression of innate immune cell surface molecule expression involved in
      antigen presentation, phagocytic ability, and ex vivo cytokine responses in airway
      macrophages obtained by induced sputum. We will also collect blood to determine if ex vivo
      stimulation of blood mimics the inflammatory responses observed with airway macrophages.
      Comparisons to our past findings in vitro studies, which demonstrated that repetitive organic
      dust exposure impairs monocyte derived macrophage immune cell surface markers and function,
      could then be made. This information could lead to future investigations centered on
      therapeutic interventions to prevent or reverse the underlying lung disease experienced by
      farmers in this industry.
    
  