
    
      THE AIM OF THE STUDY:

      Determining changes in anthropometric parameters, both the protein and metabolic profile as
      well as changes in the respiratory system functional testing in obese patients, in whom an
      attempt to reduce body mass (through dietary treatment and physical activity), under
      controlled conditions (over a period of a 21-day hospitalization) was made.

      RESEARCH METHODOLOGY:

      The study will be conducted on a group of a 100 persons with obesity who fulfilled the
      inclusion criteria (index BMI>30 kg/m2/ and an increased adipose tissue content assessed by
      the electrical bioimpedance method)

      RESEARCH PLAN

      I. The research will include studies conducted in The Department and Clinic of
      Gastroenterology, Dietetics and Internal Medicine in Poznan, performed by members of the
      research team, before and after a 21-day weight loss cycle:

        1. The assessment of anthropometric parameters (height, body mass, BMI, the waist and hip
           circumference, the WHR index) and the assessment of the body adipose tissue content
           using the electrical bioimpedance method, with TANITA MC-980 MA TANITA AB140 ViScan
           device).

        2. The detailed medical history, considering other parameters that may influence an
           increase in body mass, based on a detailed specially prepared questionnaire (regarding
           disease history, socio-economical data and eating habits).

        3. Objective and subjective assessment, systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurement
           (two-time measurement with the sphygmomanometer using the Korotkow method, in a sitting
           position, after a 5 minute rest), as well as a systolic and diastolic blood pressure
           measurement in reaction to verticalization.

      The following parameters will be assessed in a study group:

        1. Lipid parameters (the total cholesterol density, HDL fraction, LDL and the triglycerides
           in the serum) using the enzymatic method. The HDL cholesterol will be calculated based
           on the following formula: nonHDL cholesterol = total cholesterol - HDL fraction
           cholesterol and the ratio TG/HDL will be calculated as well.

        2. Inflammatory response markers assessment, OB and CRP, using a standard method

        3. Liver function assessment (ALT, AST, GGTP) using a standard method.

        4. Kidney function assessment (the creatinine concentration in the serum including the
           estimated indicator of glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) according to the Modification
           of Diet Renal Disease Study Equation (MDRD) norm: 90-120ml/min/1,73 m². CChN will be
           classified according to the estimated indicator of glomerular filtration rate: stage G1
           (eGFR≥90 ml/min/1,73 m²), stage G2 (eGFR 60-89 ml/min/1,73 m²), stage G3a (eGFR45-59
           ml/min/1,73 m²), stage G3b (eGFR30-45 ml/min/1,73 m²) stage G4 (eGFR 5-29 ml/min/1,73
           m²) and stage G5 (eGFR<15 ml/min/1,73 m² or dialysis treatment). [1] The plan is to
           assess, within the study group, the albumin/creatinine index in a morning urine sample.
           The value of the albumin/creatinine index>30mg/g will be considered positive.

        5. The evaluation of markers: alfa-fetoprotein, Ca19,9, CEA using a standard method.

      Furthermore, the patients will be asked to fill out additional questionnaires:

        1. Questionnaire evaluating the eating behavior and opinion on food and nutrition (QEB) and
           a Physical activity questionnaire

        2. Questionnaires assessing the quality of sleep: (Athens Insomnia Scale and Pittsburgh
           Sleep Quality Index (PSQI).

        3. Sleep apnea scale

        4. Psychological surveys: Multidimensional Health Locus and Control Scale (MHLC),
           Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS), Acceptance of Illness Scale (AIS)

        5. Additionally for patients with accompanying diabetes: Problem Areas in Diabetes (PAID)
           Diabetes Treatment Questionnaire (DTSQ) II. 21-day stay in the Greater Poland
           Pulmonology and Thoracic Surgery Centre, The Department of Pulmonology and
           Rehabilitation (Unit in Ludwikowo near Poznan)

      Indications for hospitalization:

        1. Obesity disenabling professional work and social function performing.

        2. Necessity of body mass reduction to improve lipid parameters

        3. Sleep disorder caused by excess body mass (sleep apnea syndrome)

        4. Pre-diabetes or diabetes related to accompanying obesity

        5. Osteoarticular system disorders related to obesity disenabling the execution of planned
           orthopedic procedures

      The following will be conducted on subjects of the study during hospitalization:

        1. A 21-day body mass reduction attempt will be implemented under sanatorial conditions. A
           rational hypo-calorie diet will be applied to all patients (calorie reduction
           proportional to the BMR calculated into actual body mass, macro-elements: 15-20%
           protein, 25-30% fat, 50-55% carbohydrates, simple sugar content <5%, dietary fiber 30g)

        2. Throughout a period of the weight loss program the following will be implemented:
           standard motor rehabilitation - kinesitherapy (2 x a day for 25 minutes), stationary
           bike training (1x a day for 10 minutes) as well as passive mechanical exercises (1x a
           day for 15 minutes), abdominal muscle exercises (1x a day with an increasing, by 10,
           number of repetitions starting with 30).

        3. Every patient will also take two physiotherapeutic treatments recommended by a
           physiotherapist (laser, ultrasounds, TENS, magnetic field, iontophoresis).

        4. The following respiratory system tests will be conducted before the beginning as well as
           on the 21-st day of the weight loss cycle: arterial blood gasometry, spirometry,
           ergospirometry, body plethysmography, diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon dioxide
           (DLCO).

        5. Furthermore, on the starting day of the program as well as after 21 days, the
           measurement of neck circumference and neck adipose tissue will be performed.

        6. Each patient, who will be taking part in the study, will be educated in the aspect of
           correct nutrition and rational reduction diet rules (3 meetings -30 minutes each,
           conducted at 7 day intervals).

        7. Furthermore, the oxidative stress parameters and the inflammatory response markers will
           be evaluated both at the beginning and at the end of the hospitalization period.

      III. The assessment of amino acid concentration and the metabolic profile evaluation will be
      performed in the Department of Inorganic and Analytical Chemistry.

        1. Evaluation of the protein profile will be performed using the mass spectrometer MALDI
           ToF/ToF,

        2. The serous amino acid concentration will be performed using the mass spectrometer QTRAP
           4000)

        3. The Biocrates AbsolutelDQ p180 Kit will be used to evaluate the metabolic panel
           (glycerolophospholipids, sphingolipids).

        4. Venous blood, in the amount of 20 ml will be used in order to assess parameters listed
           above. Determination of the above parameters will be performed twice, before and after
           the end of each stage (40 ml of venous blood will be sampled from each patient
           throughout the duration of the study).

      IV. The evaluation of hormones released by the muscle and adipose tissue, the concentration
      of free oxygen radicals, and the total oxidation capacity in plasma will be assessed from
      blood samples obtained at the beginning and at the end of the 21 day study period in The
      Academy of Physical Education The Department of Physiology.
    
  