
    
      Background and study hypothesis:

      Bipolar disorder is one of the most common recurrent mental illnesses, with a lifetime
      prevalence of 3.9%, causing physical as well as mental disabilities. Nearly 40% of people
      with bipolar disorder experience at least one attempt of suicide, and around 10% end up with
      suicide completed. The mean age of onset for bipolar disorder is 20 years old, and the peak
      age of onset is between 15 and 19 years. Evidence shows that the first symptom could present
      in child as early as 3 years old, however, getting a proper diagnosis and treatment for
      bipolar disorder is delayed for 16.3 years in those presenting the first psychiatric symptom
      between 3-15 years, and for 9.9 years in those presenting the first psychiatric symptom
      between 16-25 years. Such a delay compromises largely the treatment as well as functional
      outcome of bipolar disorders.

      Many studies including prospective studies have been demonstrated that a long symptomatic
      prodromal phase exists prior to the onset of full-brown bipolar disorder, lasting for 9-12
      years. During the prodromal stage, there are three main clusters of syndromes, including
      hypomania/mania symptoms, depressive symptoms, and signs of attention deficit hyperactivity
      disorders. Of the hypomania/mania symptoms, decreased sleep, elevated mood, irritability,
      mood lability, increased energy, and psychomotor agitation are present most frequently. The
      prodromal depressive symptoms are reported to be depressed mood, anhedonia, insomnia,
      feelings of worthlessness. Among patients with bipolar disorders, 22.5% reported to comorbid
      with pediatric ADHD. In addition, some symptoms are considered as non-specific such as
      decreased functioning, anger outburst, social isolation, and anxiety.

      Offspring of parents with bipolar disorders are much likely to present prodromal symptoms
      compared to offspring of healthy parents. In a 10-year longitudinal study using 55 prodromal
      symptoms checklist, , Egeland et al., found that 38% offspring of parents with bipolar
      disorder were considered as at risk compared to 17% in children of healthy parents. In a
      15-year follow-up study, Duffy et al., found that 32.7% offspring (aged 8-25 years old) of
      parents with bipolar disorder met the criteria of major mood episode.

      Objectives:

      One primary objective of this study is to prospectively identify the prodromal stage of
      bipolar disorder.

      Another primary objective is to conduct a randomized, place-controlled trial of aerobic
      exercise on people who suffering from prodromal symptoms to the extent of significantly
      impaired function, with attempt at delaying or preventing the onset of a full-blown bipolar
      disorder.

      Design of study and the procedures:

      The study will consist of two phases: one-week screening period and a randomized,
      placebo-controlled, 3-month trial. During the screening period, offspring of parents with
      bipolar disorder will undergo systematically clinical evaluations. The offspring will be
      evaluated with clinical symptoms assessing scales, neuropsychological tests, magnetic
      resonance imaging. During the 3-month trial period, the offspring who meet the inclusion
      criteria will be randomly assigned to receive treatment of aerobic exercise, placebo, or
      wait-list group. Psychiatrists are scheduled to assess mood and treatment outcome during the
      3-month trial.

      Subjects and treatment:

      It is expected that 120 offspring of parents with bipolar disorder aged between 10-25 years,
      meeting the inclusion of prodromal stage, will be included in the study. All of the offspring
      will undertake the Kiddie Sads Present and Lifetime Version (K-SADS-PL), and a 70 checklist
      items of potential prodromal symptoms suggested by us as well as by Dr. Correll and his
      colleagues. The parents of these offspring are to have a DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders)-defined bipolar disorder (bipolar I or II), confirmed by the
      Chinese version of Structured Clinical interview for DSM-IV-TR Axis I Disorders patient
      edition (SCID-I/P). The offspring are to be recruited through the referrals by their parents
      who will receive psychiatric services in the Guangzhou psychiatric Hospital.

      The offspring will be randomly assigned to aerobic exercise and placebo controlled group. The
      aerobic exercise would include cycling, jogging, table tennis,and playing badminton for 40
      mins at least 3 times a week for 3 months. In each exercise, participants are supposed to
      exercise to the extent of getting sweaty. In the placebo group, participants will receive
      general psychoeducation, including delivering knowledge on symptoms, discussion of suffering
      mental difficulties, and general coping techniques.

      Significance:

      Bipolar disorder is a common, chronic, and recurrent mental disorder. The recognition of
      prodromal stage of bipolar disorder and the early intervention on it may help delay or
      prevent the onset of bipolar disorder.
    
  