
    
      Ocular perfusion pressure (ocular perfusion pressure - OPP), considered the driving force of
      ocular blood flow. Perfusion pressure is defined as the difference between the artery and
      vein blood pressure. Because ocular venous pressure is the same or slightly higher than the
      IOP (intra ocular pressure - IOP), it is common to estimate the OPP as the difference between
      the arterial blood pressure of IOP. The OPP is critical for diffusion of oxygen, nutrients
      and metabolic waste from retinal imaging, and decrease it may reduce blood flow to the eye
      and lead to ischemia or hypoxia. the OPP is controlled by a complex system of Autoregulation.
      Much has been written about the relationship between the OPP and glaucoma, and agreed that
      OPP is a low risk factor for this disease.

      Diabetic macular edema (DME) is the most common cause of vision loss in developed countries
      the working-age.

      Many studies were carried out in recent years in an attempt to better understand the
      pathophysiology of Diabetic macular edema, and there is consensus in the scientific
      literature that hypertension have a significant effect on Diabetic macular edema. this
      relationship is much more complex than it seems at first glance. Paques and his team have
      shown an inverse association between blood pressure to drop night and Diabetic macular edema.
      LARSEN and his team have shown a similar trend.

      Hayreh published an article from 2007, where he described the mechanism of improvement of the
      Diabetic macular edema with discontinuation of hypertensive treatment and thereby raising
      blood pressure. In this article, Hayreh describes hypoxia as a significant factor in Diabetic
      macular edema, and demonstrated that treatment of hypoxia by increasing the OPP brought good
      results in terms of macular thickness If so, it seems that there is not only a link between
      levels of oxygenation of the retina to Diabetic macular edema, but that improved oxygenation
      of the retina could lower the levels of macular edema in these patients. If a way were found
      to improve retinal perfusion, this may lead to an improved oxygenation and reduced edema. The
      Investigators propose to examine the relationship between macular edema IOP in Participants
      with Diabetic macular edema, thinking that high IOP means lower OPP, which means increased
      risk for developing macular edema in this Participants group.
    
  