
    
      Catheter-associated infections are one of the most eminent healthcare acquired infections.
      More than 40% of all bloodstream infections are associated with a central venous catheter
      (CVC)and between 1% and 5% of the affected patients die as a direct consequence of this
      infection. The most important microorganisms are gram-positive cocci (S. aureus, S.
      epidermidis). In intensive care units gram-negative microorganisms such as pseudomonas,
      acinetobacter and candida spp. are more frequent. The insertion site is the main source of
      contamination and infection in short-term CVCs (10-14 days. In this case the infection is
      caused by migration of microorganisms along the outside of the catheter. Contamination of the
      hub due to frequent manipulation is usually the source of infection in long-term CVCs. In
      this case the infection occurs intraluminally. An effective skin disinfection is the main
      measure of prevention before insertion of a CVC. The aim of this measure is the elimination
      of transient and the reduction of resident microorganisms around the insertion site. To
      achieve this, disinfectants on the basis of alcohol, povidone-iodine or chlorhexidine are
      applied. Alcohol-based disinfectants are preferred in Central Europe because of their rapid
      initial effect and broad microbiological spectrum. Chlorhexidine and povidone-Iodine in
      contrast to alcoholic disinfectants have a remanent effect which reduces regrowth of
      microorganisms beyond the immediate initial effect. To which extent remanent substances
      reduce colonization of the CVC extraluminally or the CVC-tip is still being disputed. In an
      earlier clinical trial a residual or remanent effect of 0.1% octenidine combined with
      propanol in microbial skin decontamination over a 24h period was shown in neurosurgical
      patients receiving a central line (CVC or peripherally inserted central catheter). The
      objective of this study is therefore to evaluate further the preventive impact and
      tolerability of a commercially available, alcohol-based antiseptic solution containing
      octenidine for the preparation and care of CVC insertion sites in a clinical setting in
      comparison with the results given by an alcoholic solution alone.
    
  