
    
      Scientific and technologic advances in medicine have resulted in the ability of the medical
      team to prolong life. One consequence of life-extending advancements in technology is the
      increasing numbers of patients requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV). Prolonged
      mechanical ventilation has been defined as the need for 21 days, of consecutive mechanical
      ventilation for six hours/day. The interaction of underlying diseases and prolong bedridden
      result in various complication in patients with PMV. Known complications can include: muscle
      weakness, atelectasis, and deconditioning. The muscle weakness occurred most commonly in
      patients with PMV and resulted in increasing time to wean successfully from mechanical
      ventilation, and longer stay in hospital. Exercise is effective in improving muscle strength
      and physical function in patients with heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD. However, patients with PMV may be too fragile to perform excise. Neuromuscular
      electrical stimulation (NMES) involves applying a series of stimuli to skeletal muscle,
      primarily to trigger muscle contraction, and it can be used for the recovery of muscle mass
      and muscle strength following prolonged immobilization. NMES also improve microcirculation
      and systemic circulation in patients with cardiopulmonary diseases. In addition, the
      application of NMES increases oxygen consumption of whole body and elicits physiologic
      effects that are similar to aerobic exercise. However, the effects of NMES on the PMV
      population remain unclear. Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a recently developed
      noninvasive method of measuring tissue oxygenation, blood flow, and local tissue metabolism.
      NIRS combined with a vascular occlusion test is proposed as a tool to assess the
      microvascular response. Indirect calorimetry (IC) uses the method of breath-bybreath
      monitoring by pneumotachography to measure oxygen consumption (VO2) and carbon dioxide
      production (VCO2).

      The purposes of this study:

        1. to examine the acute effects of NMES on the microcirculation, physiologic response and
           metabolic demand in patients with PMV.

        2. to investigate the training effects of NMES on microcirculation, muscle strength and
           weaning outcomes in patients with PMV. METHODS: Subjects who have been on ventilator
           for>= 21 days are recruited form respiratory care center (RCC) and are randomly assigned
           into NMES (n=20) or control group (n=20).The NMES group receive daily NMES for 30
           min/session for 10 days. The assessment of muscle strength and weaning profile were
           performed before and after intervention. During the first and the last NMES session, the
           status of microcirculation and local muscle tissue oxygenation will be measured by NIRS,
           and the metabolic status will be measured by IC. The mechanical ventilator weaning
           outcomes and length of stay in RCC will be recorded. The results of this study help us
           to confirm whether the application of NMES is beneficial in the improvement of muscle
           strength in patients with PMV, and to furtherly understand the mechanisms. The results
           may provide an alternative options for clinicians functional and hospitalization
           outcomes in patients with PMV.
    
  