
    
      This study is a comprehensive intervention project designed to look at how children develop
      across their lives by providing academic tutoring and lessons in developing social skills and
      regulating their behaviors. There can be multiple stressors and influences on children and
      families that increase their risk levels. In such contexts, some families that experience
      marital conflict and instability can cause inconsistent and ineffective parenting. These
      children can sometimes enter school poorly prepared for the social, emotional, and cognitive
      demands of this setting. Often the child will then attend a school with a high number of
      other children who are similarly unprepared and are negatively influenced by disruptive
      classroom situations and punitive teacher practices. Over time, children in these
      circumstances tend to demonstrate particular behaviors, are rejected by families and peers,
      and tend to receive less support from teachers, further increasing aggressive exchanges and
      academic difficulties. Thus, this project is based on the hypothesis that improving child
      competencies, parenting effectiveness, school context and school-home communications will,
      over time, contribute to preventing certain behaviors across the period from early childhood
      through adolescence.

      Four geographic sites were selected for the study: Durham, NC, a small city with a large
      low-income population that is primarily African American; Nashville, TN, a moderated-sized
      city with a mix of low-to-middle income and African American and European-American
      population; Seattle, WA, a moderate-sized city with a low-to-middle ethnically diverse
      population; and central PA, a mostly rural area with low-to-middle income European American
      population. These sites varied widely in ethnicity (most minorities were African American,
      with some Latino) and poverty (as measured by free/reduced lunch rates) as follows: Durham,
      NC, 90% minority and 80% reduced lunch; Nashville, TN, 54% minority and 78% reduced lunch;
      rural PA; 1% minority and 39% reduced lunch; and Seattle, WA, 52% minority and 46% reduced
      lunch. "High risk" schools within each site (12 in Durham, 9 in Nashville, 18 in PA, and 16
      in Seattle) were selected based on crime and poverty statistics of the communities that they
      served. Within each site, schools were divided into one to three paired sets matched for
      demographics (size, percentage free or reduced lunch, and ethnic composition), and one set
      within each pair was randomly assigned to intervention and one to control condition. Students
      at these elementary schools moved into middle school at grade 5, 6 or 7. A multiple-gating
      screening procedure that combined teacher and parent ratings of disruptive behavior was
      applied to all kindergarteners across three cohorts (1991-93) in these 55 schools. Children
      were screened initially for classroom conduct problems by teachers, using the Teacher
      Observation of Child Adjustment-Revised (TOCA-R) Authority Acceptance Score. Those children
      scoring in the top 40% within cohort and site were then solicited for the next stage of
      screening for home behavior problems by the parents, using a novel 22-item instrument that
      included items from the Child Behavior Checklist (Achenbach, 1991a), the Revised Behavior
      Problem Checklist, and novel items that we created for this study. 91% (n=3,274) completed
      the home-behavior screen. The teacher and parent screening scores were then standardized
      within site, based on screening a representative sample of approximately 100 children within
      each site (which also served as a normative comparison), and then summed to yield a total
      severity-of-risk screen score. Children were selected for inclusion into this study based on
      this screen score, moving from the highest score downward until desired sample sizes were
      reached within sites, cohorts, and conditions. Exceptions to this inclusion rule were made
      when a child failed to matriculate in the first grade at a core school (n=59) or refused to
      participate (n=75), or to accommodate a superceding rule that no child would be the only
      female in an intervention group. The outcome was that three successive cohorts were recruited
      in 1991, 1992, and 1993 to yield a sample of 891 children (445 in the intervention group and
      446 in the control group).
    
  