
    
      Objective

      The objective of this study is to determine if administration of folic acid to pregnant women
      at the same time as sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) is given to prevent malaria interferes
      with the protective effect of the SP.

      Study area

      The study was carried out in 14 mother and child health (MCH) clinics situated on the north
      and south banks of the River Gambia near to the town of Farafenni in the centre of the
      country. In this area malaria is highly seasonal with an entomological inoculation rate of
      10-50 infectious bites per year.

      Study population

      Primigravidae who attended one of the study clinics were reviewed to assess their eligibility
      to join the study. Entry criteria were - pregnancy > 15 weeks, haemoglobin (Hb) > 7g/dl,
      absence of any underlying serious disease, absence of a history of an adverse reaction to
      sulfonamide, residence in the study area and a willingness to be visited at home.

      Study procedure

      Eligible women were asked if they wished to join the trial and, if so, written, informed
      consent was obtained. An entry questionnaire was then completed and a finger-prick blood
      sample obtained for determination of Hb and preparation of two thick blood films. Provided
      the woman had a Hb >7g/dl, she was then given a study number and formally entered into the
      trial. Women were then individually randomised to receive SP and iron + folic acid ('early'
      folate group) or SP and iron ('late' folate group).

      All women in the trial received three tablets of SP (25 mg pyrimethamine and 500 mg
      sulfadoxine) (Cosmos Pharmaceutical, Nairobi) given under observation. Women in the 'early'
      folic acid group then received a packet containing Fefol (500 ug of folic acid and 47 mg of
      ferrous sulfate) to be taken at home once per day for 14 days. Women in the 'late' folic acid
      group received packets containing oral iron (60 mg/day) alone to be taken daily for 14 days.
      At the day 14 follow-up they then received iron and folic acid so no woman was deprived of
      folic acid supplementation.

      At the end of the 14 day period, women were visited at home and a repeat finger-prick blood
      sample obtained for determination of Hb and preparation of two thick blood films.

      Haemoglobin was measured using a Haemocue and blood films were examined for malaria parasites
      after staining with Giemsa by two microscopists blind to the treatment code. If discrepant
      results were found, a third reading was done and the majority view accepted.

      Trial end-point

      The primary end-point for the trial was the prevalence of Plasmodium falciparum asexual
      parasitemia 14 days after treatment in women who were parasitemic on presentation. Parasite
      prevalence at day 14 irrespective of initial findings and mean Hb at day 14 were secondary
      end-points.

      Sample size

      It was assumed that 30% of women would be parasitemic on presentation and that the cure rate
      with SP in those who did not receive folic acid at the same time would be 97%. To have 90%
      power at the 5% level of significance to show a 10% reduction in the cure rate with SP when
      this is given with folic acid, 483 women were required for each arm of the trial.

      Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)

      A DSMB was established to monitor the conduct of the trial and to approve the analytical plan
      prior to the breaking of the study code. The trial was conducted in line with the
      requirements of Good Clinical Practice.
    
  