
    
      Introduction Although there is as yet no scientific evidence that a SARS-CoV-2 virus
      infection could have negative effects on fertility, currently the possibility that the virus
      could affect sperm function and egg performance cannot be excluded. Previous studies have
      already shown an association between influenza and infertility. SARS-CoV-2 seems to be far
      more aggressive in terms of severe illness, morbidity and mortality in comparison to common
      influenzas, thus it is reasonable to hypothesize a possible substantial effect of Covid-19 on
      fertility.

      At the cellular level, common influenza viruses promote oxidant-sensitive pathways, leading
      to increased oxidative stress. This mechanism has been blamed to cause male infertility
      through a reduction of progressive motility in spermatozoa and a simultaneous increase in
      sperm DNA fragmentation. Based on this pathogenic pathway, it can be hypothesized that
      SARS-CoV-2 could increase sperm DNA fragmentation, which might affect fertilizing potential.
      Along the same lines, SARS-CoV-2 may affect oocyte performance through mechanisms that
      increase oxidative stress.

      As SARS-CoV-2 acts through the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor, this was
      proposed as an additional pathway affecting ovaria follicles and oocytes. ACE2 receptors are
      expressed in human ovaries, while angiotensin has been detected in measurable amounts in the
      follicular fluid . Therefore, a possible negative impact of the virus through an interaction
      between the oocyte and the somatic cells cannot be ruled out.

      The COVID-19 pandemic exerted tremendous pressure on scientists to develop safe and effective
      vaccines. A few delivery systems for next-generation vaccines against COVID-19 were
      introduced. The new-generation vaccines include only a specific antigen or antigens of the
      pathogen, instead of the whole pathogen, thus providing a better safety profile. While
      SARS-CoV-2 has four main structural proteins, the spike protein (S) which is located at the
      outer surface of the virus particles and can bind to ACE2 on the cell surface and causes
      receptor-mediated endocytosis of the virus, is the main target to evoke the self-immune
      system.

      The mRNA vaccines represent the newest generation of vaccines in which all components can be
      engineered via chemical synthesis. Due to the mRNA molecules' low apparent transfection
      efficacy, lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) are often used to incorporate the mRNA molecules for
      transfection purposes. An additional advantage of the mRNA vaccine is that the antigen
      expression generated by the mRNA is a transient process and therefore the risk of host DNA
      integration is negligible. Furthermore, elimination of live materials poses an advantage from
      a quality control standpoint and allows quick product switching in manufacturing facilities.
      Since the process is fully-synthetic it also eliminates the risk of disease transmissions
      from the manufacturing facility. The effect of the systemic generation and introduction of
      just the S protein of the SARS-CoV-2 could have a negative influence on ovarian follicles and
      oocytes has not been studied yet.

      Anti Mullarian Hormone (AMH) is a glycoprotein produced by the granulosa cells of the antral
      follicles. Its circulating levels are associated with the fertility state of the ovary and in
      contrast to other hormones are not influenced by the state of the menstrual cycle. Therefore,
      AMH levels are considered the measurement of choice for estimating ovarian reserve.

      As Israel is the first country to widely vaccinate its population using the mRNA vaccines and
      due to all the aforementioned, the aim of this study is to evaluate the influence of the mRNA
      vaccines on ovarian reserve estimated by the change in AMH before and three-month following
      vaccination.

      Material and Methods This is a prospective study including reproductive age women (age 18 to
      42) that are planning to be vaccinated in Israel. Women will be asked to sign an informed
      consent to participate in the study while visiting the ambulatory vaccinating clinics before
      being vaccinated. Medical information will be collected by the research team during this
      visit. Women visiting other ambulatory clinics, which are not planning to be vaccinated will
      be asked to participate as controls. Blood samples will be collected for AMH analysis before
      administration of the first mRNA vaccine shot and 3 months following the second vaccine shot.
      An internet questionnaire will be sent following one year from vaccination regarding
      gynecological and obstetrical outcomes.
    
  