
    
      -  Background: 18FDG is the most widely used tracer for oncologic positron emission
           tomography (PET). However, the high glucose utilization of normal gray matter limits its
           utility in brain explorations. More recently, 18FLT was introduced as a PET tracer for
           tumor imaging. It has been found useful for non-invasive assessment of the proliferation
           status of various tumors. Its potential clinical use in the evaluation of brain tumors
           has not been clearly determined because of sparse studies.

        -  The primary objective of this study is to assess the positive predictive value of PET-CT
           uptake of 18FLT in diagnosing malignant tissue by comparison with the histopathological
           gold standard diagnosis according to the WHO grading malignancy scale and the Ki-67
           proliferation index, at the time of preoperative evaluation.

        -  Secondary objectives are: to describe and compare preoperative tumor volumes and
           postoperative residual tumor volumes as assessed by 18FLT PET-CT and MRI, and to
           describe a quantitative proliferation index with PET (SUV for "standardized uptake
           value").

        -  Study design: This is an exploratory cross-sectional study at two separate times:
           pre-and postoperative. Eligible patients will be included consecutively. Histological
           samples will be analyzed blindly to imaging data. Assessments of PET-CT and MRI volumes
           will be blind to each other.

        -  Procedure: After information and written informed consent and before surgery, patients
           will undergo MRI and 18F-FLT PET-CT to obtain the tumor volume according to both
           modalities. Then, surgeons will make different biopsies from i) areas with MR
           abnormalities and FLT uptake, ii) area with FLT uptake and no MR abnormality (on the
           surgery approach way or in not functional areas), iii) area with MR abnormality without
           any FLT uptake, iiii) area without any uptake where biopsy is possible because the area
           is on the surgery approach way. Then, the samples will be blindly analyzed to determine
           the Ki-67 proliferation index and WHO grading malignancy scale. Patients will undergo
           again 18F-FLT PET-TDM and MRI at least 4 weeks after surgery, in the week preceding
           radiotherapy, to determine residual tumor volumes.
    
  