
    
      Elderly patients, especially post-menopausal women, often suffer a femoral neck fracture due
      to osteoporosis, even with very little trauma. Femoral neck fracture is a common disease in
      elderly patients, it accounts for 3.6% of total body fractures. In China, as the population
      continues to age and life expectancy increases, the incidence of femoral neck fracture has
      significantly increased.

      Hip replacement surgery includes total hip arthroplasty (THA) and hemiarthroplasty (HAP).
      Hemiarthroplasty of the hip involves replacement of the diseased, affected, or broken femoral
      head and/or neck with a prosthetic component. Hemiarthroplasty does not involve resurfacing
      of the acetabulum, and therefore a bipolar or unipolar prosthetic head articulates against
      the host acetabular articular cartilage. Avoiding the need, when appropriate, to resurface
      the acetabulum helps to minimize surgical trauma, operative time and dislocation risk, while
      preserving acetabular bone stock. These also result in shorter bed stay and faster recovery
      comparing with the THA.

      There has been an increase in imported hip prostheses during the past decade, so that
      surgeons now have more choices of implants. However, the high cost of imported prostheses has
      become a barrier to the development of hip replacement in China and caused many patients
      requiring immediate hip replacement to have to delay or miss their surgery. The development
      and promotion of high-quality domestic joint implants and surgical instruments is the key to
      the development of joint replacement technique in China.

      The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate non-inferiority of subjects implanted
      with the SS Bipolar Head + SL-TWIN Stem compared to a randomized concurrent control group of
      subjects implanted with the Bipolar Head + SL-PLUS Stem in terms of mean Harris Hip Score
      (HHS) at 1 year.
    
  