
    
      Detailed Description:

      This is a single-centre, double-blinded cross-over study comparing the 4 contact vs 8 contact
      electrodes of deep brain stimulation (DBS) patients.

      The study will follow 2 phases.

      Phase 1:

      Visit 1 Screening/Baseline (T0):

      As per current standard care for patients undergoing subthalamic deep brain stimulation
      (STN-DBS), participants will be screened 3-6 months before the surgery (T0) according to the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Visits for standard programming of VerciseTM system between 1 to 3 months after the surgery
      of 10 patients will be done in an open label fashion in order to find the best program for
      optimization of patient motor symptoms without side effects. This will be done according to
      the standard of practice currently adopted at Toronto Western Hospital.

      Phase 2:

      Visit 1

      Randomization: 4 months +/- 4weeks of the surgery, patients will be randomized to two type of
      stimulation:

        1. Standard : only contacts 3-6 will be used in either unipolar or bipolar configuration;
           pulse width lower than 60μsec will not be used; all types of frequencies will be used
           but keeping the value constant for the both hemispheres at each active contact. The same
           amount of current for each of the active contacts will be used, however, in case of
           different currents at different contacts, an "interleaved" type of stimulation will be
           used and frequency will kept lower than 125Hz ( Fig 2A).

        2. Flexible : contacts 1-8 will be used in any possible configuration and using different
           amount of current for each of the active one as well as different frequencies; pulse
           width lower than 60μsec can be used. In conclusion, all the capabilities of the
           VerciseTM system will be used. Possible adjustments to stimulation parameters (e.g.
           Pulse width, amplitude threshold) will be performed to achieve an optimal therapeutic
           window for each patient.

      Visit 2

      Follow up visit at 6 months +/- 4 weeks of the surgery for neurological examination if
      required.

      Visit 3 (T1):

      Cross over : 7 months +/- 4 weeks after the surgery patients will be switched to the other
      type of stimulation . Raters and patients will be blinded to the group allocation.

      Visit 4:

      Follow up visit at 9 months +/- 4 weeks of the surgery for neurological examination if
      required.

      Visit 5 (T2):

      End of study visit at month 10 +/- 4 weeks after the surgery. Raters and patients will be
      blinded to the group allocation.

      There might be unscheduled visits in case of unexpected clinical conditions (i.e. occurrence
      of side effects or worsening of motor conditions). Participants will be in this study for a
      maximum of 17 months. Throughout the whole study, participants will visit the clinic without
      their regular medication for PD as part of standard treatment practice. All the stimulation
      adjustment will be performed by the same unblinded physician using the GuideTM software
      provided by the company.
    
  