
    
      The disease burden of coronary artery diseases (CAD) remains one of the most serious and
      persistent health problems for the investigator's nation. One out of every six deaths in the
      United States is solely attributed to CAD. Every year, nearly 7 million adults visit the
      emergency department (ED), reporting chest pain associated with a possible heart attack.
      Being able to immediately differentiate between cardiac (ischemic) and non-cardiac chest pain
      is crucial and improves survival and reduces disability for thousands of people. The
      electrocardiogram (ECG) is an indispensable tool to detect ischemia and is the first tool
      available for initial chest pain evaluation in EDs and, even earlier, by paramedics in the
      field. Current guidelines focus on ST elevation (STE) to identify patients most in need of
      immediate treatment. Unfortunately, STE only occurs in one-third of all patients with acute
      myocardial infarction, and missed myocardial infarction remains one of the highest sources of
      medical malpractice in emergency medicine. This translates to delayed treatment for nearly 1
      million heart attacks until costly, time-consuming, and more invasive diagnostics are
      conducted and interpreted. Prior work by the investigators has explored novel ECG markers,
      other than STE, and noted that the dynamic ECG changes in these markers can improve diagnosis
      of acute coronary syndromes (ACS). This prior data showed that myocardial ischemia disturbs
      the ventricular repolarization process and results in quantifiable distortions of T waves on
      the surface 12-lead ECG prior to any displacement of the ST segment. Markers of T wave
      abnormalities, therefore, can identify patients with ischemic chest pain in the absence of
      acute ST changes very early in the triage process. The current study plans to evaluate how
      these novel ischemic ECG changes evolve over time during the acute phase of the coronary
      syndromes. This approach has a high potential for improving the speed and accuracy of
      diagnosing ACS and is potentially deployable in any ED or ambulance to greatly accelerate
      definitive treatment, thereby reducing morbidity and mortality for thousands of patients each
      year.
    
  