
    
      CMV is the most common viral infection after solid organ transplantation (SOT) and is
      associated with significant morbidity1. Without prophylaxis, most CMV disease occurs in the
      first 3 months post-transplant during the period of intense of immunosuppresion.2 SOT
      recipients at the greatest risk are those that are seronegative recipients of organs from
      seropositive donors (CMV D+/R-).3, 4 Antiviral agents have proven to be useful in the
      prevention of CMV infection and disease in SOT recipients, including the high-risk D+/R-
      patients.5-9 Upon completion of prophylaxis however, CMV infection and disease occurs in
      about 50% and 25-30% respectively of D+/R- SOT recipients within the first year after
      transplant [30% rate of investigator treated CMV disease in PV16000].9 The incidence of CMV
      infection following prophylaxis in D+/R- lung transplant recipients may be as high as 80%.10
      As CMV disease occurring after prophylaxis will continue to impact morbidity and mortality in
      SOT recipients, it would be desirable to be able to predict which patient will develop this
      complication. Currently, there are no reliable methods that are routinely available to
      predict the risk of CMV infection or disease in an individual patient. CMV viral load testing
      after prophylaxis in D+/R- patients has been shown to have poor predictive value for
      subsequent CMV disease.11 CMV serology (a measure of humoral immunity) was also shown to be
      only of marginal use in predicting the risk of late onset disease.12 Cell mediated immunity
      (CMI) is known to be more important than humoral immunity in controlling CMV infection. CMV
      infection elicits a strong virus specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell response. CD8+ T-cell
      responses to the virus often contain multiple antigen-specific reactivities including to
      viral pp65 or IE-1 antigens as well as pp50, glycoprotein B, and IE-2 and other antigens.13
      CD4+ T cells also play a part in CMV control via promotion of priming, expansion and
      maintenance of CD8+ CMV-specific CTLs.14 Measuring an individual's CMI response to CMV may be
      a useful predictor of the risk of CMV infection or disease after prophylaxis. Patients with a
      poor CMI response (especially a poor CD8+ T-cell response) could then be targeted with longer
      courses of antiviral prophylaxis.

      Cell mediated immunity testing Most of the previous studies have focused on CTL responses to
      the CMV phosphoprotein pp65.15-17 However, since CD8+ T-cell responses to CMV often contain
      multiple antigen-specific reactivities, measurement of CMI using epitopes restricted to a
      single protein may not yield adequate results. In conjunction with Dr. Rajiv Khanna
      (Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Australia), and Cellestis Ltd (Sydney, Australia),
      we have done preliminary validation and assessment of a CMI (Quantiferon-CMV) assay in which
      we measure the IFN-γ responses to a range of T-cell epitopes of CMV viral proteins including
      pp65, pp50, the glycoprotein gB, and the immediate early IE-1 antigen that are specific for a
      wide range of HLA class I specificities [See Appendix Table 1]. The assay employs a peptide
      pool for stimulation of whole blood and is suitable for routine clinical use and evaluation
      in multicenter studies.

      The Quantiferon-CMV assay has been compared to an ELISPOT assay in a study involving 37
      healthy volunteers and 25 SOT recipients.18 In this study, the Quantiferon-CMV assay was at
      least as sensitive as the ELISPOT for some CMV epitopes, and more sensitive for other CMV
      epitopes. In addition, the Quantiferon-CMV results highly correlated with the CMV serostatus,
      in both healthy volunteers and transplant recipients. In another study,19 the Quantiferon-CMV
      assay was used in HIV-infected individuals with and without a history of CMV disease. The CMV
      specific immune response measured by the Quantiferon-CMV assay was higher in patients without
      a history of CMV disease, suggesting that a positive result of the Quantiferon-CMV may
      predict the likelihood for developing a protective immune response against CMV.
    
  