
    
      A prospective longitudinal observational study, the objective is to observe and describe the
      prevalence of INRT, INNRT, Protease and INIS mutations detected by proviral DNA in patients
      with virologic failure and low level viremia.

      Inclusion/Exclusion: Our Study will include only patients with HIV that had been confirmed by
      "Instituto de Salud Pública de Chile" (ISP-Chile). Children less than 18 years are excluded.

      Number of Patients: A total of 1,200 patients will be included in a period of three years
      (Including statistical justification, if appropriate).

        1. - Only patients who have signed informed consent will be admitted to our study.

        2. - The admitted patients will have a blood sample taken for an HIV genotypic resistance
           test.

        3. - from the clinical record of each patient admitted, some relevant clinical data will be
           taken to interpret the results such as CD4 T lymphocyte count, Viral Load, date of HIV
           diagnosis, date of initiation of therapy in addition to number and type of treatments
           antiretrovirals

        4. - By way of genotype control, a second blood sample will be taken every year.

      Detailed Description

      Detection of Resistance Mutations in Proviral DNA in HIV-1 Infection

      Background The genetic test HIV proviral DNA (HPD) for resistance to antiretroviral drugs is
      very useful to detect mutations in patients under antiretroviral therapy who has failed to
      achieve undetectable viral loads levels or with low level viremia (LLV).

      HPD allows the detection of circulating resistant variants and archived which could not be
      detected in the plasma.

      HPD is independent of the viral load of patients. This makes it very useful for studies of
      primary resistance as it can detect resistance mutations in recently diagnosed patients with
      low baseline viral loads (<1,000 copies/mL).

      HPD is recommended by the European AIDS Clinical Society EACS for cases where there is not
      HIV RNA for analysis (Barcelona, October 2015).

      HPD is able to analyze resistance to all antiretroviral drugs currently available in the
      market. Therefore, with the HPD innovation we can carry out the following genetic resistance
      tests: HIV Tropism (Maraviroc), resistance to Integrase Inhibitors (Dolutegravir) and
      resistance to Transcriptase reversa/Proteasa (Abacavir).

      Size Sample and Methodology

      During a period of two years, we will study a population of 1,200 patients. These include all
      patients we have analyzed in our HIV center until December 2012. The methodology includes
      nucleic acid extraction, amplification of HIV-1 genes that are targets of therapeutic
      interest and sequencing by traditional and new generation sequencing methods.

      Patient Recruitment: a Total of 1.200 (400 by year)

      Obtaining blood samples: two samples: sample to the start and one sample to the end after one
      year

      DNA and viral RNA extraction:

      RT-PCR amplification:

      Electrophoresis visualization in agarose gels

      Sending samples to Macrogen for sequencing services

      Automatic sequencing by Sanger method in Macrogen USA

      Sequencing by deep sequencing (NGS) in Chile or Macrogen USA

      Sequence Analysis

      Quality Analysis and assemble of raw sequences in software ReCall

      Registry of mutations of clinical interest

      Report on resistance to antiretroviral drugs

      Biostatistical analysis

      Results Report and Publications

      Preliminary results Preliminary analysis of 100 patients with viral load <1,000 copies/mL,
      detected 10% of patients with mutations of resistance to drugs that inhibit reverse
      transcriptase and viral protease. This valuable information enabled earlier therapeutic
      intervention by changing the drug scheme before they reach higher levels of viral load with
      consequent improvement in the clinical management.

      Projections Project Due to the success and immediate application of this preliminary study,
      we believe it become very important to validate this technique as a daily routine genetic
      testing for HIV clinic patients in the public health system. Permanent financing for this
      genetic HIV test for HIV proviral DNA should be given by the Ministry of Health, Government
      of Chile.

      In conclusion, at present HPD is very useful tool to study virologic failure and LLV in order
      to an early change of the antiretroviral therapy.
    
  