
    
      Objective

      The goal of this protocol is to use a targeted serotonergic manipulation [acute tryptophan
      depletion (ATD)] and specific neurocognitive and neuroimaging paradigms to consider the role
      of serotonin (5-HT) in emotional processing. In particular, we wish to evaluate claims that
      serotonin has a role in the effective processing of aversive signals. Additionally, we wish
      to examine whether tryptophan depletion will attenuate the neural response to aversive
      material.

      Study population

      Healthy human adult volunteers, ages 20-50 years old, with no DSM-IV-defined Axis I mental
      disease and who fulfill the remainder of the inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Design

      This is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose, outpatient
      study in eligible, healthy volunteers. Participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio
      to single doses of drug (ATD) or placebo. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical
      Center Pharmacy will facilitate randomization and supply the randomization code to the
      Clinical Center s Metabolic Nutrition Department (see below). All subjects will be monitored
      for adverse events. Participants will give written, informed consent prior to any assessments
      and procedures covered by this protocol.

      The study will be conducted in the NIH Clinical Center 5SW Day Hospital and the NMRF center
      (for the imaging arm of the study). Subjects will arrive in the morning of the testing day
      and complete baseline measurements (i.e., mood and anxiety ratings and serum tryptophan
      levels). Participants will then receive an oral dose of ATD capsules or placebo. Participants
      will consume two meals during the study day; the placebo group (control subjects) will be
      given high-tryptophan meals and tryptophan-depleted subjects will receive low-tryptophan
      meals. Meals will be designed and supplied by the NIH Clinical Center Metabolic Nutrition
      Department. At specified times, subjects will complete primary measures [either
      neurocognitive or neuroimaging (fMRI) paradigms] and secondary measures (mood and anxiety
      ratings and serum levels of tryptophan) as detailed in the protocol. Adverse events will be
      monitored throughout the study day. A post-study evaluation will occur prior to discharging
      the participant to verify that he/she is physically and mentally well and fit to leave the
      Clinical Center.

      Outcome Measures

      Primary Outcome Measures:

        -  Neurocognitive Paradigms: Behavioral measures including reaction time and accuracy

        -  Neuroimaging Paradigms: Blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) response

      Secondary Outcome Measurements:

        -  Serum tryptophan levels

        -  Mood and Anxiety Rating Scales
    
  