
    
      This is a randomized, open-label, multi-center, prospective study to assess the clinical
      utility of the TEM-PCR URI Panel in adult subjects age 65 and older presenting to the primary
      care clinic with symptoms of acute respiratory illness. The study will enroll 314 subjects
      with <10% of subjects having chronic conditions that may affect the lungs (i.e., CHF, COPD,
      and neoplastic disease of the lungs).

      Subjects recruited from the general patient population visiting identified primary care
      clinic sites will be recruited and randomized to either TEM-PCR or Standard of Care
      (SOC)/empiric diagnosis for determination of respiratory pathogen(s). The treating physician
      will use the results of either the TEM-PCR panel or the SOC/empiric diagnosis to guide
      treatment decisions. Sputum sample (or nasopharyngeal swab if sputum sample cannot be
      collected) results obtained from the TEM-PCR diagnosis will be available in approximately one
      business day of sample collection. Sputum sample (or nasopharyngeal swab if sputum sample
      cannot be collected) results obtained from the SOC/empiric diagnosis will be available in
      approximately 3-5 business days of sample collection. The Investigator may call the subject
      upon receipt of sputum sample results if the results indicate that a change in therapy is
      necessary. All changes in the prescribed treatment plan will be documented in the subject's
      source documents. Subjects will record all therapy used for the treatment of respiratory
      illness and adverse events from Day 1 through Day 30 in a patient diary.

      A final in-clinic visit will be conducted on Day 30 (± 5 days) following the Day 1 clinic
      visit to assess for outcomes (i.e., antibiotic treatment and duration/completion, use of
      antivirals and duration/completion, rate of clinic revisit or hospital admission and
      subsequent length of stay, mortality rate, use of steroids and/or antipyretics, use of OTC
      symptomatic treatments, and use of supportive therapy).
    
  