
    
      Specific Aim 1: Assess the effectiveness of the GMCD intervention to improve developmental
      outcomes and nurturing care in India and Guatemala. The investigators will conduct a
      parallel-arm cluster randomized trial within rural CHW programs. In the primary effectiveness
      phase, children under 2 years old will receive the GMCD intervention or control for 12
      months. Subsequently, control clusters will cross into the intervention, and continue an
      additional 12 months (total 24 study months). The primary developmental effectiveness outcome
      will be change in age-adjusted scores at 12 months on the Bayley Scales of Infant
      Development, 3rd Edition BSID3) (3). The secondary nurturing care effectiveness outcome will
      be change in mean Home Observation for Measurement of the Environment (HOME) score at 12
      months (4).

      Specific Aim 2: Assess barriers and facilitators to GMCD implementation using the RE-AIM
      evaluation framework (5). RE-AIM domains will be assessed as: (a) Reach: participation rates,
      comparison of participant/non-participant characteristics, attendance/drop-out; (b)
      Effectiveness: impact on development (BSID3) and nurturing environment (HOME) [in Aim 1]; (c)
      Adoption: proportion of workers/facilities participating, CHW characteristics; (d)
      Implementation: contact hours/visit completion, fidelity to delivery protocols; (e)
      Maintenance: patient outcomes and cost effectiveness analysis at 12-24 months [in Aim 3];
      intent by decision makers and implementers to continue intervention. In addition, the
      investigators will conduct a sequential quantitative-->qualitative explanatory analysis,
      using interviews and focus groups with implementers from clusters with highest/lowest impact
      outcomes (BSID3/HOME) to explore institutional inner and outer setting and implementation
      processes associated with intervention success, using the Consolidated Framework for
      Implementation Research (CFIR).

      Specific Aim 3: Conduct an economic evaluation of the GMCD intervention. Evaluation will
      assess (a) costs of the interventions at 12 and 24 months; and (b) cost-effectiveness of the
      intervention (dollar per unit increase in BSID or HOME scores) at 12 months. This analysis
      will provide cost information to policymakers to help guide resource allocation decisions for
      ECD interventions.
    
  