
    
      High caries risk patients are those who have high DMF index, high sugar intake, poor oral
      hygiene, inadequate salivary flow, low pH level, as well as deficient fluoride exposure.

      Therefore, their management has to be adequate and proper. To overcome these setbacks, glass
      ionomer cements that have advantages such as similar coefficient of thermal expansion to
      natural tooth tissue, physicochemical adhesion to tooth structure, biocompatability, fluoride
      release, low shrinkage and low marginal leakage as well as anticaries properties and
      increased remineralization interproximally ,which is especially beneficial in high risk
      caries patients, have been considered as an alternative restorative material to composite and
      amalgam. To enhance the mechanical properties of GIs, their constituents have been modified
      Comparatively, resin-modified glass ionomer (RMGIs) with a longer working time, faster
      setting, higher early strength, and improved appearance and translucency. Unfortunately, the
      RMGI's mechanical properties of are different to resin composites. Progressive development of
      material sciences has resulted in the introduction of bioactive restorative materials. These
      materials can activate a tissue repair mechanism for or synthesis and elicit a response from
      teeth and surrounding environment. ACTIVA BioACTIVE products are allegedly the first dental
      resins with a bioactive ionic resin matrix, shock-absorbing rubberized resin component, and
      reactive ionomer glass fillers that mimic the physical and chemical properties of natural
      teeth. These bioactive materials actively participate in the cycles of ionic exchange that
      regulate the natural chemistry of our teeth and saliva and contribute to the maintenance of
      tooth structure and oral health. They are claimed to have the strength, esthetics and
      physical properties of composites and are more bioactive than glass ionomers, combining the
      best attributes of both materials without compromising either one.

      Activa Presto light-cured material from Pulpdent is the company's latest product that
      features biomimicry as Activa Bioactive dual-cured material. The material diffuses fluoride,
      calcium, and phosphate ions that fortify the saliva and help replace essential minerals that
      are lost in the decay process. This highly esthetic, light-cured resin contains these ions in
      a stackable resin matrix that holds its shape and does not slump. This durable product is
      resistant to fracturing and wear, especially so on the thin areas of enamel bevels, and is
      indicated for all restorative procedures replacing dentin and/or enamel, anterior or
      posterior.
    
  