
    
      OBJECTIVE: The investigators key objective is to study the effects of ASTM on HRQoL,
      depression, and anxiety in AMD patients. The second objective is to determine if there is an
      association between HRQoL, depression, and anxiety with routinely measured clinical
      variables. A mathematical model to compute HRQoL, depression, and anxiety from ophthalmic
      clinical variables will be developed in ASTM plus TAU as well as TAU alone group.

      Study Design: The investigators plan to conduct a single-center, single blind longitudinal
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). Research participants will be 140 men and women (70 in
      each group).

      Study Recruitment: Potential participants with severe AMD above 50 years of age will be
      screened - from the office practice of Dr. Mao as per inclusion and exclusion criteria at the
      Ivey Eye Institute, London, ON.

      An ophthalmic examination - offered as a routine care - for each potential participant (i.e.,
      measuring best-corrected Snellen visual acuity and pinhole acuities) will be conducted.
      Snellen acuity will be converted to LogMAR according to visual angle subtended by letters
      such as 20/20 = 0.0, 20/40 = 0.3, 20/50 = 0.3978. A value above 20/200 = 1.0 will be assigned
      to counting fingers, hand motions, and light perception. No light perception will receive a
      value of 0.0.

      Questionnaire: Patients will undergo a standardized interview performed by a trained
      interviewer to measure HRQoL using the time trade-off method (TTO) in which potential
      participants will be asked couple of questions about their quality of life such as 1) how
      long participant expect to live? and 2) how many of those remaining years of life, if any,
      participant would be willing to trade in return for a treatment permitting to their current
      vision in each eye to be transformed to permanent perfect vision (20/20) bilaterally?. During
      the first office visit (screening visit), in the interview, patients will be asked
      demographic questions including age, gender, and associated medical conditions, such as
      concurrent ocular conditions, ocular disease other than AMD, previous ocular surgery,
      intraoperative complications, preoperative ocular pathology, chronic pain, general diseases
      that could affect the immune system, and actual infection. In addition, patients will be
      asked about co-morbidities such as, whether they have high blood pressure, diabetes,
      arthritis, heart condition, stroke, and other non-ocular medical conditions. Further, the
      following self-rated scales will be administered at the first office visit: TTO, Visual
      Function Questionnaire (VFQ-25), the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), and Generalized
      Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7).

      Randomization: Participants will be randomized to ASTM + TAU or TAU alone equally (1:1) using
      computer generated randomization numbers available at random.org. Concealment of
      randomization will be ensured by independent staff performing randomization using a third
      party web-based provider (http://www.sealedenvelope.com/). Computerized randomization will
      occur from the Ivey Eye Institute, St. Joseph's Hospital, London, ON. A telephone number will
      be available for study concerns/queries. Pre-randomized information will be stored using
      unique de-identifiers and downloaded on a secure database. Outcome assessors and
      investigators will be blinded to treatment.

      Trial Interventions/Treatment Arms: 1) Automatic Self-Transcending meditation (ASTM):
      Following the initial measurements (common to both ASTM and control group), participants in
      the ASTM group will undergo ASTM training in groups of 10 by certified teachers under the
      supervision of one of the study collaborator at a room in St. Joseph's Hospital, London, ON.
      This involves participating in four, 90-120 minute sessions each of four consecutive days.
      This will be followed by weekly 60 minute follow up sessions for 4 weeks, biweekly sessions
      for weeks 5-12 weeks and monthly follow-up session for 13-24 weeks. Participants will be
      required to attend 75% of weekly, bi-weekly, monthly follow-up sessions. In addition,
      participants will be asked to practice ASTM at home for 20 minutes twice daily over the study
      period (24 weeks). Participants will be asked to log practice frequency and any other
      noteworthy observations in the log sheet provided to them. Further, the following self-rated
      scales will be administered by a trained rater at the fourth ASTM session (week 0) as well as
      at weeks 4, 8, 12, and 24: TTO, VFQ-25, PHQ-9, and GAD-7 Questionnaire. 2) Control
      Intervention: Participants randomized to control arm (Treatment as Usual (TAU)) will continue
      to receive their treatment as usual. They will follow assessment and study procedures as
      listed below. The following self-rated scales will be administered by a trained rater at
      weeks 0, 4, 8, 12 and 24: TTO, VFQ-25, PHQ-9, and GAD-7. No study procedures will be applied
      or any other information collected during this period. All medication types will be permitted
      in this study. Any dosage modifications will be recorded. The investigators anticipate to
      recruit participants at a rate of at least 10 participants/week over a period of 7 weeks
      allowing attainment of sample size of n=140. There is no obligation for the participants to
      take part in the study; all participation is voluntary.

      Sample Size: Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) was chosen as the main covariate of
      interest. Based on literature, sample size computations were performed, for alpha = 0.05, 80%
      power, 1.0 as mean HRQoL of ASTM + TAU group and 0.5 as mean HRQoL of TAU alone group, the
      investigators estimated the sample size using a two-sample means test assuming equal
      variances to be 128, 64 per group. A sample size of 140 (70 in each arm) to account for
      attrition and loss of data from follow ups at an average of 10-15% will be recruited. Such a
      moderate attrition rate is expected based on previously published studies as well as our own
      ongoing studies.

      Data Analysis:

      Dependent variable: A dependent variable is created based on the HRQoL, an interval scale
      variable taking values between 0.0 and 1.0.

      Independent variables: Visual acuity in a better-seeing eye, patients' demographic
      characteristics, including age, gender, and associated medical conditions are the independent
      variables. Patients' demographic characteristics, including age, are considered as continuous
      variables. Gender is categorized as male and female and associated medical conditions are
      categorized as "current medical conditions," which includes concurrent ocular conditions;
      "other diseases," which includes ocular diseases other than AMD, chronic pain, general
      diseases that could affect the immune system, and actual infection; and "medical history,"
      which includes previous ocular surgery, preoperative ocular pathology, and intraoperative
      complications.

      Data Grouping: Based on BCVA, study participants will be grouped to visual acuity in better
      seeing eye (group 1, 20/20 to 20/50; group 2, 20/60 to 20/100; group 3, 20/200 to no light
      perception). Better seeing will be used since a correlation has been shown between utility
      score and better seeing eye. These 3 groups were chosen since group 1 represents legal
      driving vision in Canada, group 2 represents moderate visual acuity loss, and group 3
      represents legal blindness.

      Analysis: As has been done in many other studies, HRQoL will be calculated by dividing the
      number of years a patient is willing to trade in return for improved quality of life by the
      estimated numbers of years of remaining life subtracted by 1.0 as given below:
      HRQoL(U)=1-(number of years a patient is willing to trade in return for improved quality of
      life)/(estimated number of years of remaining life). Mean, standard deviation, and 95%
      confidence interval for continuous variables such as utility value, will be calculated. For
      categorical variables, visual acuity in the better-seeing eye, gender, and associated medical
      conditions, proportions will be calculated. The chi-square test statistic for independence
      will be used to compare unwillingness to trade time in TTO. The unpaired, two-tailed Student
      t-test will be used to evaluate the effect of visual acuity in the better eye in four groups
      and gender on mean of TTO utility values. Non-response issues: Non-respondent patients'
      characteristics will be compared with respondent patients,' and if they do not appear to be
      statistically significantly different, then these results will be generalized to the sample
      and population.

      Data will be analyzed using STATA Software. The unit of analysis is the HRQoL. Univariate and
      bivariate analysis will be performed for each independent variable against the dependent
      variable to elicit the impact of each factor on the pattern of HRQoL without adjusting for
      the effect of other variables. Models will be deemed statistically significant if they are
      associated with a significant F value (p < 0.01) and if they explain over 15% variability of
      the dependent variable. Only those independent variables that are statistically significantly
      associated with the HRQoL (p < 0.05) will be used for model construction. Since the dependent
      variable is continuous, the investigators plan to use a non-linear regression model to assess
      the effect of each independent variable on the dependent variable, while controlling for the
      confounders. Multicollinearity, high correlation between independent variables, and
      interaction effects will be evaluated for the model.

      Validation Analysis: Validation will be performed on the developed regression model. The
      collected data will be divided into two portions: one portion, called the "main data," will
      contain 80% of the samples of the total collected utility values and its associated data; the
      other portion, called the "test data," will contain the remaining 20%. Validation will be
      done using test data but having the same coefficient values as the main data in order to
      calculate the percentage of correct cases. Similar regression analysis as described above
      will be performed for each dependent variable: vision related quality of life measured by
      VFQ-25, depression score measured by PHQ-9, and anxiety score measured by GAD-7.
    
  