
    
      The objective of the present randomized study is to evaluate the optimum strategy of
      recombinant hepatitis B vaccination in the maintenance of protective anti-HBs antibody among
      end-stage renal disease patients on peritoneal dialysis. This study is designed to establish
      whether a three-dose schedule of 80 microgram Engerix-B vaccine could maintain protective
      antibody response among dialysis patients. The secondary aim is to identify the effects of
      dosing on various subgroups of dialysis patients.

      Viral hepatitis B infection remains a major health hazard for end-stage renal disease
      patients on dialysis. The direct costs of hepatitis B infection and long term impact on
      morbidity and renal transplantation are substantial. Apart from the devastating consequences
      of hepatitis B infection on patients on dialysis or after transplantation, infected patients
      are potential reservoirs for infecting other patients and haemodialysis staff. Antibody
      production achieved in renal patients is suboptimal; the most effective method of vaccination
      to prevent hepatitis B infections in end-stage renal disease subjects has hitherto been
      unanswered by the current literature and the latest Cochrane Collaboration review.

      Given the relatively low seroconversion rate and maintenance of protective hepatitis antibody
      levels among end-stage renal disease patients, a treatment strategy using various doses of
      recombinant hepatitis B vaccine (Engerix-B) has been recently explored. In an observational
      study, the investigators demonstrated no statistically significant difference in response
      rate between patients receiving three recommended doses of Engerix-B intramuscularly (40
      micrograms each dose) and those with four times the normal adult dose (80 micrograms each
      dose), (78% versus 100%, P = 0.23). On the other hand, according to the Kaplan-Meier
      estimates, 78 percent of patients in the 40 micrograms Engerix-B vaccination group and 96
      percent of patients in the 80 micrograms dosing group had maintained the seroprotective
      levels of antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) at 12 months after initial
      response. This difference corresponds to an absolute risk reduction of 18 percent for losing
      the antibody response with a three-dose schedule of 80 micrograms Engerix-B vaccination
      program. In other words, the investigators estimate that giving Engerix-B 80 micrograms dose
      would lead to one extra end-stage renal disease subject with persistent seroprotective
      anti-HBs level at one year for every 5.6 patients treated (number needed to treat to benefit
      NNT, 5.6; 95% confidence interval, 5.4 to 5.8).
    
  