
    
      This is an intergroup multicenter, randomized, open label study designed to compare the
      efficacy and safety of Rd with MPR and CPR in newly diagnosed symptomatic MM patients who are
      65 years of age or older. Potential study subjects will sign an informed consent prior to
      undergoing any study related procedure.

      This study consists of 3 phases for each study subject: Pre-treatment, Treatment and Follow
      up.Pre-treatment period: patients will undergo screening for protocol eligibility within 28
      days (4weeks) prior to randomization.

      Subjects who meet all the inclusion criteria will be randomized based on a computer-generated
      randomization schedule prepared by the Coordinating Centre. The first randomization will
      occur for the induction treatment: Arm A (Rd) or B (MPR) or C (CPR). Within each arm patients
      will be then randomized for the maintenance treatment(lenalidomide or lenalidomide and
      prednisone): Arms A1 (R) and A2 (RP); Arms B1 (R) and B2 (RP); Arms C1 (R) and C2 (RP).
      Randomization will be concealed until the end of the induction period for the maintenance
      treatment. Patients will be stratified at randomization according to the International
      Staging System (5) and age (< 75 years vs > 75 years).Treatment period includes induction and
      maintenance. During the induction and maintenance phases, all patients will attend periodic
      study center visits in order to asses the safety and efficacy of the treatment. This protocol
      also provides a substudy designed to observe asymptomatic patients excluded to the protocol
      that in any case could be inserted in the study . The asymptomatic patient is characterized
      by the absence of end-organ damage or tissue involvement, such as anemia, bone lesions,
      hypercalcemia, and renal failure, or by other relevant clinical conditions, such as
      hyperviscosity, amyloidosis, and recurrent infections (CRAB).
    
  