
    
      This study is a sub-project of the FORESEE III study (Controlled Randomized Clinical Trial to
      assess Efficacy of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) of the slMFB in Patients with Treatment
      Resistant Major Depression). The FORESEE III study itself is a randomized, sham-controlled,
      double blind (patient and observer blinded) clinical trial to assess the antidepressant
      effect of DBS compared to sham.

      The aim of this sub-project is to analyze the time-course of biological correlates of
      treatment resistant major depression as well as neurobiological markers of treatment response
      to treatment with DBS in a well-characterized patient population during 12 month of DBS.

      Specific neurobiological analyses include testing of

        1. epigenetic markers (DNA methylation in candidate genes of depression and epigenome-wide
           association studies, EWAS)

        2. markers of neuroinflammation (cytokines, neuropeptides and other immune factors)

        3. micro RNAs and transcriptome signatures

        4. markers of neurodegeneration (neurofilament light protein)

        5. metabolomic analyses and

        6. endocrinological parameters including glucose tolerance.

      All markers will be tested in blood samples (and urine samples for metaboloic profiling)
      before neurosurgery as well as at several time points during DBS and sham condition
      intervals.

      Additionally hemodynamic parameters will be analysed at test stimulation of the slMFB during
      neurosurgery.

      The results will be correlated with clinical and other biological response parameters of the
      FORESEE III study and are hypothesized to indicate treatment response as well as allowing
      prediction of response to DBS. All neurobiological analyses will be linked in a tightly
      integrated and comprehensive translational approach.

      Further, a volunteer group of healthy controls will be recruited and tested for blood-markers
      of neurodegeneration (neurofilament light protein, 4.) as well as metabolomic analyses in
      blood and urine (5.).
    
  