
    
      Cardiovascular disease, and in particular ischemic heart disease, is the main cause of
      morbidity and mortality worldwide today (1). Myocardial infarction (MI) presents the most
      serious clinical entity through its short-term life threatening involvement.

      The many advances in the management of IDM during the acute phase, namely the increasingly
      frequent and effective use of reperfusion means (angioplasty and thrombolysis) as well as
      pharmacological progress, in particular, the management of anti-thrombotic treatment has
      enabled a significant reduction in intra-hospital mortality, in the medium and long term (2).
      In fact, the mortality rate dropped from 25-30% before the creation of the cardiac intensive
      care units (ICUS) around the 1960s, to around 16% in the 1980s and reaching 4 to 6% today. In
      the latest data from the French FAST MI 2015 register (French Registry of Acute ST-Elevation
      or Non-ST-elevation Myocardial Infarction) mortality was 2.8% in hospital (3) and 5.3% at 6
      months (4). Nevertheless, mortality rates diverge from one register to another and are
      generally higher compared to randomized controlled clinical trials.

      In our country, due to the aging of the Tunisian population (currently the oldest population
      in Africa), as well as the rise in the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors (5), the
      incidence of IDM is clearly increasing. However, our local specificities concerning the
      management of this pathology and the intra-hospital mortality which results from it, remain
      little described despite the importance of these data in the development of personalized
      algorithms and the improvement of the quality of this support.

      the management of CAD ST + in the public sector poses more and more efficiency problems and
      moves away from international recommendations in our country, an assessment of our national
      situation is necessary.

      The objectives of the study are, primary, the incidence of new cases that consult the
      emergency room for CAD ST + and the treatment delivered to the emergency room, in particular
      the nature of the treatment for obstruction (primary angioplasty or thrombolysis). Secondary,
      the evaluation of hospital complications and the future of patients on D30 and after one year
      from the inclusion's day.
    
  