
    
      Sepsis associated encephalopathy (SAE) is a common neurological complication of sepsis that
      is often associated with worse prognosis, yet remains poorly understood. It occurs in the
      absence of direct brain infection or other types of disease-associated encephalopathy such as
      hepatic or renal encephalopathy, and is a result of systemic inflammation (1). Clinically, a
      diagnosis of SAE is made when there is an impaired mental state in the presence of an
      extracranial infection. Clinical features of SAE include change in mental status (altered
      mental status/ AMS), disturbances in mental processes, agitation, disorientation, impaired
      attention, hypersomnolence, delirium or coma. SAE may be an early sign of sepsis that is
      manifested prior to overt evidence of other organ failures (2), and is an independent
      prognosticator of morbidity and mortality (3). Moreover, sepsis survivors can suffer from
      long-term cognitive impairments that impact their quality of life.

      The pathophysiology of SAE is a complex constellation of proposed mechanisms that include
      direct insult to brain tissue from circulating inflammatory mediators that are overexpressed
      in sepsis, disturbances in metabolic pathways, cellular hypoxia, disruption of the BBB
      integrity, alterations in neurotransmission, impairment of regulation of the brain perfusion.
      The consequence of this combination of neuroinflammatory and ischemic processes is neuronal
      degeneration and cell death (apoptosis).

      It is difficult to diagnose SAE early, as sepsis is often a diagnosis of exclusion and can be
      occult in presentation. For example, emergency physicians may conduct diagnostic studies to
      evaluate for stroke, metabolic disturbance (i.e. hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, vitamin
      deficiency, medication reaction), toxicity, seizure or other acute neurologic condition. In
      addition, severe sepsis patients may be intubated and are often sedated, which poses a
      challenge to conducting a neurological assessment of their mental status. There may be
      changes in electroencephalography (EEG), somatosensory-evoked potentials (SSEP), or
      neuroimaging but these tests lack specificity and SAE remains a diagnosis of exclusion.

      Injured neurons release neuron specific proteins that diffuse across the disrupted BBB into
      the blood and could have diagnostic relevance in diagnosing SAE. Neuron specific enolase
      (NSE) and S100 beta (S100B) are biomarkers currently used in the setting of SAE and have been
      studied clinically. There is a lack of human studies on other proteins such as GFAP,
      co-peptin, Tau, neurofilament light/ heavy chain, UCH-L1, SBDP, MBP, and secretoneurin that
      have been proposed as potential biomarkers of neurological outcome for other causes of acute
      brain dysfunction such as traumatic brain injury (TBI) and hypoxic ischemic encephalopathies
      (HIE) and could potentially serve as candidate biomarkers to diagnose SAE.

      Most studies lack a control cohort. The Investigator intends to sample sepsis patients that
      present to the emergency department but do not develop altered mental status within our study
      as well.

      The Investigator therefore propose a prospective, observational study in which the study team
      will perform blood biomarker analysis from time of enrollment up to study day 3. This would
      be done by drawing blood at (0-30mins), and additional blood draws at hours 6, 12, 18, 24,
      48, 72. The Investigator will then determine whether biomarker levels correlate with
      neurologic assessment in the Emergency Department (ED), degree of overall organ dysfunction,
      survival to hospital admission, survival to hospital discharge, and functional neurologic
      outcome at discharge and at 6 months.
    
  