
    
      Low-dose aspirin is increasingly used for the prophylaxis against coronary heart disease and
      stroke. However, it is also an important cause of peptic ulcer bleeding worldwide. In England
      and Wales, low-dose aspirin is estimated to account for about 10% of ulcer bleeding in people
      aged 60 and over [Weil 1995]. The problem of aspirin-related ulcer disease is expanding with
      the increasing use of aspirin for cardiovascular prophylaxis.

      No dose of aspirin is entirely free of risk. Using a daily dose of aspirin as low as 75 mg,
      the risk of ulcer bleeding doubles that of non-users [Weil 1995]. Previous ulcer disease and
      concurrent major medical illnesses are important risk factors for ulcer bleeding with
      low-dose aspirin. Among aspirin users, those with previous ulcer disease have a 5-fold
      increased risk of ulcer bleeding [Lanas 2000]. Recently the investigators have shown that
      among aspirin users who are infected with H. pylori, the eradication of H. pylori is
      comparable to omeprazole in preventing recurrent ulcer bleeding in 6 months [Chan 2001].
      However, whether curing H. pylori infection would confer long-term protection against ulcer
      bleeding for patients requiring life-long aspirin is uncertain.

      To compare the long-term risk of ulcer complications in high-risk aspirin users after
      eradication of H. pylori with that of average-risk aspirin users. The latter is defined as
      patients who have no prior history of ulcer bleeding.

      The investigators postulated that among patients with H. pylori infection and a history of
      ulcer bleeding who continue to use low-dose aspirin, the long-term risk of ulcer
      complications after eradication of H. pylori is comparable to that of average-risk aspirin
      users.

      References Weil J, Colin-Jones D, Langman M, et al. Prophylactic aspirin and risk of peptic
      ulcer bleeding. Br Med J 1005;310:827-30.

      Lanas A, Bajador E, Serrano P, et al. Nitrovasodilators, low-dose aspirin, other nonsteroidal
      antiinflammatory drugs, and the risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. N Engl J Med
      2000;343:834-9.

      Chan FKL, Chung SCS, Suen BY, et al. Preventing recurrent upper gastrointestinal bleeding in
      patients with Helicobacter pylori infection who are taking low-dose aspirin or naproxen. N
      Engl J Med 2001;344:967-73.
    
  