
    
      Walking difficulty is common and costly in older adults. While traditional exercise has been
      shown to promote physical and mental health and may prevent walking difficulty, such exercise
      has focused on strength and endurance, and has overlooked a critical component of walking
      ability; the timing and coordination of movement. Aging and disease alter timing and
      coordination as reflected by slowed neuromotor performance, increased gait variability and
      reduced smoothness of movement. Task specific timing and coordination exercise that includes
      practice of smooth coordinated aspects of gait over multiple walking conditions has the
      potential to improve walking ability greater than a standard program. Our preliminary data
      suggest that interventions on timing and coordination of gait impact mobility greater than
      the standard strength and endurance program. The next key step and the objective of this
      proposal is to combine the two interventions to determine if potential gains in mobility,
      activity and participation obtained from a standard plus timing and coordination program, are
      larger than the gains obtained from the standard program alone. Therefore, the primary aim of
      the proposed project is to evaluate the impact of adding timing and coordination training to
      standard strength and endurance training on mobility. Secondary aims include examining 1)
      additional outcomes representing the components of the intervention and measures of activity
      and participation, 2) the delayed and sustained effects of the intervention, and 3) the
      effects of the intervention within various other subgroups of interest. This randomized
      clinical trial in 248 community-dwelling older adults who walk slowly (i.e. < 1.20 m/s) will
      compare a standard 12 week strength, endurance and flexibility program to a 12 week
      "standard-plus" program of strength, endurance, flexibility plus task specific timing and
      coordination training. The primary outcome is gait speed at 12 weeks. We will also examine
      secondary and tertiary outcomes representing components of the intervention and measures of
      activity and participation and the delayed and sustained effects at 24 and 36 weeks. The
      findings from this efficacy trial will provide evidence for the added value of task specific
      timing and coordination training for promoting walking ability in older adults and will form
      the basis for future effectiveness trials. Future work includes translation to
      nonprofessional exercise leaders with the long-term goal to incorporate neurological training
      into standard exercise programs for health promotion for older adults.
    
  