
    
      Patients with histories of repeated traumatization in childhood often display a wide array of
      symptoms described as complex traumatic stress disorder. This sequela involves a high degree
      of comorbid mental and somatic disturbances, and entails tremendous health care costs for
      society and suffering for the victims. Despite the prevalence and consequences of complex
      trauma, research on effective treatments is extremely limited. Expert clinicians suggest that
      initial treatment for these patients should focus on stabilization of symptoms through
      psychoeducation and skills - training, and some research has supported this advice. Offering
      such treatment as group therapy can be both cost - effective and give patients additional
      peer-support. The research project outlined in this proposal aims to investigate the
      effectiveness of stabilizing group treatment as an add-on to conventional treatment, for
      patients with PTSD or dissociative disorders after childhood abuse. This will be investigated
      in a randomized controlled design. The investigators also aim to discover psychophysiological
      markers associated with treatment, mechanisms of change involved in treatment, and what
      patient characteristics that predict outcome. The results may contribute to new knowledge
      about treatment of complex traumatization, as well as new and improved health services for a
      vulnerable patient group with little specialized treatment today.

      The main aim of this project is to compare the effectiveness of stabilizing group treatment
      as an add-on to conventional individual therapy, to conventional individual therapy alone, in
      a randomized controlled design. This will be tested in two independent diagnostic groups:
      Patients with PTSD and patients with Dissociative disorders, both groups with reports of
      childhood abuse. The investigators will further investigate how level of dissociative
      symptoms influence treatment, how group climate influence symptoms, the relationship between
      individual and group therapy in combined treatment, and how treatment affects Heart Rate
      Variability. The investigators also seek to evaluate the treatment economically with a
      societal perspective, carrying out cost-utility analyses.
    
  