
    
      Study Design:

      Fifteen participants who currently use e-cigarettes weekly and who use or do not use tobacco
      cigarettes will enter a remote session study. Participants will be asked to abstain from all
      nicotine/tobacco products, non-nicotine electronic cigarettes, and THC containing products
      for 16 hours prior to four experimental sessions and will be tested in a 2x2
      within-participants design with four conditions: 1) low nicotine dose (3%)/non-preferred
      flavor, 2) low dose/preferred flavor, 3) high dose (5%)/non-preferred flavor, and 4) high
      dose/preferred flavor. Order of testing will be randomized. Participants and experimenters
      will be blind to dose. The major outcomes will be subjective effects, e.g. liking and tests
      of reinforcement (choice procedures). We will require 16 hours of abstinence prior to each
      remote experimental session to increase the sensitivity to nicotine effects.

      The consent process, experimental sessions and data collection will all be done remotely
      using a secure video platform. The only interaction between participants and research staff
      will be the curbside pick-up of study products, which will follow social distancing and mask
      guidelines. Participants will pick up study JUUL pods curb-side at the University of Vermont
      before their baseline videoconference session. Participants will be required to conduct all
      videoconference sessions in a place where they can legally use their JUUL.

      The consent videoconference session will be conducted prior to the baseline and four
      experimental sessions. Participants will be assessed for COVID-19 and E-cigarette or Vaping
      Product Use-Associated Lung Injury (EVALI) symptoms prior to the curbside pick-up and at the
      start of the 5 videoconference sessions in which they will be asked to vape. During the
      baseline session, participants will complete a baseline questionnaire via online survey and
      then answer a series of questions about nicotine dependence and how many JUUL pods they would
      purchase at varying prices. Participants will then sample the two flavors available for JUUL
      -Virginia Tobacco and Menthol- using their own JUUL device. Research staff will ask
      participants to rate the pleasantness of each flavor and, after they have tried the flavors,
      participants will rank order their flavor preferences to determine their preferred flavor of
      the two. Finally, participants will be trained in the puffing protocol to be used in the
      experimental sessions.

      During each experimental videoconference session, participants will report on their recent
      e-cigarette and tobacco product use at the start of each videoconference testing session.
      Those reporting non-abstinence will have their videoconference session rescheduled. During
      the videoconference testing sessions participants will be asked to puff either tobacco flavor
      3% nicotine, tobacco flavor 5% nicotine, menthol flavor 3% nicotine, or menthol flavor 5%
      nicotine. After each puffing bout within each session, they will answer questions about about
      e-cigarette effects, e-cigarette liking and wanting, like/dislike of e-cigarette taste and
      e-cigarette intensity. At the end of each session, they will be asked how many JUUL pods they
      would purchase at varying prices.

      Adverse events will be collected at the end of each videoconference session by the research
      assistant, who will consult with the study licensed medical provider.
    
  