
    
      Sample Size Is estimated according to previous studies adherence to medical treatment 40%,
      and the objective of the study is to demonstrate an increase in adherence of 25% in absolute
      terms (40 to 65%) by simplifying the treatment regimen. With a parallel design, a type I
      error of 5%, a sample of 200 patients would give the study a power of 80% to detect this
      difference.

      A study of this size would also give us increased 80% power to detect a difference of 14 mg /
      dl in serum cholesterol (estimated standard deviation 30 mg / dl) with an alpha error rate of
      5%; and 80% power to detect a difference of 4 mmHg in systolic blood pressure (standard
      deviation 10 mmHg), also with a type I error of 5%

      Procedures

      After signing the written informed consent patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio, one of
      the study groups:

        -  Group 1: Conventional treatment: is a daily tablet of ramipril (5-10 mg / day), atenolol
           (50-100 mg / day), aspirin 100 mg / day and simvastatin 40 mg / day. The doses of drugs
           may be increased according to blood pressure and heart rate of patients in follow-up
           visits.

        -  Group 2: one capsule containing ramipril (5 to 10 mg), atenolol (50 to 100 mg), 100 mg
           aspirin, 40 mg simvastatin. In follow-up visits doses of atenolol and ramipril capsules
           may be adjusted according to blood pressure and heart rate.

      All other medications that the patient receives will be determined and adjusted doses as
      determined by the treating physician.

      In patients receiving 100 mg / day and atenolol 10 mg / day of ramipril and require
      additional treatment to control blood pressure will recommend using thiazide diuretics,
      calcium channel blockers and alpha-methyldopa, in that order.

      All other medications that the patient receives will be determined and adjusted doses as
      determined by the treating physician.

      In patients receiving 100 mg / day and atenolol 10 mg / day of ramipril and require
      additional treatment to control blood pressure will recommend using thiazide diuretics,
      calcium channel blockers and alpha-methyldopa, in that order.

      The first supply of study medication will be held on discharge from hospital. Patients will
      be referred for follow-up at 7 days (with an additional 7 days), a month, 3 months and six
      months (final visit). For visits 2, 3 and 4 be tolerated fifteen (15) days before considering
      that the patient did not attend the visit.

      Randomization After signing the informed consent, patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio
      to receive study treatments.

      Randomization was carried out with lists of random numbers generated by computer with a block
      diagram of 4 and 6. Was also a scheme will use stratified by gender and diabetes.

      The mapping is done using consecutive sealed opaque envelopes. To minimize the risk of
      predicting the next treatment, the envelopes will be handled by the pharmacy staff.

      After signing the informed consent was informed pharmacy staff concerned in the study, who
      will open the appropriate envelope and will be responsible for the preparation and supply of
      medication (Appendix 1).

      Data Anthropometric data, risk factors, cardiovascular history, blood pressure measurements
      and basal heart rate were collected. All patients will have lab tests including blood count
      with platelet count, fasting blood glucose, creatinine, urea, electrolytes, liver function
      tests, total cholesterol, cholesterol bound to high density lipoprotein (HDL) and low density
      (LDL) , and triglycerides.

      Blood pressure and pulse It is measured on the left arm with the subject seated, after 5
      minutes of rest. Three blood pressure measurements separated by a minute averaged realized
      and the last two (discarding the first value). Diastolic blood pressure will be recorded in
      the fifth Korotkoff sound. Heart rate will be measured by averaging two measurements of 30
      seconds; rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation, two periods of 1 minute averaged. These
      measurements were repeated at each follow-up visit.

      Electrocardiogram ECG were performed at baseline and follow-up, with the subject in supine
      position after 5 minutes of rest. All are made with automatic ECG 12-lead equipment and will
      be printed to be analyzed manually.

      Laboratory The baseline analysis was performed on admission to the coronary care unit
      (routine practice), in this analysis is considered basal level of lipids (total cholesterol
      and fractions) on admission to hospital and the rest of the determinations, the values of the
      day following fasting.

      Laboratory analysis at the end of the study will be conducted with the patient 12 hours of
      fasting, before stopping the study medication.

      Analyses were performed in the hospital laboratory Crossing according to standard techniques.

      Assessing platelet aggregation was performed by aggregometry evaluated by turbidimetric
      method (AggRAM, Helena Laboratories, Beaumont, Texas, USA).

      In tracking the value of blood pressure and heart rate were recorded at each visit, as well
      as pill counts were also conducted to assess adherence.

      All data will be collected in a form designed for the study and stored in a database. The
      data input to the system will be performed to minimize duplicate entry errors in the
      information.

      Follow up Follow-up visits will be conducted through interviews with one of the researchers.

      The monitoring scheme is as follows:

        -  7 days: an additional 7 days.

        -  At 30 days: an additional 15 days.

        -  At 3 months: an additional 15 days.

        -  At 6 months: an additional 15 days (final visit). Each visit will be an interview,
           physical examination and ECG. Counting capsules or pills to assess adherence is
           performed and a new supply of medication will be provided for the period until the next
           visit.

      At the final visit, prior consultation with the researcher, a blood with 12 hours of fasting
      to corresponding laboratory evaluations will be performed.

      Study Medication Study medication will be prepared in the hospital pharmacy Crossing
      protocolized according to procedures .

      Losses to follow up Patients who did not attend one or more follow-up visits will be excluded
      from study analysis of adhesion. In all cases, telephone contact will attempt to determine
      the occurrence of adverse events.

      Ethical Considerations Participants will be invited to participate in the study and will be
      explained in detail the objectives. Be given a copy of the written informed consent for their
      participation and can decide evacuate their doubts about the protocol.

      The study was conducted according to the Declaration of Helsinki, the guidelines of
      international harmonization and local laws. In addition, the protocol will be conducted in
      accordance with the guidelines for good clinical practice.

      They brighten at all times to patients the voluntary nature of participation in the study
      during the informed consent process. At each visit will be asked verbally about his desire to
      continue in the study.

      Statistical Analysis Qualitative variables are described using numbers and percentages.
      Continuous variables were described using means and standard deviations or medians and
      interquartile ranges, if you have normal or non-normal distribution, respectively. Normality
      is determined by evaluating the quantile-quantile graphics and the Shapiro-Wilk test.

      Analyses were performed according to the intention-to-treat analysis of all patients
      according to the group to which they were assigned.

      The primary endpoint analysis was performed by Pearson chi2 test. Further estimate the
      relative risk of adhesion in the experimental treatment group compared to the control group,
      with their corresponding confidence intervals using a 2 x 2 table.

      The differences between groups in levels of cholesterol and blood pressure were made using
      Student's t test.

      Subgroup analyzes according to age (greater or less than the median), sex, education,
      diabetes, previous myocardial infarction and angioplasty was performed.

      All analyzes were performed two-tailed and a p value less than 0.05 was used to indicate
      statistical significance.
    
  