
    
      Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D) is marked by total insulin dependence with challenges
      regarding glycemic control and concomitant sequela. While standard of care medical nutrition
      therapy for this disease centers on matching carbohydrate to insulin at meals, recent
      literature and clinical reports have shown superior glycemic control and cardiovascular
      measures with lower carbohydrate dietary patterns (<130g/day) as compared to the standard
      American MyPlate (50% total calories as carbohydrate) approach. Diabetes management has
      evolved tremendously in the last twenty years with the development of sophisticated insulin
      pumps and continuous glucose monitors; but, glycemic control is still dependent on
      quantification of carbohydrate, imperfect in the real-world setting. Due to inherent error in
      carbohydrate counting, the investigators propose that less carbohydrate will produce better
      glycemic control by minimizing error and subsequent variation in individuals with type 1
      diabetes.

      There has long been a movement in the medical community to prescribe low carbohydrate diets
      under the premise of "less carbohydrate, less insulin, less glycemic variation". This
      strategy centers on "the law of small numbers", a calculus principle describing magnitude of
      variation in the output (glycemic variation) as the function of input size (CHO + insulin).
      Carbohydrate counting tends to result in ~50% error while there is ~30% variation in insulin
      action, making exactitude impossible. However, low CHO diets tend to provide >40% energy from
      fat due to the macronutrient distribution. With innate risk of cardiovascular disease in T1D,
      standard of care has supported restriction of total fat consumption, especially saturated
      fat, in effort to control cholesterol. While the American Diabetes Association recognizes
      that dietary fat is a controversial and complex issue, eliminating trans-fats is the only
      consensus point across the field. To date, most low CHO diet studies in both T1D and Type 2
      Diabetes (T2D) have not shown adverse effects on lipids and tend to show decreases in
      triglycerides and either no change or increases in HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol.
    
  