
    
      This research was conducted to determine the effectiveness of mobile learning on students'
      success and anxiety in teaching the anatomy of the genital system.

      Participants The research is a randomized controlled experimental study. This study was
      conducted with students who took anatomy lessons at a private university between November and
      December 2018. Power analysis to determine the number of students to form the research sample
      was performed using NCSS-PASS statistical package (NCSS, LLC., Kaysville, UT). In order to
      make a study with this analysis P ≤ 0.1 levels, the number of samples was decided to be 60.
      As a result, the sample of the research; By explaining the purpose of the study, a total of
      63 students who was allowed to participate in the post-informative research and meet the
      sample criteria of the research was formed. Sampling criteria; the student is not (1) not a
      graduate of a health vocational high school, (2) has not previously been trained in mobile
      learning, (3) has taken the anatomy course for the first time, (4) received written and
      verbal permission for participation in the study.

      Designed of Study and Randomization The research was designed in a randomized controlled
      experimental type. In the randomization of the study, using the Random.org website, students
      were assigned to the experiment (mobile application group, n = 31) and control (traditional
      method group, n=32) groups according to their numbers in the class list.

      Data Collection Tools The research data were collected with "Structured Student Information
      Form", "State and Trait Anxiety Inventory", "Knowledge Examination on the anatomical
      structure of the genital system".

      Structured Student Introduction Form The socio-demographic characteristics of the student
      identification form, such as the students' age, gender as well as data on educational status
      are included. It consists of five questions in total.

      State and Trait Anxiety Inventory In the research, two different scales were applied to the
      students. These are the State Anxiety Scale (STAI FORM TX - I) and the Trait Anxiety Scale
      (STAI FORM TX - 2). The scale was developed in 1970 by Speilberger et al. The adaptation and
      adjustment of the scales into Turkish was done by Necla Öner and Ayhan LeCompte in 1983. It
      consists of 20 items in both scales and is graded in a four-point Likert style. Scoring is
      done between 1-4. The answer options collected in four classes in the state anxiety scale
      (WHO), (1) None, (2) A little, (3) A lot, and (4) Completely. In the Trait Anxiety Scale
      (SAD) options (1) Almost never, (2) Sometimes, it is (3) Much time and (4) Almost always. The
      scores obtained from both scales theoretically range from 20 to 80. Larger scores mean high
      anxiety levels while, smaller score means low anxiety level. In this study, Cronbach's alpha
      value of the scale was found to be 0.95.

      Knowledge examination on the anatomical structure of the genital system:

      The genital system examination prepared according to the literature consists of 22 questions
      including the anatomical structure. The knowledge examination contains the names of the
      anatomical structures of the genital system on the figure. It was created by taking color
      copies of the images on paper. The lowest score that can be obtained from the knowledge
      examination is determined as "0" and the highest score as "100".

      Different learning methods were used in both groups, but the examination was conducted in the
      same format. The pre-test and post-test examinations contain the same questions. An equal
      number of questions were asked about male and female genital system issues.

      Collection of Data The necessary interviews and correspondences were carried out in order to
      conduct the research. Permission was obtained from Health Sciences University Istanbul
      Training and Research Hospital Clinical Research Ethics Committee. The purpose of the study
      was explained to the students as per the sample criteria and their consents were obtained.
      All of the students participating in the study attended four hours of theoretical lessons in
      the classroom related to anatomy of the genital system. Following the theoretical training,
      students were divided into experiment (mobile application) and control (genital organ model)
      groups. Both groups where then given the "Structured Student Presentation Form", "Status and
      trait anxiety inventory" and "Knowledge Examination (pre-test)" on paper.

      The didactic content prepared for the institution's standard curriculum (control group) or
      mobile learning is similar for both training methods.

      Application in the Control Group: After the theoretical lesson, the control group was taken
      to the Anatomy Laboratory. The laboratory consists of three application rooms, one control
      room and one analysis room. The "Anatomy of the Organs Forming the Genital System" was
      explained using an anatomical model of the genital system organs by a researcher responsible
      for the human anatomy course. Students were given time until the end of the lesson to work on
      the models. During this time, their questions were answered. At the end, all of the students
      were given a "State Inventory" by the researcher and asked to fill it in. Students were then
      asked to use textbooks and atlases to study for the "Knowledge Test (post-test)" which took
      place three days later.

      Application in Experimental Group: After the theoretical lesson, students in the experimental
      group were taken to an empty classroom. The mobile application was installed on the
      smartphones of the students in the experimental group by the researchers and they were told
      not to share it with anyone until the end of the study. At the end of the study, the mobile
      application was also installed on the phones of the students in the control group due to
      ethical sensitivity. "Anatomy of Organs Forming the Genital System" was explained on the
      mobile application containing the genital system organs. The students were allowed to ask
      questions and the questions were answered. Afterwards, all students in the experimental group
      were given a "State Inventory" by the researcher and asked to fill it in. Students were then
      asked to study using the "genitalsystem.apk" mobile application until the "Knowledge Test
      (post-test)" which took place three days later

      Mobile Application Development Stage The use of technology in education helps students with
      their individual learning development. However, for a successful integration of technology
      into education, multiple design principles should be considered. In this context, the "Mayer
      Multimedia Design Principles" were considered in designing the mobile application developed
      within the scope of the research.

      The mobile application was developed with Adobe Flash CS6 for Android devices with the
      extension "genitalsystem.apk". The application was uploaded to the smartphones of the
      experimental group by the researcher.

      The homepage of the mobile application consists of five sections: the male genital system,
      the female genital system, the path followed by the sperm, the path followed by the ovum and
      the purpose of the mobile application.

      The male genital system is divided into two sections, presented on the application as two
      separate pages: internal genital organs and external genital organs. Both pages on the mobile
      application are operated in the same way: the user presses on the red dots that are
      programmed on the page, which makes the anatomical names of the organs appear on a
      rectangular area at the top of the screen.

      The female genital system is divided into two sections, presented on the application as two
      separate pages: internal genital organs and external genital organs. Both pages on the mobile
      application are operated in the same way: the user presses on the red dots that are
      programmed on the page, which makes the anatomical names of the organs appear on a
      rectangular area at the top of the screen.

      The page on the mobile application detailing the path followed by the sperm features an
      animation that shows the section from the production of sperm to the woman's external genital
      area. The users can start, stop or watch the animation whenever they want. During the
      animation of the path followed by the sperm, the name of the anatomical region the sperm has
      reached appears at the top of the screen.

      The page on the mobile application detailing the path followed by the ovum features an
      animation that shows the section from the production of ovum to zygote formation. The users
      can start, stop or watch the animation whenever they want. During the animation of the path
      followed by the ovum, the name of the anatomical region the ovum has reached appears at the
      top of the screen.

      On the purpose of the mobile application page, users can access the sources of the
      information provided by researches for the purposes of mobile use and the information used
      for the mobile application.

      Statistical Methods A licensed SPSS statistical package, version 25.0 for Windows (IBM Corp)
      was used for data analysis. The distribution of the demographic information of the
      participants by groups was analyzed by chi-square analysis. Whether the average age varies
      significantly between the groups was investigated with the t-test in independent groups.
      Normal distribution among the groups in the state anxiety and trait anxiety inventory was
      analyzed with the Kolmogrov Smirnov and Shapiro Wilks test and it was observed that they were
      compatible with the normal distribution. Pretest-posttest comparisons were examined with
      t-test in dependent groups and comparison of measurements by study groups with t-test in
      independent groups. Regardless of whether the state and trait anxiety levels had a
      significant effect on the knowledge score, regression analysis was examined. Results were
      evaluated at 95% confidence interval and significance level at P < 0.05.

      Ethical and Legal Aspects of the Research The necessary interviews and correspondences were
      carried out in order to conduct the research. Approvals were obtained from the institution
      and ethics committee (S.U.U Istanbul Training and Research Hospital Clinical Research Ethics
      Committee- No: 1558 /07.12.2018). The students who formed the research sample have been
      informed about the purpose, plan, duration and procedures to be done. Therefore, informed
      consent has been obtained for their participation in the research through their own
      willingness and on the principle of volunteering.
    
  