
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the survival of patients with metastatic stage IV prostate cancer responsive to
           combined androgen-deprivation therapy (CAD) treated with intermittent vs continuous CAD.

        -  Compare the effects of these treatment regimens on impotence, libido, and
           vitality/fatigue as well as the physical and emotional well-being of these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Compare general symptoms, role functioning, global perception of quality of life, and
           social functioning of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Assess prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels after continuous CAD administered before
           randomization and evaluate PSA changes throughout randomized treatment of these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to SWOG
      performance status (0-1 vs 2), severity of disease (minimal vs extensive), and prior hormonal
      therapy (neoadjuvant hormonal therapy vs finasteride vs neither).

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive combined androgen-deprivation (CAD) therapy
           comprising goserelin subcutaneously once a month and oral bicalutamide once daily for 8
           courses (7 months).

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 consolidation regimens.

             -  Arm I (continuous CAD therapy): Patients continue CAD therapy as in induction
                therapy. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression.

             -  Arm II (intermittent CAD therapy): Patients undergo observation in the absence of
                rising prostate-specific antigen (PSA) or clinical symptoms of progressive disease.
                Patients with rising PSA or progressive disease begin CAD therapy as in induction
                therapy. Patients whose PSA normalizes after 8 courses return to observation.
                Patients whose PSA does not normalize after 8 courses continue CAD therapy.

      Quality of life is assessed before induction therapy, at 3 months (before consolidation
      therapy), and then at 9 and 15 months.

      Patients are followed every 6-12 months for at least 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 1,500 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  