
    
      d. STATUS: Background and Significance/Preliminary Studies

      Neovascularization is an obligate early event in cancer growth. Consequently, angiogenesis
      appears to play an important role in disease progression and survival of most malignancies in
      general and gynecologic malignancies specifically. Ovarian cancer is the second most common
      gynecologic malignancy, and the leading cause of cancer related death among the gynecologic
      malignancies. It is estimated that 23,300 new cases of ovarian cancer will be diagnosed in
      the United States in 2003 and that 13,900 women will die from disease. Angiogenesis may serve
      as a prognostic indicator in ovarian cancer. Angiogenesis in cancer requires the
      proliferation and migration of endothelial cells in response to a variety of cytokines to
      include angiogenin, endothelial cell growth factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF). The expression of some of these cytokines have been evaluated in gynecologic
      malignancies. Increased expression of VEGF protein by immunohistochemistry has been
      associated with decreased disease free survival 18 versus 120 months in early stage
      epithelial ovarian cancers. Conversely any exposure to antiangiogenic factors should inhibit
      tumor cell growth in vitro. Angiostatin and endostatin have also been found to inhibit
      ovarian cancer growth in mice 7.

      The neovascularization required of fast growing malignancies in general, and ovarian cancer
      specifically, necessitates that they contain many new vessels that have less smooth muscle in
      their walls. Because of the quantitative decrease in vascular smooth muscle these vessels
      also have a decreased resistance to blood flow than the vessels found in benign tumors.
      Malignant tumors with low vascular resistance have been shown to demonstrate decreased smooth
      muscle actin expression and intense Cd34 expression with no differences in microvessel
      density (MVD) noted 8. Immunohistochemical analysis using monoclonal antibodies against
      smooth muscle actin (SMA) and CD34 (an endothelial cell marker) demonstrated that low
      resistance to blood flow in vessels within malignant ovarian tumors may be associated with a
      poorly developed muscular coat in the tumor vessels, compared with that observed in benign
      tumors. Color-flow Doppler imaging uses the altered blood flow patterns as a marker in an
      attempt to differentiate benign from malignant tumors 9. Researchers have evaluated the
      presence of intratumoral vascularization in ovarian neoplasms by Color-flow Doppler
      ultrasound. Benign tumors and cysts have a significantly higher pulsatility index (PI) (mean,
      1.93 +/- 1.02; range, 0.23-3.99) and resistive index (RI) (mean, 0.77 +/- 0.22; range,
      0.2-1.0) than do malignant tumors (PI: mean, 0.77 +/- 0.33; range, 0.31-1.09; RI: mean, 0.5
      +/- 0.17; range, 0.27-0.67). Some overlap, however, exists in individual values for benign
      and malignant lesions. The difference in the angiogenic and vascular resistant natures of
      benign and malignant ovarian tumors showing intratumoral blood flow may thus be correlated
      with the endothelial cell activity of the tumor vessels and not the MVD. This low resistance
      to blood flow within tumor vessels and subsequent endothelial cell activity could be
      regulated by local, endothelial cell or vascular smooth muscle cell, arginine-vasopressin
      (AVP) synthesis and release with subsequent actions on vasopressin receptors.

      Arginine-vasopressin (AVP) is a peptide hormone classically known to be synthesized in the
      hypothalamus and secreted by the posterior pituitary gland. AVP has a variety of roles in the
      body and a variety of systemic physiologic functions to include vasoconstriction,
      gluconeogenesis, corticosteroidogenesis, and excretion of water and urea. AVP causes a
      peripheral vasoconstriction that is thought to be mediated primarily by the V1 receptor. AVP
      is thought to do this by a variety of mechanisms to include activation of the V1a receptors
      with stimulation of phospholipase A2 which leads to increased calcium spiking activity. AVP
      could also do this by regulating the expression of other hypertensive factors and proteins in
      the body. AVP has been shown to play an important role in the development of hypertension
      following aortic constriction in rats. When rats were given AVP following constriction of the
      abdominal aorta, hypertension developed and these animals had an increased response to
      angiotensin II. Therefore AVP is thought to permit the expression of other factors such as
      angiotensin II. The presence of AVP is important in other animal models of hypertension such
      the spontaneously hypertensive rat and DOCA salt hypertension. For instance, administration
      of DOCA salt to Brattleboro rats, genetically incapable of synthesizing vasopressin in the
      hypothalamus, will not result in the development of hypertension. However, with
      administration of exogenous AVP, these rats will develop hypertension when given DOCA salt
      treatment.

      Exposure of vascular smooth muscle cells to AVP also increases smooth muscle actin through
      activation of all three MAP kinase family pathways. Because AVP has the ability to regulate
      and increase smooth muscle actin this suggests that AVP may not only regulate growth of
      vascular smooth muscle but also promote expression of smooth muscle-specific contractile
      proteins . Previous studies have shown that AVP can produce an exaggerated vascular
      vasoconstriction in young spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) relative to normotensive
      rats. This exaggerated response was likely associated to a higher density of V1 receptors
      associated with increased AVP gene expression. Finally AVP and other neuropepetides have been
      shown to serve as autocrine growth factors for some solid tumors. The mitogenic influence of
      AVP is thought to involve increases in intracellular calcium. AVP is often expressed in small
      cell lung cancer (SCLC), and can act as an autocrine growth factor in these cancers. AVP
      expression in SCLC is thought to be dependent on the modulation of normal repressor activity
      12. Because AVP has been implicated in the physiology of vascular constriction and mean
      vascular pressure, and also because it has been shown to be expressed in certain types of
      cancer, it may also have a role as an angiogenic factor in intratumoral vascularization in
      ovarian cancer carcinogenesis. It is the purpose of our proposed study to investigate the
      relationship between AVP expression and its vascular receptor with ovarian neoplasm
      histology.

      Preliminary results:

      Recently, our labs have isolated and analyzed human mesenteric arteries for VP mRNA and V1
      receptor mRNA analyses. V1R mRNA was strongly positively correlated with diastolic blood
      pressure (r = 0.70, p = 0.0112). V1R mRNA tended to be greater in males than females (5.73 +
      1.29 compared to 2.3 + 0.94 relative expression units of V1R mRNA, p = 0.057). Also, arterial
      AVP mRNA correlated negatively with age (p=0.0028). These results suggest that alterations in
      both VP and V1R expression could be involved in disease states such as ovarian cancer where
      blood pressure and flow as well as age may be factors in the development of the malignancy of
      the tumor.

      The AVP peptide was measured by radioimmunoassay in other blood vessels23, e.g. radial and
      mammary artery and saphenous vein samples, and the immunoactivity was shown to co-migrate
      with synthetic AVP on HPLC analysis. The levels of hormone ranged from undetectable to as
      high as 60 uU/gr tissue. Thus, we will also be able to verify changes in VP gene expression
      by measuring the AVP protein directly in the ovarian neoplasm blood vessels collected.

      6. PLAN: Women, 18 years old or greater, who are having their ovaries removed will be
      enrolled in the protocol. 110 total specimens will be obtained. At our institution
      approximately 200 patients per year have ovaries removed. All patients who have had
      gynecologic tissue removed for benign (non cancerous) or malignant (cancerous) indications
      will meet inclusion criteria. Patients who have a malignancy that is not a primary
      gynecologic malignancy will be excluded from the study. Each patient's intratumoral
      vascularity will be assessed by Doppler ultrasound and systemic blood pressure measured
      preoperatively.

      PROCEDURE FOR PROCUREMENT, PREPARATION AND SHIPMENT OF TISSUE SPECIMENS Ovarian arterial and
      venous specimens will be collected for analysis of AVP peptide and for AVP and vasopressin
      receptor mRNA. Operating room personnel will be asked to keep the tissue, ovarian artery and
      vein segments, fresh and not put it in fixative. Promptly following removal of the tissue,
      the specimens will be prepared as follows: The most sterile primary tissue will be cut to
      measure at least 5.0 cm in length. The tumor tissue will then be separated from as much
      connective tissue as possible. The specimen will be placed in the RNA preservative
      RNAlaterTM, placed on wet ice and sent to the Department of Clinical Investigation
      Laboratories quickly. Laboratory analyses of AVP peptide and for AVP and vasopressin receptor
      mRNA isolation and quantitation will be performed in the Physiology and Research Pharmacology
      laboratories of the Department of Clinical Investigation.

      Laboratory Methods: Vasopressin synthesis (as indicated by VP mRNA) and vasopressin receptor
      (V1R or V2R) up or down regulation (as indicated by V1R mRNA or V2R mRNA levels) will be
      assessed. Measurement of V2R in addition to V1R mRNA will help clarify whether possible
      changes in V1R expression in the ovarian neoplasms are specific to that receptor subtype.
      Ovarian artery samples will be isolated and stored in RNA later TM (Ambion, Austin, TX) at
      -70oC until extracted for RNA with a commercial kit (Invitrogen Carlsbad, CA). VP mRNA, V1R
      mRNA, and beta actin mRNA will be quantified by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) using an
      iCycler (BioRad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). Reverse transcription of the RNA to cDNA will be
      done using Superscript TM (Invitrogen), and PCR will be done with Platinum qPCR SuperMix-UDG
      (Invitrogen). Standard curves will be generated using dilutions of a stock of human blood
      vessel cDNA and the cycle threshold for each sample will be related to a dilution's assigned
      copy number. qPCR data will be expressed as a ratio of VP, V1R, or V2R mRNA copies per
      beta-actin mRNA copies. Product generation on all three mRNA segments we are measuring, yield
      slopes of approximately 3.3 indicating nearly 100% efficiency of a doubling of product with
      each cycle in temperature, and gel electrophoresis indicates one band of product. All
      quantitation is done through the detection of increasing intensity of a specific fluorescent
      probe for each product.

      Vasopressin peptide will be analyzed by radioimmunoassay of vascular tissue extracts. The
      tissue will be extracted by first rinsing the tissue free of blood with 0.1 N Acetic Acid,
      blotting and weighing the tissue. The specimen will placed in cold 1.0 N HCl (1ml/0.5 g
      tissue) and homogenized with a Polytron for 1 min. The homogenate will then be centrifuged at
      27,000 G for 45 min. The supernatant will be saved, and the pellet resuspended and
      rehomogenized in 1 ml 1.0 N HCl, and centrifuged. The supernatants are then combined. The
      supernatants will then be extracted as routinely done with plasma samples by absorption on to
      octadecylsilane cartridges (SepPak, C-18, Waters, Milford, MA) and eluted with acidified
      ethanol. The eluate is dried by vacuum and suspended in assay buffer. At this point the
      sample can be applied to C-18 HPLC column and eluted in a single phase buffer system
      consisting of 0.05 M NH4AC in 39% MeOH, and each 1-ml fraction, dried under vacuum, and
      suspended in radioimmunoassay buffer and assayed. Alternatively, the HPLC fractionation may
      not have to be done after initial confirmation that no interference is present in the initial
      sample. In this case, the initial extract will be assayed by radioimmunoassay directly.
    
  