
    
      1. Obese subjects with central and peripheral obesity

           During the first phase, overweight/obese subjects with a BMI 28-35 Kg/m2 will be invited
           to a screening. At the screening, anthropometrics (weight, height, waist circumference)
           and body composition (using BIA and DEXA) will be measured. Based on the subject's
           distribution of body fat, those who have a predefined % body fat between 45-55% will be
           invited to join the study and they would fall into one of the following two groups:

             -  42 subjects with >43% fat in the android sector (area from the pelvis to 20% of the
                distance between the pelvis and the neck cuts) according to the DEXA results
                (central adiposity) would be recruited

             -  42 subjects with <43% fat in the android sector according to DEXA (peripheral
                adiposity) would be recruited.

        2. Lean subjects At the same time, anthropometric (weight, height, waist circumference) and
           body composition (using BIA and DEXA) measurement will be conducted on interested lean
           subjects (BMI 20-25).

      Overnight fasted subjects:

      At T0:

      There will be a determination of the type and degree of obesity through the measurement of
      weight, height, BMI, and WC, followed by both BIA screening and DEXA scan to obtain a more
      detailed image about the status of the participant.

      At T1:

      A fasting blood sample of 10 ml (4 ml EDTA coated tubes, 6 ml uncoated tubes) will be drawn
      to measure the inflammatory status, glycaemia, and iron levels of the participant by
      determining CRP, alpha-glycoprotein, hepcidin, ferritin, TfR, TIBC, HbA1c, insulin, FPG,
      serum iron, CBC and lipid profile.

      After this blood test, the subject will be given a meal including 57Fe (6 mg iron as FeSO4).

      At T2:

      A second venous blood sample of 10 ml (4 ml EDTA coated tubes, 6 ml uncoated tubes) will be
      drawn for analysis of hemoglobin and erythrocyte isotopic composition as well as for the
      determination of serum ferritin, transferrin receptor, C-reactive protein, alpha-glycoprotein
      and hepcidin.

      At T3:

      A third venous blood sample of 10 ml (4 ml EDTA coated tubes, 6 ml uncoated tubes) will be
      drawn to measure the level of glucose, insulin, TG, FFA, TIBC and serum iron. This blood test
      will be an indicator of the level of glycaemia and iron appearance in the blood of the
      subject through the earlier ingestion of OGTT and oral iron load.
    
  