
    
      Background:

        -  Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal tumor of the
           gastrointestinal tract, resistant to cytotoxic chemotherapy and radiation therapy. KIT
           and platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) mutations have been
           identified as tumor initiating events in 85% of adult patients with GIST, but 85% of
           GISTs in pediatric patients lack KIT and PDGFRA mutations (wild-type) and imatinib is
           not as effective in eliciting objective responses.

        -  Recent work in the Pediatric and Wild-Type (wt) GIST Clinic at the National Cancer
           Institute (NCI) led to the identification of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) germline
           mutations in 12% patients with wt-GIST (6/34). SDH protein expression evaluated using
           immunohistochemistry (IHC) was markedly decreased or absent in 18/18 patients with
           pediatric wt-GIST. Thus the majority of wt-GIST are SDH-deficient. Vandetanib (ZACTIMA;
           ZD6474; AstraZeneca) is an oral small molecule antineoplastic drug that inhibits
           vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), estimated glomerular filtration
           rate (EGFR), and rearranged during transfection (RET)-dependent signaling. Preliminary
           preclinical data demonstrate marked growth inhibition of SDH-mutant/deficient renal cell
           carcinoma cell lines when treated with vandetanib.

      Objective(s):

      -Primary: To assess the clinical activity (radiographic response Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) of vandetanib in children and adults with wt-GIST using RECIST
      (v1.1).

      Eligibility:

      -Adults and children with measurable localized or metastatic wt-GIST confirmed in a Clinical
      Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) laboratory will be eligible for trial participation.
      Patients must have measurable disease by RECISTv1.1 and adequate organ function.

      Design:

        -  This phase II trial will determine whether daily oral vandetanib is active in patients
           with wt-GIST. Vandetanib activity will be assessed primarily by radiographic response of
           measurable disease using RECISTv1.1.

        -  Vandetanib will be administered orally once daily continuously in the absence of
           toxicity or disease progression, using a 28-day cycle.

        -  Patients will be carefully monitored for toxicity and response. A small, optimal
           two-stage phase II design with a target response rate of 25% will be used. Nine
           evaluable patients will be enrolled initially. If 1 or more of the first 9 have a
           response, then accrual would continue until a total of 24 patients have enrolled. If
           there are 3 or more responses in 24 (12.5% or more) patients, then this would be
           sufficiently interesting activity to warrant further study.
    
  