
    
      DESCRIPTION: To improve quality of life and reduce stress for breast cancer survivors. Phase
      II Aims: (1) To demonstrate the clinical efficacy (i.e., improved quality of life, stress
      reduction, participant satisfaction with product) of the "Envision the Rhythms of Life"
      program and (2) to establish the technical merits of the program's distance-delivery
      (videoconferencing hardware and software) and instructional technology (i.e., animations,
      graphically enhanced PowerPoint instructional materials, full-color program manuals,
      art-as-imagery, and audio-imagery). "Envision the Rhythms of Life" instructs breast cancer
      survivors in the practice of individualized, emotionally supportive, and biologically
      accurate imagery and consists of 5, 3-hour long, interactive classes and between-class
      instructor support. Instructional Options: Option 1 delivers the program technology
      (animations, PowerPoint, manuals, art, audio-art) with instructor and 15 participants in the
      same room. Option 2 delivers the program at-a-distance, to a small group of 15, via
      videoconferencing software and camera systems (Alaska and Seattle) to low, moderate or high
      bandwidth areas. Each option delivers program three times (total of 45 participants for each
      option). A website portal provides all program information and materials. Design and Method:
      Program will be delivered to 135 breast cancer survivors who have completed conventional care
      (surgery, radiation, IV chemotherapy) for at least six weeks. Differences in option 1 and 2
      outcomes will be compared to each other and to controls; combined outcomes of option 1 and 2
      will be compared to controls; and waitlist control outcomes will be compared to their
      extended baseline. Long-Term Objectives: This innovative project integrates technology with
      bandwidth-sensitive multi-media conferencing strategies to deliver a virtual mind-body,
      imagery intervention. The technology will allow seamless program delivery to interested
      survivors across the country during Phase III. Instructional technology, designed per Phase I
      participant feedback, will serve to 'jump-start' potent imagery practice and will optimize
      clinical efficacy. Commercial application and survivor participation is not limited by
      location, work schedule, or health status, addressing issues of barriers to access of care.
      Although desirable, instructional options 1 and 2 do not require survivors to have computer
      skills or internet access. The program is designed to be culturally sensitive and supports
      individual spiritual practices. PUBLIC HEALTH RELEVANCE: This program addresses NCI and IOM
      summary reports that call for individualized supportive care for cancer survivors suffering
      disease-related distress. Changes in two disease-education program modules would allow the
      program to be used as supportive therapy for other forms of cancer across the country.
    
  