
    
      In occasion of the World Hypertension Day in may , boots are organized in the major squares
      of the southern italy villages, and volunteers of the Medical School of Salerno collect
      through means of questionnaires, anamnestic data and dietary habits, and measure blood
      pressure after 5 minutes in the sitting position, 3 times with an interval of 2 minutes using
      validated, ESH approved electronic oscillometer (A100, Microlife, Italy), according to the
      ESC/ESH guidelines. Other questions regard previous cardiovascular conditions or events
      (coronary heart disease) and cardiovascular accidents (TIA and stroke). Eventual drug
      treatment and Vitamin D supplementation is also annotated. A venous blood sample is drawn
      from the antecubital vein and blood is stored for biochemical analysis at the University
      Hospital Centralized Service. Data are digitally stored for analysis.

      Anamnestic and biochemical data regarding age, sex-specific cholesterol, HDL cholesterol,
      systolic BP and cigarette smoking pre-existing conditions and way of life are used for the
      calculation of cardiovascular risk according to the Framingham Cardiovascular Risk Score.
      Familiarity for cardiovascular disease is defined as cardiovascular events in parents and
      siblings less than 50 years old.

      The validated questionnaire alternate Mediterranean Diet Score (aMed), is administered to
      assess adherence to the Mediterranean Diet . Laboratory assessment of blood samples. A venous
      blood sample was collected in two tubes of 5.0 ml and centrifuged in the day. The time of the
      last meal was recorded during the data collection. Blood glucose, insulin, blood urea
      nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, calcium, phosphorus, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL
      cholesterol, triglycerides, 25(OH)D, PTH, Vitamin B-12 and folic acid are assessed.
      Glomerular filtration rate (GFRs) is estimated using the equation of Chronic Kidney Disease
      Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) .
    
  