
    
      Study Objective: T cell receptor excision circles (TRECs) are episomal DNA circles excised
      from the T cell receptor genes during T cell maturation in the thymus. They do not replicate,
      so they are diluted out as T cells proliferate. Our objectives are to examine the levels of
      TRECs in blood samples from patients with primary immunodeficiency (PI) diseases; to
      determine which PI diseases might be detected by testing newborn dried blood spots for low
      numbers of TRECs; and to use the blood spots collected for future confirmatory or alternative
      tests to develop newborn screening for PIs.

      Population: Patients diagnosed with defined primary T cell immunodeficiency diseases or
      undefined conditions with very low T cell numbers. There are several known, and additional
      unknown, gene defects that impair T lymphocyte maturation and function. The frequency of
      these rare disorders is unknown, but could potentially be learned in the course of
      population-based newborn screening.

      Design: We will contact our network of immunology colleagues to help us identify and enroll
      patients already diagnosed with PI disorders. These patients will have had HIV ruled out as
      part of their immune evaluation. We will provide mail-in kits and will receive blood samples
      for analysis. We will attempt to retrieve the actual Guthrie cards containing the dried blood
      spots of these patients from their state screening laboratories to determine the number of
      TRECs that were present at birth in infants with these conditions.

      Outcome Measures: We will measure TRECs in dried blood spots, and correlate TREC number with
      diagnosis and clinical and laboratory data. We hope to determine the range of
      immunodeficiency diseases that can be demonstrated to have significantly reduced TRECs as
      compared to healthy subjects using our assay. Because TREC testing may be insufficiently
      sensitive or specific as a stand-alone test, further tests may be developed and performed on
      the samples in the future, including DNA re-sequencing, detection of mRNA for T cell specific
      genes and/or proteins expressed only in T cells.
    
  