
    
      Blood transfusion is at the heart of the therapeutic arsenal when one wishes to preserve the
      hemodynamic balance of a patient. There are two types of transfusion: the homologous one
      (blood from a compatible donor) and the autologous or autotransfusion method (which is done
      with one's own blood / by the patient's own blood).

      Although they can save lives, homologous transfusions may lead to non-negligible adverse
      events. Among these events, we can cite immunological consequences such as allo-immunization
      against red blood cells' antigens from the donor blood. Some infections have also been
      reported following allogenic transfusions.

      Since then, multiple solutions have been developed to avoid exposing patients to these risks.
      It is in this context that was born the "Patient Blood Management" (PBM). Thus, the strategy
      in this PBM has been defined as "the appropriate use of blood and blood components, with the
      aim of minimizing the use of allogeneic transfusions". In this context, particular interest
      has been given to autologous transfusion or autotransfusion or cell salvage.

      The principle of Intra-Operative Cell Salvaged (IOCS) allows intravenous administration of
      the patient's own blood collected at the surgical site or postoperative wound during
      hemorrhagic surgery. It is used mainly in cardiac, vascular, transplant and elective
      orthopedic surgeries and tends to spread to other surgeries such as neurosurgery, obstetrics
      and urology.The IOCS has multiple benefits, primarily autologous (the patient gets his own
      blood), immediate availability in the operating room, reduced costs of patient care, and the
      recycling of otherwise lost blood products. It is part of blood saving techniques that avoid
      the use of homologous blood. Indeed, the general purpose of IOCS is to reduce (or even stop)
      the use of allogeneic products and to reduce the risks associated with the ABO compatibility
      system, as well as all the adverse effects associated with allogeneic plasma and platelet
      transfusions

      Most autotransfusers available on the market operate by centrifugation. Autotransfusion is
      already a solution in Patient Blood Management and its efficiency and safety have already
      been optimized. However, there is still a need to improve the quality of the treated blood
      with an easier-to-use device that could improve the quality of the blood concentrate.

      Indeed, with the current devices, it may happen that the use of allogeneic transfusions,
      plasma and platelets transfusions, is necessary in addition to autologous red blood cells
      thus reducing the interest of autotransfusion.

      It is in this context that i-SEP has developed a new autotransfusion device based on a
      filtration method. Unlike competing devices, the i-SEP device allows the concentration of not
      only red blood cells (as competitive devices) but also platelets.

      In this study, the i-SEP device is used in typical clinical applications of autotransfusion:
      cardiovascular and orthopedic surgeries, where there is a risk of hemorrhage and/or blood
      loss for example ≥ 500mL in cardiac surgery and ≥ 300mL in orthopedic surgery.

      The study includes a screening phase (≤ 21Days), surgery phase when the i-SEP device is used
      (Day 0), a post-surgery phase (Day 1 - Day 6), a first follow-up visit (Day 7 ± 3) and a
      second follow-up visit (Day 30 ± 7).
    
  