
    
      Sph of Oddi consists of a circular inner muscle layer and a longitudinal outer muscle layer.
      The circular layer does not depend on the duodenum. The longitudinal layer passes from the
      wall of the duodenum and separates ascending and descending parts superimposing over its
      circular layer. The arrangement of these layers towards each others is constant. Mostly ERCP
      complications are caused by the interventions in major papilla and remain at a high level of
      frequency up to 23 % Cutting all the layers of duodenum leads to bleeding up to 3 %. The
      perforation might happened up to 1 % Destruction of the opening mechanism after
      sphincterotomy leads to develop of reflux cholangitis, acute cholecystitis. It is possible to
      avoid further cholecystectomy only in 10% of patients. Incapability of performing the
      retrograde sphincterotomy in patients with extended papillary stenosis led to the creation of
      a new method - ASD. Retrograde and antegrade sphincterotomies are analysed. 750 patients
      underwent ASD within 7 years 65 % in urgent cases . Relative risk of complication after ASD
      performing 3 times less. Taking into consideration possible post-ASD inner edema, plastic
      biliary/pancreatic stent(s) are required during 5-10 days after. Standard methods for post
      ERCP pancreatitis prevention must be applied in all cases. The new method performed some
      selective. First of all young patient with alone stone in the common bile duct, women after
      after childbirth. secondly, elderly patient were cured by ASD. And as well as a group of
      patients with severe comorbid diseases, such as renal failure, acute myocardial infarction.
      In our research, in two patients with AIDS was performed ASD. They were on special treatment
      after being diagnosed with HIV-infection, within 2 years. It was SSC. Papillary stenosis and
      cholangiolithiasis were cured successfully. The use of ASD with preservation of the closure
      function of the sph. Oddi allowed to avoid cholecystectomy in 71.2%. ASD can be performed new
      design of sphincterotome. It takes into account the anatomical structure of sph. Oddi and is
      recommended as an alternative to standard sphincterotomy, balloon dilatation and drainage
      interventions (RR 0,55 [95%CI 0,18 to 1,67]. ASD must be performed by an endoscopist with
      experience in transpapillary intervention.
    
  