
    
      Periodontal diseases (PD) are highly prevalent chronic diseases, and may be associated with
      loss of gum and bone tissue surrounding the tooth. Among adults (with 2 or more teeth
      remaining) in England, 54% experienced gum bleeding and 45% had periodontal (gum) disease of
      which 9% was severe. Bacterial in origin, the high prevalence of PD, together with increased
      retention of teeth at older ages, has considerable implications for the population's future
      treatment needs and the associated costs to the health system. It is therefore important to
      ensure interventions delivered are those proven to be most efficient and cost effective. The
      investigators study question will therefore be, "In an adult population with moderate to
      severe chronic periodontitis, how will 3 different treatment approaches; simplified papilla
      preservation flap (SPPF), resective periodontal flap with osseous recontouring (RPFO) and
      subgingival debridement (SD), differ in regard to healing and resolution of disease, patient
      reported outcomes and cost effectiveness?" The aim of this study is to find the most
      efficient way to treat chronic periodontitis, through a multi-centre randomised,
      single-blind, parallel- surgical modalities groups (3 groups) clinical trial including 3
      sites:: 1. QMUL Institute of Dentistry, Centre for Oral Clinical Research (COCR) as the new
      sponsor and coordinating centre including overarching custodian responsibilities for samples
      and data collected. 2. Barts Health NHS Trust Dental Hospital where the trial different
      surgical modalities will take place going forward for all new patients recruited. 3. UCL
      Eastman Dental Institute where patients already recruited and completed the trial surgical
      phase will complete their follow up.

      A sufficient number of adults (29 per group) presenting; a total of 87 patients with chronic
      periodontitis and meeting the necessary inclusion and exclusion criteria will be entered into
      the trial. Subjects will present to the clinical site for initial screening and enrolment
      (Baseline Visit). Following enrolment, all participants will attend one visit as preparation
      for the subsequent study treatments. As part of this session, participants will review how to
      perform efficient self-care regimes at home to remove plaque biofilm accumulations on a
      regular basis. At this appointment, they will be randomised to their assigned treatment group
      and the pending treatment will be discussed with them. Treatment groups will consist of
      simplified papilla preservation flap (SPPF), resective periodontal flap surgery with osseous
      recontouring (RPFO), or non-surgical subgingival debridement with local anaesthesia (SD).
      Treatment will take place within 4 weeks of this preparation visit. Participants will then
      attend for follow-up visits at 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks post treatment for evaluation of healing,
      reinforcement of oral hygiene regime, and supra-gingival scale and polish as required.
      Clinical measurements will be recorded again at 3, 6 and 12 months post treatment.
      Radiographs will be taken at baseline, and 12 months post treatment. A saliva and plaque
      sample will be taken at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months post treatment. GCF will be taken at
      baseline, 2 weeks and 3 months post treatment. Patient reported outcomes will be evaluated at
      baseline, 1 week, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months post treatment. Use of NHS and private dental and
      health services will be collected via self-reported patient diaries distributed at the first
      intervention appointment, and 3, 6 and 9 months post intervention. Supportive periodontal
      maintenance visits will be carried out every 3 months for the duration of the study to
      maintain optimal oral health through monitoring of oral hygiene routine and supra and
      subgingival scaling and polish as required. A dental prophylaxis will be performed at the end
      of the study and the study termination form will be completed.
    
  