
    
      Objectives

      Simulation paradigms can induce plastic changes in brain excitability. Paired associative
      stimulation (PAS) with an interstimulus interval of 25 ms (PAS25) induces a long-term
      potentiation (LTP)-like effect while that at an interval of 10 ms (PAS10) induces a long-term
      depression (LTD)-like effect. The LTP-like effect induced by PAS25 is exaggerated in patients
      with focal dystonia. The LTD-like effect with PAS10 is also increased in focal dystonia but
      not in the target area of PAS. Depotentiation refers to the reversal of LTP by which LTP is
      abolished by a following procedure that has no effect when it is given alone. Brain-derived
      neurotrophic factor has a variety of roles in modulating both LTP and LTD. The Val66Met
      single nucleotide polymorphism is related to abnormal cortical plasticity. In this protocol,
      we propose a study to test the hypothesis that depotentiation is weaker in focal dystonia
      patients compared to healthy controls. In addition, motor cortical inhibition is decreased in
      focal dystonia. We will test the changes in motor cortical inhibition following different
      interventional procedures in focal dystonia. We will also test the relationship between
      depotentiation and LTP/LTD-like effects in focal dystonia patients.

      Study population

      We intend to study up to 20 patients with focal dystonia and 20 age-matched healthy
      volunteers. Subjects will complete up to 3 study visits involving 3 different interventional
      procedures. Various outcome measures will be performed during each study visit.

      Design

      This is a hypothesis-driven study. We will compare the depotentiation effect in patients with
      focal dystonia to that in healthy volunteers. Patients will be evaluated with a clinical
      rating scale during the screening visit. Three interventional procedures will be tested
      during three study visits. Specifically, PAS25-cTBS150 tests the primary hypothesis with a
      depotentiation effect. PAS25 tests LTP-like effect and PAS10 tests the LTD-like effect. We
      will investigate the difference in outcome measures between patients and healthy volunteers
      after the interventional procedures. We will perform genetic tests to identify the
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor genotype in the patients and healthy volunteers.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure is motor-evoked potential (MEP) induced by transcranial magnetic
      stimulation immediately after the interventional procedure of PAS25-cTBS150. We will compare
      MEP amplitude in patients with that in healthy volunteers to identify whether depotentiation
      is weaker in focal dystonia. The secondary outcome measures are MEP amplitudes at other time
      points after the PAS25-cTBS150 procedure. We will also perform exploratory studies to
      investigate the effects of interventional procedures of PAS25 and PAS10 alone. We will test
      the relationship between depotentiation and LTP/LTD-like effects in focal dystonia. We will
      also study other exploratory outcome measures such as: resting and active motor threshold,
      MEP recruitment curve, excitability of motor cortical circuits (short- and long-interval
      intracortical inhibition, and intracortical facilitation) after three different
      interventional procedures.
    
  