
    
      The research was submitted to the Local Research Ethics Committee and approved by the number
      734.500.

      Were included 51 employees from the packing and cutting room sectors. The workers were
      allocated to Novato and Experienced workers groups. The inclusion criteria for the Novato
      workers group were to be newly hired (1 to 2 days in the company) and not have previous
      experience in a poultry processing industry, or butcher's shop. It is to ensure that they did
      not have prior knowledge of the activity. In the case of the group of experienced workers.

      The exclusion criteria were they worked on the task for more than six months and not be
      absent during the study period (scheduled vacations). Workers who had already received
      ergonomic training, such as general guidelines and postural adjustments, as well as pregnant
      women and people with disabilities were excluded.

      Outcomes measure

        1. Musculoskeletal Complains and Pain Intensity The Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire
           was used to investigate the presence of musculoskeletal symptoms in the last month,
           using dichotomous responses (yes or no) The visual analogue pain scale evaluated the
           intensity of symptoms indicating "absence of pain" (0) on one side and the opposite side
           "unbearable pain" (10 cm) (Carlsson 1982). The QNSO and pain scale were applied in both
           groups at the baseline, and after 2 months of the ergonomic training program.

        2. Biomechanical Exposure Analysis The analysis of occupational biomechanical exposure
           occurred through a Poultry processing Check list (PPChecklist) created for the study.
           The PPChecklist evaluation criteria were based on observational methods for
           biomechanical exposure analysis, such as the Rapid Upper Limb Assessment (RULA) and
           Strain Index and the Checklist for Musculoskeletal Risk Assessment (RARME).

           The analyzes of the video tasks of each worker for the application of the PPChecklist
           was performed by two independent evaluators (MSD and DPV) with experience in Worker's
           Health and Ergonomics. The results obtained with the analysis of the biomechanical
           exposure of each segment (cervical, shoulder, forearm, wrist, hand and spine) were added
           to obtain a general task risk score for each worker with a variation of the score
           between 0 -19 points. The higher the score, the greater the biomechanical exposure of
           the workers.

        3. Perceived effort and Training Perception The effort perceived by workers in pre-training
           was evaluated by Borg scale ranges from zero (rest / effortless perceived) to ten (very,
           very heavy / too much, too much effort).

      To evaluate the self-perception of the ease / difficulty of following the training guidelines
      was created a questionnaire.
    
  