
    
      The primary objective of the present study is to evaluate the efficacy of hypnosis as an
      adjunct to the standard of care pain management program on postoperative pain compared to the
      standard ERAS program. Our hypothesis is that hypnosis, as part of a multi-modal analgesic
      management plan, will lead to decreased levels of pain compared to standard of care.

      A secondary hypothesis is that better controlled pain will lead to enhanced recovery, in
      terms of post-operative incidence of complications, physical comfort and independence,
      psychological and emotional state and length of stay.

      This study is an open label randomized controlled trial with two arms, comparing hypnosis as
      adjunctive therapy vs. standard of care. It is a monocentric study and will take place at
      Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois (CHUV), a teaching hospital in Lausanne,
      Switzerland. It represents a collaboration between the Service of Visceral Surgery and the
      Center of Integrative and Complementary Medicine.

      Participants will be recruited before a planned surgery, as well as in the post-surgical
      setting. They will be screened by the study team to ensure they fulfil the inclusion
      criteria. If eligible and after informed consent is obtained, an assessment of the cognitive
      function will be performed (cf. Chapter 4: study population). All included participants will
      then be randomized in a 2:1 proportion to the "Hypnosis (H)" group or the "Standard of Care
      (SOC)" group.

      After major abdominal surgery, all participants will benefit from a standard ERAS recovery
      program. The ERAS protocol involves multimodal pain management with medications,
      interventional pain therapy as needed, and psychological support if needed.

      Relevance:

      Acute pain has a major impact on LOS after surgery due to delayed recovery and opioid side
      effects. Furthermore, acute pain represents a risk for chronic pain, with its massive impact
      on quality of life and function. Interest is growing for non-pharmacological interventions as
      part of a multimodal approach for acute pain management. Hypnosis could be a low risk,
      cost-effective complementary therapy to improve patients' pain management, with possible
      impact on recovery and eventually a reduction of the length of hospital stay after surgery.
      If hypnosis is demonstrated to be an effective way to improve post-operative pain management
      in fragile patients undergoing massive abdominal surgery, then this therapy could be offered
      more broadly as adjunction to the actual standard of care in our teaching hospital.

      Furthermore, the Department of Visceral Surgery at CHUV is a teaching ward, accredited by the
      ERAS society. Therefore, results may be used to improve patient care within the ERAS society
      more broadly.
    
  