
    
      Acquired brain injuries can lead to permanent physical, cognitive and psycho-social deficits.
      One of the primary objectives of rehabilitation in these patients is to recover the ability
      to walk, which is usually feasible in most patients, even in those with severe brain
      injuries.

      Recent experiences have shown that the use of rehabilitative programs that include
      traditional physiotherapy in combination with robotic walking training systems (robotic-aided
      gait training - RAGT, Lokomat) are effective in improving the performance of pediatric
      patients with acquired brain injuries. Thanks to the partial or total support of the
      patient's weight and the robotic guidance that facilitates a physiological gait pattern,
      these systems allow intensive and reproducible training which, by stimulating brain
      neuroplasticity, can increase the chances of recovery. Alterations of strength, coordination,
      balance associated with structural changes of muscular tissue (e.g. atrophy, fibrosis,
      adipose substitution) are frequent and may, on the other hand, compromise the effectiveness
      of rehabilitation treatments.

      There are currently no literature data regarding local effects on muscle tissue of such
      treatments in the pediatric population; in particular, it has not yet been documented how the
      muscle responds to the robotic treatment and whether it is possible to identify local indices
      able to correlate with the degree of performance and improvement of each patient. Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) can be a useful tool for in-vivo measurement of the effects of these
      treatments on muscle tissue and provide clinical indications for a better optimization of
      rehabilitative programs, based on the extent of damage and the characteristics of the muscle.

      A complete evaluation of the effects of rehabilitative programs with RAGT, both in terms of
      mechanical-functional data (kinematics, muscular metabolism) and structural data through MRI,
      and the subsequent correlation of these parameters with clinical scales measuring motor
      skills, is not currently described in the literature. It could instead prove to be very
      useful both for prognostic purposes and for a better understanding of the local mechanisms of
      muscle tissue response to rehabilitative treatments, favoring an identification of the best
      rehabilitation plan targeted for each specific patient and thus increasing the chances of
      functional recovery.

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. To characterize, in subjects with acquired cerebral lesions, the effects of intensive
           rehabilitative programs with RAGT, in terms of kinematics, activation and muscle
           metabolism;

        2. To document, in subjects with acquired cerebral lesions, the effects of intensive
           rehabilitative programs with RAGT on muscular structure through advanced and
           quantitative MRI methods;

        3. Correlate functional and muscle imaging data with clinical parameters related to
           patient's motor skills and with the type of treatment performed.
    
  