
    
      Bleeding under cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is one of the most common complications in
      patients undergoing pediatric cardiac surgery. The inflammatory response produced during and
      after CPB is a factor that adds significantly to the morbidity after cardiac surgery. A
      number of factors have been shown to be involved inducing the inflammatory response. These
      include complement system activation3 and activation of inflammatory cytokines, especially
      IL-1 IL-64, IL-8 and TNF alpha.

      Tranexamic Acid (TXA) and Epsilon-Aminocaproic Acid (EACA) are lysine analogues frequently
      used as anti-fibrinolytic agents in patients undergoing CPB. Many authors have highlighted
      the role of TXA in reducing blood loss and blood transfusion during and after CPB. Role of
      EACA and aprotinin in decreasing pro-inflammatory response during and after CPB has been well
      documented in adult literature. Patients undergoing redo sternotomy have higher inflammatory
      response as compared to patients undergoing first cardiac surgery. It has also been shown
      that the TXA can reduce the inflammatory response after CPB by acting directly or indirectly
      on the inflammatory cytokines.

      There are no studies directly comparing the anti-inflammatory properties of EACA and TXA in
      the pediatric population undergoing CPB. In our institution, EACA is used as the standard of
      practice to reduce the blood loss during pediatric cardiac surgeries, but the investigators
      have now started using TXA more recently.

      The aim of this study is to compare the anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrinolytic properties of
      these two anti-fibrinolytic agents in pediatric patients undergoing CBP for cardiac surgery.

      Hypothesis: Tranexamic acid (TXA) has better anti-inflammatory profile as compared to €-Amino
      Caproic Acid (EACA) which may help in reducing blood loss, renal injury, hepatic injury and
      blood transfusion during and after CPB

      Specific Objectives: During redo sternotomy procedures there is significant anti-inflammatory
      response which occurs and plays a role in increasing amount chest tube output, blood loss,
      renal injury, hepatic injury and ultimately patient morbidity and/or mortality. The proposed
      study will help to know if antifibrinolytic agents are beneficial in reducing the
      anti-inflammatory response produced and which of the two drugs (EACA or TXA), has a better
      anti-inflammatory profile when used in a similar setting for patients undergoing pediatric
      cardiothoracic surgery.

      Specific Aims:

      Evaluate whether TXA or EACA can decrease inflammatory response produced during redo
      sternotomy procedures in pediatric patients and which drug decreases the injury and/or
      cardiac dysfunction more as reflected by fluid balances, inotropic support, diuretic
      requirement, length of ventilator support, length of ICU stay, and length of hospital stay.
    
  