
    
      For the hydromorphone challenge testing, subjects were randomized and assigned to 1 of 6
      sequences during each week of hydromorphone challenge sessions.

      On Day -18, subjects who met initial eligibility criteria were admitted to the clinical
      facility for the baseline hydromorphone challenge. If the subject had acceptable
      hydromorphone responses to the hydromorphone challenge, they remained confined to the
      clinical facility for induction on SUBOXONE sublingual film. Once it was confirmed that a
      subject was experiencing opioid withdrawal, as evidenced by a Clinical Opiate Withdrawal
      Scale (COWS) score greater than 12, the subject was inducted on SUBOXONE sublingual film.
      Multiple doses were allowed while subjects were reaching a stable dose until Day -9 when
      subjects were stabilized on a dose of SUBOXONE 8 mg - 24 mg. SUBOXONE sublingual film was
      administered daily at approximately the same time of day (± 1 hour) once the dose was
      stabilised. There was a hydromorphone challenge conducted on days -3 to -1. The last day of
      SUBOXONE dosing was day -1.

      On Day 1, participants who met all inclusion/exclusion criteria and dosing criteria stopped
      receiving SUBOXONE sublingual film and received Injection 1 of RBP-6000 containing 300 mg
      buprenorphine. Participants returned in the evening of Days 4, 11, 18, and 25 to begin
      inpatient stays of 3 consecutive days (starting with Days 4-7 [and equivalent for subsequent
      weeks]). During these inpatient visits, subjects underwent randomised hydromorphone
      challenges, PK sample collection, Reinforcing Effects Tasks, and safety assessments.

      On Day 29, participants received the second injection of RBP-6000 containing 300 mg
      buprenorphine (Injection 2). Participants returned in the evening on Days 32, 39, 46, 53, 60,
      67, 74, and 81 to begin inpatient states of 3 consecutive days (starting with days 32-35 [and
      equivalent for subsequent weeks]). During these inpatient visits, subjects underwent
      randomised hydromorphone challenges, pharmacokinetic (PK) samples collection, Reinforcing
      Effects Tasks, and safety assessments. A window of ± 1 day was allowed for all visits, except
      the Day 53-56 visit, which was required by the protocol to be completed on those days.
    
  