
    
      Unifuzol, solution for infusions,("NTFF POLYSAN" Ltd., Russia) contains succinic acid and
      arginine as active ingredients; it has demonstrated cardioprotective, anti-ischemic,
      endothelial protective and fibrinolytic activity in pre-clinical studies and is considered
      for clinical trials in peripheral vascular disease.

      The primary aim of the present Phase I study is to assess safety and tolerability of Unifusol
      (1.4% solution for infusions) at different infusion rates in healthy volunteers.

      Study objectives:

        1. Assess the safety parameters (vital signs, the incidence of AEs, SAEs, laboratory
           abnormalities) during infusion of Unifusol (1.4% solution for infusions) in healthy
           volunteers at different infusion rates.

             -  administration of a single infusion of 250 ml at a rate of 3 ml / min.

             -  administration of a single infusion of 250 ml at a rate of 4.5 ml / min

             -  administration of a single infusion of 500 ml at a rate of 4.5 ml / min

        2. Study the pharmacokinetics parameters of the active components of the Unifusol (succinic
           acid and arginine) in healthy volunteers after single infusion at a dose of 250 ml at a
           rate of 4.5 ml / min.

      Study methods:

        1. Determination of pharmacokinetic parameters of succinic acid administered at a single
           Unifusol infusion dose 250 ml at a rate of 4.5 ml / min (AUC, Cmax, Tmax, T1 / 2);

        2. Determination of pharmacokinetic parameters of arginine after a single Unifusol infusion
           at a dose 250 ml at a rate of 4.5 ml / min (AUC, Cmax, Tmax, T1 / 2);

        3. Determination of individual variations of the pharmacokinetic parameters of succinic
           acid and arginine in healthy volunteers;

        4. Identification of significant gender differences in the pharmacokinetics of the active
           ingredients of Unifusol (succinic acid and arginine) in healthy volunteers;

        5. Determination of the number of compartments in the pharmacokinetic model which will be
           most appropriate to the measured concentrations after a single infusion (single-chamber,
           two-chamber or three-chamber pharmacokinetic model).
    
  