
    
      Unilateral neglect (neglect) is common after stroke and is characterized by an inattention to
      one side of the body or environment. There is growing evidence that disconnections to
      fronto-parietal neural networks in the lesioned hemisphere not only cause neglect, but also
      cause these same networks to be hyperexcited in the non-lesioned hemisphere. Individuals with
      neglect typically experience motor impairments also since the regions of the brain that
      control attention also control movement.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) when paired with repetitive task-specific
      practice (RTP) has the potential to modulate cortical activity (fronto-parietal networks) and
      facilitate motor and attentional recovery for individuals with neglect since tDCS can
      modulate the excitability of targeted cortical regions. tDCS is a form on non-invasive brain
      stimulation and RTP is the gold standard post-stroke motor recovery intervention.

      It is particularly important investigators examine the effect of RTP + tDCS on cortical
      modulation in order to understand the underlying mechanism of the intervention and determine
      whether RTP+ tDCS (parietal or primary motor cortex [M1]) promotes greater neural modulation
      than RTP alone. Traditionally, electrodes are placed on M1 to facilitate motor recovery and
      on the parietal lobe to facilitate attentional recovery, however this intervention is
      designed to target each of these impairments (motor, attention) and enhance cortical
      modulation of fronto-parietal networks. Therefore, investigators must also determine the
      optimal electrode montage and placement for pairing tDCS with RTP for individuals with
      neglect.

      The purpose of the proposed pilot project is to examine the effects of transcranial direct
      current stimulation (tDCS) paired with repetitive task-specific practice (RTP) on modulation
      of fronto-parietal network connectivity (measured by transcranial magnetic stimulation
      [TMS]), motor impairment (measured with kinematic assessment), and attentional impairment
      (measured with Behavioral Inattention Test) among individuals with unilateral neglect and
      hemiparesis post stroke. This three day cross-over design study will examine the optimal
      electrode placement and montage using 3 conditions: (1) tDCS to parietal lobe + RTP (2) tDCS
      to primary motor cortex + RTP (3) sham tDCS + RTP.
    
  