
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Decreased ovarian function and premenopausal obesity are likely the primary determinants of
      early coronary atherosclerosis as measured by calcification on EBCT. Aortic calcification
      occurs earlier than coronary calcification, may predict coronary calcification, and is
      expected to be the best marker of risk associated with traditional factors in these younger
      women. Preliminary data indicate that changes in coronary and aortic calcification can be
      observed over short periods of time in these women. A period of diminishing estrogen levels
      is the optimum time to observe changes in endothelial function which likely precede
      measurable atherosclerosis and thus may be the earliest markers for disease potential.
      Vascular stiffness, a marker for the biologic aging of the vascular system, is highly
      correlated with measures of insulin sensitivity which is altered in women at mid-life in
      conjunction with increases in central adiposity. Racial differences in disease prevalence and
      the relative importance of certain risk factors are likely.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Subclinical atherosclerosis will be evaluated in 728 women (305 African American, 423
      Caucasian) enrolled in the Pittsburgh and Chicago sites of the Study of Women's Health Across
      the Nation (SWAN), a multicenter study characterizing the biological and psychosocial
      antecedents and sequellae of menopause. The extent to which diminishing ovarian function
      affects vascular function and accelerates the development of atherosclerosis in the coronary
      arteries, aorta and carotid arteries will be evaluated. Serial measures of coronary and
      aortic calcification (by electron beam computed tomography [EBCT] ), carotid atherosclerosis,
      endothelial function and aortic stiffening will be performed two years apart. The prevalence
      and progression of subclinical atherosclerosis will be evaluated in relation to serial
      measures of ovarian function, psychosocial and behavioral factors, markers of clotting and
      inflammation as well as traditional cardiovascular risk factors, all collected in SWAN. The
      study is conducted jointly by Dr. Lynda Powell (R01HL65581) at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's
      Medical Center in Chicago and Dr. Kim Tyrrell (R01HL65591) at the University of Pittsburgh.
    
  