
    
      Presurgical management will follow the standard of care and patients with active urinary
      tract infections will be treated prior to kidney stone surgery. After the informed consent
      process, the subject will be asked to complete the Wisconsin Stone Quality of Life Index
      (WISQOL), an externally validated and internally consistent questionnaire designed
      specifically for kidney stones patients. All patients should receive a computerized
      tomography (CT) scan prior to their procedure as standard of care for assessment of stone
      burden and access planning. This preoperative imaging will be assessed and scored using the
      standardized STONE scoring system, which has been validated for predicting treatment success
      and perioperative complications following PCNL.

      Prior to their procedure patients will be randomized to receive one of the two interventions
      outlined above, only study subjects will be blinded to the randomization. Randomization will
      be conducted centrally for each site to ensure balance of PCNL and mini-PCNL using the
      CCF-Redcap randomization module to ensure proper randomization between sites. Randomization
      can occur at any time after enrollment prior to surgery. Study subjects will be selected from
      a patient pool where PCNL or mini-PCNL would be considered equally viable alternative
      Standard of Care procedures for treatment of kidney stone disease, with neither procedure
      presenting any benefit over the other. The randomization of procedure for this pool of study
      subjects was to guarantee that an equal number of both procedures were performed in the trial
      throughout all centers.

      Patients choosing to participate in this research study will not be informed of which
      procedure they received to minimize any bias regarding postoperative pain and quality of life
      scores. No changes to the disclosure process will be made for any other variations or
      complications during their procedure outside of the research study interventions. Due to the
      time between the initial surgical procedure and postoperative follow-up visit there is a risk
      of unintentional unblinding by other providers involved with the care of study patients and
      access to their medical records. As such patients will be asked at the time of their
      follow-up visit if they remained blinded to their procedure type. Whenever possible patients
      should remain blinded but unblinding is not an exclusion criterion as the primary endpoint,
      change in hemoglobin, should not be affected by this knowledge.

      A pre-operative complete blood count and basic metabolic panel will be obtained. Two
      endoscopic stone procedure types will be investigated in this study. The first, a standard
      percutaneous nephrolithotomy (sPCNL)- performed using a 30 Fr access sheath following balloon
      dilation. The second, a mini percutaneous nephrolithotomy (mPCNL)- performed using an 18 Fr
      access sheath following either balloon dilation or dilation using a single step metal
      dilator. Both procedures will be performed under general anesthesia with the patient in prone
      position. Access technique (triangulation method, ultrasound guided, or endoscopically
      guided) will be at the discretion of the attending surgeon. Stone lithotripter type
      (pneumatic, ultrasonic, or laser) and retrieval method (basket, forceps) will similarly be at
      the discretion of the urologist. Placement of ureteral stents will be left up to the
      discretion of the surgeon. Placement of nephrostomy tubes will be recorded as a protocol
      deviation and the indication for placement recorded. Whenever possible a single access tract
      will be used for the procedure and if multiple access sites are required it will be recorded
      as a protocol deviation. Following completion of the procedure and closure of the access
      tract, pressure will be applied to the surgical site for one minute. Patients with plans for
      a staged bilateral PCNL should only be enrolled for their first operation and should complete
      the quality-of-life questionnaire and imaging requirements described below prior to their
      second procedure.

      Renal pelvis pressure monitoring is not part of the standard of care and is included as an
      outcome for research purposes only. There is no additional risk to the patient when
      monitoring this pressure and patients will be informed of this during the informed consent
      process.

      Using a flexible cystoscope, a 5 Fr open-ended ureteral catheter will be positioned in the
      ureteropelvic junction for recording renal pelvis pressures. Following placement, the
      catheter will be secured and attached to arterial line pressure transducer positioned at the
      level of the kidney and connected to an invasive blood pressure (IBP) port. The arterial line
      pressure transducer will be fixed to IV pole at the level of the kidney and adjusted during
      the case if the patient bed is repositioned during the case. Transducer tubing should be
      flushed with normal saline to remove any air and pressure should be zeroed without any
      pressure being applied to the surgical site. Pressure monitoring and zeroing should be
      established after obtaining access but prior to active stone fragmentation or extraction and
      continue until closure of the access tract.

      Continuous data monitoring and recording will be achieved via attaching the IBP port either
      on a portable vital signs monitor or the main anesthesia monitoring system. Data points
      should be recorded continuously whenever possible. Data will be either extracted manually
      from the portable monitor or automatically through the anesthesia monitoring system. Analysis
      of these data points to determine the mean RPP, time above >30mmHg, and maximum RPP can be
      conducted at the individual sites and included as part of their data set transfer or
      deidentified data sets can be sent to CCF for analysis of those endpoints.

      Post-operatively, patients will be admitted to the hospital and monitored per usual clinical
      procedure. A complete blood count will be obtained on postoperative day 0, preferably in
      recovery, and on postoperative day 1. A basic metabolic panel will also be obtained prior to
      discharge. Further laboratory tests will be dictated by the patients' clinical status and
      length of stay. If patient length of stay exceeds one day the final complete blood count
      prior to discharge will also be recorded.

      Along with their standard postoperative day 1 labs, an additional red topped tube (4-10ml)
      for IL-6 and procalcitonin will also be collected. This sample will need to be processed with
      several hours of collection using a centrifuge and the serum aliquots placed in cryovials
      prior to freezing. Individual research sites will be responsible for the lab draw, centrifuge
      process, freezing, and shipping of IL-6 and procalcitonin serum samples. These may be stored
      on site and shipped in bulk periodically or upon conclusion of patient enrollment per the
      preference of the study coordinator at each site. All these samples will be analyzed in bulk
      at the conclusion of the recruitment period.

      Since higher irrigating pressures during PCNL have been linked to higher rates of the
      systemic inflammatory response (SIRS) this will also be included as a secondary endpoint. The
      criteria for SIRS will be defined as any two of the following conditions: heart rate >90
      beats per minute, respiratory rate >20 respirations per minute, serum white blood cell count
      greater than 12,000/high power field or less than 4,000/high power field and temperature
      >38.0 ⁰C or <36.0 ⁰C.

      Postoperative complications will be classified using the Clavien-Dindo system which has been
      modified for use following percutaneous nephrolithotomy. Standard of care procedures will be
      followed for patients requiring postoperative blood transfusions. Postoperative pain
      management will be left up to the discretion of the attending surgeon. The patient will be
      discharged from the hospital per the usual clinical protocols with a planned clinic visit
      between 4 and 6 weeks after surgery. In the interval following surgery readmissions, ED
      visits, and reoperations for study patients should be recorded.

      As part of the standard of care for PCNL patients, both a renal ultrasound and a kidney,
      ureter, and bladder x-ray study obtained between 4 and 6 weeks postoperatively. Imaging will
      be reviewed by a blinded radiologist for assessment of stone free rate, defined as no visible
      stone fragments on either imaging set. Any discrepancies between ultrasound and x-ray
      modalities will be resolved with a follow-up CT scan.

      If a patient receives a postoperative CT scan for another indication, this scan will take the
      place of the KUB and U/S for determining stone free rate. Additional data points such as
      parenchymal thickness at target calyx will for also be assessed for swelling/fluid
      accumulation.

      The WISQL questionnaire, the same administered following initial consent, will be given at
      the 4-6 week follow-up visit to track any differences in quality of life between the two
      procedures. The WISQOL questionnaire specifically asks for the patients to provide answer
      statements that reflect their quality of life over the past four weeks. For the purposes of
      the second instance of the questionnaire, study subjects will be instructed to answer with
      respect to their symptoms since their procedure, to encompass patients who may have their
      follow-up visit scheduled more than four weeks from their procedure date.

      The timeline for study subject participation and the required tests is presented below.

      Procedures Preoperative POD0 POD1 Weeks 4-6 Informed consent X CT Scan X WISQOL Survey X X
      CBC X X X BMP or CMP X X Randomization X Intraoperative RPP X Serum sample (IL-6 and PCT) X
      KUB and renal U/S X
    
  