
    
      Safety and therapeutic efficacy of Phosphate enema (Kleen Enema速) in patients undergoing
      sigmoidoscopy. Prospective, interventional, single arm study in patients undergoing day care
      sigmoidoscopy for evaluation of efficacy and safety of Kleen Enema速(120ml phosphate enema);
      manufactured by Nabiqasim Industries (Pvt) Ltd, Karachi, Pakistan.

      Methods &Material:

      Study will be conducted in patients undergoing sigmoidoscopy in day care at Dow University of
      Health Sciences, Ojha campus, Karachi. Each subject will receive the single dose of
      investigational drug (phosphate enema 120ml). Objectives of the study

        -  To determine the efficacy of Kleen Enema速 for bowel preparation in out-patients
           undergoing to sigmoidoscopy procedure.

        -  To evaluate the Safety of Kleen Enema速 in outpatients requiring sigmoidoscopy.

      Rationale of the Study:

      This would be helpful to determine the efficacy and safety of investigational product in
      local population.

      Study Condition :

      The study will be conducted in outpatients admitted for day care sigmoidoscopy requiring left
      sided bowel preparation for procedure. Each subject will receive the single dose of
      investigational drug (phosphate enema 120ml). Patient will remain in fasting condition at
      least 6 hours before procedure and half an hour after recovery from sedation; after this
      patient can take normal diet.

      Ethical Considerations:

      The study will be conducted after the approval by an Institutional review board of Dow
      University of Health Sciences, Karachi and in accordance to declaration of Helsinki,
      International Conference of Harmonization - Good Clinical Practices and Pakistan Good
      Clinical Practices guidelines to protect the rights and safety of human subjects as
      participants in the study.

      Duration of study :

      Study duration for primary efficacy end point evaluation will be the time period till
      sigmoidoscopy procedure is completed and patient is discharged from day care. While patient
      will come again for follow-up visit. Whole study will be completed in five months, after
      Institutional Review Board approval.

      Sample Size:

      Investigational drug will be administered to 40 Patients.The data of at least 35 patients
      will be included for efficacy study. While all enrolled patients who receive a single dose of
      study product will be included for safety evaluation.

      Screening procedure Out patients visiting gastroenterology Out Patient Department requiring
      sigmoidoscopy will undergo screening procedure. Medical examination, history, vital signs,
      electrolytes test (Ca, Phosphate, Sodium and potassium levels) and CBC test will be
      performed. However the normal procedure and conditions required for sigmoidoscopy will be
      followed.

      Drug administration Method for rectal enema:

      Study patients should lay on left side with both knees bent, arms at rest.Remove protective
      shield from the enema container. With steady pressure, gently insert enema comfort tip into
      anus with nozzle pointing towards navel. Squeeze bottle until nearly all liquid is expelled.
      Discontinue use if resistance is encountered. Forcing the enema can result in injury.Return
      enema to carton for disposal. Generally, 2 to 5 minutes are sufficient to obtain the desired
      effect maximum to 30 minutes. Study subject may have an urge to evacuate the bowel.

      Confinement :

      After sigmoidoscopy is completed, patients will be monitored in the recovery room of
      endoscopy suite till patients are out of sedative effect.Safety Assessment Health assessment,
      including vital signs, physical examination and clinical laboratory testing (electrolyte test
      and CBC) will be performed at baseline; before sigmoidoscopy and electrolyte will be repeated
      within 10-30 minutes after dosing. Patients will be monitored after drug administration to
      determine any adverse events. Patients are encouraged to report any unusual feeling or
      adverse event to endoscopy research staff or research assistant. Patients will be monitored
      for pruritus, dehydration, nausea,vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, diarrhea,
      gastrointestinal pain and any other adverse
    
  