
    
      Hip OA (OAH) is less frequent than that of the hand and knee OA. One in four people have the
      risk of developing symptomatic OA of the hip.

      Most guidelines for OAQ treatment combine recommendations for the treatment of knee and hip
      OA although OAH has specific etiopathogenic characteristics with its implications for
      individual therapeutic approaches.

      Perhaps the greatest potential for improvement in OAH treatment is to approach the early
      stages of pathology, since total hip arthroplasty was considered to be 20th-century surgery
      with high cost-effectiveness in patients who are not responding to the clinical treatment of
      OA.

      Measures that decrease inflammation and release capsular retraction leading to symptoms of
      pain and restriction of joint amplitude may improve the quality of life of these patients in
      the earliest stages of the disease.

      Joint lavage with saline shows significant relief of pain in patients with knee and hip OA,
      probably by intra-articular removal of debris and factors that cause irritation and
      inflammation. In addition, when the saline solution is injected under pressure, it can
      generate a hydraulic distension of the capsule, increasing the joint amplitude and increasing
      the effect of drugs injected after washing. Injection of corticosteroids (CS) is recognized
      for improving the effects of joint washing, pain and even viscossuplementation.

      In our experience, lavage and infiltration of triamcinolone, lidocaine with or without
      hyaluronic acid led to subjective-functional improvement and range of motion of most patients
      with OAH grades 2 and 3 of Kellgren and Lawrence undergoing the procedure.

      The viscossuplementation of the hip has not yet been established in regard to type, dose,
      indication or frequency, and the number of existing jobs is relatively small in relation to
      those performed on knee osteoarthritis (OAK). Intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid
      (HA) is analgesic and anti-inflammatory in addition to promoting better distribution of
      forces, lowering pressure by weight and recovering the viscoelastic properties of synovial
      fluid, i.e., mechanical effects. Its prolonged effect is explained by the action of
      hyaluronic acid on the CD44 receptors of synoviocytes and by the reduction of activated serum
      T cell levels. In our experience, the addition of hilano to the lavage and injection of
      triamcinolone and local anesthetic led to gains in joint amplitude that were maintained over
      a year.

      Thus, the investigators developed a study to improve the range of motion and the function of
      patients with mild to moderate OA of the hip through lavage with physiological saline and
      hydraulic distension comparing to lavage, hydraulic distension and CS injection, anesthetic
      and a dose of 4mL of G-F20 hilano.
    
  