
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Correlate tumor production of interleukin (IL)-6, serum levels of IL-6, and IL-6 coding
           or promoter single nucleotide polymorphisms with IL-6 protein production in patients
           with ovarian epithelial cancer.

        -  Correlate tumor culture supernatant, ascitic fluid, and/or serum IL-6 level with levels
           of depression and/or anxiety in these patients to determine whether catecholamines or
           cortisol may alter production of IL-6 by cultured ovarian cancer cells.

        -  Determine the effects of neuroendocrine activity on modulation of IL-6 production in
           these patients.

        -  Compare immune response to autologous tumor tissue in "MLR-like" reactions between tumor
           and peripheral blood mononuclear cells in vitro.

        -  Correlate the levels of immunologic response with relapse and/or survival times,
           clinical response to CA 125 antibody treatment (e.g., in a pre- vs post-therapy sampling
           framework), and IL-6 parameters in these patients.

        -  Determine the use of epitope prediction bioinformatic tools in consultation with Coulter
           to set up a major histocompatibility complex (MHC) tetramer assay for assessing
           cytotoxic T lymphocyte levels in peripheral blood from these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of herpes virus infections in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

      Before and after cytoreduction surgery, patients complete multiple questionnaires, including
      Beck Depression Inventory, Positive & Negative Mood State, Fatigue Symptom Inventory, Revised
      NEO Personality Inventory, COPE, SF-36, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory, and Mental
      Adjustment to Cancer, to assess depression and coping mechanisms.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and on postoperative days 1-4 and analyzed for
      interleukin (IL)-6, c-reactive protein, herpes simplex virus-8 (HSV8), epinephrine,
      adrenocorticotropic hormones, and cortisol. Ovarian carcinoma tissue samples and peritoneal
      fluid are also collected and evaluated for production and utilization of IL-6, HSV8, and
      autonomic nervous system and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  