
    
      Healthy individuals, after reading and signing the free and informed consent will be
      submitted to a single session to obtain the normal neurophysiological and behavioral
      endpoints and thus compare with those obtained in individuals with PD. All volunteers
      (healthy and patients) will be submitted to a behavioral and neurophysiological evaluation
      through transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and electroencephalography (EEG).

      The neurophysiological evaluation will be conducted during "ON" (with medication) and "OFF"
      (without medication) period, by transcranial magnetic stimulation by single pulse (EMT-p) and
      by EEG. TMS can perform different measures for the study of cortical excitability. The
      analysis of the motor cortex excitability will be held by: (i) determination of motor
      threshold (ii) the amplitude of the motor evoked potential (MEP). Since the assessment of the
      cortex activity will be held by: (i) power spectrum density (PSD) of all frequencies bands.75
      For evaluation with the TMS (Neurosoft - Russia) volunteers will be instructed to sit in a
      chair and get comfortable position. Initially single TMS stimuli will be administered over
      the motor cortex to determine the cortical representation area of the first dorsal
      interosseous muscle (FDI) - MEP region whose response occurs more intensely observed by
      electromyography. The electrodes with 10 mm diameter should be placed on the belly of the
      target muscle and the reference electrode is placed in the interphalangeal joint of the
      thumb. All care for the acquisition of electromyographic signal will be taken according to
      the criteria of Surface Electromyography for the Non-invasive Assessment of Muscles (SENIAM).

      For the location of the representative FDI muscle cortical region coil with an angle of 45
      degrees is positioned at a distance of 20% of Cz point (according to the international system
      for marking 10-20) bring into the contralateral muscle to be evaluated. For all evaluations
      the same coil is used, the figure-eight angled in order to avoid measurement bias. To assess
      cortical excitability of both hemispheres, the following measures are carried out: resting
      motor threshold (RMT) and motor evoked potentials (MEP).

      For EEG assessment, the electrodes will be positioned on the scalp of the individual,
      according to the international 10-20 marking system, maintained with the maximum impedance of
      10kΩ. During the acquisition of the electroencephalographic signal, a motor imagery and
      execution protocol will be performed, in both upper limbs. The collected data will be further
      processed and analyzed by MATLAB® software for Windows.

      For behavioral assessment the following scales and tests will be performed during "ON" (with
      medication) and "OFF" (without medication) period: Parkinson's disease sleep scale; Geriatric
      Depression Scale; Edinburgh Handedness Inventory; International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire; Timed up and go test; Berg Balance Scale; Unified Parkinson's disease Rating
      Scale sessions II and III.
    
  