
    
      Little research exists about risk factors for neck pain in adolescents and young adults.
      Knowledge of risk factors associated with development of neck pain can inform practice and
      can further enable preventive initiatives with the aim of reducing this prevalent and costly
      disorder. By investigating risk profiles as well as single risk factors, it might be possible
      to identify behavioural patterns and profiles of adolescent most at risk of developing neck
      pain in young adulthood.

      The objective of this study is to investigate potential risk factors and risk profiles for
      persistent neck pain in adolescence.

      This is a prospective cohort study using data from The North Trøndelag Health study (HUNT).
      The HUNT study is a large population survey conducted in the North Trøndelag County in
      Norway, consisting of four surveys conducted with 11 years intervals. All inhabitants above
      13 years old were invited to participate in either Young HUNT (13-19 years of age) or HUNT
      (20 years and above).

      In this cohort study, data from Young HUNT 3 (2006-2008) and HUNT 4 (2017-2019) will be used
      to investigate participants from adolescence through young adulthood. The HUNT3 assessment
      was conducted during school hours, and the students had to answer a comprehensive
      questionnaire regarding biological, psychological and social factors. In addition, height and
      weight were measured. For participants not attending school, the questionnaire was sent to
      their home address, and participants were invited to do the physical measurements in a local
      field station.The same participants were followed up 11 years later (HUNT4). The participants
      were sent an invitation letter home and asked to fulfill a questionnaire.

      Potential risk factors (from HUNT3):

      Gender, body mass index, pain in other body regions, number of pain sites, sleeping problems,
      physical activity level, depression and anxiety, self esteem, resilience, loneliness and
      family economy.

      Statistical analysis:

      All statistical analyses will be conducted using IBM SPSS statistics for Windows version 25
      and STATA statistical software system version 15. All statistical test will be two sided and
      the nominal p-value will be reported. 95% confidence intervals will be reported. Preliminary
      analyses of frequencies, missing data and normality will be conducted. The assumption of
      normal distribution will be investigated using histograms and QQ-plots.

      Missing data:

      Participants with missing data on the main outcome will be excluded from the analyses.
      Missing data on exposure variables will be handled by a model-based imputation (multiple
      imputation), unless the missing exceeds 20% and missing at random can be assumed. Exposure
      variables with more than 20% missing data will be excluded.

      Multicollinearity:

      Before conducting regression analyses, multicollinearity between the independent variables
      will be assessed. If independent variables correlates with a coefficient of stronger than
      0.7, the risk factor that have the highest correlation with the outcome will be used in the
      multivariate analysis.

      Logistic regression:

      The potential risk factors listed above will individually be analysed in univariate models
      with persistent neck pain as the dependent variables. Variables with a p-value of ≤ 0.10 in
      univariate analysis will be included in multivariate analyses. Variables with a p-value of ≤
      0.05 will remain in the multivariate model, and the remaining variables no longer be
      statistically relevant will be removed from the final model. The results will be reported as
      odds ratios (OR) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% CI).

      Risk Matrices:

      To identify risk profiles for persistent neck pain, risk matrices will be developed. The odds
      computed in the final regression model developed will be transformed into probabilities, and
      the results will be arranged in a risk matrix.
    
  