
    
      Background:There is often no, or limited, safety data on drug use in early pregnancy and
      particularly for drugs targeting tropical diseases because these are not widely used in
      resource-rich countries with robust pharmacovigilance systems. It is critical to develop
      surveillance systems to assess the safety of these drugs in pregnancy. Malaria in pregnancy
      requires prompt and effective treatment to prevent adverse health consequences for the mother
      and her unborn baby. Malaria infection in the first trimester has been associated with
      miscarriage, preterm birth and low birth weight. Pregnant women in the first trimester are
      often inadvertently treated with the same antimalarials as provided to the adult population
      which is a concern for drugs which are contraindicated in early pregnancy, such as
      artemisinin combination therapies (ACTs). This occurs either because they are not aware or do
      not report that they are pregnant, or because quinine, the standard of care for malaria
      treatment in the first trimester is not available. There is limited data available about the
      safety of ACTs in early pregnancy. Investigators will develop a pregnancy registry for
      monitoring the safety of antimalarial drugs during pregnancy with a focus on the first
      trimester.

      Overall Aim: The aim of the pregnancy registry is to generate robust data on the safety of a
      range of antimalarials in pregnancy and particularly use in the first trimester to inform
      regulators and policymakers.

      Methods in Brief: Investigators will set-up a pregnancy exposure registry for antimalarial
      drugs to capture safety data from women inadvertently exposed to (i.e. treated with)
      antimalarials used in the general population that are not currently recommended for use in
      the first trimester. To capture this safety data, several sentinel sites will be set-up in
      multiple malaria-endemic countries to follow women from the moment the pregnancy is
      identified and capture pregnancy outcomes (i.e. miscarriage, stillbirth, live birth). Some
      sites (including Kenya) will provide pregnancy tests to enable early pregnancy detection and
      referral to ANC to capture early miscarriages. Newborns will be assessed for congenital
      anomalies at birth and up to 2 years of age. Any suspected case of congenital anomalies will
      be referred for further assessment by a specialist (e.g. paediatrician) who will confirm the
      diagnosis and advise on how to further manage any problems or complications. The national
      referral system will be used in cases requiring further intervention. Exposure data will be
      collected on any acute illnesses occurring during pregnancy, such as malaria and COVID-19,
      and chronic conditions, such as HIV, TB, epilepsy or diabetes, and details of any treatment
      given (including antimalarials). Antimalarial and other drug exposure data in early
      pregnancy, i.e. before the pregnancy was known, will be captured through record linkage with
      treatment records from outpatient departments, community health workers, and any other
      treatment records. Women will provide informed consent for this data to be collected and to
      be followed up throughout pregnancy. The pregnancy outcomes and prevalence of congenital
      anomalies will then be compared between pregnancies exposed and those not exposed to specific
      antimalarials during the first trimester.

      Expected Outcomes: The expected outcome of this study is information and reassurance about
      the safety profile of specific antimalarials, with a focus on the first trimester, to inform
      malaria treatment guidelines. The findings will be shared with the relevant local and
      national health and regulatory authorities and disseminated in scientific meetings and in
      peer-reviewed journals. Data generated will be pooled with data from similar pregnancy
      registries in other malaria-endemic countries and will be shared with the WHO/TDR Central
      registry for epidemiological surveillance of drug safety in pregnancy and other relevant
      pregnancy exposure registries.
    
  