
    
      Detailed research plan Clinical evaluation About 60 clinically diagnosed adult patients
      having Parthenium dermatitis will be taken up for the study. Pregnant females and lactating
      mothers will be excluded. All the patients will be patch tested with the standardised aqueous
      extract of Parthenium hysterophorus to confirm the diagnosis and those showing positive patch
      test reactions to standardised extract will be tested further with serial dilutions of the
      antigens to determine the titre of contact hypersensitivity (TCH).20 Antibodies do not have
      any role in this disease therefore the estimation of immunoglobulins will not be done. The
      diagnosis will be done by patch test. It will be a randomised, clinically study where the
      patients will be randomly treated with azathioprine 300 mg per week or azathioprine 100 mg a
      day orally along with topical clobetasol propionate 0.05% w/w and oral cetirizine
      hydrochloride 10 mg daily for symptomatic relief. No other drugs including the medicines of
      alternate system will be given for the dermatitis. Clinical evaluation of the patients will
      be undertaken every four weeks. This will be continued for six months. After 6 months the
      treatment will be stopped and the patients will be followed up for another 6 months. The
      graphic record of the disease activity and the treatment will be maintained. In addition,
      each patient will be evaluated for the side effects of these regimens clinically as well as
      by the laboratory parameters as per the proforma enclosed, especially haemoglobin, total
      blood count, differential count, platelets, serum bilirubin, serum alkaline phosphate, serum
      transaminases, serum electrolytes, serum creatinine, blood urea, blood sugar, urine routine
      and microscopy and stool examination for occult blood. These tests will be carried out before
      starting the therapy and then repeated every month during the follow up period. Chest X-ray
      electrocardiogram and TCH will also be done before the therapy and then at six months unless
      otherwise required. At the end of the study period, a final evaluation based on the change in
      severity of the dermatitis, changes in the titre of contact hypersensitivity and the side
      effects of the drugs will be made. Statistical analysis using chi-square test will be done.
    
  