
    
      After appropriate IRB approval at total of 48 active patients who meet the inclusion criteria
      listed above will be randomized into three treatment groups: Group 1 (n = 16) will undergo
      ultrasound guided arthrocentesis of the knee hemarthrosis at the time of presentation in
      clinic. Following aspiration of the knee joint hemarthrosis, an injection of 5 milliliters
      (mls) of 0.9% sodium chloride solution (sterile saline) will be administered as a placebo
      control. In addition, a second aspiration of knee joint fluid and injection of sterile saline
      into the injured knee joint will be performed at 10 days post-injury. Group 2 (n = 16) will
      undergo arthrocentesis as described in group 1 as well as intra-articular administration of
      150mg (~5mls) of anakinra (rhIL-1Ra) within 7 days of ACL injury. In addition, repeat knee
      joint fluid aspiration and a second injection of 5mls of sterile saline into the injured knee
      joint will be performed at 10 days post-injury. Group 3 patients will receive arthrocentesis
      and injection of anakinra as described in group 2 as well as a second knee joint aspiration
      and intra-articular knee injection of anakinra (150mg, ~5mls) on post-injury day 10. Thus,
      all patients will undergo two ultrasound guided knee aspiration and injection procedures
      prior to surgery. The first injection will be after the arthrocentesis procedure to remove
      the hemarthrosis associated with acute ACL injury. To minimize pain and discomfort the same
      needle stick will be used to aspirate the hemarthrosis and to inject the saline or anakinra
      depending on the patient's treatment group. The second knee arthrocentesis and injection in
      each patient will also be performed under ultrasound-guidance at 10 days after injury. Some
      patient's injuries may fall on a day where performing these aspiration and injection
      procedures exactly 10 days after injury is not possible due to constraints of the work week
      (i.e. Monday through Friday). In this case the procedures will be performed on the next
      consecutive work day closest to the 10 days post-injury time point. An additional
      arthrocentesis procedure will be performed at the time of surgery.

      Study patients in all 3 groups will undergo pre-operative collection of urine and knee joint
      fluid as described above. These time points include: i) at the time of enrollment into the
      study (within 7 days of injury), ii) at 10 days after injury, iii) on the day of surgery
      (within 30 days of injury). In addition, urine and knee joint fluid collection will be
      performed at the initial post-operative visit (approximately 10 days after surgery) followed
      by collection of urine alone at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months post-operatively in all treatment
      groups. Urine and arthrocentesis samples will be analyzed for the presence of inflammatory
      cytokines and cartilage breakdown biomarkers according to Osteoarthritis Research Society
      International guidelines (see cytokine and biomarker assays section below for further
      details). Given, that multiple studies have demonstrated resolution of cytokine abnormalities
      by 2 to 4 weeks after ACL injury, urine assessments of cytokine assays (IL-1, etc.) will not
      be conducted beyond 3 months post-operatively. However, ELISAs for cartilage biomarkers will
      be performed on urine collected at each time point throughout the duration of the study.
      Validated patient reported outcome assessments (KOOS, VAS and PROMIS) will be completed at
      initial presentation as well as at 3, 6, 12 and 24 month post-operatively.

      Patients in all 3 groups will be also be followed longitudinally with repeat MR imaging that
      includes cartilage-sensative sequences (T1rho). These will be obtained at 12 and 24 months
      post-operatively. Additional MRI studies at earlier time points are optional for study
      participants. The MRI studies performed in this investigation will be non-arthrogram studies
      without intra-articular or intravenous contrast.

      In addition, investigators will compare the imaging findings of ACL injured patients at the
      time points outlined above to a cohort of healthy volunteers with uninjured knees (patients
      whom have had no history of knee injury, knee surgery or knee injection procedure). This will
      result in a control group (Group 4) that will only undergo MR imaging using
      cartilage-sensative sequences (T1rho) at one point in time, however, this group will not
      receive any intervention (i.e. no injection of saline, no injection of anakinra, no urine
      sample collection and no arthrocentesis sample collection). The imaging findings from this
      control group will be used to compare to those obtained from patients enrolled in the study.
      This cohort will be identified based on age, sex, BMI and activity level (Tegner score) after
      the 48 study patients (groups 1, 2 and 3) are enrolled into the study as previously described
      in the research study plan. This will facilitate the cohorts being matched by age, sex, BMI
      and activity level allowing for an appropriate comparison group even if cartilage-sensative
      MRI (T1rho) images are not obtained among study patients at the early time points.

      This study will be a single-blinded design and all aspects of the study design will be
      disclosed to subjects during the informed consent process. Given that anakinra needs to be
      ordered by the physician from the pharmacy on the day of injection, the physician performing
      the injection will not be blinded to which patients receive anakinra treatments. However, the
      patients will be blinded regarding which treatment they receive. All patients will receive
      injections of the same volume, same color and using the same type of needle and syringe. The
      synovial fluid and urine biomarker data will be analyzed in a coded fashion in conjunction
      with a statistician to avoid bias in the statistical analysis. In addition, the radiologist
      interpreting the MRI studies will be blinded to which treatment the patients receive. The
      physician administering the injections into the joint will not be involved in interpreting
      the MRI findings and will not be present when subjects complete the patient-reported outcome
      measures.
    
  