
    
      This is a two-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the efficacy of JASP-EMT, an
      innovative blended communication intervention, JASPER (joint engagement and play
      intervention), and EMT (Enhanced Milieu Teaching). The study evaluates the relative benefits
      of teaching young children with DS using dual communication modes: spoken words with AAC.
      JASP-EMT involves direct intervention with children as well as parent training in an attempt
      to increase generalization of intervention effects. A control group will receive community
      treatment as usual (BAU). Participants include 82 children with DS ages 30 to 54 months
      across two sites.

      AIM 1: To examine the effects of an experimental intervention (Words + AAC) on primary
      (expressive language) and secondary outcomes (receptive language, symbolic play,
      symbol-infused joint engagement, and parent use of language support strategies).

      H1: Children in the Words+AAC group will have significantly better primary and secondary
      outcomes than children in the control group.

      H2: Parents of children in Words+AAC group will demonstrate increased use of language support
      strategies than parents of children in the control group.

      AIM 2: To examine maintenance and generalization of the effects of the experimental
      interventions on children and their parents.

      H3: Intervention effects will maintain at follow-up and generalize across contexts.

      AIM 3 (exploratory): To examine the effect of potential child level moderators on the primary
      and secondary outcomes of the study.

      H4: Child characteristics at baseline (e.g., speech intelligibility, cognitive level) will
      moderate primary child outcomes.

      AIM 4 (exploratory): To examine the effect of the experimental intervention on executive
      functioning.

      H5: Children in the Words+AAC group will demonstrate improved executive functioning following
      intervention relative to the children in the control group.

      Participants

      A total of 82 children and their parents will be recruited to the study (41 at Vanderbilt and
      41 at UCLA). Child MA of 18 months ensures children have the cognitive skills for symbolic
      representation in communication. The sample is expected to be 40% minority with equal numbers
      of males and females. Most parents are expected to be lower to upper middle class mothers.

      Summary of Intervention

      The goal of the intervention is to help children with DS develop expressive language skills
      that will improve participation in social, academic and community environments. Children will
      receive direct intervention from a therapist; additionally, parents will be taught to use the
      Words + AAC strategies in the clinic and at home across routines. Therapists use all
      strategies throughout the intervention; parents learn strategies sequentially.

      Length of Intervention: 4/week for 4 months (48 sessions); 40 minute clinic sessions, 60
      minute home sessions Type of Intervention sessions: 6 workshops, 18 clinic training sessions,
      24 home training sessions Mode: AAC (iPad) and verbal input and output Maintenance: every six
      weeks for 6 months after completion of the intervention
    
  