
    
      Endovascular aneurysm treatment has become the mainstay of treatment of unruptured brain
      aneurysms. Since the introduction of Guglielmi detachable coils in the late 1980s, thousands
      of procedures are performed annually worldwide. The expanding endovascular armamentarium with
      the use of balloon-assisted coiling, stents (either in stent-assisted coiling or
      flow-diversion), and unassisted coiling-only procedures made it possible to treat aneurysms
      of almost all intracranial locations, shapes, and sizes.

      Thromboembolic complications are potential adverse events whenever catheters are introduced
      into the intracranial arteries. Diagnostic and interventional neurological procedures, such
      as diagnostic and therapeutic cerebral angiograms may lead to ischemic strokes of varying
      frequency and severity. Luckily, most of the thromboembolic events do not cause a clinical
      stroke. Instead, tiny infarction signals are seen on Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance
      imaging (DWI MRI) of the brain without neurological signs or symptoms. These are often
      labelled as silent (or covert) strokes. These imaging surrogates have been used to compare
      the safety and efficacy of various endovascular procedures and techniques. In a Canadian
      cohort, heparin bolus during aneurysm coiling was associated with significantly less DWI load
      on post-coiling MRI. This supports the notion that most of these lesions are caused by
      thrombi, as opposed to bubbles.

      There is limited direction from available guidelines regarding the use of anticoagulation or
      antiplatelet agents to prevent thromboembolic complications associated with endovascular
      treatment of brain aneurysms. This resulted in huge variability of the protocols used for
      anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapies before, during and after coil embolization of
      brain aneurysms. Most of the current practices are extrapolated from coronary literature.

      Platelet inhibition is an effective strategy to minimize the rate of thromboembolism.
      Antiplatelet treatment has been routinely used before coronary angioplasty to reduce the risk
      of thromboembolic events. The different action of ASA from that of anticoagulants gives it an
      additive effect to heparin alone in neuro-interventional procedures. This notion is supported
      by observations from multiple retrospective and prospective studies.

      We will perform a prospective, randomized (1:1) placebo-controlled, clinical trial with
      blinded endpoint assessment of 440 participants with unruptured brain aneurysm planned for
      endovascular treatment using coiling-only approach (primary coiling or using
      balloon-assistance but not stenting) to test if oral acetylsalicylic acid (325 mg/ day for a
      total of 5 days: 3 days prior and two days after and including the coiling procedure day) is
      superior placebo in preventing clinical and silent strokes. The primary outcome is a clinical
      or silent stroke at the time of discharge assessed by clinical examination and MRI brain.
    
  