
    
      Approximately 120 Chinese subjects will be enrolled and randomized to treatment group and
      control group in 1:1 fashion, approximately 60 subjects in each group. Eligible subjects are
      HER2 positive, metastatic breast cancer who has received at least 2 prior lines of anti-HER2
      directed therapy in the metastatic setting (mandatory to have trastuzumab, and other
      anti-HER2 agents e.g. lapatinib, pyrotinib, and pertuzumab; in case of having received
      (neo)adjuvant anti-HER2 therapy) in Chinese patients (Mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan).
      Subjects should Have received treatment with at least one, and no more than three, lines of
      therapy overall in the metastatic setting (including anti-HER2 directed therapy and
      chemotherapy, and patients must have progressed on or following, the most recent line of
      therapy, based on RECIST 1.1.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive margetuximab plus chemotherapy compared
      with trastuzumab plus chemotherapy. The dosage and administering of margetuximab is 15 mg/kg
      IV Q3W. Trastuzumab was administered 8 mg/kg loading dose, 6 mg/kg subsequent doses, IV Q3W.
      Prior to randomization to either margetuximab or trastuzumab, investigators selected one of
      four backbone chemotherapy regimens given at standard doses: capecitabine, vinorelbine or
      gemcitabine. Capecitabine and vinorelbine should be selected in priority. Gemcitabine could
      be selected only if capecitabine and vinorelbine were used in previous treatment. Subject
      will receive the treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of
      consent, initiation of subsequent anti-tumor treatment therapy, or death (whichever occurs
      first). Subject is not allowed to crossover after disease progression. Randomization was
      stratified by number of metastatic sites (≤2, >2) and chemotherapy chosen.

      The definition of HER2 positive is to have at least once 3+ by IHC, FISH positive or CISH
      positive in the pathological test/retesting. Subject should provide original biopsy/surgical
      excision tissue sample/latest follow-up sample after randomization, for the centralized test
      and review when necessary.
    
  