
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Physical activity and exercise have well-known beneficial effects on several physical and
      psychological health outcomes. However, it has been proposed that regular participation in
      physical activity and exercise may lead to greater risk of developing pelvic floor
      dysfunctions (PFD) in women. The pelvic floor consists of muscles, fascia and ligaments and
      forms a hammock-like support at the base of the abdomino-pelvic cavity. The function of the
      pelvic floor is to provide support to the pelvic organs (the bladder, urethra, vagina, uterus
      and rectum) and to counteract all increases in intra-abdominal pressure and ground reactions
      forces during daily activities. Additionally, the pelvic floor facilitates intercourse,
      vaginal birth, storage of stool and urine and voluntary defecation and urination. A
      dysfunctional pelvic floor can lead to urinary and anal incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse,
      sexual problems and chronic pain syndromes. UI is the most common PFD, defined as "the
      complaint of involuntary loss of urine". SUI, urgency urinary incontinence (UUI) and mixed
      urinary incontinence (MUI) are common subtypes of UI. In women, SUI accounts for
      approximately half of all incontinence types and is defined as "the complaint of involuntary
      loss of urine on effort or physical exertion (e.g. sporting activities), or on sneezing or
      coughing". UUI is defined as the "complaint of involuntary loss of urine associated with
      urgency" and MUI as "complaints of both stress and urgency urinary incontinence".

      High prevalence rates of UI among both parous and nulliparous female athletes and exercisers
      have been reported in several cross-sectional studies. The prevalence rates varies between
      0-80% with the highest prevalence found in high impact sports such as trampoline jumping,
      gymnastics and ball games. Leakage during sport activities may affect the athletes'
      performance and cause bother, frustration and embarrassment. Some athletes have reported that
      UI issues have also led to avoidance or cessation of sport or exercise.

      To date, there is level 1 evidence and grade A recommendation for PFM training alone to be
      first line treatment for SUI, MUI and pelvic organ prolapse in the general female population.
      In addition, PFM training is highly effective as primary prevention; pregnant continent women
      who exercise the PFM are at 62% less risk of UI in late pregnancy and 29% less risk of UI 3-6
      months postpartum. Evidence of the effect of PFM training in athletes or strenuous exercisers
      is sparse.

      In one study on female soldiers and two small case series in female athletes and exercisers,
      PFM training led to reduced symptoms of UI. However, none of these studies included a
      non-treated control group and the internal validity is therefore low. To our knowledge, only
      one RCT has assessed effects of PFM training on SUI in athletes. Female volleyball players
      (n=16) who followed a PFM training program had significant improvements of SUI compared to a
      control group (n=16).

      Based on today's knowledge we do not know whether PFM training is effective in elite athletes
      exposed to excessive impact in sports including elements of acrobatics and jumping. Given the
      high impact on the pelvic floor in these athletes, it is presumed that they need much better
      pelvic floor muscle function than non-exercisers. On the other hand, elite athletes are
      highly motivated for regular training. Strength training of the PFM, if proven effective, may
      be easily incorporated in their basic training regimens both as prevention and treatment
      strategies of SUI.

      AIMS:

      The aim of this RCT is to assess the effect of PFM training on symptoms, bother and amount of
      SUI among female artistic gymnasts, team gymnasts and cheerleaders.

      STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS:

      A cross-sectional study will be conducted to assess prevalence of SUI among female artistic
      gymnasts, team gymnasts and cheerleaders from 12 years of age competing on high national
      levels in Norway. Athletes reporting symptoms of SUI will be asked to participate in the RCT.

      The study is an assessor-blinded RCT evaluating the effect of PFM training on SUI in elite
      female gymnasts, team gymnasts and cheerleaders. At baseline, all athletes will perform a pad
      weight-test, measuring the amount of leakage during gymnastic and acrobatic activities. In
      addition, the athletes will respond to a standardized questionnaire, measuring self-reported
      symptoms of UI and bother. The athletes will be randomly assigned to either a PFM training
      group (EG) or a control group (CG) with no intervention. The intervention consists of a daily
      home-based PFM training program with weekly follow-up by a physiotherapist. After a
      three-months intervention period, all athletes will perform a post-test including the same
      previous mentioned outcome measures.
    
  