
    
      The bony architecture of the glenohumeral joint is often likened to that of a golf ball and
      tee. This geometry provides a functional benefit by allowing for a large arc of motion, but
      also confers an inherent instability that can result in traumatic anterior shoulder
      dislocation. By far the most common type of glenohumeral instability is anterior dislocation,
      accounting for over 90% of all shoulder dislocations. The glenohumeral joint relies on a
      complex network of static and dynamic structures that aid in stabilizing the joint.
      Compromise of these structures leads to dislocation and often, recurrent instability.
      Structures providing static stability to the glenohumeral joint include the congruency of the
      humeral head and glenoid, the glenoid labrum, glenohumeral ligaments surrounding the joint,
      and negative intra-articular pressure. Dynamic stabilizers are primarily muscular and include
      the rotator cuff, which provides a compressive stabilizing effect, the tendon of the long
      head of the biceps, and muscles that stabilize the scapula.

      The current accepted "standard" protocol depends on the amount of glenoid bone loss.
      Typically, when there is little bone loss, the treatment of anterior recurrent instability
      involves Bankart arthroscopic stabilization. In the setting of significant glenoid bone loss
      (>25%), the Latarjet technique involving bone grafting of the glenoid defect is indicated in
      order to address the aforementioned higher risk of recurrence in this setting.

      Balg and Boileau proposed a comprehensive score in 2007 including: age at surgery, degree of
      sport participation (pre-operative), type of sport (pre-operative), shoulder hyperlaxity,
      Hill-Sachs on AP radiograph and glenoid loss of contour on AP radiograph at the first
      consultation: the Instability Severity Index Score (ISIS). In contrast to the standard
      treatment protocol, the authors propose that an ISIS ≦3 points is an indication for
      arthroscopic Bankart repair, and a score of greater than 3 is an indication for a Latarjet
      procedure (open stabilization with coracoid bone graft).

      This study would be the first to investigate the ISIS decision-making algorithm, an exciting
      and novel approach to the treatment of shoulder instability, and to compare it to the
      conventional treatment algorithm within the framework of a prospective, randomized controlled
      study. If the new ISIS decision-making algorithm proves to be effective at decreasing
      recurrence instability rates, improving function and quality of life, while maintaining low
      complication rates, it has the potential to lead to widespread practice change within the
      Orthopaedic community in North America and abroad.
    
  