
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the number of lung cancer diagnoses obtained from cytological evaluation of
           sputum expectorated after inhalation of INS316 versus normal saline as an adjunct for
           spontaneous expectoration of sputum in patients with suspected lung cancer.

        -  Compare the relative sensitivity of sputum cytology in the diagnosis of primary lung
           cancer using these methods of sputum collection in these patients.

        -  Compare the amount of sputum collected from patients using these methods.

        -  Correlate the number of macrophages in sputum with the predictive likelihood of
           obtaining a positive diagnosis by sputum cytology in these patients.

        -  Determine whether specificity of sputum cytology is adversely affected by induction with
           INS316 in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel, multicenter study.
      Patients are stratified according to tumor size and location as visualized by chest
      radiography, CT scan, or positron-emission tomography scan (peripheral tumor (distal to the
      subsegmental bronchi) no greater than 2 cm in diameter vs peripheral tumor greater than 2 cm
      in diameter vs central tumor no greater than 2 cm in diameter vs central tumor greater than 2
      cm in diameter). Patients are randomized to one of two arms.

      Prior to dosing with sputum induction adjunct, all patients expectorate sputum spontaneously.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive a single dose of INS316 by inhalation.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive a single dose of placebo (normal saline) by inhalation.

      In both arms, patients expectorate sputum during dosing, immediately after dosing, and then
      within 15, 30, and 60 minutes after dosing.

      Patients are followed on day 1 after dosing, for up to 8 weeks until a diagnosis is made, and
      then up to 3 months if diagnosis is malignant.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 800 patients (or until 600 confirmed diagnoses of malignancy
      are made) will be accrued for this study.
    
  