
    
      Fat tissue obtainment. Subjects will undergo liposuction under local anesthesia. In this
      procedure, Ringer's solution with the anesthetic lidocaine and vasoconstrictor adrenaline
      infused into the adipose compartment to minimize blood loss and contamination of the tissue
      by peripheral blood cells. 15 minutes later a hollow blunt-tipped 3 mm cannula introduced
      into the subcutaneous space through small (0.5 cm) incision. The cannula attached to syringe
      and under gentle suction moved through the adipose compartment, mechanically disrupting the
      fat tissue. Aspirate volume - approximately 150-200 cc. Procedure time - 30 minutes.

      ADRC isolation. Aspirated fat tissue placed into sterile vessel which inserted into Celution
      800/CRS System (Cytori Therapeutics Inc) - closed system for automated and standardized
      extraction and concentration of ADRC. Celution 800/CRS System drains excess of fluid from fat
      tissue and estimate it's volume After that lipoaspirate washed extensively with equal volumes
      of Ringer's solution to remove blood. At the end of this process System indicates required
      volume of enzyme reagent (Celase®) which should be added immediately by operator. After
      enzyme treatment Celution 800/CRS System automatically transfers isolated ADRC into washing
      compartment where ADRC washed and concentrated in 5 mL suspension. Tissue processing time -
      approximately 60 minutes. ADRC suspension match all requirements listed in technical
      documentation for Celution 800/CRS System. Obtained ADRC divided into 2 portions. First
      portion (0.2-0.5 mL) used for counting, viability and sterility assessment. Second portion
      placed into sterile syringe for injection.

      Urethral stricture dilation. Under direct vision HiWire® hydrophilic nitinol wire positioned
      through the urethra and exchanged for a stiff-bodied wire. After that S-Curve urethral
      dilators (Cook Medical Inc.) passed over the wire guide progressing from the smallest to the
      largest 24(Fr) appropriate size while maintaining the wire guide's position.

      Periurethral injection of ADRC. After dilation needle for injection introduced into urethra
      using endoscope. Urethra punctured several times circle-wise at the region of stricture at
      depth of 5 mm under endoscopic vision and 0.3-0.5 mL of ADRC suspension injected submucosally
      each time. Total volume of solution injected depends on stricture length and technical
      possibilities. Minimal injected volume - 3 mL, maximal - 4.5 ml. After fat micrograft
      injected, urethral balloon catheter placed and removed the following day.
    
  