
    
      Inflammation plays an important role in a myriad of human diseases. Interstitial Lung
      Diseases (ILDs) are characterised by widespread inflammation and represent a major burden to
      the health sector. Imaging offers a method of assessing lung inflammation which is
      non-invasive and may help facilitate the development of new therapeutic drugs. Positron
      Emission Tomography (PET) is a sensitive imaging modality that uses radioactive material to
      highlight areas of disease. 18F-FDG is the most common radioactive tracer; it accumulates in
      cells with an increased metabolic rate. Previous studies have shown that inflammatory cells
      have an increased metabolic rate, thus PET imaging could highlight inflammation. 18F-FDG PET
      has been used in many studies exploring lung diseases; the concentration of tracer is thought
      to relate to the severity of inflammation.

      There is currently no standardised method to analyse FDG-PET scans to assess the
      concentration of tracer in the lung (and therefore inflammation). A major challenge is
      providing corrections to ensure that the image only represents tracer in the lung tissue.
      Such corrections are non-trivial and affect how images are interpreted. A robust validation
      is needed to ensure that the analysis methods used in FDG-PET images truly represent the
      degree of lung inflammation.

      Part A of this study aims to validate and compare the different analysis methods. Pulmonary
      sarcoidosis is a disease characterised by widespread lung inflammation. In Part A of the
      study the investigators will recruit patients with this condition, as well as age and gender
      matched (wherever possible) healthy volunteers. All Part A participants will receive one
      dynamic 18F-FDG PET/CT scan. The investigators will assess the uptake of 18FDG from PET
      images from patients with sarcoidosis versus those taken from healthy volunteers to validate
      and assess the reliability of the analysis method.

      For Part B of the study the investigators will recruit healthy volunteers aged 50 or more. If
      sarcoidosis patients in Part A are 50 years old or more, the age-matched HV will be recruited
      in to Part B instead, thus potentially minimising the number of HVs that might need to be
      recruited in to Part A of the study.

      The aims of this research study are:

      i) To compare FDG-PET derived tissue inflammation measures against measures of inflammation
      from BAL samples.

      ii) To compare different models of 18F-FDG lung analysis in patients with pulmonary
      sarcoidosis.

      iii) To identify whether FDG PET is sensitive enough to detect a change in inflammation
      induced in healthy volunteers.
    
  