
    
      Noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (NPPV) is increasingly being used in the care of
      patients suffering acute respiratory failure. High-level evidence supports the use of NPPV in
      this setting. With selected patients, NPPV decreases the rate of intubation, mortality and
      nosocomial infections. NPPV obviates intubation in > 50 % of appropriately selected patients.
      Both nasal and oronasal interfaces have been successfully used to apply NPPV, but the
      oronasal (or facial) interface is often used for acute respiratory failure. Any ventilator
      and ventilator mode can be used to apply NPPV, but in practice, portable pressure ventilators
      and pressure-support mode are most commonly used.

      In acute setting, this therapy must be applied as soon as possible after the onset of
      problem. With our research team, we have demonstrated that NPPV can be used with success in
      an emergency department. In our experience, when NPPV was early used, part of the patients
      improved rapidly and was could be admitted to a general ward. An interesting fact is that the
      time to improve clinical situation is short and we can postulated than NPPV application in
      emergency department may be used as a "clinical triage". We have also demonstrated that early
      application of bi-level NPPV to patients with acute respiratory failure due to acute
      exacerbation of COPD or APO leads to a rapid improvement in clinical status and blood gases
      that differs substantially from the evolution of similar patients treated with conventional
      medical therapy and a placebo NPPV device.

      Currently, we have very few data on the real utility to use of NPPV in Out-of-Hospital
      patients with acute respiratory failure managed by medical team of pre-hospital care despite
      the fact that this approach decreased the delay of application of a efficient ventilator
      support. A prior study of Craven and coll. has demonstrated that NPPV helps relieve dyspnea
      in patients with suspected congestive heart failure.

      We can postulate that a shorter delay between onset of symptomatology and application of NPPV
      increased the part of selected patient with good clinical outcome (intubation, need of
      intensive care).

      Comparisons :

      Patients with COPD, APO with standard medical therapy + NPPV compared to patients with
      standard medical therapy alone in pre-hospital setting.
    
  