
    
      We performed a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, four-way crossover
      study in 21 subjects with seasonal allergic rhinitis studied out of season. Healthy patients,
      between 18 and 50 years of age, came to the Nasal Physiology Laboratory at The University of
      Chicago for screening, where they completed an allergy questionnaire and underwent skin
      puncture testing for confirmation of allergy to grass or ragweed. Female subjects were given
      pregnancy tests. Patients who were eligible then underwent a screening nasal challenge with
      either grass or ragweed allergen depending on their skin test results and history. The study
      was approved by the Institutional Review Board at The University of Chicago and all of the
      patients gave written informed consent before entry.

      After a 2-week washout period, after the screening challenge, 21 subjects who had positive
      screening challenge returned to the Nasal Physiology Laboratory where they were randomized to
      receive 1 week of one of four treatments:

        -  placebo (PL) nasal spray and PL eye drops (PL/PL),

        -  PL nasal spray and olopatadine (OLO) 0.2% ophthalmic solution (PL/OLO),

        -  fluticasone furoate (FF, also known as Veramyst) nasal spray and PL eye drops (FF/PL),
           and

        -  FF nasal spray and olopatadine (OLO) 0.2% ophthalmic solution (FF/OLO).

      Specifically, the PL eye drops used were lubricant eye drops with active ingredients of 0.3%
      glycerin and 1.0% propylene glycol and the PL nasal spray was provided by GlaxoSmithKline.
      Treatment with OLO consisted of 1 drop of 0.2% OLO in each eye daily and treatment of FF
      consisted of 2 puffs in each nostril daily, giving a total of 110 micrograms delivered in
      each nostril. After a week of each of the treatments, the subjects returned to the Nasal
      Physiology Laboratory to undergo a nasal challenge. The subjects then returned the next day
      while still receiving treatment for another nasal challenge to augment the nasal ocular
      reflex. Next, the patients had a 2-week washout period and then switched over to the next
      randomized treatment arm. This sequence was repeated until subjects completed all four arms
      of the trial.
    
  