
    
      Shingles is a viral illness caused by the same virus that causes the chicken pox.
      Reactivation of this virus leads to shingles which is a painful blistering rash. Around 10%
      of organ transplant patients get shingles. This study will help us assess the safety and
      efficacy of a new shingles vaccine, SHINGRIX in Kidney Transplant patients. SHINGRIX is FDA
      approved for the prevention of shingles.

      In this study, participants will be divided into 2 groups, one group will receive the 1st out
      of 2 doses of the vaccine 3-6 months after transplant and the second group will receive the
      1st out of 2 doses of the vaccine 12-36 months after the transplant.

      This is a clinical trial that will be conducted at the Emory University Hospital and Emory
      Clinics. Additionally follow up visits might also be conducted at the Emory Hope Clinic, the
      clinical arm of the Emory Vaccine Center.

      Subjects will be identified through review of medical records or by referral from their
      healthcare providers. Subjects may also self-refer from the IRB approved recruitment flyers.
      Following identification/referral, a coordinator or recruiter will contact the subject and
      tell them about the study and see if he/she is interested. If the potential subject is
      interested, the recruiter will obtain an oral consent and prescreen them for the study using
      a screening checklist. Qualified subjects will be scheduled to come into the clinic and be
      fully consented and proceed with screening/enrollment.

      Blood specimens will be collected and stored for the research study and for future use.
      Subjects can opt to have their information stored in a Hope Clinic database in order to
      contact them for other studies they may qualify for in the future. There are no other
      optional studies planned at this time.

      This study could help assess safety and efficacy of the SHINGRIX vaccine and also determine
      the optimal timing of vaccination in Kidney Transplant patients.
    
  