
    
      Apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (AHCM) is a special form of non obstructive hypertrophic
      cardiomyopathy (HCM), in which the hypertrophy of myocardium predominantly involves the apex
      of the left ventricle (LV). Generally, patients with AHCM show obvious negative T waves on
      precordial leads on electrocardiogram (ECG). However, clinically some patients present
      dramatic T-wave inversion with the apical thickness less than the diagnostic criteria of
      AHCM. In order to get a moderate diagnosis, these participants may undergo lengthy
      investigation with implications for lifestyle modifications and increase the health care
      expenses. The investigators wonder they may share their fate with patients who have overt
      AHCM. Further study of these patients is needed for a proper diagnosis and treatment.

      In conventional diagnostic criteria published by American heart association (AHA)/American
      college of cardiology foundation (ACCF) in 2011, or European society of cardiology (ESC) in
      2014, the LV wall thickness≥15 mm is the unified diagnostic criteria of HCM. These
      guidelines, however, did not give additional regulations or instructions for the diagnosis of
      AHCM. It is suspected that these criteria may be too strict for AHCM, as the normal left
      ventricular wall thins towards the apex and the normal values are lower naturally in the
      apical versus the basal segments.

      Comparing with echocardiography, the superior spatial and temporal resolution of CMR makes it
      more sensitive to diagnose AHCM at earlier stage, much earlier than the appearance of
      "ace-of-spades" configuration. In a previous study, only 60% of patients with apical
      segmental hypertrophy that were confirmed by CMR were diagnosed by echocardiography.
      Echocardiography has its technical limitations for assessing apex due to the limited regional
      spatial resolution. Additionally, CMR can offer prognostic features, such as apical scar and
      apical aneurysms.

      The investigators thus sought to evaluate the morphorage and functional changes and prognosis
      of participants with unexplainable precordial deep T-wave inversion on ECG and with apical
      thickness less than 15mm.The conduction of this study was largely due to the increased
      clinical requirement, which reflected the increased awareness among physicians of missed
      AHCM.
    
  