
    
      Title:

      A prospective, single-arm, multi-centre, observational, real world registry to evaluate
      safety and performance of the BioMime™ Morph Sirolimus Eluting Coronary Stent System for very
      long coronary lesions.

      Short Title:

      Morpheus - Global Registry Sponsor: Meril Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd

      Device Used:BioMime™ Morph Sirolimus Eluting Coronary Stent System

      Study population:

      The utilization of the BioMime™ Morph Sirolimus Eluting Coronary Stent System implantation in
      very long (length ≤ 56 mm) coronary lesions in native coronary arteries with reference vessel
      diameter of 2.25 mm to 3.50 mm.

      Enrolment:Minimum 400 patients will be enrolled

      Clinical Sites:Minimum 15 sites

      Objectives:Purpose of this Registry is to evaluate safety and performance of the BioMime™
      Morph Sirolimus Eluting Coronary Stent System in very long (length ≤ 56 mm) coronary lesions
      in native coronary arteries with reference vessel diameter of 2.25 mm to 3.50 mm.

      Study Design:This is a prospective, single-arm, multi-centre, observational, real world
      registry. All patients will be followed for up to 24 months.

      Primary Outcome Measures:Freedom of target lesion failure (TLF) at 6 month and up to 24 month
      TLF is defined as a composite of cardiac death, myocardial infarction and target lesion
      revascularization.

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

        1. MACE at 1, 6, 12 and 24 month Defined as a composite of cardiac death, myocardial
           infarction attributed to the target vessel or Ischemia-driven TLR .

        2. Target vessel failure at 1, 6, 12 and 24 month Defined as cardiac death, myocardial
           infarction attributed to the target vessel, or target vessel revascularization.

        3. Academic Research Consortium (ARC) defined stent thrombosis at 1, 6, 12 and 24 months.

      Definite, probable and possible stent thrombosis during acute, subacute, late and very late
      phase.

      Other Outcome Measures:

        1. Procedure Success:

           It is defined as angiographic evidence of <30% final residual stenosis of the target
           lesion after stent placement and no occurrence of a procedure related MACE prior to
           hospital discharge (for subjects with more than one lesion stented, the worse case is
           counted)

        2. Device Success:

      It is defined as angiographic evidence of <30% final residual stenosis of the target lesion
      using only the assigned device
    
  