
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response rate after treatment with EPOCH given either
      concurrently or sequentially with rituximab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity of EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with
      rituximab.

      II. To evaluate the effect of EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab
      on immune function (CD4, CD8 lymphocyte count) after two cycles of EPOCH, and 1 month, 3
      months, 6 months, and 12 months after the completion of EPOCH.

      III. To evaluate the effect of EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab
      on HIV and EBV viral load after two cycles of EPOCH, and 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12
      months after the completion of EPOCH.

      IV. To evaluate the relationship between EBV viral load and EBV CD8 cytotoxic T cells in the
      peripheral blood and the presence of EBV in lymphoma tumor cells.

      V. To determine whether rituximab or the concurrent use of antiretroviral therapy
      significantly alters the steady state concentration of etoposide, doxorubicin, or vincristine
      during the first cycle of therapy.

      VI. To determine whether steady state concentration of etoposide or doxorubicin correlate
      with nadir neutrophil and platelet count during the first cycle of therapy.

      VII. To determine time to progression and overall survival in patients treated with EPOCH
      given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to CD4 count (less than 100/mm^3 vs at least 100/mm^3), age-adjusted International
      Prognostic Index adverse risk factors (0 or 1 vs 2 or 3), and concurrent antiretroviral
      therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 2-4 hours prior to each course of
      chemotherapy. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4-6 courses. Patients who achieve a
      complete response after 4 courses of chemotherapy and rituximab receive additional rituximab
      alone weekly for 2 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients do not receive rituximab concurrently with chemotherapy. Beginning 4 weeks
      after completion of chemotherapy, patients receive rituximab IV over 2-4 hours weekly for 6
      weeks.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  