
    
      The aim of the study was to assess the efficacy and safety of intra and post operative
      ultrasound-guided RSB versus intra and post operative TEA and to investigate role of Fentanyl
      as an adjuvant in both RSB and TEA, in patients undergoing elective major abdominal surgery
      with midline abdominal incisions.

      Pre operative medications in the form of oral ranitidine tablet, 50 mg and lorazepam tablet,
      3 mg on the night of surgery were given to all patients.

      All patients were taught- The day before surgery- how to evaluate their own pain intensity
      using the visual analog scale (VAS), scored from 0 to 10 (where 0=no pain and 10= worst pain
      imaginable) and how to use the patient controlled analgesia (PCA) device (Abbott
      Laboratories, North Chicago, IL, USA).

      Patients were randomly assigned into two groups, 50 patients each, by using opaque sealed
      envelopes containing a computer generated randomization schedule; the opaque envelopes were
      sequentially numbered and were opened before application of anesthetic plan.

      TEA group (No. =50); where patients received TEA in conjunction with GA, intraoperative
      analgesia was started before skin incision by epidural bolus dose of 0.1 ml ∕ kg of 0.125%
      levo-bupivacaine ∕ fentanyl 2 µg ∕ ml. Postoperative analgesia was provided through Patient
      controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) for 48 hours postoperative, by continuous infusion of a
      mixture of (0.0625% levo-bupivacaine ∕ fentanyl 2 µg ∕ ml) in a dose of of 0.1 ml ∕ kg, and
      bolus dose of 3 ml, lockout interval of 20 minutes).

      RSB group (No. =50); combined general plus US guided rectus sheath block (group-RSB): where
      20 mL of (0.25% levo-bupivacaine + fentanyl 30 µg) in saline were injected into the rectus
      sheath plane on either side under direct US visualization 15 minutes before skin incision.

      And before closure of abdominal wall, bilateral surgically placed catheters in rectus sheath
      plane for post operative analgesia for 48 hours.

      Postoperative analgesia was as following; injection of 20 mL of (0.125% levo-bupivicaine
      +Fentanyl 30 μg) every 12 hours in to each catheter, A postoperative rescue analgesia with
      intravenous Fentanyl per a titration protocol (Fentanyl 30 μg IV as a bolus dose that could
      be repeated every 10 minute) was employed if visual analog pain scale (VAS) ≥4.
    
  