
    
      Rationale:

      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) has emerged as a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in
      HIV-infected individuals. The precise mechanisms underlying this increased cardiovascular
      risk remain to be elucidated . Platelet hyperreactivity and increased platelet-monocyte
      aggregation (PMA) are found in HIV-infected patients and may contribute to the excess
      cardiovascular risk as platelets play a key role in the onset and progression of
      atherosclerosis and in acute cardiovascular events. In addition, HIV-infected individuals
      frequently suffer from persistent immune activation and inflammation. In a cross-sectional
      study the investigators recently showed that individuals using a regimen containing the
      integrase inhibitor raltegravir have reduced platelet hyperreactivity and PMA compared to
      other antiretroviral regimens. Other recent studies showed that raltegravir is associated
      with decreased immune activation. Due to the inherent limitations of cross sectional studies,
      the investigators aim to expand our findings in an intervention study.

      Objective:

      Investigate whether switch from a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)- or
      protease inhibitor (PI)-based regimen to a raltegravir-based regimen results in reduced
      platelet reactivity, reduced platelet-leukocyte aggregate formation and pro-inflammatory
      status of monocytes.

      Study design: Investigator initiated, single-center, open-label, randomized controlled trial
      in HIV-infected patients using a NNRTI- or PI-based regimen.

      Study population:

      Adult HIV-infected study participants with undetectable (<40 copies/mL) viral load receiving
      a standard backbone of two NRTI's (either tenofovir (TDF)/emtricitabine (FTC) or abacavir
      (ABC)/lamivudine (3TC)) with either a NNRTI (efavirenz (EFV) or rilpivirine (RPV)) or a
      boosted PI (Darunavir (DRV/r), atazanavir (ATZ/r) or Lopinavir (LPV/r)). After Sample size
      calculation two groups of 20 subjects will be enrolled.

      Intervention:

      Participants will be randomized (1:1) to continue the same ART regimen ("Continuation group")
      or to switch their NNRTI or PI to raltegravir ("Switch group") during 10 weeks.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary parameter:

      1. Platelet reactivity: platelet expression of the platelet activation marker CD62P
      (P-selectin) and activated fibrinogen receptor (αIIbβ3) upon stimulation with different
      platelet agonists.

      Secondary parameters:

        1. Platelet-leukocyte aggregates (eg. PMA).

        2. Activation markers on T cells and monocytes.

        3. Soluble (plasma) markers of platelet and monocyte activation.
    
  