
    
      This is an open trial designed to evaluate the feasibility of a new family intervention.
      Participants will be assessed at baseline, post-intervention, and 3- and 6-months following
      completion of the the intervention. A total of 20 clients diagnosed with schizophrenia,
      schizoaffective disorder, or schizophreniform disorder and their families will be recruited
      from the Massachusetts General Hospital Freedom Trail Clinic and the Beth Israel Deaconess
      Medical Center (BIDMC) (including,the Massachusetts Mental Health Center and the BIDMC
      inpatient and outpatient departments). Clients and their families will participate in the
      Family-Directed Cognitive Adaptation (FCA) intervention, including a functional assessment,
      16 single-family sessions and 6 sessions of a monthly, multiple-family group. Follow-up
      assessments will be conducted by a clinical evaluator (who is not directly involved in the
      treatment) at the end of the individual-family treatment and at about 3 and 6 months
      following completion of treatment on all clients and relatives on a variety of outcome
      measures specified below (timing of assessments may occasionally be delayed by about 1-4
      weeks in order to accommodate the schedules of clients and families). Sessions will be
      audiotaped for use in the development of an instrument for measuring therapist fidelity to
      the treatment model.

      Treatment Program.

      The FCA program is designed to teach clients and families about neurocognitive deficits
      associated with schizophrenia, recommend specific compensatory strategies and positive
      behavioral supports for managing these deficits, and teach families to help the client to
      implement these strategies in order to improve adaptive living skills. The FCA program will
      begin with a comprehensive cognitive and functional assessment of the client and the home
      environment in order to identify specific functional targets for the intervention. This will
      include: 1) a neuropsychological assessment of attention, processing speed, memory and
      executive functioning; 2) an assessment of independent living skills (e.g., time management,
      grooming, self-care); and 3) a home assessment to identify barriers to adaptive functioning
      in the client's home environment. Specific measures are described below and attached in the
      Appendix.

      Following the cognitive and functional assessments, clients and their relatives will receive
      16 individual-family sessions (14 weekly sessions and 2 bi-weekly sessions-However, timing of
      sessions may vary a bit to accommodate schedules of participants. We will aim to complete the
      counseling sessions within 18-22 weeks), and 6 sessions of a monthly, multifamily group (3-4
      sessions will be concurrent with individual sessions, and 2-3 sessions will serve as
      maintenance groups following the completion of the main, individual-family intervention). The
      individual sessions in the FCA program will include: 1) general psychoeducation about illness
      symptoms and cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia (about 4 sessions), 2) a
      feedback session presenting the results of the cognitive and functional assessment, and
      identification of functional targets for the intervention, and 3) completion of 2-3 modules
      targeting specific deficits in adaptive functioning that were identified during the
      evaluation. Most sessions will be conducted at the clinic where the client receives
      psychiatric treatment, but 3-4 home visits will also be conducted to facilitate modification
      of the home environment and generalization of compensatory skills. Sessions will include the
      client and at least one family member who lives with the client. The principal investigator
      will serve as a clinician for this program along with a co-leader, and they will serve as
      members of the client's clinical team.

      Data to Be Recorded (Measures).

      Clients and participating relatives will be assessed by a clinical evaluator (who is not
      directly involved in the treatment) via structured interviews and self-report instruments at
      four time points, including baseline, completion of the individual-family intervention, and
      at about 3 and 6 months following completion of the intervention. (Timing of assessments may
      vary a bit to accommodate schedules of participants. Therefore, follow-up one will take place
      within 2 weeks after ending the 16 session program, follow-up two will take place 12-14
      weeks, and follow-up three will take place between 12-14 weeks after the third follow-up.)

      Client measures.

      Baseline measures will include an assessment of psychiatric diagnosis (SCID, chart review,
      and collateral information gathered from the client's treating clinician and relatives) and
      general demographic information. Clients will also undergo a neuropsychological evaluation at
      baseline. This evaluation will consist of the MATRICS Provisional Consensus Cognitive Battery
      Phase II. A brief selection of measures from this battery will be repeated at the
      post-intervention assessment. Detailed descriptions of measures and copies of measures are
      included in the Appendix.

      Assessments at all time points (baseline, post-intervention, 3- and 6-month follow-up) will
      include measures of symptoms (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Scale for the Assessment of
      Negative Symptoms, Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale), adaptive living skills and
      functioning (Social Adaptive Functions Scale, Independent Living Skills Survey, Multnomah
      Community Ability Scale, The Independent Living and Self-Care Skills Checklist, and the
      Global Assessment of Functioning), behaviors related to cognitive functioning (Clinical
      Global Impression of Cognition in Schizophrenia, Frontal Lobe Personality Scale-Patient
      Version), and the degree to which the patient perceives their relatives as critical of them
      (Interpersonal Affectivity Scale). Furthermore, chart reviews will be conducted to record any
      inpatient hospitalizations that occur during the study period and number of days spent in the
      hospital.

      Family member measures. Baseline measures will include general demographic information (age,
      ethnicity, level of education, etc). All assessments will include measures of negative
      attitudes towards the client (Patient Rejection Scale, Interpersonal Affectivity Scale),
      perceived burden (Burden Assessment Scale), time spent in caregiving activities and
      caregiving expenses (Family Resources Interview), knowledge about schizophrenia and cognitive
      deficits (Modified Schizophrenia Knowledge Scale), caregiving self-efficacy (Family
      Self-Efficacy Scale), positive aspects of caregiving (Gratifications and Benefits of
      Caregiving Questionnaire) and psychological distress (Beck Anxiety and Depression Scales). In
      addition, relatives will be asked to provide collateral information about the client's
      adaptive living skills (using the "Informant Version" of the Independent Living Skills Survey
      and the Independent Living and Self-Care Skills Checklist) and cognitive functioning
      (Clinical Global Impression of Cognition in Schizophrenia, Frontal Lobe Personality
      Scale-Family Version).

      Additional measures.

      Clients and relatives will complete an adapted measure of satisfaction with the program
      (Satisfaction Questionnaire) and will be asked to report which aspects of it they found most
      helpful and whether they were able to practice skills introduced. Therapist time spent
      delivering the intervention will be recorded on a weekly basis. Notes for each session will
      be recorded on a "Contact Summary" form. Interest in the program will be measured by keeping
      track of the number of referrals to the program compared to the number of families who
      participate. In addition, we will document rates of attendance.
    
  