
    
      Pre-clinical disability is an early warning system in the disablement process as it is
      characterized by selecting to perform everyday tasks less often and compensating for those
      tasks still being performed. This phase serves as an ideal target for preventative strategies
      because treatments can be designed for individuals on the verge of disability thus
      interrupting the occurrence of outright disability. One such strategy that optimizes the
      transfer of adaptations to real-life situations is task-specific exercise (TSE). This type of
      intervention holds promise to determine how pre-clinically disabled older adults might
      interrupt the disablement process and instead begin an enablement process and thus lead us to
      better interventions to treat and prevent disability from occurring. However, because of the
      complexity of the disablement process, it has been extremely challenging to objectively
      identify outcomes that represent changes in selection, optimization, and compensation of
      tasks (the SOC domains). The objective of the current application is first, to ask what are
      the short and long-term responses of TSE in the pre-clinically disabled older adults (aged
      60+ years). Thirdly, we will shed exciting new light on whether TSE alters neuromechanical
      and psychological factors. We want to know this, in part, from a mechanistic perspective to
      gain insight into the processes by which TSE improves disablement outcomes. Also, this will
      help us to better understand how to enhance the TSE intervention to treat pre-clinically
      disabled patients. Thus, we offer two hypotheses: Hypothesis #1: TSE increases selection and
      optimization of everyday tasks, while reducing compensation to achieve task performance.
      Hypothesis #2. TSE mediates changes in SOC domains through both neuromechanical (decrease
      variability of movement and increase muscle work capacity) and psychological (increased
      confidence to perform tasks and increased executive function) properties. These data are
      expected to guide us in designing a randomized controlled trial that will test whether TSE in
      the pre-clinically disabled can reduce future incidence of outright disability.
    
  