
    
      Patients scheduling elective total joint replacement surgery are eligible to participate.

      The Aims of the registry are as follows:

      Aim 1. Establish a national registry of diverse patients of orthopedic surgeons representing
      all regions of the country and varied hospital and surgeon practice settings (e.g.,
      urban/rural, low and high volume) to ensure that registry analyses and research reflect
      typical clinical practice thereby providing optimal guidance for patients, clinicians, and
      national healthcare policymakers. Collect pre-operative and post-operative patient reported
      outcomes (PROs) for pain and function.

      Pre-surgery data. Patients will complete a set of computer-based clinical and behavioral
      health questions prior to surgery. A paper option is available as well. Data collected
      include demographics, medical and musculoskeletal comorbidities, pain and function measures.

      6 month survey. Patients will receive an invitation to complete the 6 month survey either on
      the computer at home or on paper. This survey includes the symptom assessment and a screening
      survey for complications.

      12 month and subsequent annual surveys. The 6 month survey will be repeated at 12 months and
      annually thereafter. In addition, the patient's contact information will be updated.

      Oxford Knee Scale, EQ-5D Survey and Satisfaction Questions may be added to a subset of
      questionnaires.

      Using the data collected to date from more than 25,000 patients, the investigators have
      identified national norms for pre-op and post-op pain and function as well as a
      Risk-adjustment model for outcomes.

      Aim 2: Develop new and transformative comparative effectiveness tools useful to both clinical
      practice and healthcare policy.

      Aim 3. Broadly disseminate surveillance reports for adverse events, such as implant revision,
      hip dislocation, knee manipulation, and identify important variation to inform quality
      improvement priorities.
    
  