
    
      Pediatric chronic widespread pain (CWP) is a serious public health problem resulting in high
      levels of healthcare utilization and disability. Youth with CWP also frequently report
      exposure to adverse childhood experiences (ACEs; abuse/neglect, violent/conflictual home
      environment, etc.) and a significant subset continue to experience physical and psychosocial
      impairment long-term. Certain mind-body interventions such as mindfulness-based stress
      reduction (MBSR) or meditation may be particularly appropriate for youth with CWP as they
      have been shown to modulate stress-induced maladaptation of the HPA-axis, autonomic nervous
      system, cardiovascular system, and brain structure (e.g., hippocampus). However, it is
      currently unknown if these targets are affected in youth with CWP. Preliminary research
      indicates that allostatic load (AL), or "wear and tear" on the nervous system due to stress,
      may contribute to pain chronicity. Similarly, evidence suggests that the hippocampus, a brain
      structure that is among the most deleteriously affected by stress, plays a role in pain
      perception. However, no study to-date has examined AL and hippocampal functioning in relation
      to stress exposure in youth with CWP. Mind-body interventions such as MBSR or meditation are
      an important and safe therapy option for both pain and stress reduction in youth with CWP and
      may modulate the negative impact of ACEs, so there is a critical need to know if these
      mechanisms are engaged in this population. The current study utilizes multifactorial
      physiological and neuroimaging measurement techniques to enhance our understanding of the
      potential role of these mechanisms in pain-related impairment and responsiveness to mind-body
      interventions over time. The aims of this study are to better characterize AL, assessed via a
      multifactorial composite, and hippocampal functioning via fMRI in pediatric CWP as specific
      targets for mind-body interventions that can lead to treatment optimization and improved
      compliance.
    
  