
    
      The primary aim of this study is to investigate whether the ablated tissue volume indicated
      by immediate post-treatment Gd-T1W imaging is indicative of reduction in pain scores
      (response) 30 days after treatment.

      The secondary aims of this study are:

        -  To record the proportion of patients responding to MRgHIFU treatment at Days 7, 14, 30,
           60 and 90 after treatment

        -  To investigate whether intra-procedural PRFS metrics (thermal dose volume, temperature)
           are indicative of subsequent treatment response

        -  To investigate whether intra- or post-procedural changes in ADC or T2 are indicative of
           subsequent treatment response

        -  To record adverse events arising as a result of MRgHIFU treatment

        -  To evaluate the effect of MRgHIFU treatment on patients' quality of life

        -  To record the time to pain progression and the duration of pain response for patients in
           this cohort

        -  To estimate the costs of MRgHIFU treatment

      This is an exploratory study, which will recruit n=15 patients into one single cohort.
      Enrolment of the target population for the study is expected to take approximately 2 years.
      Patients will be eligible for the study if they wish to consider MRgHIFU treatment for pain
      palliation of a region of bony metastatic disease that is accessible to the MRgHIFU device.
      After providing their written informed consent to participate in the study, patients'
      suitability for treatment will be determined by a combined assessment of clinical review by a
      pain specialist, and an MR screening investigation to establish lesion targetability.
      Baseline clinical and imaging metrics will be recorded. Patients who fulfill all inclusion
      criteria, have none of the exclusion criteria, and who give informed consent, will be
      scheduled for MRgHIFU treatment to the target lesion. Treatment will be delivered under
      sedation on a day-case basis, according to protocols already established in our prior study.
      During treatment delivery, the investigators will assess imaging metrics of tissue change,
      which may be indicative of subsequent treatment response. Treatment would be expected to take
      approximately 1-2 hours, and after an observation period of approximately 2-4 hours, the
      patient will be discharged. Before discharge, follow-up instructions will be given to the
      patient. Patients' clinical and imaging responses to treatment will then be assessed at
      follow-up appointments up to 3 months after treatment.
    
  