
    
      TAVI has recently provided a therapeutic alternative to patients with symptomatic aortic
      stenosis who are inoperable or at high-risk for surgical valve replacement.

      It has been documented with MRI studies that >70% of the patients undergoing TAVI develop new
      cerebral infarct lesions. Of these, only a ~3% to ~ 6% represent clinical significant events
      (transient ischemic attacks, disabling and non-disabling stroke). With the expected expansion
      of TAVI in lower risk patients and younger age even silent cerebral lesions will be of major
      importance [7], thus ways to overcome or decrease it will have a rapid and wide penetration.

      Clinically apparent or "silent" stroke during TAVI may be attributed to a range of different
      mechanisms. The source of a cerebral ischemia during TAVI is multifactorial. One of the
      proposed mechanisms is the increased risk of thrombus formation both on the aortic
      atherosclerotic plaques and on bioprosthetic valve frame and tissue due to inadequate
      platelet inhibition during or after TAVI. Furthermore, high residual platelet reactivity in
      the presence of incomplete endothelial coverage of the valve following TAVI may promote
      formation of fibrin/platelet thrombi. Other mechanisms involve embolization from a variety of
      origins i.e. atheroembolism from the ascending aorta or aortic arch, calcific emboli from the
      aortic valve, thromboembolism from catheters.

      Platelets are the main target of preventative therapy against cerebral ischemic events, owing
      to the observation that, in addition to promoting arterial thrombosis, platelets have a key
      role in various nonthrombotic, inflammatory pathways of plaque progression The clinical
      apparent or "silent" embolic events may be recognized with TCD performed during TAVI as
      documented in published clinical studies. TCD is an accepted surveillance technique during
      neurological interventions (such as TAVI, atrial septal defects/patent form ovale closure,
      carotid endarterectomy). Moreover, studies utilizing TCD during TAVI for evaluation of
      potential embolization are available. TCD observes HITS that may be quantified and
      potentially correlated with neurological events. However, it should be noted that this
      approach is not able to discriminate the exact source or composition of the emboli The use of
      embolic protection devices (e.g. the Embrella Embolic Deflector system) during TAVI
      surprisingly showed an increase in the number of cerebral ischemic lesions on postprocedural
      brain imaging when compared to dual antiplatelet therapy.

      The first few days post TAVI carry the highest risk for a thromboembolic event, thus special
      therapeutic and diagnostic approaches should be taken into consideration when regarding this
      procedure. Similarly, surgical bioprosthetic valve implantation has shown to have a higher
      risk of thromboembolic events within 3 months of the procedure.

      The administration of a monotherapy with ASA after biological aortic valve replacement failed
      to show improvement in the incidence of thromboembolic events. Dual antiplatelet therapy is
      traditionally started prior to TAVI and continued for 6 months. Nevertheless, in these
      fragile elderly patients dual antiplatelet therapy increases the risk of haemorrhage. In
      addition the protection achieved by these agents is questionable and resistance to aspirin
      and Clopidogrel has been observed in a high percentage.

      Platelet Function Testing has been proven to characterize the patients at high risk for
      adverse outcome after percutaneous coronary interventions. However, pharmacological
      interventions to overcome this increased risk have not been established.

      The use of Ticagrelor has been proven to reduced cerebral ischemic events in acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS) without significantly increasing the major bleeding complications, despite
      the more potent antithrombotic effect. Moreover, total mortality was substantially decreased
      using Ticagrelor, as the risk of intracranial hemorrhage or fatal stroke was low.

      In the DISPERSE-2 Trial, slightly higher rates of minor bleeding where observed with
      Ticagrelor compared to Clopidogrel; however major bleeding events were lower with Ticagrelor.
      Overall, total bleeding events were similar in the Ticagrelor and Clopidogrel groups, as well
      as in patients with additional antithrombotic agents or undergoing invasive procedures.
      However, the administration of Ticagrelor allows for greater flexibility and safety if the
      need for discontinuation of antiplatelet agents should arise, as it has a half life of only
      12 hours [16]. More importantly, Ticagrelor is a reversible platelet inhibitor, in contrast
      to Clopidogrel and ASA who bind irreversibly to platelet cell membrane receptors and the
      cyclooxygenase enzyme respectively, and whose effects persist for duration of the platelet
      life span. Therefore, in case of a bleeding event where antiplatelet therapy needs to be
      deescalated, monotherapy with Ticagrelor could prove to be the safer option.

      Ticagrelor has been documented to demonstrate faster onset and more potent inhibition of
      platelet aggregation than Clopidogrel. These properties of Ticagrelor may contribute to lower
      rates of thrombotic outcomes compared to Clopidogrel. However, bleeding events are a concern
      with the more potent antiplatelet agents Ticagrelor and Prasugrel. This risk of bleeding is
      correlated to the concomitant dosage of ASA, therefore the lowest effective dose of 80mg of
      ASA was chosen as a background therapy for this study.

      Compared to Prasugrel, another thienopyridine drug, Ticagrelor has shown to provide a more
      potent effect on the microcirculation of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary
      intervention.

      Moreover, the use of current antiplatelet regimens during and post TAVI has not been well
      established by clinical data. Currently, there are no guidelines regarding antiplatelet pre-
      treatment before TAVI. The European Society of Cardiology practice guidelines (2012) suggest
      that in real-life double antiplatelet regimens are prescribed in the early post-TAVI period,
      without further issuing a specific recommendation. Even as such and with the wide clinical
      use of dual antiplatelet therapy perioperatively for TAVI, cases of thrombus formation on
      bioprosthetic valves have been documented. The manufacturer has attributed these events to
      suboptimal operative placement of the bioprosthesis, therefore caution must be taken in the
      positioning of the bioprosthetic valves in order to reduce the formation of emboli that could
      potentially cause a clinically significant cerebral ischemic event. The use of a more potent
      dual antiplatelet regimen with Ticagrelor could prove more efficient in this aspect.

      The present study aims to evaluate whether platelet inhibition with one new antiplatelet
      agent provides better cerebral protection from microembolization in the cerebral circulation
      during TAVI, than the currently used Clopidogrel. We hypothesize that treatment with
      Ticagrelor plus ASA vs. Clopidogrel plus ASA in patients undergoing TAVI will result in fewer
      HITS as assessed with TCD on middle cerebral arteries.

      This is the first study to directly compare treatment with Ticagrelor with Acetylsalicylic
      vs. Clopidogrel with Acetylsalicylic regimen in subjects undergoing TAVI regarding cerebral
      embolic events as assessed with TCD of both middle cerebral arteries. If significant
      reduction in HITS number in the Ticagrelor group is proven, this will implicate a possible
      way to decrease in cerebral ischemic lesions in TAVI subjects. Undoubtedly, as TAVI
      candidates are increasing in number and decreasing in age, the prevention of neurological
      consequences is of paramount importance.
    
  