
    
      The overarching aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a technology-enabled
      behavioral intervention, Mujer Segura Siempre (Healthy Woman Forever: MSS), that is designed
      to maintain the effects of a brief, single-session sexual risk reduction intervention (Mujer
      Más Segura: MMS) that was proven efficacious in reducing incidence of HIV and sexually
      transmitted infections (STIs) among drug- and non-drug-using Mexican female sex workers
      (FSWs) in Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez. Despite the efficacy of MMS, it is well known that
      treatment effects of health behaviors erode and that adherence to new health behaviors is
      often poor, with relapse rates up to 50% or more within 6 months, perhaps because the
      constructs responsible for behavior acquisition differ from those that sustain behavior
      change. This innovative behavior-maintenance intervention, Mujer Segura Siempre (MSS), will
      be delivered using text messaging. It incorporates concepts that are theorized to be
      important to sustain positive behavior change, and it builds on maintenance-specific content
      and skills that have been significant in interventions focused on other health behaviors
      (e.g., smoking cessation, weight loss). All women enrolled in the study will begin by
      receiving the Mujer Más Segura (MMS) counseling, with specific information for women who are
      intravenous drug users (IDU) in addition to being FSWs. High levels of injection and
      non-injection drug use have been reported by FSWs and their male clients in our study sites,
      making it imperative to address safer injection practices in both the initial behavior change
      program and in our text-based maintenance program.

      The text messages that constitute the experimental part of this study will be based on
      maintenance-specific behavioral and cognitive constructs that are theorized to be involved in
      behavior maintenance, including self-regulatory focus, maintenance self-efficacy, and relapse
      prevention planning. The MSS text messaging maintenance intervention will be compared to
      time-equivalent exposure to general health text messages. Our specific aims are:

      Aim 1: Determine if the MSS intervention (MMS counseling plus 24 months of behavioral
      maintenance text messages-Group 1) is associated with significant reductions in HIV/STI
      incidence (primary outcome) relative to a time-equivalent control condition (counseling + 24
      months of general health text messages-Group 2) among drug-using and non-drug-using FSWs in
      Tijuana and Cd. Juarez.

      Aim 2: Determine if the MSS intervention is associated with increased use of condoms for
      vaginal and anal sex with male clients, better attendance at regularly scheduled STI
      screenings, and reduced sharing of injection equipment for FSW-IDU (secondary outcomes)
      relative to a time-equivalent control condition.

      Aim 3: Determine if substance use factors (frequency, intensity, and patterns of alcohol and
      drug use, including injection use, binge use, polydrug use) mediate or moderate intervention
      efficacy, taking into account structural and environmental risk factors (e.g., availability
      of condoms, drugs in the workplace), maintenance constructs (e.g., relapse prevention
      planning, self-efficacy maintenance), and personal characteristics (e.g., age, sexual abuse,
      depression).

      Aim 4: Evaluate the cost-effectiveness of MSS compared to the control condition, Mujer Más
      Segura alone (based on data from previous studies), and usual care in Mexico.

      To accomplish these aims, investigators will deliver MSS to 600 HIV-negative FSWs (300 in
      Tijuana, 300 in Cd. Juarez) who report unsafe sex with at least one client in the previous 6
      months, and randomize them to either one of two groups: Group 1 (n=300), MSS text-based
      maintenance program for 24 months post-counseling; or Group 2 (control condition, n=300)
      general health text messages for 24 months post counseling. Both groups will be assessed at
      6, 12, 18, and 24 months post-counseling.
    
  