
    
      The study will be performed as a 14 week randomized crossover trial with two treatments, one
      of which is the placebo. The randomization design will be provided by collaborators at Mead
      Johnson, and the study will be performed double blinded, such that no study staff will be
      informed about the nature of the product. Each treatment period will consist of a one week
      baseline period, in which one fecal sample will be collected. This will be followed by a two
      week feeding period in which the probiotic will be administered at a constant dose of 10^10
      cells per day in 50 to 100 ml of either cold or room temperature tab water. At day 7 and 14
      (last day of feeding), a fecal sample will be collected. The last sample during feeding will
      also serve as day 0 of Test of Persistence (TOP) period. Persistence of the probiotic strains
      will be tested during the TOP period at day 4, 8, 16, and 28 (4 weeks) for a total of 7 fecal
      samples. The subjects will then crossover to the other treatment and the above fecal sample
      collections will be repeated. Fecal samples will be provided by the subjects using disposable
      stool collection containers not longer than 2 hours after defecation. In the lab fecal
      samples will be stored undiluted (four aliquots) and as 1/10 dilutions in PBS buffer (four
      aliquots). The investigators will also prepare five tubes with 1 gram aliquots of each fecal
      sample and will provide these samples de-identified to Mead Johnson Nutrition for future
      analyses. Experimental design. Fecal samples will be studied by qRT-PCR. Fecal samples may be
      subjected to pyrosequencing and selective culturing.

      All subjects will fill out a Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale (GSRS) questionnaire (at
      week GSRS at week 1, 2, 3, 4 and 8, 9, 10 11) to test the acceptance and safety of the
      strain, and to test if subjects remain eligible for the study. Weeks 1 and 8 are the baseline
      visits, weeks 4 and 11 are one week after subject stops taking study product. Subjects that
      have begun or expect to begin antibiotic treatment or that have experienced unacceptable side
      effects will stop their participation.
    
  