
    
      Our theoretical motivation is to explore the mechanisms underlying recognition memory.
      Evidence from a variety of paradigms has converged on the notion that recognition memory
      comprises two processes:

        1. Familiarity, entails item-specific information.

        2. Recollection, entails association-specific information. Evidence suggests that
           recollection is associated with a network of neuronal regions, including the anterior
           medial prefrontal cortex, lateral parietal cortex, and the hippocampus. Familiarity, in
           contrast, is associated with the lateral prefrontal cortex and the peripheral cortex.
           Critically, for both familiarity and recollection, the vital role of the MTL is strongly
           implicated. To dissociate between recollection and familiarity, despite stimulating the
           same location in the brain, the investigators take into account the difference in
           processing time in which these two processes are known to operate, and use both
           objective and subjective cognitive tasks to accurately measure effects.

      In addition, this research has clinical motivation, which relates to the nature of memory
      decline in the elderly. If successful, the investigators will be able to set an effective TMS
      protocol that could be used as a tool to enhance the very types of
      memories-association-specific memories-that are thought to mediate poor memory performance in
      the elderly.

      To achieve both goals, the proposed experiments will target the MTL using both online
      stimulation (short-duration stimulation during the presentation of stimuli in recognition
      memory test) that will enable us to differentiate between effects of familiarity and
      recollection and offline stimulation mode (repetitive stimulation of several minutes
      separately from the recognition memory test), with the goal of achieving facilitation effects
      on memory performance.
    
  