
    
      Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is an endoscopic technique aiming to achieve en-bloc
      resection of mucosal neoplastic lesion in the gastrointestinal tract. It is now considered as
      the standard of treatment for early gastric cancer confined to the mucosa, achieving an
      excellent overall survival comparable to that of surgical resection.

      Important adverse events associated with gastric ESD include hemorrhage (intraoperative or
      delayed) and perforation. The reported incidence of intraprocedural and delayed hemorrhage of
      gastric ESD is generally higher than that of esophageal or colorectal ESD5. This is likely
      due to the rich blood supply of the stomach penetrating from the muscularis to the submucosal
      layer. Bleeding during ESD would result in difficulty in visualizing the correct plane of
      dissection from blood clots obscuring view of the endoscope. As a result, prolonged
      procedural time may be required to achieve hemostasis and obtain adequate view for
      dissection.

      There are currently different options of the solution for submucosal injection during gastric
      ESD. Epineprhine has often been added into these solutions with the aim of causing
      vasoconstrictive effect and potentially reduce bleeding during the procedure. The use of
      epinephrine has been recommended when removing larger pedunculated polyps with endoscopic
      mucosal resection (EMR)6. However the exact clinical benefit of adding epinephrine during
      gastric ESD has not been proven in the literature. On the other hand, when larger dose of
      epinephrine is absorbed systemically it may rarely cause significant tachycardia and
      generalized vasoconstriction, putting patients at risk of myocardial infarction or
      cerebrovascular accident.

      A retrospective propensity score analysis was previously performed in one of our Japanese
      center (Presented at JGCA 2019, Shizuoka). After adjustment of important confounding factors
      including age, sex, tumor location, specimen size, depth of tumor invasion, presence of
      histological ulcer or scar and operators' experience, the addition of epinephrine into
      submucosal solution was associated with a significantly shorter procedural time upon
      multivariate analysis. The mean procedural time was 72±54 minutes versus 93±62 minutes with
      and without epinephrine respectively. (p<0.001) With the encouraging result from a single
      center retrospective study, we plan to conduct a prospective multicenter randomized
      controlled study to confirm the benefit of adding epinephrine into the submucosal solution
      during gastric ESD.
    
  