
    
      -  Visit V1 : screening

        -  Inclusion visit V2: Be verified inclusion criteria of patient. At the inclusion visit
           will be collected:

             -  Informed consent to participate in the study…

             -  The following data: age, duration of diabetes, usual basal insulin dose, other
                co-morbidities : hypertension, complications of diabetes, dyslipidemia, smoking
                (and their associated treatments).

             -  Data from physical examination and in particular: weight, BMI, waist circumference,
                systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic (DBP)

             -  Therapeutic adjustments can be made. In the case of inefficient combination with a
                sulphonylurea (HbA1c> 7%), it will be stopped and basal insulin will be titrated
                during the run- in period (2 months) in order to obtain a good control of fasting
                glucose.

        -  Visit V3 : At the randomization visit, be collected the results of HbA1c and other
           biological assessment (FPG, fasting lipid profile). Moreover, the insulin will be
           collected and the patient will receive the treatment for 3 months (for ex Galvus in this
           case according to randomisation).

        -  Visit V4a the glycemic holter will be introduced and removed 5 days later (at visit
           V4B). The interstitial glucose will be calibrated during the Holter by the blood
           glucose. When collecting the glycemic holter, patients will also have a clinical
           examination and a new biological assessment (HbA1c, FPG, C peptide, fasting lipids ...)
           and an assessment of their dietary intake during the port the holter (overall calorie
           intake: cal + G, L, P)

        -  Visit V5 : the patient will receive the treatment for 3 months (placebo at this visit
           according the example cited above ).

        -  Visit V6A, it will be the same as for the visit V4a, the glycemic holter will be
           introduced and removed at V6B visit. Similarly, in the collection of glycemic holter,
           patients will also have a new clinical examination, laboratory evaluation (HbA1c, FPG,
           fasting lipids ...) and a dietary assessment (overall calorie intake: cal + G, L, P).
    
  