
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety/potential toxicities associated with treating high-risk acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) patients with autologous CD8+ T cells (polyclonal Tn and Tcm cells;
      Epstein-Barr virus-specific T cells [Tebv cells]) that have been genetically-modified to
      express a high affinity WT1-specific TCR (TCRC4).

      II. Determine the feasibility of reproducibly treating high-risk AML patients with autologous
      CD8+ T cells (polyclonal TN and TCM cells; Tebv cells) that have been genetically-modified to
      express a high affinity WT1-specific TCR (TCRC4).

      III. Determine and compare the in vivo persistence in blood and at the primary tumor site
      (e.g. bone marrow, chloroma) of transferred autologous CD8+ T cells (polyclonal TN and TCM
      cells; TEBV cells) that have been genetically-modified to express a high affinity
      WT1-specific TCR (TCRC4).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether adoptively transferred autologous TCRC4-transduced CD8+ cells have
      anti-tumor activity in patients with acute myeloid leukemia.

      Ia. In patients with measurable minimal residual disease (MRD) at the time of infusion of
      TCRC4-transduced CD8+ cells, changes in leukemic tumor burden will be measured by morphology,
      flow cytometry, cytogenetics/fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and/or molecular
      testing at baseline and after infusion of T cells.

      Ib. In all patients (those with or without measurable tumor burden prior to T cell transfer,
      including patients who convert to MRD-negative status during consolidation), the probability
      of relapse, disease-free survival and overall survival of patients receiving TCRC4-transduced
      CD8+ cells will be compared with patients in the observation arm.

      II. Determine and compare the migration to the primary tumor site of subsets of the
      adoptively transferred autologous TCRC4-transduced CD8+ T cells (polyclonal TN and TCM cells;
      TEBV cells).

      III. Determine and compare the in vivo functional capacity of transferred polyclonal
      autologous TCRC4-transduced CD8+ TCM, TN cells and TEBV CD8+ cells.

      OUTLINE:

      Beginning 4 weeks after completion of last course of consolidation chemotherapy, patients
      receive autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced CD8+ TCM/TN lymphocytes intravenously (IV) over
      1-4 hours on day 0 and again after a minimum of 3 weeks. Beginning 6 hours after the second
      infusion of T cells, patients also receive aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID)
      for 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who have
      clinically benefitted from T cell therapy may receive additional infusions of T cells and
      aldesleukin at the discretion of the principal investigator (PI) and the attending physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up weekly for 4 weeks, at 2, 3, 6,
      and 12 months, and then annually for 14 years thereafter.
    
  