
    
      Bipolar disorder (BD) is a serious, disabling, and highly recurrent illness that is
      disproportionately represented in the criminal justice system. BD increases risk for several
      adverse outcomes for prisoners, including mood instability, suicide attempts, substance use
      relapse, and high rates of repeat incarceration. Despite these serious negative consequences,
      up to 70% of prisoners with BD do not receive mental health treatment upon prison release.
      Lack of engagement in ongoing mental health treatment for BD upon community re-entry
      represents one potent factor that perpetuates risk for adverse outcomes, and consequences of
      untreated BD (e.g., impulsivity, substance use) may greatly exacerbate difficulties in
      establishing stable living conditions (e.g., adequate housing, legal employment) at community
      re-entry. Thus, there is a critical need for interventions to facilitate engagement with
      treatment for BD during this vulnerable transition.

      To that end, the primary aim of this study is to develop and establish the feasibility and
      acceptability of the Community treatment Adherence at Re-Entry (CARE) program. CARE is an
      innovative intervention that will combine evidence-based cognitive-behavioral, family, and
      telephone outreach strategies to promote treatment engagement and improve clinical outcomes
      for prisoners with BD during the period of community re-entry. CARE will include 3 individual
      and 1 family session, followed by 11 brief telephone contacts for up to 6 months
      post-release. Given its moderate intensity, adjunctive nature, use of community mental health
      counselors, and use of telephone administration of post-release follow-up, CARE has been
      designed with an eye toward community implementation. Its proposed mechanisms of action
      (i.e., increasing values-action consistency, enhancing social supports, and linkage to
      community treatment services) are further well matched to the practical and clinical needs of
      re-entering individuals.

      The aim of this research is to conduct a small pilot randomized controlled trial (n=40) of
      the CARE intervention compared to treatment as usual for prisoners with BD around the time of
      community re-entry. Assessments will occur at baseline, immediately pre-release, 4 weeks
      post-release, and 24 weeks post-release (post-treatment). This study will examine the
      feasibility and acceptability of CARE (e.g., update, adherence to, and completion of the CARE
      intervention, satisfaction with the intervention, understanding of intervention principles)
      and of this research design. This study will also examine treatment effects (within relevant
      confidence intervals) on outcomes (e.g., mood symptoms). Change in potential mechanisms
      (i.e., values-action consistency derived from intervention principles) will be examined.
    
  