
    
      Stroke is the number one cause of disability. Difficulty with walking affects most stroke
      survivors. Walking deficits (e.g. reduced ankle flexion during swing phase, decreased forward
      propulsion during terminal stance) can cause risks of falls, slow walking speed, increased
      effort of walking, and difficulties with activities of daily living. Restoration of walking
      ability can improve quality of life, and is perceived as a major goal of rehabilitation by
      stroke survivors. Examples of interventions that are used to rehabilitate walking post-stroke
      are functional electrical stimulation, fast treadmill walking, and bio- feedback. While
      recent research has focused on comparing the effectiveness of different gait rehabilitation
      interventions, the neural and biomechanical mechanisms underlying different gait
      rehabilitation strategies are unknown. FastFES is a novel gait training intervention that
      combines the beneficial effects of two independent interventions: Fast treadmill walking and
      FES. The FastFES intervention incorporates principles of physiology, biomechanics, motor
      control and learning, and predictions of forward-dynamic gait simulations to improve
      post-stroke gait.

      The overall purpose of this protocol is to assess the biomechanical and neurophysiologic
      effects of rehabilitative strategies and protocols that are commonly used during physical
      therapy treatment of gait disorders post-stroke among two cohorts of people. Aim 1 of the
      study will assess the changes in gait biomechanics, corticospinal excitability, and walking
      function during 18 sessions of gait retraining, with participants in Cohort 1. Aim 2 of the
      study assesses the effect of parameters such as walking speed (slow, fast, variable,
      split-belt walking), functional electrical stimulation parameters (short-term changes induced
      by fast versus FastFES, stimulation intensity, number of muscles stimulated), and
      bio-feedback on within-session changes in gait biomechanics, walking function, and
      corticospinal excitability, among participants in Cohort 2.

      Within Cohort 1, participants will receive identical treatment throughout the 18 training
      sessions (i.e. FastFES training). Within Cohort 2, participants will participate in 3
      training sessions of both FastFES and fast walking training, with a 3-week break between the
      two types of training.
    
  