
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To assess the safety of cellular immunotherapy utilizing ex vivo
      expanded autologous central memory T cell (TCM)-enriched cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T
      cells genetically-modified to express a CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) in
      conjunction with a standard myeloablative autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (aHSCT) for research participants with high-risk intermediate grade B-lineage non-Hodgkin
      lymphomas who have relapsed after primary therapy, or who did not achieve complete remission
      with primary therapy. (Phase I)

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) on dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and to
      describe the full toxicity profile. (Phase I)

      III. To determine the rate of research participants receiving TCM-enriched CD8+ T cells
      genetically-modified to express a CD19-specific CAR for which the transferred cells are
      detected in the circulation 28 days (+/- 3 days) by woodchuck hepatitis virus
      post-transcriptional regulatory element (WPRE) quantitative (Q)-polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the tempo, magnitude, and duration of engraftment of
      the transferred T cell product as it relates to the number of cells infused. (Phase II)

      II. To study the impact of this therapeutic intervention on the development of CD19+ B-cell
      precursors in the bone marrow as a surrogate for the in vivo effector function of transferred
      CD19-specific T cells. (Phase II)

      III. To describe the progression-free and overall survival of treated research participants
      on this protocol. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of genetically engineered lymphocyte
      therapy followed by a phase II study. Patients receive standard salvage chemotherapy per
      standard practice and undergo standard mobilization for stem cell collection with filgrastim
      and/or plerixafor. Some patients may also receive rituximab intravenously (IV) within 4 weeks
      of transplant. Patients receive standard myeloablative conditioning followed by autologous
      PBSCT. Patients then undergo infusion of ex vivo expanded autologous TCM-enriched CD8+ T
      cells expressing CD19-specific CAR on day 2 or 3 after transplant.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for at least 15
      years.
    
  