
    
      The Healthy Youth Places project will test if an intervention strategy that implements school
      environmental change, with both adult leader and youth participation, will influence and
      maintain adolescent fruit and vegetable consumption and physical activity.

      The study will assess the effects of school environment and curriculum interventions
      promoting fruit and vegetable (F&V) consumption, physical activity (PA), and their
      environmental determinants. The project will involve goal-setting and efficacy-building
      interventions designed to develop the skills and group efficacy of both adult school
      personnel and students. The adult-based interventions are designed to change the school
      environments through a school coalition assisted by a local coordinator. The youth
      interventions involve the participation of students in the processes of building the local
      health behavior environments and target both school lunch and after-school activity
      environments.

      The project encourages adult and youth participation in the process of planning and
      implementing environmental change in targeted adolescent physical and social environments
      (school lunch place, after-school program place). Environmental change is defined as
      implemented practices, programs, and policies that promote critical elements (connection,
      autonomy, skill-building, healthy fruit and vegetable and physical activity norms). These
      critical elements are social environmental processes of behavior change.

      Sixteen schools will be randomly assigned to either the experimental or the control (no
      treatment) condition. The health behavior of adolescents will be assessed during the sixth,
      seventh, eighth, and ninth grades. Measurement of F&V and PA behaviors are the primary
      outcomes and will be assessed by self-report and verified by objective measures of school
      lunch purchases and physical activity monitoring. The impact of the program on personal,
      environmental, and behavioral determinants of F&V and PA will also be measured.
    
  