
    
      Type 2 diabetes is a major public health and economical problem all over the world, including
      Finland. A healthy diet and physical activity are the cornerstones for the prevention of type
      2 diabetes. The aim of the Stop Diabetes - Knowledge based solutions (StopDia) study is to
      develop and test approaches to identify individuals at increased risk of type 2 diabetes and
      to empower them in adopting and maintaining a healthy lifestyle by combining individual and
      environment level strategies into a dual-process approach targeting deliberative and
      automatic processes of behavior. We also aim to identify barriers and facilitators of
      adopting a healthy lifestyle in the society, create a model for the prevention of type 2
      diabetes by joint actions of health care, third sector, and other societal actors, and
      develop methods to monitor the cost-effectiveness of these actions. We will recruit 10 000
      individuals aged 18-70 years at increased risk of type 2 diabetes living in the hospital
      district of Northern Savo, Päijät-Häme, or South Karelia in Finland for a 1-year randomized
      controlled trial. We will assess body height and weight, body mass index, waist
      circumference, and blood pressure, take blood samples for biochemical analyses, and perform a
      2-hour oral glucose tolerance test at baseline. The participants will be asked to fill out a
      detailed digital questionnaire on factors related to the risk of type 2 diabetes, including
      diet, physical activity, sedentary behavior, health status, physical, psychic, and social
      well-being, as well as the use of health care services and medications. The participants will
      be randomized into the control group, the digital lifestyle intervention group, or the
      combined digital and face-to-face lifestyle intervention group. The aim of the interventions
      is to enhance diet quality, increase physical activity, decrease body weight, and improve
      glucose tolerance in individuals at increased risk of type 2 diabetes. We will also
      investigate the effects of environmental interventions at certain workplaces and the
      synergistic effects of the individual level and environmental interventions in a subsample of
      the study population. All baseline assessments will be repeated after the 1-year follow-up.
      The primary outcomes will be the changes in diet, total physical activity, body weight, and
      plasma glucose levels from the oral glucose tolerance test. After the 1-year intervention
      study, follow-up examinations will be performed 3, 5, 10, 15, and 20 years after the baseline
      examinations.
    
  