
    
      3.1 Study Design This study is designed as a randomized open label 42-day follow-up study to
      evaluate the clinical and parasitological responses after treatment of uncomplicated
      P.falciparum infections with either AS or DHA-PPQ. Symptomatic patients with P.falciparum
      mono-infections, fulfilling the study criteria, will be enrolled into the study, randomized
      to one of the treatment arms and followed up for 42 days. All drug administration will be
      directly observed and the patients will be actively followed-up for 42 days according to an
      extended WHO protocol. At the end of the follow-up time, all patients carrying gametocytes
      will be treated with a single dose of Primaquine (0.75mg/kg) following national guidelines.

      3.2. Study site and population The study will be carried out in Krong Pa district, Gia Lai
      province where both P.falciparum and P.vivax malaria incidences are the highest in the
      country. The study will be located in Chu R'Cam commune where the study team will be working
      together with the local health staff and all surrounding communes health centers with malaria
      patients.

      The local population is mainly composed by the Gia Rai ethnic minority whose main occupations
      consist of slash and burn agriculture (mainly maize, manioc and rice) in forest fields,
      together with seasonal work in rubber plantations, and small-scale production of goods for
      daily subsistence or trade e.g. coffee and cashew nuts. The climate is tropical with an the
      dry season from November to April and the rainy season from May to October. The area is hilly
      and forested (secondary forest) and the main malaria vector is Anopheles dirus.

      3.4. Trial Population The target population includes all P. falciparum infected patients
      either presenting spontaneously to the CHC or being referred by the health staff of the
      surrounding CHCs.

      3.5. Trial procedures 3.5.1 Screening. All consulting patients who meet the basic enrolment
      criteria during screening will be assigned a consecutive screening number and evaluated in
      greater depth by the medical doctor. Once the patient meets all the enrolment criteria, he or
      she (or a parent or guardian in case of children) will be asked for consent to participate in
      the study and will be allocated a study number (ID=sequential numbering). Any person who
      decides not to participate in the study will be examined, treated and followed-up by the
      health facility staff according to the standard of care established by the Ministry of
      Health.

      3.5.2. Randomisation and Treatment Allocation Randomization will be carried out in blocks of
      10 with an allocation ratio of 1:1.

      At enrolment, the patient will be interviewed and examined physically and a standardized
      pre-coded questionnaire will be filled in. A venous blood sample will be collected into
      sterile vacutainer tubes containing EDTA or acid-citrate-dextrose (EDTA/ACD) from all
      patients at enrolment. A minimum of 5ml of blood -and maximum of 8 ml- will be collected from
      adults, and 1ml/kg up to 5ml will be collected from children. Two blood drops will be added
      into a 1.5 ml tube containing 500 µL of RNAprotect reagent (Qiagen).

      3.5.3 Treatment All patients will receive a full treatment of either AS alone (4mg/kg/day) or
      DHA-PPQ (target dose DHA=4mg/kg/day) for 3 days in order to evaluate early parasite
      clearance. Since a 3-day course of AS is insufficient to treat P.falciparum, it will be
      completed by an additional 3-day DHA-PPQ regimen according to WHO recommendations. Patients
      will be observed for 60 minutes after treatment for adverse reactions or vomiting. Those
      patients vomiting their medication within the first 30 minutes will receive a repeat full
      dose; those vomiting from 30-60 minutes will receive half dose.

      Rescue medications will be given following national guidelines:

      Rescue oral drug: Quinine (30mg/kg/day) and clindamycine (15mg/kg/day) for 7days; Rescue IV
      drug: Quinine (30mg/kg/day) and doxycycline (3mg/kg/day) for 7days 3.5.4. Follow up From Day
      0 until parasite clearance: after the first dose of antimalaria drug has been administered
      and observed for one hour, patients will be monitored every 12 hours by blood microscopy at
      least until day 3 and longer if necessary until parasite clearance defined as two consecutive
      negative slides. At each visit, the patient will be interviewed and examined physically, the
      follow-up form completed and any adverse event documented. A finger prick blood sample will
      be collected for the following outcomes: two blood slides for LM observation (thick and thin
      film), 200 µl of blood into an EDTA/ACD microtainer tube for later DNA extraction, and 2
      drops of blood into another microtainer tube containing RNAprotect for later RNA extraction.
      An additional drop of blood will be taken at Day 3 to measure Hb concentration.

      Day 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42 Patients will then be asked to attend the clinic (or be visited at
      home) for each follow-up visit, during which they will be interviewed and examined, the
      follow-up form will be completed, and any adverse event documented. A finger prick blood
      sample will be collected for the following outcomes: two blood slides for LM observation
      (thick and thin film), 200μl of blood in an EDTA/ACD microtainer tube for DNA extraction, and
      2 drops of blood in RNAprotect containing microtainer tube. At Day 7, 14, 28 and 42, one drop
      of blood will be taken for Hb concentration (Hemocue).

      Day of P. falciparum recurrence Recurrence is defined as any P.falciparum parasitaemia
      detected by LM examination during the patient's follow-up period and after initial parasite
      clearance. If recurrence is confirmed a further venous blood sample will be collected
      (minimum 5ml/maximum 8ml) prior to rescue treatment administration: ex-vivo assays will be
      done with one part of the blood while the remaining will be cryopreserved for future
      investigations on drug resistance mechanisms.

      3.5.5. Loss to follow-up & protocol violations Loss to follow-up occurs when, despite all
      reasonable efforts, an enrolled patient does not attend the scheduled visits and cannot be
      found. No treatment outcome will be assigned to these patients. These patients will be
      classified as lost to follow-up and censored or excluded from the analysis. Study patients
      who meet any of the following criteria will be classified as withdrawn: i) withdrawal of
      consent; ii) failure to complete treatment; iii) enrolment violation; iv) voluntary protocol
      violation; v) involuntary protocol violation.

      3.5.6 Laboratory procedures and evaluation Microscopy: three slides (thin & thick and thin
      films) should be obtained at screening. One slide will be stained rapidly (10% Giemsa for
      15min) for initial screening. Once the patient is enrolled, the other two slides will be
      stained more carefully (3% Giemsa for 45min). Parasite density will be determined by counting
      the number of asexual parasites per 200 white blood cells (WBCs) with a hand tally counter.
      If more than 500 parasites have been counted before reaching 200 WBCs, the count will be
      stopped after completion of the field. Density, will be expressed as the number of asexual
      parasites per µl of blood, will be calculated dividing the number of asexual parasites by the
      number of WBCs counted and corrected by the estimated WBCs density (typically 8000 per µl).
      When the number of asexual parasites is less than 10 per 200 white blood cells in follow-up
      smears, counting will be done against at least 500 white blood cells. A blood slide will be
      considered negative when examination of 1000 white blood cells reveals no asexual parasites.
      Gametocyte density will be computed by counting the number of gametocytes per 500 WBCs.

      Haemoglobin (Hb) concentration will be measured on whole blood collected into micro-cuvette
      using Hemocue following manufacturer instructions.

      P. falciparum molecular detection: DNA will be extracted from finger-prick blood samples
      collected in microtainers. Molecular confirmation of Plasmodium species (P.vivax,
      P.falciparum, P.ovale and P.malariae) at Day 0 will be performed by qPCR targeting 18S
      ribosomal gene. The same qPCR method will be used to identify and quantify P. falciparum
      infections at Day 0 and follow up samples.

      P. falciparum genotyping for recrudescence/new infection: genotyping of the recurrent
      infections will be done by characterizing MSP1, MSP2 and GLURP, single-copy genes in the
      Plasmodium falciparum genome as described elsewhere.

      RNA extraction and RT-qPCR for gametocytes: RNA will be extracted from RNAprotect samples
      using affinity columns and DNAse digestion of genomic DNA. To detect and quantify P.
      falciparum gametocyte stages a reverse transcription qPCR (RT-qPCR) targeting Pfs25 gene
      transcripts will be done on Day 0 and in all follow-up samples, following previously
      described protocols with modifications.

      Ex vivo drug sensitivity assays: venous blood collected in EDTA/ACD tubes (at Day 0 and Day
      of recurrence) will be processed within 6 hours after collection. Blood will be centrifuged
      and plasma and buffy coat removed and stored at -20ºC. Red blood cells will be washed twice
      in RPMI and resuspended in culture medium (RPMI 1640 LPLF liquid medium) to a 50% hematocrite
      blood medium mixture (BMM).

      Standard ex vivo drug sensitivity assay: the assessment will follow the WHO guidelines "Field
      application of in vitro assay for the sensitivity of human malaria parasites to antimalarial
      drugs" for the assessment of the response of P. falciparum to artemisinins".

      Ex vivo ring stage survival assays (RSA) In addition to standard ex vivo assays, the
      performance of ring stage survival assays (RSA) will be explored following a published
      protocol.

      Molecular markers of artemisinin resistance: extracted DNA will be used to genotype point
      mutations in P. falciparum Kelch propeller domain (K13), which have been recently identified
      as candidate resistance molecular markers for artemisinin resistance. Briefly, K13 will be
      amplified in a nested PCR using primers described in WWARN procedure INV11
      [http://www.wwarn.org/toolkit/procedures]. After agarose gel electrophoresis confirmation,
      products will be sequenced and analysed to identify polymorphisms. Alternative upcoming
      candidates for artemisinin resistance may also be explored 4. QUALITY ASSURANCE Site
      monitoring visits will be scheduled on a regular basis. During these visits, information
      recorded on the case report forms (CRFs) will be verified against source documents (eg
      laboratory records and clinic registers). After the CRFs forms are collated at the end of the
      trial, they will be reviewed for completeness and accuracy. The data will be double entered
      on site into an electronic database (Epi Info), where specially designed computer checks are
      used to identify data entry discrepancies, invalid data ranges and overall consistency. All
      discrepancies will be resolved by reference to the original checked data collection forms.

      All blood films on admission will be read at the study site as well as by a senior
      microscopist at a coordinating centre. In addition, an external quality control will be done
      at ITM on 10% of randomly selected slides. For each of the molecular assays (qPCR, RT-qPCR
      and parasite genotyping) 10% of the samples processed at NIMPE will be randomly chosen to be
      re-analysed at ITM. External quality control of ex vivo drug assay results will be done at
      ITM where the slides will be re-examined for 10% of randomly chosen isolates.

      5. Statistical Analysis Plan The parasite clearance time is defined as the elapsed time (in
      hours) from the patient's treatment (first dose) time to the first of two consecutive
      negative blood slides. Parasite clearance time and rate as well as lag phase will be fitted
      using the PCE online tool developed by the WWARN. The analysis of the 42 day cure rate will
      be performed both for the modified intention-to-treat (mITT) patient population (all
      randomised patients) and the evaluable patient population (Per Protocol). Patients are
      evaluable for the analysis of the 28/42 day cure rate if parasite counts are recorded up to
      Day 26/40 or the patient discontinues due to "Unsatisfactory therapeutic effect" because of
      reappearance of parasites. The mITT analysis also includes patients who discontinue before
      Day 28/42 due to reasons other than "Unsatisfactory therapeutic effect" (e.g. this could
      include "Adverse experience(s)" because of repeated vomiting). These patients will be counted
      in the mITT analysis as treatment failures regardless of their reason for discontinuation.
      Patients who had concomitant treatment with antibiotics which have an anti malarial effect
      will be excluded from the evaluable patients and included in the mITT.

      For categorical variables percentages and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be
      calculated using Wilson's method. Proportions will be compared by calculating the *2 with
      Yates' correction or by Fisher's exact test where appropriate. Normally distributed
      continuous data will be summarized as means and standard deviations, and compared by
      Student's t test and analysis of variance. Data not conforming to a normal distribution will
      be summarized as medians (IQR) or geometric means and compared by the Mann-Whitney U test or
      Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance. The association between 2 continuous variables will be
      assessed using Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.

      The risk of treatment failure by day28 and 42 will all be evaluated by survival analysis with
      cumulative incidences calculated by Kaplan Meier method and compared by the Mantel-Haenszel
      log rank test.

      Parasite, fever and gametocyte clearance times will also be evaluated by Kaplan Meier method.

      Hematological changes during the first week of treatment as well as recovery during weekly
      follow-up will be evaluated by measuring the changes in Hb concentration between day0, 3, 7,
      and day14, 28 and 42, respectively.

      6. ETHICAL ISSUES Ethical clearances Ethical clearance to conduct the study will have been
      obtained from the Ethics Committee of the National Institute of Malariology, Parasitology and
      Entomology, Hanoi and of the University of Antwerp, as well as from the Institutional Review
      Board at the ITM, Antwerp.

      Informed consent Patients will be included in the study only if they (or parents or guardians
      of children) give informed consent. The consent request is available in English and
      translated into Vietnamese language will be read entirely to the patient, parent or guardian.
      Details about the trial and its benefits and potential risks will be explained. Once any
      questions have been answered, a signature will be requested on the document. If the patient
      is illiterate, a literate witness must sign; if possible, the signatory will be selected by
      the participant and will have no connection to the research team.
    
  