
    
      Despite the increase in pediatric obesity, controlled intervention trials among adolescents
      are rare and fail to address vital socio-ecological factors, particularly in minority youth.
      Modification of food and activity choices is the foundation of obesity treatment; however,
      adherence to these recommendations is a major barrier. We have adapted the home-based
      Multisystemic Therapy (MST) to successfully improve outcomes in urban adolescents with
      diabetes. The objective of the present study is to adapt MST to improve adherence to
      recommended food and activity choices and reduce BMI in obese (BMI>95th percentile) African
      American adolescents (ages 12-17). Additional aims are to determine if MST changes the
      individual, family, and environmental variables related to poor food choices (e.g., parental
      monitoring). Families are recruited from the only university-affiliated medical center in
      Detroit, Michigan. Michigan's youth have higher rates of obesity, overweight, hypertension,
      and elevated cholesterol compared to the national average. Detroit has the highest percentage
      of African Americans of any major city in the US. The design is a randomized controlled trial
      with 49 obese African American adolescents, 24 of whom receive MST and 25 of whom receive
      Shapedown, a family-based behavioral group intervention. Families complete a baseline data
      collection, a 7-month post-test coinciding with treatment completion, and a 12-month
      post-test. The primary aim of this project is Despite the increase in pediatric obesity,
      controlled intervention trials among adolescents are rare and fail to address vital
      socio-ecological factors, particularly in minority youth. Modification of food and activity
      choices is the foundation of obesity treatment; however, adherence to these recommendations
      is a major barrier. We have adapted the home-based Multisystemic Therapy (MST) to
      successfully improve outcomes in urban adolescents with diabetes. The objective of the
      present study is to adapt MST to improve adherence to recommended food and activity choices
      and reduce BMI in obese (BMI>95th percentile) African American adolescents (ages 12-16).
      Additional aims are to determine if MST changes the individual, family, and environmental
      variables related to poor food choices. Families will be recruited from the only
      university-affiliated medical center in Detroit, Michigan. Michigan's youth have higher rates
      of obesity, overweight, hypertension, and elevated cholesterol compared to the national
      average. Detroit has the highest percentage of African Americans of any major city in the US.
      The design is a randomized controlled trial with 49 obese African American adolescents, 24 of
      whom receive MST and 25 of whom receive a family-based behavioral group intervention.
      Families complete a baseline data collection, a 7-month post-test coinciding with treatment
      completion, and a 12-month post-test. If successful, this intervention will provide immediate
      assistance to a vulnerable population disproportionately affected by obesity and its
      long-term health complications. The project will also provide the foundation for a larger
      clinical trial as well as future interdisciplinary studies combining behavioral and medical
      interventions. If successful, this intervention will provide immediate assistance to a
      vulnerable population disproportionately affected by obesity and its long-term health
      complications. The project will also provide the foundation for a larger clinical trial as
      well as future interdisciplinary studies combining behavioral and medical interventions.
    
  