
    
      Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), also known as CD152 (cluster of
      differentiation 152), is a cell surface protein receptor that interacts with B7-1 (CD80) and
      B7-2 (CD86) to ensure proper function of regulatory T cells and protect host against
      autoinflammatory diseases. Anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have demonstrated strong
      and broad cancer immunotherapeutic effects (CITE) in a variety of preclinical models and are
      used clinically both as monotherapy and as part of combination therapy with Nivolumab
      (anti-PD-1). However, CTLA-4 monotherapy has more immunotherapy-related adverse effects
      (irAEs) than anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. In addition, the rate of severe irAE (Grades 3 and 4)
      reached 55% in melanoma patients receiving combination of Ipilimumab and Nivolumab. The
      strong irAEs further limit the doses tolerated by cancer patients. Nevertheless, combination
      with anti-PD-1 resulted in significantly improved response rates and patient survival in
      multiple types of cancer. Furthermore, anti-CTLA-4 antibodies induce long-lasting immunity in
      cancer patients. Therefore, CTLA-4 remains an important immunotherapy target, but major
      challenges remain in improving both safety and efficacy of anti-CTLA-4 mAbs.

      ONC-392 is a highly selective, humanized monoclonal IgG1-kappa isotype antibody against
      CTLA-4. The parental clone was identified through in vivo screening in humanized CTLA-4 mouse
      model for high anti-tumor efficacy and low autoimmune toxicity. We have recently demonstrated
      that ONC-392 is dissociation from CTLA-4 under low pH to allow its escape from lysosomal
      degradation and recycle to cell surface. We have provided several lines of evidence for the
      notion that a pH-sensitive antibody ONC-392 is not only safer but also more effective in Treg
      depletion and tumor rejection than the Ipilimumab, which is pH-insensitive. First, by
      preserving CTLA-4 on the cell surface, Onc-392 leaves higher ligand density for better ADCC.

      Second, Onc-392 is more efficient in Treg depletion in tumor microenvironment. Third, Onc-392
      is significantly more potent in inducing rejection of large tumors.

      The study consists of two parts:

        1. The Part A study is a dose-finding rapid titration, Phase I trial of ONC-392 as a single
           agent in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors with various histology. The
           aim of this trial is to define the recommended Phase II dose for ONC-392 monotherapy
           (RP2D-M).

        2. The Part B study is a seamless Phase IA/IB trial of ONC-392 in combination with a
           standard dose of 200 mg pembrolizumab in patients with NSCLC. The trial consists of a
           dose-finding, dose de-escalation, Phase IA component aiming at defining the recommended
           phase II dose for ONC-392 in combination with a standard dose of pembrolizumab (RP2D-C),
           then progressing into two parallel, single arm, single stage Phase IB trials to test for
           efficacy in two cohorts of patients with NSCLC:

             1. Stage IV NSCLC anti-PD(L)-1 immunotherapy naïve with positive PD-L1 (TPS> or =1%);

             2. Stage IV NSCLC anti-PD(L)-1 refractory or resistant to immunotherapy. In the Par B
                Phase I component both immunotherapy naïve and refractory/resistant disease will be
                enrolled.
    
  