
    
      Currently, whether adjuvant therapy should be applied to Stage Ib non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) patients who received radical resection remains controversial. CALGB9633 studies have
      shown that for patients with stage Ib NSCLC who received radical resection, postoperative
      adjuvant chemotherapy does not benefit for all patients, only patients with high risk (cancer
      diameter >4cm) can benefit. There is still no clear evidence that the postoperative adjuvant
      chemotherapy or other treatments can improve the survival rate for patients with stage Ib
      NSCLC.

      The EGFR gene mutation rate is about 10% for European patients, and about 30-40% for patients
      of Asian origins. In a retrospective observation study of 1118 stage I to stage III NSCLC
      patients who received surgery, D'Angelo et al. found that the risk of death for patients with
      EGFR sensitive mutation is lower than those without mutation. The authors indicated that
      postoperative use of TKI for EGFR sensitive mutation patients might be the possible reason.
      Since the mutation rate of EGRF gene is higher in Asian patients, compared with patients of
      other origins, the investigators speculate that Asian patients might benefit for
      postoperative use of TKIs.

      EGFR gene mutation detection is routinely prescribed nowadays for lung adenocarcinoma
      patients who received surgical resection. According to NCCN guideline, stage IB patients with
      high risk factors are recommended to receive adjuvant chemotherapy. For patients who can not
      tolerate or decline chemotherapy, non-specific treatment ( Chinese herbal medicine and
      nonspecific immunomodulators as adjuvant anti-cancer treatment for 2 years) is recommended,
      otherwise, TKIs（Gefitinib 250 mg daily for 2 years) is also an alternative choice if the
      cancer has EGFR sensitive mutation. Based on patient's own choice of postoperative adjuvant
      therapy , the patients were enrolled for observation of prognosis.
    
  