
    
      Successful preemptive analgesic strategies are superior to traditional pain management
      schemes in the management of post-operative pain. The premise of this double-blind, placebo
      and positive-controlled clinical study is to evaluate the efficacy of vanilloid agonists as
      preemptive agents in an oral surgery tissue injury model. Vanilloids are a class of small
      organic compounds; the most familiar of which is capsaicin, the active ingredient in hot
      pepper. Binding of capsaicin to the vanilloid-1 receptor produces initial activation and then
      long-acting desensitization of pain specific neurons. We propose to produce a selective,
      long-term inactivation of peripheral pain transmission through the local application of
      capsaicin in the oral mucosa in an effort to prevent or reduce post-operative pain in the
      oral surgery model. Healthy subjects will be recruited, and following local anesthesia and
      conscious sedation, will be given an intramucosal injection of either capsaicin or placebo,
      or as a positive control, intravenous ketorolac. Subjects will rate pain and time of
      analgesic rescue medication request will be noted. Small biopsies will be removed from the
      extraction site prior to drug injection and at 48 hr post-operatively. Tissue levels of
      neurogenic inflammatory mediators and sensory neuron content will be compared pre- and
      post-operatively. A decrease in post-operative pain and decrease in analgesic use will be
      taken as a positive effect of the vanilloid for decreasing post-operative pain. We anticipate
      that through the long term blockade of pain specific fibers pre-operatively that there will
      be significant attenuation of post-operative pain development following surgery. This has
      significant implications for reducing pain and suffering, decreasing analgesic use, and
      reducing post-operative complications following surgery.
    
  