
    
      Primary objectives - to evaluate for solitary brain metastases whether both overall survival
      and health related quality of life (HQoL) in patients treated with radiosurgery (RS) plus
      whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) are non-inferior to those of patients treated with surgery
      (S) plus WBRT.

      Secondary objectives - to compare between the two treatment arms time to local and distant
      brain recurrence, failure free survival, acute and late toxicity.

      Hypothesis - Patients treated with RS + WBRT have neither worse survival nor worse quality of
      life than those treated with S + WBRT.

      Research plan:

        -  Trial design - Single-centre prospective randomised Phase III controlled two arm
           non-inferiority study with the "gold standard" of surgery (plus WBRT) as the control
           arm. Blinding to trial arm will not be feasible. Stratification is by Radiation Therapy
           Oncology Group Recursive Partitioning Analysis (RPA) prognostic Class 1 vs 2 vs 3.

        -  Main eligibility criteria - single presumed metastasis on MRI brain; systemic cancer
           diagnosed within the last 5 years; considered suitable for both S and RS; written
           informed consent.

        -  Main exclusion criteria - surgery indicated for life-threatening raised intra-cranial
           pressure or tissue diagnosis; surgery contra-indicated by site or medical
           co-morbidities; leptomeningeal disease; primary is small cell lung cancer, germ cell
           tumour, lymphoma, leukaemia or myeloma.

        -  Radiation - WBRT dose is 30 Gy in 10 fractions over 2 weeks. RS dose is based on lesion
           size up to 4 cm (15-20 Gy).

        -  Surgery - Aim is complete excision.

        -  Treatment sequence and patient assessments - Any sequencing of S/RS and WBRT is
           allowable, as long as the brain treatment is commenced within 2 weeks after, and
           completed within 6½ weeks after the diagnostic MRI brain. Assessments at baseline,
           during brain treatment, at 2 and 3 months after commencement, then 3 monthly, with MRI
           brain at 3 and 6 months, and/or as clinically indicated. Acute toxicity monitored by NCI
           Common Toxicity Criteria, late toxicity by RTOG/EORTC Late Radiation Morbidity Scheme.
           HQoL assessed by EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BN20.

        -  Sample size - 30-40 patients over 5 years.

      Outcomes and Significance:

      The trial will enable Level I evidence to be applied to this common clinical problem.
      Patients will be able to make an informed choice based upon valid survival, quality of life
      and toxicity comparisons.
    
  