
    
      United States Veterans have disproportionately higher risk for end stage renal disease (ESRD)
      compared to the general population. Veterans with ESRD on maintenance hemodialysis (HD)
      suffer from alarmingly high mortality rates and hospitalizations mainly related to
      cardiovascular disease. Extracellular volume (ECV) excess is a primary contributing factor to
      cardiovascular disease and the heightened mortality rate in HD patients. Extracellular volume
      excess remains difficult to identify in clinical practice, and the standard approach to fluid
      management in the clinical setting involves arbitrary trial and error attempts to remove
      fluid without invoking hemodynamic instability such as intradialytic hypotension.
      Bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) is a useful research tool for assessing ECV; however, it is
      not feasible in routine practice, and there is little data on how its use affects
      intermediate and hard clinical outcomes. There is an unmet need for an approach to guide
      ultrafiltration in clinical practice that addresses both reduction of ECV and other mortality
      outcomes as well as minimization of intradialytic hypotension. The long-term goal of this
      study is to develop a more precise, patient-specific fluid management approach to be tested
      in a large clinical trial aimed at reducing mortality in Veterans on HD. The overall
      objective of this project is to utilize the investigators' novel, patient-specific
      ultrafiltration algorithm as an intervention in a clinical trial using mortality risk factors
      as the primary outcomes. The central hypothesis is that prescribing ultrafiltration
      prospectively based on an individual patient's intradialytic blood pressure slopes (IBPS)
      from recent treatments is superior to standard care at reducing ambulatory blood pressure and
      ECV without increasing risk for intradialytic hypotension. Aim 1 will use an un-blinded,
      controlled randomized clinical trial to demonstrate the effects of an IBPS-based
      ultrafiltration prescription compared to standard clinical practice. Each month, updated
      ultrafiltration prescriptions for the IBPS group will be determined based on the most recent
      treatment data. The primary outcome will be change in mean systolic 44-hour ambulatory blood
      pressure after 4 months. Other outcomes will include 1) change in post-HD ECV/body weight
      using multifrequency bioimpedance spectroscopy, 2) change in post-HD total peripheral
      resistance index using a non-invasive cardiac output monitor, and 3) between-group comparison
      of the frequency of intradialytic hypotension and intradialytic symptoms. Aim 2 will involve
      a cross sectional analysis of baseline data of subjects from Aim 1 in addition to consecutive
      enrollment of additional hypertensive HD patients. In addition to Aim 1 measurements,
      subjects will undergo transthoracic echocardiograms on a non-HD day to obtain measurements of
      left ventricular ejection fraction as a metric of systolic function, mitral inflow and mitral
      annulus velocities as a metric of diastolic function, and left ventricular mass index. Mixed
      linear models will be used to determine how these metrics independently influence the
      association between ECV/body weight and IBPS. The strength of the association between IBPS
      and ECV/body weight will then be determined within each tertile of the distributions of
      systolic and diastolic dysfunction. Finally, there will be an assessment of how the
      echocardiogram based metrics influence the likelihood of intradialytic hypotension with
      prospective follow up while controlling for ECV/body weight. If successful, this study will
      provide nephrologists with an easily-implemented, individualized approach to fluid management
      in Veterans on HD that safely reduces ECV excess and related mortality risk factors. Because
      no approach currently exits, this could immediately change clinical practice of managing
      Veterans with ESRD. The long term impact will be the opportunity to utilize the data
      generated to design a large, multi-center trial directly evaluating this intervention's
      effect on mortality in Veterans with ESRD on HD. The observed reduction in blood pressure can
      be used to determine expected mortality, while the echocardiogram data can be used to
      determine phenotypes of patients that may need to be considered for inclusion/exclusion
      criteria.
    
  