
    
      Background:

      It is now apparent that virtually every human post-natal tissue contains some type of
      stem/progenitor cell population that is responsible for tissue turnover and repair. Our
      previous studies have identified a subset of human bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) that is
      multi-potent and able to regenerate bone, cartilage, myelosupportive stroma and adipocytes,
      whereas stromal cells derived from human spleen (SpSCs) and thymus (TSCs) only form
      myelosupportive stroma. Recent studies suggest that human adipose-derived stromal cells
      (ASCs) may be similar to BMSCs, whereas stromal cells derived from human dermis (DSCs) have
      none of these properties (and serve as a negative control for most experiments in vitro and
      in vivo). How similar or dissimilar these different stromal cell populations are has yet to
      be determined. Molecular profiling is needed to compare these different populations and in
      order to elucidate the factors that control differentiation stromal cells into one cell type
      or another.

      Objectives:

      Surgical waste (bone with red marrow, dermis, and adipose tissues) from males and females of
      varying ages undergoing clinically indicated surgical procedures will be used to establish
      stromal cell cultures to study the molecular profile and differentiation capacity of the
      stromal cell populations from different tissues, and to further characterize the regulation
      of gene expression and protein synthesis in these stem/progenitors cells.

      Eligibility:

      Any patient who is undergoing clinically indicated surgery that entails removal of bone with
      red marrow, dermis and adipose tissue.

      Design:

      Normal surgical waste (bone with red marrow, dermis, and adipose) from procedures that are
      performed on males and females at Children's Hospital will be placed in nutrient medium
      (provided by NIDCR) and sent to the NIDCR for the establishment of cell culture strains. Only
      the age, gender, site from which the tissue was removed and clinical diagnosis will be
      recorded. The cell cultures from the different tissues will be used to determine their
      phenotypic character and differentiation properties by molecular profiling, and for studies
      to elucidate the regulation of gene expression and protein synthesis. Similarly, a portion of
      the samples obtained at Children's Hospital will be used to generate histological sections of
      the tissues. In some cases, RNA will be extracted from the tissues for RT-PCR analysis.
      Normal samples (cells, sections, mRNA) will also serve as normal controls for studies
      performed on samples obtained from patients with various diseases recruited to NIH under
      current NIH protocols (97-D-0055, 97-D-0145, 01-D-0184). Pathological samples (cells,
      sections, mRNA) will be studied in order to elucidate the cause of disease.
    
  