
    
      Stroke is a major cause of disability and worldwide. Hand motor impairment is frequent after
      stroke. Even mild impairments of the upper limb negatively impact disability and quality of
      life in these patients significantly contributes to disability. Therapeutic alternatives for
      hand motor rehabilitation are deeply needed.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has emerged as a potential tool to
      improve hand motor performance after stroke. While high-frequency rTMS (HF-rTMS) often
      increases motor cortical excitability, LF-rTMS often has the opposite effect. Up-regulation
      of excitability in the affected hemisphere by HF-rTMS or down-regulation of the UH by LF-rTMS
      can restore the balance in inter-hemispheric inhibition and hence, facilitate movement of the
      paretic hand Both strategies, as well as the combination of both, have yielded encouraging
      results when applied in proof-of-principle, single-session studies to patients with mild hand
      motor impairment in the subacute and chronic stages after stroke. However, few rTMS studies
      included patients less than six months after stroke, and effects of LF-rTMS of the unaffected
      hemisphere in patients with severe motor impairment in the subacute phase have not been yet
      reported.

      The investigators opted for a novel approach to enhance hand motor recovery, by examining
      feasibility, safety and preliminary efficacy of either active or sham LF-rTMS of the UH or
      sham rTMS as add-on therapies to outpatient customary rehabilitation, to patients with mild
      to severe hand paresis, within 5-45 days after unilateral ischemic stroke. The investigators
      hypothesize that, at this stage, LF-rTMS will be feasible even in patients with severe motor
      deficits, will have minimal adverse events and will enhance effects of customary
      rehabilitation on hand motor performance.
    
  