
    
      This study will be a prospective single arm pilot study. It will be conducted with approval
      from the Research Ethics Committee of NUI Maynooth and The Hermitage Medical Clinic Lucan in
      collaboration with Mutebutton Ltd, Nova UCD. This study will be conducted over a 16-week
      period with 60 suffering from permanent intractable tinnitus (>6 months) and with an
      accompanying/ co-existing high-frequency hearing-loss. Participants will be screened for a
      4-week run-in period prior to commencement of treatment where baseline measures will be
      obtained and sampled every 2 weeks. Following this run-in period they will receive treatment
      for 10 weeks and will be followed up 2 weeks post-treatment. For the duration of the study
      they will be assessed every 2 weeks in the clinical environment. Participants will be given
      the IFU (Appendix 3) along with the device and given step by step instructions on how to use
      it, and a detailed description of each control, indicator and connection. Participants will
      use the MuteButton device for minimum of 1 hour a day for a period of 10 weeks.

      The efficacy of the intervention will be assessed by the change in several psychoascoutic
      assessments assessed every at each of the 6 follow up visits with the investigators at 2 week
      intervals.

      The Psychoacoustic Assessment will include:

      Tinnitus Matching (Pitch) - symptom severity Tinnitus Loudness Matching (TLM ) - symptom
      severity Minimum Masking Level (MML) - symptom severity

      Questionnaires to be utilised will include:

      Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) - symptom severity Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI) - symptom
      severity A primary endpoint at 16 weeks is to show a reduction in a THI, and psychoacoustic
      assessment will be established. Secondary endpoint will include reduction in MML, and
      psychoacoustic assessment will be established.
    
  