
    
      The UCSF Positive Health Program (formerly called the AIDS Program) at San Francisco General
      Hospital (SFGH) is one of the oldest and largest HIV/AIDS clinics in the United States.
      Located at the public hospital serving medically indigent residents of San Francisco, the
      Positive Health Program (PHP) provides over 2,000 patient visits per month to 2,300 patients
      in a comprehensive HIV primary care setting. The clinic population is disproportionately
      affected by heroin and other opiate abuse problems. Opiate replacement therapy (ORT) has a
      stabilizing effect in HIV-infected injecting drug users (IDU) and is associated with greater
      acceptance of antiretroviral (ARV) therapy, higher ARV adherence, and greater engagement in
      appropriate HIV-related health care. However, there are insufficient resources to meet the
      critical substance abuse treatment needs among our opioid-dependent patients.

      In partnership with the Community Behavioral Health Services (CBHS) section of the San
      Francisco Department of Public Health (SFDPH), the UCSF Positive Health Program (PHP) at San
      Francisco General Hospital (SFGH) has developed a model of care, which provides
      opioid-dependent patients with integrated, office-based buprenorphine ORT in the HIV primary
      care setting. The program also offers primary care providers with education and training on
      addiction, opiate addiction treatment, and the appropriate use of buprenorphine. An
      evaluation of the program is planned to examine: (1) its effects on the health and substance
      use of patients; (2) program costs; and (3) what broader impact the program has on providers,
      institutions, and local systems. In the patient evaluation study, eligible, opioid-dependent
      patients that receive primary HIV care at the PHP will be randomly assigned to receive
      buprenorphine ORT for twelve months either in the integrated HIV primary care setting
      (intervention group) versus a non-integrated substance abuse treatment clinic setting
      (comparison group). Data will be abstracted from medical chart reviews and will be collected
      from patients using standardized instruments and satisfaction surveys.
    
  