
    
      Patients will be randomized into two groups. Patients in group 1 will receive on the first
      day the standard hyposodic diet - cooked without salt, with 2g of salt (sachet) to be added
      by the patient at each meal (lunch and dinner). After the first day dinner, these patients
      will respond to the diet acceptance questionnaire. On the second day, patients in this same
      group will receive the hyposodic diet cooked with controlled amount of salt at lunch and
      dinner. The hyposodic diet cooked with controlled amount of salt is cooked with 2 grams of
      salt that is divided for all the preparations, according to standardized recipes. After
      dinner, the patients will respond again to the diet acceptance questionnaire, however
      referring to the diet received in this day.

      Patients in group 2 will receive the same intervention, however changing the order of
      reception of the diets, so, on the first day they will receive the cooked hyposodic diet with
      controlled amount of salt and on the second day the standard hyposodic diet (salt sachet).

      The questionnaire applied refers to the reasons for not accepting the diet. The same
      questionnaire will be applied twice for each patient, after each of the diets offered -
      standard hyposodic and hyposodic cooked with controlled amount of salt.

      The amount of food that was ingested by the patients, for both diets, will be evaluated by
      weighing the food that remains in the thermal of each meal. Leftovers of the preparations
      should be stored properly in plastic bags, separated by patient and properly identified, to
      be weighed in an electronic scale and immediately discarded in an appropriate place. It will
      be noted how much the patient refused from each preparation, in grams. The value obtained
      will be subtracted from the quantity, in grams, of the same preparation offered to the
      patient. The result of this operation (amount in grams of the preparation accepted / ingested
      by the individual) will be converted into percent. To determine the weight of the sended
      food, a thermometer will be weighed, which will be sent on the day, according to the standard
      home measure used.
    
  