
    
      The goal of this Career Transition Award is to acquire research training in clinical and
      neurophysiologic dimensions of motor disorders in cerebral palsy. Dr. Mark Hallett of the
      Human Motor Control Section, NINDS, will act as the principal mentor for this training award.
      Cerebral palsy is a group of syndromes with non-progressive motor impairment resulting from a
      static injury to the developing brain. The processes of growth and development further
      complicate the motor syndromes of cerebral palsy leading to a changing clinical picture.
      Mirror movements in children with spastic hemiplegia are prominent in the affected hand under
      10 years of age, but are more symmetric and less noticeable after this age. Investigators
      speculate that callosal maturation is responsible for these changes. Understanding the affect
      of development on motor manifestations of cerebral palsy is critical to develop effective
      rehabilitative strategies at each stage of life. Many children with cerebral palsy make
      significant contributions to society as adults, but these achievements are possible only by
      overcoming physical and educational impediments with effective therapeutic interventions.
      Research into therapeutic strategies can decrease the possibility of performing inappropriate
      or irreversible interventions. A major obstacle to research in this group of patients is
      difficulty in distinguishing between motor syndromes. Neurophysiology can help to distinguish
      between the specific hypertonic patterns and their contribution to the child's functional
      disability. The focus of the research proposed in this award is to use neurophysiologic
      methods to enhance our understanding of the motor disabilities of spastic diplegia and to
      explore the affect of development on these disorders. One set of studies, coinciding with
      training in the physiology of motor control, explores the more basic physiologic aspects of
      motor syndromes in spastic diplegia. These studies will assess diplegic children with the
      goal of clarifying the physiologic nature of these motor disorders and their relationship to
      functional status of the patients. A second set of studies examines motor skills in spastic
      diplegia children at different ages with the goal of defining the affect of callosal
      development on the motor syndromes of cerebral palsy.
    
  