
    
      Primary hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a genetic cardiac disease characterized by
      thickening (hypertrophy) of the left ventricular (LV) wall, dyspnea and/or fatigue in the
      setting of a normal or supra-normal LV ejection fraction. The specific mechanisms underlying
      heart failure-related symptomatology in non-obstructive HCM are poorly defined, but as the
      vast majority of HCM patients with heart failure have apparently preserved LV contractile
      function, their symptoms of dyspnea and fatigue are presumed due to perturbations of the
      relaxation/filling phase (diastole) of the cardiac cycle, which has been termed "diastolic
      dysfunction". In fact, diastole is mechanistically complex and involves LV pressure decay
      (relaxation), chamber compliance and atrial contractile function. LV end-diastolic volume,
      which represents fiber stretch, governs LV contractile function and stroke volume via the
      Frank-Starling mechanism. End-diastolic fiber stretch is, in turn, dependent on late
      diastolic filling due to atrial ejection. This atrial "booster pump" is load-dependent and
      also responsive to inotropic effect. The interaction of atrial inotropic reserve, LV
      end-diastolic pressure (atrial afterload) and LV compliance (which mediates LV end-diastolic
      pressure and volume) may be generically considered as "atrio-ventricular coupling" which, in
      theory, should be at least partially responsible for modulations in exercise-induced
      augmentation of cardiac output related to enhancement of LV end-diastolic volume or "preload
      reserve". Previous studies have suggested that limitations of preload reserve may explain
      exercise-associated symptoms of congestive heart failure. The potential ability of new
      technologies to accurately assess atrio-ventricular coupling as it relates to preload reserve
      present opportunities for investigation into mechanisms of heart failure operative in
      patients with stiff left ventricles with intact systolic function. Elucidation of these
      previously unapproachable mechanisms may be important in targeting therapy and the design and
      analysis of future interventional trials.

      In this pilot study, we hypothesize that exercise intolerance in HCM patients is due to
      limited LV preload-reserve which, in turn, is mediated by disequilibrium of atrio-ventricular
      coupling and, possibly, limitations in atrial inotropic reserve. We will test novel analytic
      tools, including measures of LV compliance and load-independent atrial systolic fuction
      (atrial systolic elastance), in attempts to dissect out the components of atrio-ventricular
      coupling which underly HCM-associated symptoms and reduced preload reserve. Further, we will
      assess serum and cardiac MRI markers of myocardial fibrosis to determine the effect of
      collagen remodeling on LV relaxation, compliance and atrial afterload. Finally, we will
      examine the effects of short-term cardiac glycoside (inotropic) therapy on atrial systolic
      elastance, preload reserve and exercise tolerance. The results of this investigation will be
      implemented in the design of subsequent interventional protocols targeted towards mechanisms
      of the stiff heart syndrome.
    
  