
    
      BACKGROUND:

      More than half of all Americans are overweight or obese, and the prevalence of these risk
      factors has increased dramatically in the past decade. Obesity is a risk factor for several
      chronic illnesses, including type 2 diabetes and heart disease. The national medical cost
      that is attributed to obesity is estimated to be between $60 and $93 billion. Business
      leaders are becoming increasingly aware of the human and economic burden that poor health
      imposes on their workers. Many employers have invested in health promotion and disease
      prevention programs aimed at reducing the prevalence of obesity in the workplace through the
      encouragement of physical activity, maintaining a healthy diet, and improved management of
      health risk factors. Employers continue to seek innovative and evidence-based programs that
      can be implemented in the workplace to address a growing public health epidemic that also
      adversely affects worker productivity.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The primary objective of this study will be to evaluate the effect of introducing two levels
      of environmental programs, in addition to existing individualized programs, at reducing
      obesity in the workplace. Five outcomes will be evaluated: 1) body mass index and other
      weight-related biometric measures; 2) behavioral health risk factors; 3) weight-related
      health conditions; 4) health care utilization and medical expenditures; and 5) employee
      productivity measured in terms of reduced absenteeism and on-the-job presenteeism. The study
      will also include an assessment of costs and benefits of the two programs, including the
      medical, absenteeism, and productivity benefits, and an assessment of the impact of the
      programs on the worksite climate. Twelve Dow chemical companies will participate in the
      study. Participants will be randomly assigned to a moderate environmental program, an
      intensive environmental program, or a control group, which will receive individualized
      treatment only. The moderate program will include inexpensive environmental changes (e.g.,
      prompts and reminders). In the high intensity program, senior managers will assist in the
      development of a worksite culture that is broadly supportive of improved weight and health
      management by employees. Annual health screening and biometrics data along with
      administrative medical claims, absence records, and productivity survey data will be analyzed
      to determine program impacts. Non-experimental statistical methods will be used to control
      the differences that remain across sites after randomization. The study will also produce
      extensive information about how employers can successfully implement environmental programs
      to reduce obesity at worksites.
    
  