
    
      Regular physical activity contributes to the health and quality of life of older adults, but
      unfortunately only 20% of men and 25% of women aged 65 years and greater meet the minimal
      national guidelines for physical activity. Older Latinos have higher rates of diseases that
      are most likely to benefit from physical activity, but have disproportionately high rates of
      sedentary lifestyle. To address this major public health problem, this study will implement
      and evaluate a multifaceted intervention to raise and sustain walking levels among older
      Latinos.

      A total of 600 sedentary older Latinos will be recruited from community-based senior centers
      in the greater Los Angeles region. The specific aims of the study are to test the effect of
      the intervention on:

        1. the change in steps per week measured by digital pedometer from baseline to 1, 12, and
           24-month follow-up;

        2. self-reported physical activity level and intervening constructs (including expectations
           regarding aging and self-efficacy expectations for physical activity);

        3. psychosocial health constructs, physical performance measures, and clinical health
           outcomes.

      The core of the intervention consists of a series of 4 weekly 1-hour group discussion
      sessions that utilize attribution retraining techniques from the field of motivational
      psychology in combination with behavioral strategies based in social cognitive theory.
      Discussion sessions will be conducted at senior centers and led by a bilingual health
      educator; each session will be followed by a 1-hour exercise class aimed at increasing
      strength, flexibility and endurance. During the discussion sessions, the health educator will
      administer a structured culturally-tailored curriculum in which participants are taught to
      raise their expectations for physical activity with aging and not to attribute being
      sedentary to "old age." The 4 weekly sessions will be followed by monthly sessions for 11
      months, and sessions every 2 months for the following 12 months (total intervention duration
      = 24 months). Participants will be randomized to 1 of 2 arms:

        1. intervention arm: receiving the discussion session and the exercise class;

        2. control arm: receiving just the exercise class with the same frequency and duration as
           the intervention group.
    
  