
    
      Rapid host-to-host transmissions coupled with the ease of international travel has led to
      epidemics such as H5N1, H5N5, SARS, and, most recently, the COVID-19 pandemic. Traditional
      epidemic control measures, such as contact tracing and physical isolation, are paramount to
      mitigate the extent of disease spread at the early stage of the pandemic and these strategies
      depend on the accuracy and speed of diagnosing suspected patients.

      Now the gold standard for pathogen detection is nucleic acid detection via polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR). However, this strategy is limited by the turnaround time, expensive PCR
      machine, and potential number of infections. Thus, other isothermal amplification methods are
      often used to circumvent the need for extra instrumentation and speed up the whole detection
      procedure.

      One approach to improve infectious disease screening efficiency is the popular Dorfman
      testing, where samples are pooled together and tested at the same time to reduce the total
      number of tests performed. However, the Dorfman testing is limited to low prevalence
      population and has reduced sensitivity; Barcoding strategy has also been introduced to solve
      pooling sample test. In 2020, Schmid-Burk and his colleagues combined LAMP and barcoding
      which successfully developed COVID-19 from 100,000 pooled samples. However, the need of a
      expensive next-generation sequencer limits its widespread use.

      Methods

      The proposed platform aims at development of a multistep process in one device, and the
      capability of identifying the source of positive signals from pooled samples. The proposed
      design will take advantage of a barcoding strategy to tag multiple sources of analytes prior
      to pooling, a combination of isothermal amplification and sequence-specific electrochemical
      detection, and the integration of several steps in one simple device. The research project
      methodology will be divided into three parts.

      (i) To develop an isothermal amplification method and real-time detection using
      electroactive-labelled loop oligonucleotide probes

      The investigators have recently conceptualized a method, for which the investigators have
      filed a US provisional patent protection. This new technique performs the isothermal
      amplification and electrochemical detection of amplicons simultaneously based on
      Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP). The proposed scheme involves a one-pot
      amplification and detection system in which an electrochemical reporter is attached to one of
      the primers and a nicking enzyme is added to cleave the reporter only when amplification
      occurs. In one reaction, a template DNA is designed to have two pairs of primer binding
      sites: an outer pair of forward and backward primers (FP and BP) and an inner pair of
      primers, namely, an electrochemically labeled loop probe (LP) and an assistant probe (AP).
      The FP and LP bind to the same strand of the double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) template while the
      BP and AP bind to the opposite strand. The LP contains an electroactive label at the 5' end
      and a 3' overhanging segment complementary to the target DNA sequence. The stem region
      contains the recognition sequence of a nicking enzyme, but a mismatch is introduced to the
      last nucleotide so that it will not be cleaved without the presence of the target DNA. The
      start of the reaction is similar to ordinary LAMP, a double-loop amplicon can be produced,
      and the reaction can come into the double loop amplification stage. Each of the double-loop
      amplicons can be regarded as a signal amplification unit. Once the labeled LP is combined
      with the amplicon and form a cleavage site that can be recognized by the nick enzyme, an
      electroactive label can be released, and an electrochemical signal will be generated. The
      preliminary results indicate that the strategy is able to detect up to 0.1 fg/μL,
      corresponding to around 10 copies/μL of the input DNA, by using a methylene blue
      electroactive reporter on four-array screen-printed carbon electrodes (SPCEs) within 30 min.
      The succeeding steps include incorporating a reverse transcription step for the detection of
      RNA samples and testing the system in complex matrices to mimic actual biological fluids.

      (ii) To design a molecular strategy to barcode four individual samples so that they can be
      pooled together and to simultaneously amplify and identify the positive individual, if any,
      from the pooled sample.

      By designing four barcode sequences, the investigators are able to construct tagged cDNA
      products through reverse transcription by BST enzyme. Thermolabile exonuclease I is added to
      digest unreacted single strand barcode primers. In addition, the cDNA-RNA duplex product is
      digested by RNase H to yield a single-stranded cDNA (ID-template).The pooled mixture of
      ID-templates is amplified through the same process described in the previous section. Only
      those samples with the RNA virus will generate positive electrochemical signals.

      In this part, the investigators will use synthesis virus RNA or commercial extracted virus
      total RNA as a detection template. The spiked samples can be mocked by mixing with human deep
      throat saliva or nasopharyngeal swabs from healthy volunteers.

      (iii) To fabricate a microfluidic device to integrate the sample processor and barcoding
      module with the nucleic acid amplification and detection step for large-scale population
      screening

      In this project, the investigators design a simple and easy-to-use microfluidic pen-like
      device that integrates the steps of sample preparation, barcoding, and amplification and
      detection. It uses piston propulsion to provide power to push the sample into different
      chambers. First, the mock samples are added into a sample loading chamber where the lysis
      buffer is stored. A mixture of surfactin, SDS, and ethanol allows the rapid extraction of
      viral nucleic acid, which is then injected down to the identification chamber containing the
      freeze-dried BST polymerase and ID-tag primer mixture. The temperature will remain at 37
      °C-50°C for reverse transcription. Then, the sample is injected to the chamber containing
      thermolabile exonuclease I. The heating block is then set to 65 °C for 5 min to deactivate
      the enzyme. Thereafter, the four samples are pooled together and injected into an
      electrochemical detection chip below the microfluidic pen. Each chip contains four sets of
      primers and LPs with different electroactive reporters with non-overlapping redox potentials
      to trigger the amplification reaction in the presence of respective participant's ID
      sequences.

      The detection chamber sits atop a multichannel electrochemical workstation, which consists of
      a connection port between the electrochemical sensor and detector, a circuit board, and a
      power line for external display. The circuit board is mainly composed of a microcontroller
      unit, a digital-to-analog converter, and a potentiostat module to allow for differential
      pulse voltammetry analysis and simultaneously obtain the signals from an array of electrodes
      and thereby detect a total of 100 samples.

      (iv) To validate the performance of the prototype using a clinical specimen and benchmark it
      against the detection data from commercially available testing equipment.

      The proposed method of pooled sample testing will be compared with the gold standard RT-PCR
      test in terms of sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive
      value, and accuracy. After demonstrating the validity of the results obtained from the
      proposed pooling strategy, the investigators will then explore the possibility of using
      saliva and mouth gargle samples in lieu of the nasopharyngeal swabs. Patients will be
      recruited from the Prince of Wales Hospital for collection of respiratory samples to
      determine the accuracy of this device.

      A. Study procedures

        1. Participants' medical records to collect clinical data, including age, sex, number of
           days after the onset of symptoms, epidemiological exposure to people with confirmed
           COVID-19 disease, severity (mild, moderate, severe, or critical), and the presence of
           comorbidities will be reviewed.

        2. SARS-CoV-2 PCR results of the participants from hospital electronic record will be
           retrieved.

        3. Nasopharyngeal swab, deep throat saliva, and/or mouth gargle sample from each recruited
           patient will be collected.

      B. Laboratory procedures and data analyses

        1. Sample preparation The samples collected from the 200 patients will firstly be divided
           for two sets with similar prevalence, and each sample size is 100. The first set 100
           samples will be extracted by using commercial viral RNA extraction kits provided by
           HKUST, and then be stored for further RT-qPCR analysis and the LAMP-based method
           verification.

        2. RT-qPCR assay To prepare RT-qPCR result as the reference, the extracted samples from
           mentioned above will be analyzed using RT-qPCR for the qualitative and quantitative
           detection of nucleic acid from the SARS-CoV-2, and a negative, a positive and a blank
           control experiment should be included. The cycle thresholds (Ct) values, qualitative and
           quantitative results of each sample will be recorded. The RT-qPCR procedures will be
           followed by existing CDC-recommended guidelines. The qPCR primer and Taqman probe sets,
           and SARS-CoV-2 RNA standard reference will be provided by HKUST.

        3. Pooled sample experiments The second set 100 inactivated samples will be divided into 25
           groups randomly (each for 4 samples), and the investigators will perform SARS-CoV-2
           group testing for the 25 pools using the microfluidic device developed above with HKUST
           researchers. Based on the RT-qPCR results, the sensitivity, specificity, and positive
           and negative predictive values will be calculated for further data analysis by HKUST.

      Study conduct

      This study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  