
    
      The dramatic increase in opioid prescriptions over the past years has been linked to the
      concomitant rise in opioid addiction and to deaths from opioid abuse. Young adults' initial
      exposure to opioid analgesics is often following extraction of their impacted third molars,
      with an average of 5,000,000 cases in the USA per year. Over-prescribing of opioids for
      surgical pain, often 2-5 times more than patients actually use, further exacerbates this
      problem, as patients tend to save leftover pills rather than discard them. Up to 70% of
      individuals who become addicted to prescription opioids had access to leftover pills
      prescribed for others. This is particularly troubling as the odds of transitioning to heroin
      from prescription opioid abuse are much higher than other suspected gateway drugs, about 40
      fold greater than non-gateway drug users. Heroin is now often laced with fentanyl derivatives
      making overdose and death more likely in even the most opioid tolerant individuals.

      Multiple studies have demonstrated that non-addicting nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen and diclofenac are effective in relieving pain after dental
      impaction surgery, being at least equally efficacious to optimal doses of immediate release
      opioid formulations combined with acetaminophen. However, these assessments of pain relief
      represent average scores and approximately 22% and 50% of individuals required additional
      opioid-containing rescue analgesics when ibuprofen and diclofenac were employed at
      FDA-approved dosages. A deeper understanding of the sources of variability in pain relief
      should allow improvements in the overall efficacy of NSAIDs by targeting treatment to those
      who are most likely to receive sufficient pain relief. Thus, optimizing pain therapy with
      NSAIDs by personalization would be expected to help limit the unnecessary prescription of
      highly addicting immediate release opioids. Moreover, these results may have applicability to
      other types of pain that are driven by inflammation.
    
  