
    
      The Division of Cancer Prevention and Control (DCP, formerly DCPC), under extramural
      contracts to 10 U.S. clinical centers, is evaluating the effectiveness of screening for
      prostate, lung, colorectal and ovarian cancer (The PLCO Trial). In 1996 the NCI Executive
      Committee approved the expansion of the PLCO Trial to collect additional materials and to
      conduct additional studies. About 74,000 men and 74,000 women, aged 55-74 years, have been
      randomized on a 50/50 basis into screening or usual care arms. Additional blood is collected
      from screened subjects and saliva for buccal cells from control subjects. Pathologic tissues
      are obtained for cases that develop cancer or selected related diseases (e.g., colon polyps,
      benign prostatic hyperplasia). Additional questionnaire-based risk and disease-related
      information is also collected, with confirmation of disease status from medical records.
      Genetic, biochemical and questionnaire-based risk information will be related to the
      development of cancer and other diseases in this population. Volunteers who provide samples
      for these studies will not routinely receive their individual results from the Additional
      Investigation. Subjects requesting such information, however, will be provided with the
      research results. In 2009 the NCI Executive Committee approved the Extended Follow-up of
      subjects beyond the original 13-year follow-up period. Participants will be reconsented for
      the release of records to a single NCI-Designated Central Data Collection Center (CDCC),
      which will administer the annual mailings containing the annual study update questionnaire
      and a brief (1-2 page) risk factor questionnaire. Individuals who do not consent to release
      their identifiers to the CDCC will be followed up passively through linkage to state cancer
      registries and the National Death Index.

      This protocol Review Application is for (1) the collaboration of intramural scientists in the
      Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics (DCEG) in the Additional Studies and (2) the
      coordination, in collaboration with DCP, of the Extended Follow-up.
    
  