
    
      Advanced age substantially increases the risk for a host of diseases including cardiovascular
      disease, type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer. A major factor that appears to
      underlie this increased risk with age is reduced capacity to resist oxidative injury or
      oxidative stress. Therefore, maintaining or increasing the capacity to resist oxidative
      stress appears critical to the prevention of age-related disease and promotion of successful
      aging. One potential reason for the lower resistance to oxidative stress with age is a
      gradual shift in the redox state toward a more oxidized cellular environment potentially
      disrupting cell-signaling. Nuclear erythroid-2-p45-related factor-2 (Nrf2) is the master
      regulator of antioxidant defenses. Nrf2 drives expression of a host of genes involved in
      cellular detoxification and antioxidant defenses. There is strong evidence from animal
      studies that Nrf2 signaling is reduced with aging and can be at least partially restored with
      moderate exercise training, however the gap in current knowledge is whether these data do in
      fact translate to humans. This study will test the following hypotheses in young and older
      men and women: i) aging is associated with impaired Nrf2 signaling in response to acute
      exercise and ii) moderate exercise training will improve Nrf2 signaling in older, inactive
      individuals, and this will increase their resistance to oxidative stress. These hypotheses
      will be tested by comparing 25 young (18-28y) and 25 older (≥60y) inactive individuals before
      and after an 8-week exercise intervention (n=15 per age group) and in comparison to
      non-exercising age-matched control groups (n=10 per age group). Nrf2 signaling will be
      measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in response to acute exercise and will
      include gene expression (NRF2, NQO1, HO1, GCLC), protein abundance (NRF2, KEAP1, NQO1, HO1,
      GCLC) and Nrf2-ARE binding capacity. Resistance to oxidative stress will be measured by
      plasma F2-isoprostane response to forearm ischemia/reperfusion. The results will increase
      understanding of the mechanisms of diminished stress resilience with aging and the plasticity
      of these pathways. This will determine whether targeting Nrf2 signaling will be effective for
      prevention or treatment of these age-related changes which has an enormous public health
      impact due to the potential of lowering disease risk and medical costs. An additional
      significance of this project is creating opportunity for undergraduate and graduate students
      to become involved in research, an important purpose of the Academic Research Enhancement
      Award (AREA) program and a mission of Northern Arizona University.
    
  