
    
      This study is designed to demonstrate that the performance of the AL-SENSE developed by
      Common Sense Ltd. is safe and effective and can be used to indicate if the patient may be
      experiencing an amniotic fluid leakage .

      The AL-SENSE is an extended shelf-life product that is technically simple, fast to react,
      visually readable, and therefore enables women to test the cause of any unidentified wetness,
      before confirmation by a physician.

      Principles of operation:

      Vaginal fluids are discharged over time and collected on the non-intrusive panty liner. If
      the user observes a blue or green stain, the result of the test is positive. The AL-SENSE
      polymer matrix is stained by blue or green color on a pale yellow background when the pH
      level of the fluid in contact with it is greater than the cutoff value.

      The AL-SENSE will indicate that the pH level is elevated when the level is equal or greater
      than 6.5. This choice of 6.5 units as the cutoff level will limit the cases of false positive
      and will reduce unnecessary alarm.

      Summary of Study Design

      Design: Prospective open-label, comparative pivotal study with comparison of self-assessments
      with blinded investigator assessments.

      Patient Population: Pregnant women, ages 18 and above.

      Baseline/ Screening

      Subjects attending the labor and delivery unit of the hospital or emergency clinic and
      reporting unidentified wetness (undetermined whether this is amniotic fluid leakage or
      urinary incontinence) will be enrolled in this study. After informed consent is obtained,
      each subject will be given a single AL-SENSE to use up to 12 hours or until the perception of
      wetness. The clinician will explain the proper use and handling of the AL-SENSE and how to
      read the result. The participants will be provided with instructions for use and also
      directed to read the Instructions For Use (IFU) prior to applying the AL-SENSE pad.

      Product Usage

      After usage, the subject will read and record any occurrence of color change of the AL-SENSE
      10 minutes after the liner removal . The subjects will fill out the questionnaire regarding
      the product usage experience and the liner color reading with no help from the investigator,
      to validate IFU reading comprehension.

      Clinical Diagnosis

      A blinded clinician will perform a "standard clinical diagnosis" (clinical assessment), and
      record the results on a worksheet to be included in the case report form. The standard
      clinical diagnostic methods will include the following tests: (1) Pooling test, (2) Ferning
      test, (3) pH test by pH paper.
    
  