
    
      Inclusion Criteria

        -  18 years of age or older.

        -  Histologically proven malignancy of primary tumor. Histologic diagnosis may be
           established from needle biopsy, cytology, or a surgical biopsy or resection. If the
           nature of the lesion has been previously through biopsy, the lesion to be treated does
           not require further documentation.

        -  Metastatic disease documented either by imaging techniques (plain radiographs,
           radionuclide bone scans, computed tomography scans and magnetic resonance imaging) or by
           histology. Other imaging techniques may be acceptable with the approval of the principal
           investigator.

        -  ≤ 3 treatable painful bone metastases.

        -  "Worst Pain Score" of > 3 on a scale of 10 during a 24-hour period (as scored on the
           Brief Pain Inventory [BPI] question #3: 0 = no pain; 10 = worst possible pain) despite
           level II analgesic medications.

        -  Prothrombin time (PT) >50%, Thrombocytes >50x109/L.

        -  Estimated life expectancy of 3 months or greater, as estimated by the responsible
           clinician.

        -  Targeted tumor clearly visible in B-mode ultrasonography, and accessible to US-HIFU
           treatment, based on imaging data.

        -  Agreement from the anaesthetist for a IV conscious sedation

        -  Signed study-specific informed consent prior to inclusion.

        -  Negative pregnancy test before inclusion for women of childbearing and or efficient
           method of contraception.

        -  Patient with social security coverage. Biphosphonate, chemotherapy or hormone therapy
           intake should remain stable (if possible) throughout follow-up duration.

      Exclusion criteria for subject selection

        -  Pregnant or lactating women.

        -  Radiation therapy to the targeted sites within 30 days prior to enrollment.

        -  Targeted tumor mass is less than 10 mm from spinal cord, nerve bundles, bladder, bowel,
           or hollow viscera,

        -  Targeted tumor located in skull (including facial bones), vertebral body or sternum.

        -  Site at need for surgical stabilization

        -  Uncontrolled bleeding disorders.

        -  Hematologic primary malignancies.

        -  patient participating in other trials using drugs or devices
    
  