
    
      Perilunate injuries commonly occur from high-energy sporting or automobile accidents and
      require urgent surgical intervention. Although these wrist injuries are commonly encountered
      in the population, their complexity often goes unrecognized. In fact, some perilunate
      dislocations (PLDs) or perilunate fracture-dislocations (PLFDs) may be missed in spite of
      critical clinical and radiographic examination, leading to a delay in treatment. If left
      untreated for an extended period of time the outcomes of surgical repair are significantly
      compromised. The recovery process is very long, often with poor prognosis (a high incidence
      of post-traumatic osteoarthritis and chronic wrist pain).

      Early surgical management with the restoration of normal carpal anatomy is the gold standard
      for surgical repair of perilunate injuries. Surgical repair may involve an open reduction of
      the carpal bones, repair or reconstruction of the ligaments, and internal fixation of the
      fractures for PLDs and PLFDs. However, there is a huge variability with respect to approach
      and a lot to be desired with respect to outcomes. Open surgical procedures have been reported
      to lead to capsular scarring and joint stiffness and further interfere with the tenuous blood
      supply to the scaphoid and the torn ligaments. Another treatment options, which may aid in
      healing with reduced stiffness, is a combination of fluoroscopy and wrist arthroscopy which
      allows for anatomic reduction and fixation of the carpal bones with minimal tissue
      dissection. Injury variability and a wide array of surgical strategies make it difficult to
      treat and/or make improvements on specific techniques. Given the varied nature of the injury
      to this joint and varied outcomes, it is important to categorize the injury characteristics,
      the subsequent treatment options and the long-term outcomes of different clinical
      interventions. Many different surgical techniques have been advocated with a variety of
      reduction and fixation maneuvers, but unfortunately, the literature is sparse. There are
      disagreements with respect to volar, dorsal or combined surgical approaches. There is no
      consensus on the value of prophylactic carpal tunnel release. Some surgeons advocate direct
      ligament repair, while others feel it is unnecessary. A third group advocates for
      augmentation of the scapholunate ligament with screws or a graft. While most surgeons use
      smooth k-wires to hold the carpal reduction, there is no agreement on direction, number, size
      and position of k-wires. Further, there is no agreement on how long these k-wires should be
      left in place or on any aspect of rehabilitation.

      Globally these injuries have been poorly studied and ideal timing for surgical intervention,
      optimal treatment and rehabilitation are unknown. The investigators hope to establish
      best-evidence clinical practice guidelines for the treatment of perilunate injuries including
      recommendations on the timing of reduction, the timing of surgery, best-practice surgical
      techniques and rehabilitation protocols. The C3PO Trial will represent the single largest
      prospective dataset ever accrued on perilunate injuries with the support of both Canadian
      hand and trauma-fellowshipped trained orthopaedic surgeons and corresponding research
      societies. This project has the potential to create a paradigm shift in the way surgeons
      think about the perilunate injuries from identification through to prognosis which would be
      beneficial to all orthopaedic traumatologists managing these patients.

      The study has 3 major nested arms. The investigators have designed a national prospective
      registry intended to capture all perilunate injuries suffered in Canada over a 2 year period.
      Within this registry, the investigators have an embedded cohort to capture all injuries that
      present to registered trial centres. These patients will be consented to the cohort and
      subsequently have extensive perioperative data recorded as well as both short and long-term
      follow-up (with no modification of treatment). The subset of these patients that suffer
      specific complete injury to the SL ligament will then be offered enrollment into the
      prospective trial for randomization to either SL screw or SL k-wire(s). All data points are
      the same for cohort and RCT arms. All data collection (i.e. relevant demographics, injury
      characteristics, surgical and management parameters) will be obtained and managed by a
      customized REDCap database housed at the trial coordinating centre.

      Participants, 14 years of age or older, clinically diagnosed with a perilunate injury and
      willing to adhere to the study protocol will be included for study participation. They must
      be willing and able to attend all recommended post-operative follow-up visits based on the
      advice of their surgeon. All participants will complete questionnaires and undergo both
      clinical and radiographic evaluations. These evaluations will begin at baseline, continue at
      the first post-operative visit, and the following intervals: 3, 6, 12, 24, 60 and 120 months.
      Individuals will be excluded if they have cognitive impairment or unable to understand what
      participation in this study entails, a known alcohol or drug abuser, or anticipated to be
      non-compliant. We, the investigators have powered this study to support the embedded RCT,
      with an expected N = 50. The investigators anticipate 50 randomized patients over a 2 year
      period with an overall 200 patients entered into the cohort and an additional 200 in the
      registry arm.
    
  