
    
      Participants in the intervention group will receive the following three-week, three-session
      intervention. The details are as follows.

      Education (20 min). At first week, education will be delivered through face-to-face for the
      following information: (1) HBV infection and increased HCC risk; (2) HCC screening
      recommendations regarding eligibility, available screening tests and recommended screening
      intervals; (3) pros/advantages of undergoing HCC screening; (4) cons/disadvantages or
      uncertainties of undergoing HCC screening; (5) implications of positive screening results;
      and (6) health costs. The education material will be present in a self-made manual, which
      will be explained and distributed to each participant.

      Tailored psychosocial information (20 min). It will be conducted after education. The
      tailored messages will be developed to form a message library for each sub-scale of the
      preventive health model instrument with scoring ≤ 3 and > 3. The contents will be based on
      HCC screening guidelines and recommendations. The nurse counsellor will select and explain
      tailored information based on individual's responses to the preventive health model
      instrument.

      Values clarification exercises (30 min). At the second week, the decision counselor will work
      with participants through telephone-based way to go through values clarification exercises,
      in which participants will: (1) review the listed pros and cons decision factors of
      undergoing HCC screening one by one; (2) indicate the extent to which each pros and cons
      matters to them by giving stars; (3) add any other reasons for choosing or not choosing HCC
      screening and indicate their importance; and (4) indicate their decision preferences toward
      undergoing HCC screening, unsure, or not undergoing HCC screening.

      Exploring and addressing implementation barriers (20 min). At the third week, the decision
      counselor will work with participants, through telephone-based ways, to explore possible
      barriers to undertake HCC screening; identify possible solutions or available resources to
      the identified barriers via brainstorming; and encourage implementation of the chosen
      solution to overcome the barriers and schedule for HCC screening.
    
  