
    
      Most clinical trials do not regularly monitor for negative social harms experienced by
      participants in any systematic way. Participation in HIV trials often places participants at
      a heightened risk of oppression, discrimination, and victimization. These risks may be
      compounded when participants are substance abusers. Although foreseen risks are generally
      outlined in the consent form and monitored throughout the study, many social harms are
      unforeseen and, consequently, are not discussed or monitored. Without systematic monitoring,
      the majority of social harms likely go undetected. Recognizing the high level of social harm
      that may arise as a result of participation in HIV vaccine trials, several National Institute
      of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)-sponsored groups began to incorporate general
      assessments to measure the social impact of research participation in HIV vaccine trials.
      Although this has provided a preliminary model for monitoring social harms in clinical
      research, the assessments have several shortcomings that limit their reliability, validity,
      and utility. In general, they are administered in an interview format that may be cumbersome
      to the research team. Furthermore, participants may feel uncomfortable or reluctant to report
      social harms directly to the interviewer, resulting in inaccuracies or underreporting of
      negative events. Interview items generally address large classes of behavior rather than
      specific behaviors, reducing the sensitivity and construct validity of the assessments, and
      questions used across agencies are not standardized. Finally, these assessments do not
      include harms specific to substance use, a major risk factor for HIV/AIDS transmission. The
      two-phased project aims to improve the collection of social harms among HIV trial
      participants by developing a comprehensive, audio computer assisted self-administered
      interview social harm questionnaire (ACASI-SHQ) that will allow researchers to more easily
      identify and monitor social harms experienced by substance abusers participating in HIV
      trials. The proposed study will proceed in two phases. In Phase 1, the investigators will
      develop the ACASI Social Harm Questionnaire (SHQ). In Phase 2, the investigators will conduct
      a controlled study to evaluate its acceptability, feasibility, and utility and construct
      validity.

      During Phase 1 the investigators will first conduct a systematic literature review to
      identify existing tools that researchers currently use to measure social harm or impact
      experienced by research participants. In addition, the investigators will survey 100
      researchers who are currently conducting National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded
      HIV-related trials involving substance abusers. The sample will be randomly selected from a
      pool of researchers meeting this criterion identified through the NIH RePORTER database. The
      brief telephone survey will include questions about methods used to collect data on social
      harm including specific questions asked, mode of administration, frequency of assessment,
      perceived ease of data collection, and concerns related to the assessment. During this phase
      the investigators will also conduct a focus group with 10 former research participants to
      gather information about their experiences and perceptions of social harm in HIV-related
      research trials. The research team in collaboration with a multidisciplinary panel of experts
      will draft a beta-version of the SHQ content and format. The expert panel will also assist in
      identifying an optimal trial in which to test the finalized instrument in the second phase of
      the study. Finally, the investigators will conduct a protocol analysis of the beta-version
      through interviews with 20 individuals who are currently enrolled in an ongoing National
      Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA)-funded HIV prevention trial being conducted by the
      investigators. This is intended to ensure that items are correctly and similarly understood
      by subjects, and to provide insight into better methods of phrasing or structuring questions
      and response options to properly convey their meaning. Upon completion of the protocol
      analysis, the revised instrument will be finalized by the investigators, programmed into the
      ACASI format, beta-tested by the research team, and critically reviewed by our expert panel
      before the final programming of the ACASI-SHQ is completed.

      During Phase 2, we will conduct a pilot study to evaluate the acceptability, feasibility, and
      utility and construct validity of the ACASI-SHQ. Individuals consenting to the host study
      will be offered the opportunity to participate in the pilot study, and they will receive a
      manualized written informed consent procedure. We will enroll a total of 80 individuals into
      the pilot study. All participants will complete two measures of social harm at monthly
      research appointments for a three month period. The social harms assessments will be (1) the
      ACASI-SHQ that was developed in Phase 1 and (2) the HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) Social
      Impact Assessment. At each appointment, the order in which the instruments are delivered will
      be counterbalanced to control for carryover effects. At the end of Phase 2, host study
      research team will complete the ACASI-SHQ Feasibility and Acceptability Questionnaire.
      Additionally, the PI and Co-I will conduct a focus group with the research team to collect
      qualitative data on the feasibility, acceptability, and perceived benefits of the ACASI-SHQ
      and information to guide its future implementation.

      The recruitment, study design, conditions, arms, interventions, and eligibility criteria
      sections of this record reflect the involvement of the 80 participants who will participate
      in Phase 2 pilot testing of the ACASI-SHQ.
    
  