
    
      OIF and OEF service men and women exposed to high levels of violence are at risk for
      developing mental health disorders including Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Major
      Depressive Disorder (MDD). Even those with less severe symptoms who fail to meet diagnostic
      criteria for a mental health disorder may struggle to return to pre-deployment functioning.
      Studies suggest that a significant percentage of veterans may suffer from "subthreshold"
      PTSD; although their symptom presentation is less severe, these veterans experience emotional
      distress and reduced quality of life.

      Given that Veterans Affairs (VA) mental-health service providers are faced with the important
      and challenging task of alleviating the emotional suffering of our service men and women
      while staying within budget confines, we need effective, practical, evidence-based treatments
      that can be delivered in an expedient and cost-effective manner. Thus, the current project
      has two primary objectives: 1) to develop, implement, and evaluate a treatment program
      (Behavioral Activation and Therapeutic Exposure, BATE) for OIF and OEF veterans with PTSD
      symptoms, and 2) to determine whether or not this program delivered via telepsychology will
      be as effective as in-person treatment. Secondary objectives include determining: 1) which
      treatment modality is more effective in terms of process variables (e.g., treatment
      satisfaction, session attendance), 2) which treatment modality is more cost-effective, and 3)
      whether treatment effects differ across race and gender. Study participants will be
      randomized to two treatment conditions, BATE delivered via telepsychology (BATE-T) and BATE
      delivered in-person (BATE-IP).

      The current treatment protocol is based on two, research-supported therapeutic rationales,
      Behavioral Activation (BA) and Therapeutic Exposure (TE). Briefly, the treatment aims to
      increase the participant's engagement in healthy activities (i.e., activities that are
      naturally reinforcing and promote the participant's life values) and exposure activities
      (i.e., activities that target specific PTSD symptoms such as avoidance and hyperarousal).
      Treatment will be implemented in eight, one and half hour sessions. Although research
      supports the effectiveness of behavior- and exposure-based treatments for trauma-related
      mental health problems, a potential risk for any counseling program that targets avoidance
      symptoms is a temporary increase in emotional distress. Therapists will inform participants
      that this is a normal "side effect" of treatment. However, over the course of treatment
      should a participant's emotional distress rise to a level above what can be handled via
      outpatient counseling, the participant will be removed from the study and appropriate
      referrals will be made.

      The anticipated duration of this study is four years. Based on results of the study, we will
      finalize the treatment manual. In terms of clinical applicability, we plan to present study
      findings at conferences and disseminate the treatment manual to VA mental health service
      providers in approximately four to five years. Study findings will address important gaps in
      the PTSD literature, yielding several contributions to the field. First, to the extent that
      BATE effectively reduces symptom severity, this investigational treatment may benefit
      individual OIF/OEF service men and women by alleviating emotional suffering and improving
      quality of life. Second, to the extent that BATE prevents the development of full-blown PTSD
      in subclinical military personnel, this investigational treatment may reduce attrition from
      the military due to untreated mental health problems. Third, only a small percentage of those
      who might benefit from counseling actually seek services due to barriers associated with
      traditional service delivery practices such as geographic distance from the VA hospital and
      stigma of psychological treatment. Thus, as telemedicine has been shown to circumvent these
      barriers to care, the current project has the potential to reach an otherwise underserved
      population: subclinical OIF and OEF service men and women who may be reluctant to seek care.
      Fourth, to the extent that BATE-T produces results comparable to BATE-IP, this study may
      potentially identify a cost-effective alternative to in-person treatment thereby reducing
      post-service treatment costs to VA's.
    
  