
    
      Background

      The oral chemotherapy agent Xeloda® was recently extended by the Hong Kong Hospital Authority
      as subsidized therapy for the treatment of colorectal cancer1. Xeloda®-based chemotherapy
      regimen has shown to be more cost-effective than 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) considering they had
      equivalent clinical efficacy in colorectal cancer treatment2,3. The total cost for 5-FU-based
      regimen was higher for the healthcare provider and society as a whole. Gastric cancer ranks
      fourth in cancer-related cause of death in the Hong Kong population4. 5-FU has known
      antitumor activity and has been used successfully in advanced gastric cancer (aGC) with
      cisplatin (FP), as well as with oxaliplatin ± epirubicin (FOLFOX4, EOF). When substituted
      with Xeloda®, the XP and EOX regimens have demonstrated to be noninferior in terms of
      progression-free survival when compared with FP and EOF, respectively5,6. In an economics
      evaluation done by the manufacturer for NICE submission on the use of Xeloda® for treatment
      of aGC, the use of XP regimen allowed a cost reduction while eliminating possible
      complication related to intravenous therapy7. Moreover, FOLFOX4, one of the common 5-FU-based
      regimens used locally, has demonstrated to produce a median overall survival of 10 months in
      advanced/metastatic gastric cancer patients8. An effect similar to that of EOX. Currently,
      there is no local data suggesting similar economic impact with Xeloda®-based regimen for
      gastric cancer when compared with 5-FU-based regimens. It is worthwhile to see if
      Xeloda®-based therapy for gastric cancer is a cost-effective alternative.

      Study Objective

      To compare retrospective costs of treatment with Xeloda®-based and 5-FU-based regiments in
      patients with advanced gastric cancer in Hong Kong.

      Methods

      This is a retrospective cost-minimization study to be conducted in a public hospital in Hong
      Kong. Sixty (60) gastric cancer patients will be identified from existing case records (30
      who completed a Xeloda®-based regimen and 30 who completed a 5-FU-based regimen) in the study
      sites. Baseline characteristics from both groups prior to chemotherapy, including
      demographics, ECOG performance score, liver/renal function, metastases, and survival will be
      obtained. Cost data will also be extracted from patient records.

      Information to be collected include cost of hospital admission and length of stay, outpatient
      visits, diagnostic tests and treatments, chemotherapy regimens, all other drug therapy,
      adverse side effect management, travel, and patient time. Baseline characteristics and costs
      will be compared. Descriptive statistics will be utilized and sensitivity analysis will be
      performed to investigate the robustness of the cost model.
    
  