
    
      1. Subjects Consecutive patients of unresectable HCC diagnosed from January 2006 at the
           liver clinic, AIIMS will be included in the study if they fulfill the following
           criteria-

           Inclusion criteria · Patients above 12 years of age with performance status (PST)score
           of 0-2

           · Unresectable HCC with underlying Child's A/B cirrhosis

           · Normal Main portal vein and its branches

             -  Normal Inferior vena cava

             -  No history of drug allergy

             -  Informed written consent of patient.

             -  Less than 50% involvement of liver by HCC

           Exclusión criteria

           · Unresectable HCC with underlying Child's C cirrhosis

           · Performance status 3-5

           · Extrahepatic disease

           · Vascular involvement

             -  Co-morbid illness like coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, chronic
                renal failure etc

             -  Previous history of encephalopathy/ upper gastrointestinal bleed in the last six
                months

             -  HCC in a female of child bearing age

        2. Diagnostic criteria

             -  Cirrhosis of liver- Diagnosis will be founded on the basis of clinical, biochemical
                and endoscopy findings.

             -  Hepatocellular carcinoma- when any one of the following is present

        1. Any two imaging modalities(Ultrasound (US), dual phase CT (DPCT)/ contrast enhanced MRI)
           showing arterialization of the hepatic mass

        2. AFP more than 400ng/ml along with arterialisation on one imaging modality (DPCT/
           contrast enhanced MRI)

        3. FNAC

      3. Randomization

      · Patients will be randomized after the confirmation of diagnosis and obtaining written
      consent

      · Sequences will be generated by the Statistician

      · Stratified randomization will be done. Two strata of child's A and B will be made

      · Randomization will be done by drawing consecutively numbered opaque sealed envelopes

      · Randomization into A (TACE) and B (TACE +oral chemotherapy) will be done.

      4. Definitions

        1. Unresectable HCC-

           · Liver mass larger than 5cm in diameter (single/ multiple), involving less than 50% of
           the liver.

           · Multiple masses more than three in number and more than 3cm in diameter.

        2. Tumor response

           This will be based on Dual phase CT findings

           · Complete response (CR)- Tumor fully covered with lipiodol showing no viable tissue

             -  Partial response (PR)- Tumor partially covered (>75%) by lipiodol

             -  Mild response (MR)- About 50 to 75% coverage of the tumor by lipiodol

             -  No response (NR) - About 25 to 50% coverage of the tumor by lipiodol

             -  Fresh lesions (FL)- Appearance of new mass lesions in the liver with or without
                recurrence at the site of previous mass

        3. Patient tolerance- Grade 1: no side effects Grade 2: moderate side effects Grade 3:
           severe side effects Grade 4: life threatening side effects

        4. Performance status (PST score)

           PST score of 0-5 would be assessed on the following basis 0- No cancer related symptoms.
           Normal life style 1- Minor symptoms related to cancer. Capable of non-strenuous
           activity. Fully ambulatory 2- Ambulatory and capable of all self care but unable to
           carry out any work activities Confined to bed less than 50% of waking hours 3- Capable
           of only limited self care. Confined to bed more than 50% of waking hours.

           4- Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self care. Totally confined to bed. 5- Death

           5. Sample Size Systematic review of RCTs for TACE show a 2 year survival of 37%.
           Expecting that addition of oral drugs would increase survival to 37 to 60%, for a power
           of 80% and error of 5%, a sample size of 73 patients in each arm would be required
           (Total 146 patients).

           6. Procedure of TACE

           · Patient would be admitted a day prior to the procedure

           · Patient would be made to fast overnight with intravenous fluid infusion started for
           maintaining hydration

           · Pre-procedure analgesic (3rd generation antibiotic) would be started at a dose of 2gm
           intravenously, 12 hourly, at least 12 hour before the procedure and continued 5 days
           post procedure

           · Under local anesthesia, the Femoral artery would be punctured at the upper thigh with
           a Medicut 18 gauge

           · A catheter would be introduced through this route with the help of a guide wire and a
           flush aortogram, superior mesenteric arterioportography and the celiac artery run would
           be undertaken to define the size and location of the tumors, feeding vessels and to
           assess the portal vein patency

           · Superselective catheterization of the hepatic artery feeding the tumor would be done

           · By placing the catheter tip beyond the gastroduodenal artery, the chemotherapeutic
           drugs would be administered.

           · Stable drug mixture would be prepared by using Doxorubicin 50mg, Cisplatin 100mg in
           combination with 10-15ml of ionic contrast media and 10-20ml of lipiodol by continuously
           agitating the mixture.

           · Hydrocortisone 100mg and augmenting dose of analgesic and sedative would be injected
           prior to the administration of the drug.

           · The drug mixture would then be injected through the indwelling arterial catheter by
           continuously flushing alternately, repeatedly and rapidly between two lever lock
           syringes connected across a three way.

           · Gelfoam particles would be injected following this for embolization

           · Post procedure, devascularization would be confirmed by additional angiography of the
           hepatic artery.

           · Procedure would last approx 45mts-1 hour.

           · Tight compression would be given at the punctured site and patient would be shifted to
           the ward once complete hemostasis is achieved.

           7. Follow up post TACE Clinical follow up

             -  All patients would be followed up in the Liver clinic monthly unless their clinical
                condition warrants earlier follow up

             -  Liver function tests/ complete blood count would also be done at each visit and AFP
                (if elevated earlier) every six months

             -  Patient tolerance, child's status would be estimated. Imaging follow up

             -  At one month, a dual phase CT would be done to ascertain the response to therapy
                and the need to repeat the procedure. Subsequently, the DPCT would be done at 3 and
                6 monthly intervals.

             -  Once the tumor shows complete coverage, randomization into the two treatment groups
                would be done

                9. Repeat TACE on follow up This would be done if any of the following is noted

             -  DPCT shows viable tumor

             -  Fresh lesions appear

             -  Elevated serum AFP occurs with or without appearance of viable mass on DPCT

                10. Oral chemotherapy Drugs used would be Thalidomide and Capecitabine in the
                following dosage schedule-

           Thalidomide---100mg once a day (OD) for 7 days, Increased to 200mg OD for 7 days,
           further increased to 300mgOD for 7 days till a maximum of 600mg once a day is reached

           Capecitabine---- 500mg OD for 7 days, then 1000mg OD for next 7 days, increased to a
           maximum dose of 1500mg OD.

           Total leucocyte count & Platelet count would be monitored every 15 days

           11. Duration of follow up- Two years after achieving total coverage of the mass lesion
           on DPCT

           12. Outcome measures Following parameters will be used to ascertain the outcome of
           treatment

             1. Primary Outcome

                  1. Survival rate- calculated from the start of TACE

                  2. End point Group 1 - Progression of disease and repeat TACE is not possible
                     Group 2 - Death

             2. Secondary Outcome

                  1. Tumor response on dual phase CECT

                  2. Patient tolerance

                  3. Childs' status of cirrhosis- will be ascertained at one and two years of
                     follow up depending upon the Childs' scoreScore <6- Childs'A, 7-9 Childs'B and
                     >10 Childs'C
    
  