
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the safety and pharmacokinetics of anti-IGF-1R fully human monoclonal antibody
           AMG-479 (AMG-479) after multiple intravenous administrations in adult patients with
           histologically documented advanced solid tumors that are refractory to standard therapy
           or for which no curative therapy is available.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the tolerability and to determine the maximum tolerated dose of AMG-479.

        -  To assess tumor glucose metabolism using PET/CT scanning with the tracer fludeoxyglucose
           F 18.

        -  To measure insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-1R) levels on peripheral blood
           cells.

        -  To establish whether human anti-human antibodies to AMG-479 develop in patients with
           advanced solid tumors.

        -  To measure the tumor response by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors.

      Tertiary

        -  To investigate bone turnover markers.

        -  To investigate potential biomarker development by biochemical analysis in blood cells
           and tumor cells.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Part 1 (dose-escalation): Patients receive escalating doses of anti-IGF-1R fully human
           monoclonal antibody AMG-479 (AMG-479) IV over 1 hour on days 1, 15, and 29. Patients are
           evaluated in week 8, and those who demonstrate an objective tumor response or stable
           disease continue treatment beginning on day 57. Treatment with AMG-479 repeats every 2
           weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Part 2 (randomized dose-expansion): Patients are randomized to one of two dose regimens.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive AMG-479 IV over 1 hour at a lower dose on day 1.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive AMG-479 IV over 1 hour at a higher dose on day 1.
                Treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity. Tumor tissue is obtained at baseline and after 4 weeks of
                study therapy for biomarker analysis.

      Blood is drawn periodically for biomarker analysis (insulin-like growth factor [IGF]-1,
      IGF-binding protein 3 [IGF-BP3], IGF-1 receptor [IGF-1R], cross-linked c-telopeptides of type
      1 collagen [CTx], bone-specific alkaline phosphatase [BSAP], and tartrate-resistant acid
      phosphatase [TRAP5b]) and pharmacokinetic studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for at least 4 weeks.
    
  