
    
      Study design and sampling

      This is a prospective study with a randomized double-blind design that will be conducted
      between October 2015 and October 2016.

      Patients scheduled for pilonidal sinus surgery will be included. Patients will be randomly
      distributed to one of 2 groups with 30 patients in each, using the sealed envelope technique.
      Group one will receive sacrococcygeal local anesthesia with 75µg/mL of clonidine, while group
      two will receive sacrococcygeal local anesthesia with 150µg/mL of clonidine.

      Anesthetic techniques

      Being a double-blinded study, a specialized nurse will prepare the syringes for each patient.

      Sacrococcygeal local anesthesia technique

      The Sacrococcygeal block will be performed with the patient in the prone position. Four
      injection sites are marked on the skin after aseptic preparation.

      The sites are placed as follows: 4 cm below and above the pilonidal sinus and 3 cm lateral to
      its center on both sides. Therefore a "lozenge" is formed by connecting the 4 sites.

      At first, an injection of 0.3 ml lidocaine 1% is injected at each site using an 8-mm 30G
      needle. Then 4 injections are admitted to each of the 4 injection sites in turn, with equal
      supply of the anesthetic mixture in the following manner: a 10-mm 27G needle containing the
      anesthetic mixture is introduced perpendicularly to the skin and the mixture is infiltrated.
      The needle is partially withdrawn and reinserted at 45 degrees to the skin aiming towards the
      center of the pilonidal sinus and an injection will be performed. Then the needle is
      partially withdrawn again and reinserted at an angle of 45 degrees to the skin aiming at one
      side of the lozenge then at the other side where injections are done.

      In case of a multiple pilonidal orifices, a hexagon is done. These sites are then
      anesthetized as previously described.

      Anesthetic mixture

      For group 1, the syringe will contain: lidocaine 2% 14 mL, bupivacaine 0.5% 5 mL, and
      clonidine 0.5 mL with 0.5 mL of saline (thus 75 µg/mL).

      As for group 2, the syringes will contain: lidocaine 2% 14 mL, bupivacaine 0.5% 5 mL, and
      clonidine 1 mL (thus 150 µg/mL).

      Depending on each patient's weight and type of pilonidal sinus, the anesthetic mixture might
      vary from 30 to 40 mL in total.

      Data collection

      Demographic data, type and duration of surgery will be recorded. Haemodynamics will be
      registered at all times (pre-operatively, intra-operatively and post-operatively).

      Pain will be assessed using VNRS with 0 being no pain and 10 maximum pain for 48 hours
      post-operatively.

      As for postoperative analgesia consumption, patients with a VNRS score less than 3 are given
      paracetamol 1000 mg each 8 hours. If VNRS is between three and four, patients are given
      Tramadol Hydrochloride 50-100 mg every 4- 6 hours and if the VNRS score is greater or equal
      to five, patients receive 1 mg/kg Dolosal.

      Return to normal activity will be defined by the ability to sit, walk and work comfortably
      and will be assessed by calling the patients.
    
  