
    
      Consolidation chemotherapy with high dose cytarabine usually causes myelosuppression for 14
      to 21 days after each treatment. Patients have low blood counts for days or weeks before the
      bone marrow resumes function. This may result in e.g., hospitalization, treatment with
      antibiotics, and transfusions with blood and/or platelets. In addition, this may cause a
      delay in treatment and reduction in dose. To achieve the best outcome from treatment, dose
      reductions and delays in treatment must be avoided.

      The incidence and duration of decreased white blood cells (neutropenia) and neutropenic
      complications have been reduced by the use of growth colony stimulating factors.
      Additionally, the use of erythropoietin-stimulating factors has reduced anemia and the need
      for red blood cell transfusions. Thrombocytopenia remains an important limiting factor in
      administration of chemotherapy and maintaining dose intensity in some patients. Additionally,
      the risk of bleeding secondary to low platelet counts may increase sickness or even death in
      patients undergoing cancer treatment.

      Thrombopoietin (TPO) is the principal cytokine involved in the regulation of megakaryopoiesis
      and platelet production. Eltrombopag is an orally bioavailable, small molecule, TPO-receptor
      agonist that stimulates platelet production by a similar, but not identical, mechanism to
      endogenous TPO. Eltrombopag has been approved in the U.S. for the treatment of chronic
      Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura. Eltrombopag is also under development for other
      indications such as Hepatitis C Virus-associated thrombocytopenia, Myelodysplastic
      Syndrome/AML, and oncology related thrombocytopenias. This agent appears to possess many of
      the desirable properties for a treatment for chemotherapy induced thrombocytopenia, including
      oral administration.

      The Phase I portion of this study will be conducted using a dose escalation/de-escalation
      strategy for patients in either the first or second complete remission. Dose escalations are
      planned in the form of both acceleration of date of initiation of eltrombopag relative to the
      start of consolidation chemotherapy as well as increasing daily dosing.

      The Phase II portion will be conducted using the dose and schedule selected from the Phase I
      portion of the study for those patients in first complete remission. Patients will be used as
      their own controls, e.g., a two-period two-treatment cross-over design. Patients will be
      randomly allocated 1:1 to one of two sequences. Patients randomized to Sequence A will
      receive eltrombopag with their first cycle of consolidation and placebo with Cycle 2.
      Patients randomized to Sequence B will receive placebo with their first cycle of
      consolidation and eltrombopag with Cycle 2. The treatment assignment will be blinded to the
      patient and all study/sponsor personnel.

      Patients will undergo blood sample collection for Thrombopoietin(TPO)/ Erythropoietin(EPO)
      and pharmacokinetic analysis of eltrombopag in Phase I and pharmacokinetic analysis of
      eltrombopag in the Phase II portion of the study.
    
  