
    
      Lifestyle interventions targeting overweight individuals can produce positive "ripple"
      effects on untreated overweight partners in the home. Interestingly, ripple effects on
      partners' weight appear most pronounced when the interventions target women. Women, and
      mothers in particular, remain the primary "nutritional gatekeepers" of the home. Despite
      widespread recognition that motherhood is a powerful motivator for behavior changes, no study
      to date has examined the "ripple" effects of prenatal lifestyle interventions that target
      mothers' gestational weight gain. The primary aim of the proposed study is to determine
      whether lifestyle interventions to prevent excessive gestational weight gain in
      overweight/obese pregnant women have positive "ripple" effects on untreated partners in the
      home. The proposed study is ancillary to two randomized phase III clinical trials in the
      LIFE-moms consortium (1U01HL114377-01, PI Phelan; 3U01DK094463-03S1, PIs Pi-Sunyer and
      Gallagher) that are examining the efficacy of multi-component lifestyle interventions to
      prevent excessive gestational weight gain in a total of 650 overweight/obese women. In this
      ancillary study, partners' weight, home environment, and psychosocial behaviors will be
      assessed when their pregnant partners are ~13 weeks gestation (study entry), 35 weeks
      gestation and at 6 and 12 months postpartum. We hypothesize that partners of pregnant women
      randomized to the lifestyle intervention, relative to those of standard care, will have
      greater weight losses through 12-months. Secondary aims examine partner improvements in
      weight control behaviors, the home environment, and psychosocial parameters. This project is
      highly innovative, as it capitalizes on existing funded research and is the first study to
      examine ripple effects of multicomponent prenatal interventions. The project also has high
      impact, as pregnancy is a powerful motivator for behavior and environmental changes in the
      home; and, if positive ripple effects occur, the field of obesity treatment and prevention
      could move beyond focus on individual level to the often unrecognized interpersonal effects
      of lifestyle interventions. PUBLIC HEALTH RELEVANCE: This research project will examine
      whether interventions to prevent excessive gestational weight gain have positive "ripple"
      effects on the health of untreated partners in the home.
    
  