
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      Two longitudinal prospective cohort studies will be conducted in which non-ambulatory (cohort
      1) and ambulatory (cohort 2) acute stroke patients will participate.

      PATIENT RECRUITMENT:

      The investigators aim to recruit 200 subjects (100/cohort). Patients will be recruited at the
      Neurology ward of the UZ Brussel.

      PROCEDURE:

      All stroke survivors admitted to the Neurology ward of UZ Brussel will be screened for
      eligibility. Afterwards, an informed consent will be conducted for all subjects who met the
      inclusion criteria.

      Baseline assessments (T0) of gait recovery outcomes on the one hand and predictors for gait
      recovery on the other hand will be measured. To predict gait recovery, researchers will
      observe two novel biomarkers: stroke-induced muscle wasting and inflammation. Furthermore,
      the investigators will also assess relevant known predictors for gait recovery to compare the
      relevance of the novel markers. T0 assessments will start preferably within 3 days
      post-stroke.

      To assess time-related trajectories of muscle alterations and inflammation, follow-up
      assessments of these predictors will be performed 3 days after baseline assessments (T1), at
      discharge (T2) and 3 months follow-up (T3). T1 follow-up measurements will only be possible
      for patients with motor impairments post-stroke since they have a longer stay at the hospital
      compared to patients without motor impairments after stroke (mean hospital stay of 5 to 8
      days for patients without or with motor impairments post-stroke respectively).

      The assessments of the gait recovery outcome measures will be repeated at discharge (T2) and
      3 months follow-up (T3).

      MATERIALS:

      To measure gait recovery in acute stroke survivors, the researchers will make use of wearable
      gait sensors (Physiolog®, Gait Up SA, Switzerland) to register gait speed and a lightweight
      chest carrying gas analysis system (Metamax 3B, Cortex, Germany) to measure cardiorespiratory
      parameters.

      For the predictors, investigators will use handheld dynamometers (MicroFET2 and Martin
      Vigorimeter) to assess muscle strength, grip strength and muscle fatigue. Furthermore,
      researchers need a Bioelectrical Impedance analysis (BIA) device (Bodystat® QuadScan 4000,
      UK) to assess the muscle mass of our subjects and a portable ultrasound system (Viamo SV 7
      with linear-array transducer, Canon Medical Systems, Netherlands) to assess muscle
      architecture.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      Various biomarkers will be observed at each of the planned time points. Because the aim is to
      make correct predictions based on any information that is available at the early stages, the
      observations will not only be considered as such, but also summarized in terms of their time-
      related characteristics, such as steepest drop, frequency of improvement, or any other
      characteristic that may reveal itself as distinguishing. These predictors will be combined
      into predictive models such as random forests and boosting to establish the best combinations
      for making good predictions while accommodating inter-predictor correlations. The quality of
      the models will be established with cross-validation. The large set of observations and their
      summarized temporal characteristics will be used to determine whether different types of
      trajectories emerge. Hierarchical cluster analysis will label patients for each of the
      cluster solutions and the usefulness of patient labelling will be evaluated by their
      predicted gait performance. The extracted patient type will be included in random forests or
      boosting to evaluate its importance. The extracted patient type could also be used jointly
      with other predictors suggested as important in either a linear/logistic (mixed) model or an
      extended cox proportional hazard model, which are more traditional statistical approaches.
      While predictive performance remains the key goal, such models would be more interpretable on
      the potential underlying mechanism, with parameter estimates and confidence intervals.
    
  