
    
      This will be a Phase IV open-label clinical profiling study. The population to be enrolled
      will consist of healthy adults aged 18-60 years. A total of approximately 60 subjects are
      planned for enrolment into this study.

      Subjects enrolled in this study will receive 7.5 µg of vaccine + MF59 (9.75 mg/dose). Each
      subject will receive one 0.5 mL IM dose (deltoid muscle, non-dominant arm) of H1N1sw vaccine
      at Visit 1, after the blood draw. Up to 70 mL of blood will be drawn for CMI and antibody
      assessment from all subjects at all study visits.

      Subjects will be requested to declare occurrence of influenza-related symptoms during the
      study period. Whenever appropriate, subjects might be asked to provide throat swab for viral
      typing. Subjects with laboratory confirmed H1N1sw influenza might be asked to provide one
      blood sample (70 mL) within 4 weeks after influenza resolution.

      Although this study is not designed nor powered to draw conclusions regarding safety and
      tolerability, all subjects will be followed, but not analyzed, for safety throughout the
      study. After vaccination, all subjects will remain under medical supervision at the study
      site for 30 minutes to be monitored and evaluated for possible immediate hypersensitivity
      reactions. All study subjects will be instructed on the completion of diary cards to record
      local and systemic reactions for seven days, starting on the day of vaccination and
      continuing during the 6 following days. The same diary cards will additionally be used to
      collect any vaccine-related reactions and any changes in the subject's health (including any
      serious medical problems such as hospitalizations or any life-threatening medical problems)
      and any medications taken by the subject throughout the study. All serious adverse events and
      all adverse events will be recorded throughout the entire trial.
    
  