
    
      Suicide is a leading cause of death in adolescents worldwide and a substantial public health
      problem in the United States. Despite prior efforts, outcomes related to suicide in
      adolescents are not improving over the years. Standard clinical and research approaches
      involve prevention efforts, risk assessment, crisis intervention, and psychotherapeutic
      techniques. Few prior studies have focused on developing brain-based treatments and
      biomarkers for active suicidal ideation in adolescents with depression. Conceptually,
      dysregulations in prefrontal cortex gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibitory function could
      lead to reduced control of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in adolescents with depression.
      TMS treatment protocols delivered to the prefrontal cortex modulate GABA inhibitory function,
      synaptic plasticity, and clinical symptoms of depression. Accelerated TMS protocols that
      deliver theta burst stimulation TBS dosing induce synaptic plasticity changes rapidly,
      modulate GABA function, have rapid-acting clinical effects, and overcome the many practical
      limitations of standard TMS. Prior research with a biomarker of GABA activity called
      long-interval cortical inhibition (LICI) demonstrates potential for clinical implementation
      to assess suicide risk and guide treatment interventions with TMS. Electromyography (EMG)
      measures of LICI are easily collected and have been studied extensively in adolescents. TMS
      and electroencephalography (EEG) may provide more precise and sophisticated measures of GABA
      inhibitory function. However, there are methodologic challenges with the use of EEG measures
      and no prior data in adolescents with depression. This study is a randomized, double-blind,
      sham-controlled trial of sequential bilateral accelerated TBS (aTBS) for suicidal ideation in
      adolescents with MDD. All subjects in both arms will concurrently receive standard of care
      treatment. Three TBS sessions will be administered daily for 10 days 5 days per week for a
      total of 30 sessions. During each TBS session, continuous TBS is first delivered to the right
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and then intermittent TBS is delivered to the left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The proposed TBS parameters were adopted from prior work in
      adolescents. The comparison group will receive 3 daily sessions of bilateral sham TBS
      treatment for 10 days. This study will examine the safety, feasibility, and clinical effects
      of sequential bilateral aTBS. In addition to the primary outcome measures, the research team
      will collect pre- and post-treatment LICI measures with EMG to assess suicide risk and guide
      treatment with TBS protocols. Concurrent measures with EEG will address an exploratory aim to
      further develop and refine TMS biomarkers. Existing infrastructure and collaborations will
      foster the rapid clinical implementation of sequential bilateral aTBS and cortical inhibition
      biomarkers.
    
  