
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In racially admixed populations, genetic associations may be confounded by population
      stratification. To control for population stratification, statistical methods that use marker
      genotype data to infer population structure have been proposed as an alternative to
      family-based tests of association. However, there are limited empirical data on how these
      methods perform in real populations. This study will use well characterized populations of
      Mexican and Puerto Rican asthmatics, their parents, and control subjects recruited from the
      same sites to examine the effectiveness of approaches to correct for the effects of
      population stratification on case-control genetic association studies.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study has three specific aims: 1) To test and compare methods of detecting and
      correcting for population stratification, the study will genotype a total of 100 ancestral
      informative markers (AIMs) for 400 asthma cases and an equal number of control subjects.
      These AIMs will then be used with three statistical methods developed to detect and correct
      for population stratification. The number and characteristics of markers required to correct
      false positive associations between AIMs, asthma, and asthma quantitative traits will be
      evaluated and compared; 2) To compare the power of genomically adjusted case-control studies
      to the Transmission Disequilibrium Test (TDT). An allele from each of the 100 AIMs will be
      considered as a risk factor for a simulated "phenotype." The association between phenotypes
      and each AIM will be tested with the TDT and with a case-control analysis after adjustment
      for stratification to compare the false negative rates for these study designs. 3) To use the
      results from aim 1 and 2 to define an optimal approach for analysis and interpretation of
      case-control association studies in these populations and apply this approach to analyze the
      association between asthma and a series of candidate genes. The results of these studies
      should provide important insights into optimal methods to control for population
      stratification in case-control association studies, thereby facilitating the inclusion of
      admixed populations in future genetic studies of complex diseases such as asthma.
    
  