
    
      Veterans from conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq exhibit numerous signature injuries to
      include posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injury (TBI), and anxiety.
      These three conditions commonly co-occur together, which presents treatment challenges.
      First, current treatment guidelines focus on treating each of these conditions individually
      and do not sufficiently account for comorbid presentation. As a consequence, Veterans with
      comorbid disorders may have poor clinical health outcomes despite receiving treatment.
      Second, treating anxiety among Veterans with comorbid PTSD and TBI involves medications that
      may have limited efficacy (e.g., PTSD medications) or side effects (e.g., drug interactions
      or diminished cognitive function).

      Given these treatment challenges, Cranial Electrotherapy Stimulation (CES) may serve as an
      effective complimentary, noninvasive/non-pharmacological treatment for this Veteran
      population. Briefly, CES is administered through a therapeutic device (such as Alpha-Stim®)
      marketed and approved by the FDA to treat insomnia, depression, anxiety, and pain.
      Additionally, both the Department of Defense (DoD) and Veterans Health Affairs (VHA)
      prescribe CES to treat trauma-related conditions. CES treatment involves transcutaneous
      application of pulsed micro-currents of <1000 μA to the patient's head and these currents are
      tailored specifically for each patient. The studies that have examined efficacy for CES
      therapy in treating anxiety have shown some positive effects, however, the patient
      populations were typically small, sometimes limited to case reports, and outcome measures
      varied significantly. A meta-analysis performed on CES studies over two decades ago found
      evidence for CES treatment over sham groups, but most of the studies reviewed were missing
      data and study personnel were not always blinded to the groups. Additionally, CES has showed
      a significant improvement in anxiety symptoms after of CES therapy in 12 adult patients
      diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD; Bystritsky et al., [2008]). The success of
      CES in treating anxiety may indicate a suitable signal for exploring its use in PTSD samples
      (Novakovic et al. [2011]). Given the relatively few CES studies available in the scholarly
      literature, a 2009 Cochrane Systematic Review found insufficient evidence to support using
      CES to manage persistent TBI symptoms. While some of these studies are encouraging, the
      device has not been clearly demonstrated to be effective in the multi-morbid OEF/OIF/OND
      Veteran population. Additionally, little information is known about the mechanism of action
      for CES.
    
  