
    
      All suitable participants will be living in the community and may have already consented to
      previous research projects and their details identified via the UCLH Aphasia Clinic run by
      the CI, which will act as an NHS PIC, or via the stroke volunteer database at the Wellcome
      Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, run by Professor Cathy Price (Research approved by the
      National Hospital of Neurology and Neurosurgery and the Institute of Neurology joint ethics
      committee, study number: NO32.

      The initial approach to potential participants for this project will be made by The Chief
      Investigator Dr Jenny Crinion. If the participant agrees a member of the team will discuss
      with them the details of the project. Patient groups may be approached directly by the CI and
      RAs via stroke clubs etc. All participants will be formally consented at UCL.

      Healthy subjects will be recruited by the CI and RAs via the volunteer database at the WTCN
      or ICN, and by asking relatives/carers of the patients if they wish to be involved (more
      likely to be matched for age and other factors). Potential participants in research databases
      have already consented to be approached for further research.

      Part 1: Activation and modulation of residual inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) in aphasia

      Aims: to examine connectivity within regions of the brain associated with spoken word
      retrieval (a "domain-specific" process) and more general cognitive control ("domain-general"
      processing) in aphasic stroke patients.

      Hypotheses: following aphasic stroke a functionally selective network core for spoken word
      naming (i.e. domain specific for language) lies within (i) Broca's area, in patients with
      brain lesions sparing Broca's area (ii) right inferior frontal gyrus, in patients with damage
      to Broca's area.

      Experimental design and predictions:

      Patients with a chronic speech and language impairment (aphasia) following stroke will be
      divided into those with lesions affecting Broca's area, and those whose lesions lie
      elsewhere. They will receive a novel type of brain stimulation, high-definition transcranial
      direct current stimulation (HD-tDCS, which involves placing battery-operated electrodes on
      the participant's scalp), or sham stimulation, while completing an object naming task (to
      test domain-specific processing) and a non-linguistic task which measures performance related
      to domain-general cognitive processing. Both tasks will have "hard" and "easy" levels which
      are matched for difficulty across tasks. In the naming task, difficulty will be manipulated
      by providing different types of cues to assist with object naming. Extensive piloting of the
      stimuli and procedure in both healthy participants and aphasic stroke patients will ensure
      that the tests are suitable for the proposed research.

      Participants will complete the experiment in an MRI scanner in order to measure brain
      activity in the domain-specific and domain-general neural networks during the linguistic and
      non-linguistic tasks. Assuming that there will be more variability in performance within the
      aphasic stroke patients, and factoring in a 5% drop-out rate and 4% non-compliance, the study
      will require 60 aphasic stroke patients (30 with damage to Broca's area and 30 without) in
      order to be statistically powerful enough to detect an effect.

      Part 2: Training induced changes following anodal-tDCS delivered to intact IFG

      Aims: to test whether modulating neural activity within the IFG can enhance speech relearning
      and connectivity within language-specific networks of the brain.

      Hypotheses: Anodal-tDCS increases the effectiveness of anomia (word-finding problems)
      training and modulates domain-specific (language) connectivity when delivered to (i) Broca's
      area, in patients with lesions sparing Broca's area (ii) right IFG, in patients with damage
      to Broca's area.

      Experimental design and predictions:

      This will be a two-arm parallel group study to compare anomia training with the addition of
      anodal-tDCS to anomia training with sham-tDCS in the same chronic aphasic stroke patients (n
      = 60) as studied in Experiment 1.

      Individuals will be randomly assigned to receive anomia treatment with anodal-tDCS delivered
      to left Broca's area (or to right Broca's area if the left has been lesioned) or anomia
      treatment with sham tDCS. Researchers and patients will be blinded to the tDCS intervention
      (i.e. active or sham) in order to avoid bias.

      The treatment block will last for three weeks, with patients completing a computer-based
      training task for two hours a day, 5 days each week. They will receive 20 minutes of
      stimulation (either active or sham), followed by 100 minutes of behavioural training alone.
      This will amount to a total of 30 hours of anomia training across the three week block.

      Patients will complete the naming and non-naming tasks (see Experiment 1, above) before and
      after treatment, and the experimenters will gather additional neuropsychological and
      structural and functional MRI data. To ensure that performance would normally be relatively
      stable over time (i.e. in the absence of anomia training), these data will also be collected
      three weeks prior to the start of treatment (time-point 1, T1). Therefore participants will
      be tested a total of three times (T1, T2, and T3), with the anomia treatment block occurring
      between T2 and T3.

      The primary outcome measures will be patients' performance on the same fMRI paradigm
      developed as part of Experiment 1, before and after treatment. Only a subset of the objects
      used in the naming test will be used in the training. This will allow a comparison to be made
      with improvement (accuracy and reaction times) on the non-linguistic task (on which
      participants receive no training between tests) for both trained and untrained items. While
      all patients are expected to improve on the naming tests after training, the group receiving
      active tDCS stimulation during the treatment block are predicted to show greater improvement
      relative to patients in the sham condition. These behavioural changes are predicted to
      correlate with effective connectivity changes within the domain specific (naming) network.
      Consistent with Dr Crinion's proof-of-concept study, non-naming task performance and
      domain-general network connectivity are not expected to change in response to the
      intervention.

      Part 3: Establishing the relationship between frontal brain plasticity, cognitive factors,
      and spoken word recovery.

      Aims: To integrate data from Experiments 1 and 2 to investigate individual patients' response
      to training. To characterise anatomical and behavioural predictors of those most likely to
      respond to anomia and tDCS training. Hypotheses: In the same 60 patients who complete
      Experiments 1 and 2, that: (i) recovery of speech is dependent upon structural plasticity of
      residual IFG cortices (ii) variability in anomia training response is influenced by variance
      in cognitive factors, i.e. good domain-general cognitive function is needed to profit
      maximally from anomia training.

      Experimental design and predictions:

      Structural brain scans plus extensive neuropsychological data will be acquired at three
      time-points (T1, T2, and T3 - see above), for all patients. Statistical analyses will test
      whether anomia training has any regional effects on grey matter density in order to make
      inferences about how training modulates the neural network supporting spoken word retrieval
      in aphasic patients. It is predicted that naming improvement will correlate with increased
      IFG grey matter. Furthermore, poorer naming performance before training will be associated
      with more pronounced improvement and greater IFG structural plasticity selectively in
      patients with good domain-general cognitive performance.

      Summary The aphasic stroke patients will be tested at UCL at three time-points (T1, T2, and
      T3), each three weeks apart. At each of these time-points, participants will complete tests
      to determine aphasia severity and general cognitive ability, the naming and non-naming tasks
      (with either active or sham tDCS), and have structural and functional MRI scans. Participants
      will not receive any treatment or stimulation between T1 and T2, to allow the experimenters
      to check that participants' cognitive and language functioning is normally stable over time.
      Between T2 and T3, patients will receive a computer-based naming therapy, administered
      concurrently either with active or with sham tDCS. The testing at T3 will determine whether
      patients who received active tDCS show greater improvement than those who were in the sham
      condition, and whether the treatment is associated with any changes in functional
      connectivity in either domain specific or domain-general networks within the brain. Finally,
      neuropsychological and structural MRI data taken from each patient before and after treatment
      will be examined to investigate whether there are any behavioural or structural indicators
      which are associated with response to the treatment.

      List of all data to be collected

        1. Personal demographic data including: sex, age, contact details etc.

        2. Clinical data including: aphasic syndrome subtype, time since onset of symptoms, past
           medical history, current medications, contra-indications to MRI/fMRI/tDCS, etc.

        3. Language assessment scores (CAT).

        4. Naming scores.

        5. fMRI responses when speaking and at rest.

        6. High-resolution structural MRI scans to define area and volume of infarct

        7. Side-effects from stimulation/sham (Adverse Event data).

        8. Amount of time spent on naming training rehabilitation therapy (recorded by programme
           itself - dose).

        9. Consent forms. The non-functional imaging data will be recorded on a Case Report Form
           (CRF) kept by the CI.

      Collection/Storage

      Any data initially collected on paper will be transferred to electronic format. The paper
      data (including a copy of the consent form) is stored in a locked cabinet at the ICN which
      only the CI and named collaborators will have access to. The electronic data is password
      protected and pseudoanonymized. The CI will be the custodian of the data after the trial is
      completed. Data will be kept for 10 years after the completion of the study, in line with UCL
      policy. The functional/structural imaging data (5, 6) will be stored indefinitely at the
      WTCN, this will be password protected. These are extremely rich data sets and may be used in
      future analyses/metanalyses. Only members of the research team will have access to the data.
      The CI will act as custodian of the data.

      Monitoring and Auditing

      The Chief Investigator will ensure there are adequate quality and number of monitoring
      activities conducted by the study team. This will include adherence to the protocol,
      procedures for consenting and ensure adequate data quality. The Chief Investigator will
      inform the sponsor should he/she have concerns which have arisen from monitoring activities,
      and/or if there are problems with oversight/monitoring procedures. An independent data
      monitoring committee (DMC) will be set up to deal with patient safety issues related to this
      project. The DMC will comprise the following people: Prof. John Rothwell - noninvasive brain
      stimulation in stroke patients expert, Prof. Nick Ward - stroke expert, Dr Alexander Leff -
      stroke, neuroimaging and aphasia treatment trial expert.

      The data to be monitored by the DMC will include: language outcome scores (CAT) and Adverse
      Event Recording Forms. All adverse events will be recorded by the CI and passed on to the DMC
      and will follow the UCL protocol for reporting of adverse events in a single centre trial.
      The main function of the committee will be to determine if there is an excess of seizures
      (adverse events) in either patient group. There are no plans to stop the trial early unless
      this is due to an excess of adverse events.
    
  