
    
      Background:

        -  Metastatic or refractory/recurrent HPV associated malignancies (cervical, anal,
           oropharyngeal cancers etc.) are poorly palliated by standard therapies. There is an
           unmet need for active treatments for these tumors.

        -  In a phase I trial of M7824 (NCT02517398) 15 out of 43 (34.9%) patients with HPV
           associated malignancies had radiographic tumor responses according to RECIST 1.1 or
           iRECIST.

        -  While the response rate observed with M7824 appears to be higher than single agent PD-1
           inhibitors alone (15-20%), the majority of patients with these diseases still do not
           seem to benefit from immunotherapy.

        -  Preclinical studies suggest that the use of a combination of multiple immunotherapy
           agents may have improved anti-tumor efficacy.

             -  Specifically, preclinical studies have shown that the combination of three
                immunotherapy agents (1) a therapeutic vaccine against HPV positive cancers
                (PDS0101), (2) a bifunctional fusion protein targeting PD-L1 and TGF beta (M7824),
                and (3) a tumor targeted immunocytokine (NHS-IL12) produces greater anti-tumor
                activity than any single or dual combination of these agents.

      Objectives:

      - To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria
      (RECIST 1.1) of the combination of (1) a therapeutic vaccine against HPV positive cancers
      (PDS0101), (2) a tumor targeted immunocytokine (NHS-IL12) and (3) a bifunctional fusion
      protein targeting PD-L1 and TGF beta (M7824) in subjects with checkpoint naive advanced HPV
      associated malignancies.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age >= 18 years old.

        -  Subjects with cytologically or histologically confirmed locally advanced or metastatic
           HPV associated malignancies:

             -  Cervical cancers;

             -  P16+ Oropharyngeal cancers;

             -  Anal cancers;

             -  Vulvar, vaginal, penile, and squamous cell rectal cancers;

             -  Other locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors (e.g. lung, esophagus) that are
                known HPV+.

        -  Prior first line systemic therapy is required unless the patient declines standard
           treatment after appropriate counseling has been provided.

        -  Subjects must have measurable disease.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase I/II trial of combination immunotherapy.

        -  The trial will be conducted using a Simon optimal two-stage design.

        -  Patients will receive HPV vaccine + NHS-IL12 + M7824.

        -  The first six patient will be evaluable for dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and accrual
           will only continue to 8 patients if less than 2 out of the first 6 pts experience a DLT.

        -  If three or more out of eight patients have objective responses accrual will be expanded
           to enroll 20 evaluable participants.

        -  Patients with cervical cancer with prior pelvic radiation and boost brachytherapy will
           be enrolled in a separate cohort to evaluate safety and preliminary evidence of
           efficacy.
    
  