
    
      A scoring system usually consists of two parts - a score (a number reflecting the severity of
      the disease) and a probability model (equation indicating the probability of an event, e.g.
      the death of the patient in hospital). Scoring systems have been used in intensive care
      medicine for decades and can help to assess the effectiveness of treatment or identify
      comparable patients for study purposes. Scoring systems that are used in intensive care
      medicine are for example

        -  Acute Physiology, Age, Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II)

        -  Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II)

        -  Multiple Organ Dysfunction Score (MODS)

        -  Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA)

        -  Logistic Organ Dysfunction System (LODS)

        -  MPM II-Admission (Mortality Probability Models (MPM II)

        -  Organ Dysfunction and Infection score (ODIN)

        -  Three-Day Recalibrating ICU Outcomes (TRIOS)

        -  Glasgow coma score (GCS)

        -  Discharge Readiness Score (DRS) The above-mentioned scoring systems are already being
           collected regularly in the respective hospital's departments. In a recent study by
           Badawi et al. it could be shown that scoring systems allow more accurate predictions
           when calculated continuously. However, due to the patient collectives investigated,
           these results can only be transferred to other patient groups to a limited extent.
           Furthermore, only the scoring systems APACHE, SOFA and DRS were analyzed.

      Therefore, in the present study, all of the above scoring systems will be calculated
      continuously (once per minute) using routine data from the digital patient records and
      optimized by applying machine learning and methods of time series analysis.

      On the anesthesiologically managed intensive care units of the respective hospital, there is
      no campus-wide standard with regard to alarm management. Accordingly, we estimate the rate of
      alarm fatigue (ignoring alarms due to many false alarms) to be very high. In order to
      optimize the alarm management, alarms from the patient monitoring devices will be evaluated
      retrospectively and combined with the data mentioned above to determine, for example, whether
      more frequent alarms are to be expected for certain types of diseases (e.g. sepsis), or
      scores (e.g., high APACHE score) and how the alarm limit setting can be optimized.
    
  