
    
      Basal thumb joint osteoarthritis is a common disorder especially among postmenopausal women.
      In this specific subgroup of patients, radiographic signs appear in up to 40%.

      Approximately 28% of those cases are symptomatic. Its pathoanatomy and treatment has been
      well described. Trapeziometacarpal joint is the most commonly joint requiring treatment for
      osteoarthritis in the upper extremity, often involving removing the trapezius. The same
      demographic group is also frequently affected by carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), which coexists
      with basal joint arthritis in 18% to 46% of patients. In those cases, a combined surgical
      approach has been reported to be beneficial. The two conditions have traditionally been
      treated surgically through separate incisions.

      a radial incision for trapeziectomy and standard midline volar carpal tunnel incision for
      median nerve decompression. Trapeziectomy has been proved to provide some degree of carpal
      tunnel decompression. However, as previous studies have suggested, release of the transverse
      carpal ligament should be performed in addition to basal joint arthroplasty incision, as
      trapeziectomy by itself does not completely decompress the carpal tunnel. The ability to
      decompress the carpal tunnel during basal joint arthroplasty using a single incision would
      allow to shorten surgery time, improve appearance, and potentially decrease morbidity
      compared to a staged or two-incision procedure. We sought to determine whether carpal tunnel
      release using a single incision during basal joint arthroplasty is as effective as
      two-incision approach in patients with concomitant CTS and basal thumb joint osteoarthrosis.
      The secondary hypothesis is that single incision prevents from morbidity associated to a
      second incision, such as pillar pain, longer surgical procedure, infection rate or necrosis
      of the skin bridge between incisions
    
  