
    
      BACKGROUND: Operating room to intensive care unit handoffs are high-risk events for
      critically ill patients. Studies in selected patient populations show that standardizing
      operating room to intensive care unit handoffs improves information exchange and decreases
      errors. To adapt these findings to mixed surgical populations, the investigators propose to
      study the implementation of a standardized operating room to intensive care unit handoff
      process in two intensive care units currently without an existing standard process.
      METHODS/DESIGN: The Handoffs and Transitions in Critical Care (HATRICC) study is a hybrid
      effectiveness-implementation trial of operating room to intensive care unit handoffs. The
      investigators will use mixed methods to conduct a needs assessment of the current handoff
      process, adapt published handoff processes, and implement a new standardized handoff process
      in two academic intensive care units. Needs assessment - The investigators will use
      nonparticipant observation to observe the current handoff process. Focus groups, interviews,
      and surveys of clinicians will elicit participants' impressions about the current process.
      Adaptation and implementation - The investigators will adapt published standardized handoff
      processes using the needs assessment findings. The investigators will use small group
      simulation to test the new process' feasibility. After simulation, the investigators will
      incorporate the new handoff process into the clinical work of all providers in the study
      units. Evaluation - Using the same methods employed in the needs assessment phase, the
      investigators will evaluate use of the new handoff process. Data analysis - The primary
      effectiveness outcome is the number of information omissions per handoff episode as compared
      to the pre-intervention period. Additional intervention outcomes include patient intensive
      care unit length of stay and intensive care unit mortality. The primary implementation
      outcome is acceptability of the new process. Additional implementation outcomes include
      feasibility, fidelity and sustainability. DISCUSSION: The HATRICC study will examine the
      effectiveness and implementation of a standardized operating room to intensive care unit
      handoff process. Findings from this study have the potential to improve healthcare
      communication and outcomes for critically ill patients.
    
  