
    
      This is a prospective multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial. The team leader is
      Peking University Third Hospital. All patients are randomly 1:1 assigned into 2 groups.
      Investigators use FNS for internal fixation in Group 1 and MCS in Group 2. Since FNS is
      clinically comparable to the Dynamic Hip Screw (DHS) system, investigators used DHS clinical
      data as a statistical reference. The relevant parameters of the sample calculation are α =
      0.05 (one-sided) and β = 0.2. PASS 15 was used for calculation, and the final sample size was
      290. The experimental group (FNS) and the control group (MCS) each included 145 patients. See
      the text for detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients that meet all the inclusion
      criteria but do not meet any exclusion criteria, and who have signed the informed consent
      will be randomized, and each patient will be assigned a unique patient identification number,
      which will be used throughout the study Identify the patient. Using the computer random
      allocation system, the eligible patients will be randomly divided into an experimental group
      and a control group at a 1:1 ratio. Investigators will perform preoperative preparation,
      intraoperative operation and internal fixation implantation according to the instructions
      provided in the product packaging. Investigators only plan to include cases that can
      successfully conduct closed reduction, therefore investigators will exclude cases that
      require open reduction. For the MCS group, three cancellous screws with an inverted triangle
      pattern are used to fix the fracture of femoral neck. After the operation, the patients will
      be managed according to the standard nursing and rehabilitation procedures of the
      experimental site and the results of laboratory tests will be recorded. Regular follow-up
      evaluation will be performed after the operation until the end of the two-year follow-up or
      the primary end point of the study. In this study, the internal fixation failure rate (IFFR)
      is used as the primary end point of the study, which is defined as the total incidence of
      internal plant cut-out and fracture. The results of the radiographic examination, the lateral
      X-ray film and computed tomography(CT), will be evaluated by an independent radiologist to
      determine whether there are cut-out or fracture of the internal plant. Secondary endpoints
      include: 1. Bone nonunion after 36 weeks: evaluate bone healing according to the lateral
      X-ray examination. According to the regulations of Food and Drug Administration of the US, it
      is defined as nonunion if there are no obvious signs of fracture healing 9 months after the
      fracture, or if there is no obvious difference in fracture space after three consecutive
      months. 2. Garden classification proportion, and Garden index for reduction assessment. 3.
      Clinical prognosis: o A 12-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-12) o Harris hip score. 4.
      Operation time, from the incision to internal fixation implanted. 5. The times of
      intraoperative fluoroscopy, average 25 milliseconds per X-ray shot, record the number of
      X-ray shot. 6. Postoperative adverse events within 2 years, including ipsilateral femoral
      head avascular necrosis, infection, wound hematoma, ipsilateral coxa vara, and ipsilateral
      limb shortening. In this study, it is difficult to blind anyone to randomization. However,
      considering that most of the patients may not have medical expertise, if the researchers do
      not inform them, the patients are the only people who may be blind. Investigators will try
      their best to reduce human-induced bias in experimental results. Investigators will use
      one-sided α = 0.05 for statistical tests and confidence interval calculations. P value <0.05
      is considered statistically significant. SPSS (latest version: SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA)
      will be used to analyze the results.
    
  