
    
      Surgery currently remains the only potentially curative treatment for biliary tract cancer
      (BTC), and most patients develop recurrence. Therefore, effective adjuvant chemotherapy is
      required to increase the curability of surgery and to prolong the survival in these patients.
      However, to date, no standard adjuvant chemotherapy has been established, and a guideline for
      BTC treatment recommends that trials of adjuvant chemotherapy be carried out.

      Based on results from clinical studies in unresectable BTC, gemcitabine, platinum agent,
      fluoropyrimidine are considered to have activity against BTC. These agents are expected to be
      effective in the postoperative adjuvant therapy for BTC, Thus, randomized controlled trials
      with gemcitabine are ongoing, and the results are expected. Recently, in the ABC-02 study,
      the first prospective multicenter phase III study in patients with unresectable BTC,
      gemcitabine/cisplatin combination chemotherapy was compared with gemcitabine monotherapy and
      showed that the combination therapy significantly prolonged MST (from 8.1 to 11.7 months; P <
      0.001). Gemcitabine/cisplatin combination therapy is now considered to be the standard
      regimen for unresectable BTC, and we expect this regimen to be effective for postoperative
      adjuvant therapy.

      Though hepatectomy is frequently performed in surgery for BTC, it is unclear that the effect
      of anticancer agent is affected by hepatectomy. Because gemcitabine is metabolized by
      cytidine deaminase primarily in the liver, it considered to have decreased the metabolic
      ability of gemcitabine after hepatectomy. Some clinical studies demonstrated that patient
      with hepatectomy could not tolerate the standard dose and schedule of gemcitabine. In the
      adjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine, it is necessary to examine separately whether
      hepatectomy was undergone or not.

      In this study, we aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of gemcitabine/cisplatin
      combination chemotherapy in patients with biliary tract cancer undergoing curative resection
      without hepatectomy.
    
  