
    
      In people with MDS, the bone marrow stops making healthy blood cells and instead produces
      poorly functioning, malformed, and immature blood cells. This can lead to anemia resulting
      from too few healthy red blood cells, infection resulting from too few healthy white blood
      cells, and bleeding resulting from too few healthy platelets. The exact cause of MDS remains
      unknown, but it may be caused by abnormal autoimmune activity in which activated T cells, a
      type of white blood cell, prevent normal bone marrow production. ATG, a medication that
      inhibits immune function, can restore normal blood production in some people with MDS, but it
      is not known how this happens and why it does not happen in all MDS patients. The purpose of
      this study is to examine the effects of ATG in adults with MDS and to determine which
      individuals with MDS are most likely to benefit from treatment with ATG.

      Based on disease severity and likely disease progression, participants will be separated into
      either a high-risk group or a low-risk group. Participants will be hospitalized for a 4-day
      period during which they will receive daily infusions of ATG. Oral prednisone will be given 2
      days before hospitalization, throughout hospitalization, and then for 14 days after
      hospitalization to limit the side effects of ATG. Antihistamines and acetaminophen will also
      be given during hospitalization to reduce the chances of an allergic reaction to ATG. After
      discharge, all participants will attend monthly study visits that will include blood
      collection, review of disease symptoms, and evaluation of medication response. At Week 16,
      participants in the high-risk group will undergo additional blood collection, a bone marrow
      biopsy, and a thorough evaluation of disease progression and the effects of MDS on daily
      living abilities. Participants in the low-risk group will undergo these same procedures at
      Week 24. Follow-up for all participants may last up to 2 years.
    
  