
    
      Background The post-operative benefits of regional anesthesia have been described in patients
      undergoing vascular access surgery(1, 2). Some of the benefits that have been identified are
      improved vascular flow, decreased thrombosis rates, and early maturation of grafts(2). It is
      speculated that these benefits can be mainly attributed to sympathetic blockade by regional
      anesthesia. Recent literature review has not identified any prior studies which have
      attempted to prospectively identify if there are improved surgical outcomes in patients
      undergoing revascularization surgery when regional anesthesia is utilized. However, Kashyap
      et al. reported that regional anesthesia may decrease the incidence of perioperative
      thrombosis in patients who had undergone infra-popliteal revascularization surgery over a 20
      year period(3). In this investigation we will attempt to ascertain whether or not there will
      be improved surgical outcomes namely a reduction in the rates of death, wound infection,
      graft thrombosis, graft revision, and amputation. As well, we anticipate that patients who
      have undergone regional anesthesia for infrainguinal bypass grafting will have improved
      secondary outcomes with respect to a decreased length of stay, narcotic consumption, nausea
      and vomiting, post-operative cognitive dysfunction, major cardiac events, post-operative
      pain, and hyperglycemic episodes.

      Methods After Investigational Review Board approval, written informed consent will be
      obtained from 20 patients undergoing fem-popliteal bypass surgery at University of Nebraska
      Medical Center and enrolled in our prospective cohort registry. Patients will be excluded
      from the study if age is less than 19 years, allergies to amide anesthetics, inability to
      undergo general anesthesia, acute limb ischemia, any existence of contraindications to
      regional anesthesia in the presence of antiplatelet or anticoagulative drugs, or evidence of
      gross neurological dysfunction of the lower extremity. Baseline health data of the patient
      will be recorded. Ultrasound will be performed with a linear 10- to 13-Megahertz probe while
      performing the nerve block. Standard American Society of Anesthesiology monitors will be
      applied and the patient sedated at the discretion of the anesthetic team. Complications such
      as vascular puncture, pain on injection, or systemic toxicity will be recorded. A perineural
      dosing regimen for the regional blocks will be as follows: (femoral block) 20cc of 0.5%
      ropivicaine and (sub-gluteal posterior sciatic block) 20cc of 0.2% ropivicaine. Epinephrine
      will be withheld from the local anesthetic in order to prevent the potential of further
      ischemic complications. The patient will then undergo general anesthesia at the discretion of
      the anesthetic team. Any anesthetic or surgical complication will be recorded during the OR
      interval. The type of graft utilized and specific location of arterial intervention will be
      recorded.

      Following surgery, the patient will be monitored and data recorded daily while the patient is
      recovering in the hospital. Primary outcomes which will be recorded include: death, wound
      infection, graft thrombosis, graft revision, and amputation. Secondary outcomes which will be
      recorded are pain scores, nausea and vomiting, 24 hour narcotic consumption, graft failure
      (defined as any occlusion requiring return to operating room), any related return to the OR
      for the index procedure, any major adverse cardiac events (MACE), administration of warfarin
      or antiplatelet medications, average 24 hour blood sugar, creatinine levels, postoperative
      cognitive dysfunction, and requirement of supplemental oxygen upon discharge from the PACU.
      As well, the patient will be queried for resumption of tobacco products. The patient's length
      of hospital stay will be recorded.

      On discharge there will be continued surveillance for the following primary outcomes: death,
      wound infection, graft thrombosis, graft revision, and amputation. The secondary outcomes
      which will be recorded are as follows: presence of pain at rest, pain on ambulation,
      continued administration of anticoagulants or antiplatelets, graft failure (defined as any
      occlusion requiring return to operating room), any related return to the OR for the index
      procedure, any major adverse cardiac events (MACE), average 24 hour blood sugar, creatinine
      levels, and all ankle brachial pressure index (ABPI) and doppler ultrasound reports will be
      recorded. Also, patients will be queried for resumption of tobacco products. These
      observations will be recorded on post-operative day 7, 31, and 93.

      A comparison group of patients (N=20) who have undergone infra-inguinal bypass grafting will
      be obtained from retrospective chart review. Patients who have undergone regional or
      neuroaxial anesthesia for their bypass procedure will be excluded. As well, patients will be
      matched to their cohorts by age, sex, health comorbidities including: Congestive heart
      failure, smoking, diabetes, and renal dysfunction, and chronic anticoagulants or antiplatelet
      medication administration. The same primary and secondary outcome data obtained in the
      prospective portion of this study will be sought and recorded by chart review.

      Conclusion Improved vascular surgical outcomes have been described in patients receiving
      regional anesthesia and neuroaxial anesthesia(2-4). Specifically, we anticipate a decrease in
      overall rates of death, wound infection, graft thrombosis, graft revision, and amputation in
      patients receiving regional anesthesia for infra-inguinal bypass grafting. As well, we
      hypothesize that patients receiving regional anesthestics will have improved secondary
      outcomes including decreased length of stay, narcotic consumption, nausea and vomiting,
      post-operative cognitive dysfunction, cardiac events, post-operative pain, and hyperglycemic
      episodes.
    
  