
    
      Stroke remains a major public health problem with a disproportionate impact on blacks and
      Hispanics.

      Studies in Northern Manhattan have demonstrated that blacks and Hispanics have a greater
      stroke incidence and more frequently have small vessel and intracranial atherosclerotic
      stroke than whites.

      The reasons for these race/ethnic disparities are not entirely clear. Enrollment of a
      population-based, prospective cohort of 3298 stroke-free adults was completed in 2001 and
      annual followup has continued since then. This collaborative study is the first prospective
      cohort study among whites, blacks and Caribbean Hispanics living in the same community. This
      grant supports continued followup and outcome detection and expansion of data collection in
      this cohort. The aims are to evaluate the relationship between vascular outcomes (stroke, MI,
      and vascular death) and insulin resistance, carotid intima-media thickness, carotid
      distensibility, and quantitative MRI measures of vascular subclinical brain disease and to
      determine if MRI subclinical disease accounts for race/ethnic differences in cognitive
      impairment. To accomplish these aims further data collection using the population-based,
      prospective cohort study is proposed. Stored baseline serum will be used to measure fasting
      insulin levels to evaluate insulin resistance. High resolution carotid imaging data will be
      collected at subsequent visits to expand the measurements of subclinical carotid disease to
      1300 subjects. MRIs and a neuropsychological battery emphasizing frontal executive domains
      will be done on 1300 subjects and quantitative analyses performed to measure white matter
      hyperintensities, silent infarcts, and silent cerebral microbleeds.

      Starting in 2005, subjects enrolled in the MRI substudy began to have echocardiograms and
      24hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Subjects will be followed by annual telephone
      interviews to ascertain stroke, MI, death, and changes in cognitive state. In-person
      assessment will be done for all subjects who screen positive. Community stroke surveillance
      will be maintained to insure stroke detection among the cohort. Specific diagnostic
      committees classify stroke, MI and vascular death. The strengths of this cohort study are the
      wealth of baseline data already assembled, the triethnic composition residing in the same
      community, the outstanding followup record, the evaluation of putative risk factors, and the
      innovative assessment of MRI subclinical disease and carotid subclinical disease. The study
      primary hypotheses are:1. To determine the independent association of insulin resistance
      among nondiabetics and the incidence of stroke, as well as stroke, MI or vascular death,
      after adjusting for known modifiable risk factors such as hypertension, lipids, cigarettes,
      and alcohol. 2.

      To evaluate the independent association of subclinical carotid disease (carotid intima-media
      thickness and carotid distensibility) and the incidence of stroke, MI or vascular death after
      adjusting for conventional modifiable vascular risk factors, as well as novel vascular risk
      factors such as homocysteine, high density lipoprotein (HDL) subpopulations, and insulin
      resistance.3. To compare the prevalence of subclinical vascular brain disease as measured by
      quantitative MRI, including white matter hyperintensities, silent infarcts, and silent
      cerebral microbleeds, in each race/ethnic subgroup and determine the association between
      subclinical brain disease and modifiable vascular risk factors measured up to 10 years prior
      to MRI. Vascular risk factors will include baseline and repeated measures of conventional
      modifiable conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, lipid levels, cigarette smoking,
      physical activity, alcohol use, as well as less-well documented factors such as homocysteine,
      HDL subpopulations, and insulin resistance. 4. To determine the relationship between
      subclinical vascular brain diseases and cognitive impairment, particularly diminished
      performance in frontal executive tests, and whether these MRI findings help explain cognitive
      performance differences among whites, blacks and Hispanics after adjusting for age and
      education.5. To explore whether subclinical vascular brain diseases are important predictors
      of stroke, MI or vascular death. Beginning in Summer 2005, some new aims were added as
      follows: 1) to determine whether aortic arch abnormalities and/or cardiac abnormalities,
      and/or 24hour blood pressure levels and changes, are independently associated with silent
      brain infarcts in the elderly; 2) to determine the risk of symptomatic stroke, myocardial
      infarction and vascular death associated with aortic/cardiac/24hour blood pressure
      abnormalities. As of 2010 the investigators will be collaborating with other institutions
      under the NINDS Ischemic Stroke Genetics (ISG) study. The aims of the NINDS Ischemic Stroke
      Genetics Study (NINDS ISG Study; NIH Grant 1 U01 NS06920801) are to:1) Assemble ischemic
      stroke phenotypic data and high quality DNA data from 10 stroke studies. (Participating
      studies in the NINDS ISG Study: Ischemic Stroke Genetics Study; Siblings with Ischemic Stroke
      Study; Greater Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky Stroke Study; Genes Affecting Stroke Risk and
      Outcome Study/Bugher Network Study; Northern Manhattan Study; Baltimore/Washington Young
      Stroke Study; Heart and Vascular Health Stroke Study; Nurses Health Study; Reasons for
      Geographic and Racial Differences in Stroke; Women's Health Initiative). This collaboration
      has access to 7,033 cases of ischemic stroke and 23,411 study-specific controls. 2) Test for
      associations with ischemic stroke and its subtypes in the NINDS ISG Study. 3) Replicate and
      extend associations detected in Aim 1.2 above by taking advantage of other genomewide
      association studies conducted by other members of the Ischemic Stroke Genetics studies.
    
  