
    
      Rationale: Currently, fluid administration of critically ill patients is aimed at optimizing
      conventional hemodynamic parameters such as stroke volume and cardiac output. Fluid is
      infused repeatedly until patients become "non-responsive", i.e. cardiac output does not
      increase anymore. However, the ultimate goal of hemodynamic therapy should be to improve
      peripheral (i.e. tissue) perfusion. Recently we have shown that 1) increasing stroke volume
      does not always have an effect on peripheral perfusion and 2) that peripheral perfusion is
      not impaired when stroke volume can still be increased with fluid infusion. Furthermore,
      repeated administration of fluid in order to reach a maximum cardiac output can lead to an
      enormous accumulation of fluid in the patient. This leads to formation of lung edema and
      respiratory dysfunction and is associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation and ICU-stay.
      Recently, techniques have been developed which allow bedside assessment of peripheral
      perfusion. Although impaired peripheral perfusion was related to worse outcome, these
      parameters have never been used as target for hemodynamic therapy.

      Objective: To study whether peripheral perfusion targeted fluid management (PPTFM) leads to
      less fluid administration, improved respiratory function and shorter mechanical ventilation.

      Study design: The study is a pilot study and is designed as a randomized controlled trial.
      The study will be conducted as a single-center study at the Intensive Care of the Erasmus
      Medical Center.

      Study population: We aim to include 40 adult patients who are admitted to the Intensive Care
      with hemodynamic instability (defined as mean arterial pressure < 65 mmHg and an arterial
      lactate concentration > 3.0 mmol/l) due to severe sepsis and septic shock.

      Intervention: In the intervention group fluid management is targeted on peripheral perfusion
      parameters while in the control group fluid is administered in order to optimize cardiac
      output.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study endpoints are daily fluid balance and
      duration of mechanical ventilation.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: There is a possible risk that in the treatment group the patients will remain
      hypovolemic. To ensure that this will not occur, fluids will be administrated in this group,
      irrespective of peripheral perfusion parameters, until cardiac index is 2,5 L/min/m2.
      Assessment of peripheral perfusion is performed with non-invasive optical techniques that
      impose no burden to the patient.
    
  