
    
      ASPREE BACKGROUND:

      ASPREE (ASPirin in Reducing Events in the Elderly) is a joint US/Australian research project
      aiming to determine whether low-dose aspirin increases healthy life-span, defined as survival
      free of dementia and disability. ASPREE began in 2010 and completed recruitment in 2014. It
      is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, primary prevention trial of daily 100 mg
      of aspirin in a population of healthy older people in the United States (US) and Australia
      with a period of treatment averaging 4.5 years. ASPREE's primary outcome is length of
      survival free of dementia and disability and has secondary outcomes encompassing the major
      health issues related to aging. The trial involving 19,114 persons aged 70 and above (65
      years and above for US minorities) is distinctive for its large size, methodological rigor
      and high participant retention rate in both countries.

      ASPREE UNIQUE ASPECTS:

        1. It is the first large scale trial to incorporate dementia-free and disability-free
           survival as a primary outcome. This is now recognized as an appropriate goal of
           treatment in a primary prevention population of this age group. Within a clinical trial
           context disability-free survival incorporates an estimate of the overall benefits and
           risks of aspirin in a single outcome measure.

        2. It is one of the first primary prevention trials of aspirin to include cancer incidence,
           metastases or mortality as a pre-specified endpoint. Recent meta-analyses [Rothwell et
           al 2010, 2011, 2012] suggests that aspirin has a significant chemopreventive effect
           becoming evident after a period of 4+ years of aspirin treatment, but questions remain
           about the magnitude of benefit, and whether it applies to treatment of all cancers and
           to older people.

        3. It will provide information about the impact of aspirin on a range of other conditions
           (e.g, dementia, CVD, stroke, depression, bleeding) where aspirin has been claimed to
           have benefit (or risks).

      The intervention phase of the trial ended in June 2017 after the NIA determined that it was
      highly unlikely that aspirin would show a benefit on the overall primary outcome within the
      planned 5-year time frame. The study is now entering a data cleaning and analysis phase and
      it is anticipated that the primary results were published in September 2018.
    
  