
    
      Breast cancer patients use Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) in greater
      proportions than any other group of cancer patients. The primary reason breast cancer
      patients cite for use of CAM is strengthening the immune system. Healing touch (HT) is a CAM
      treatment frequently used by cancer patients to reduce adverse side effects of chemotherapy
      and radiation and to enhance immunity. HT is classified by NIH as a "biofield" therapy as its
      effects are proposed to be secondary to manipulation of "energy fields" around the body of a
      patient. A recent meta-analysis has demonstrated relatively large effects of HT on well-being
      and on physiological parameters, even from brief treatments. However, to date, there are no
      data on the effects of HT on immune function among breast cancer patients during treatment.
      This is particularly important as several immune parameters show long-term suppression or
      alteration, particularly after combined adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation among breast
      cancer patients. Additionally, there are no data on the effects of HT on the common side
      effects of breast cancer treatment which can include profound fatigue and radiation-induced
      skin damage. Physiological mechanisms underlying possible effects of HT are also poorly
      understood. This study is designed to reduce this knowledge gap by examining how HT affects
      cellular immune function and biomarkers related to two of the most problematic side effects
      of breast cancer treatment, fatigue and radiation-induced tissue damage. Effects on the
      subjective experience of fatigue and clinician rated skin damage will also be noted.
      Participants will be 42 early stage breast cancer patients who are receiving a standard
      course of radiotherapy following breast conservation surgery or mastectomy who have either
      had chemotherapy or not

      The significance of the project is as follows. If positive effects are demonstrated on
      intermediate outcomes such as immune parameters, markers of radiation damage, and/or fatigue,
      follow-up studies would be warranted examining effects of HT on a) recurrence and survival,
      b) incidence of long term side effects of radiation, c) quality of life among breast cancer
      patients. Additionally, if effects of HT are demonstrated, a critical examination of putative
      mechanisms of action, using controls for effect of attention, expectation, and other placebo
      effects will be warranted.
    
  