
    
      Bone tissue carries out some of the important metabolic functions, including the regulation
      of acid-base balance. In order to buffer the systemic acidosis, the skeleton acts as a "ion
      exchange column" modifying the composition of the mineral portion, i.e. the hydroxyapatite.
      There is a linear correlation between elimination of calcium and acidosis: the higher is the
      acidosis, the higher will be the loss of calcium from bones. In vitro experiments showed that
      acidosis also directly influences the cellular component of bone by increasing the osteoclast
      activity and inhibiting the production of the mineralized matrix by osteoblast. Since the low
      pH is a risk factor that accelerates the bone loss, the use of alkalizing compounds could
      prevent the osteopenia or support the conventional therapy of the osteoporosis.

      KCitr is an alkaline compound which may be used in metabolic acidosis. Potassium is an
      alkaline metal that plays a pivotal role in the function of all living cells. Citric acid is
      a key molecule of the Krebs cycle, and it is abundant in bone where exhibits a stabilizing
      function. Although clinical data regarding the KCitr effectiveness on calcium metabolism are
      encouraging, it is still unclear whether the beneficial effects are due exclusively to the
      buffering function or whether KCitr may affect the bone cells activity. The purpose of this
      study is to evaluate the effects of KCitr on bone metabolism. We hypothesize that
      administration of potassium citrate to postmenopausal women with osteopenia will delay (or
      will prevent) the weakening of bone mass.

      Postmenopausal women with osteopenia (T score between -1.0 and -2.5) and no history of
      fracture will be randomized to assume KCitr ate or placebo, daily for six months. Primary
      outcomes will be evaluated by measuring markers of bone turnover, which will be measured at
      baseline (before treatment), in the mid-term (3 months) and at the end (6 months).
    
  