
    
      The integrase inhibitor under investigation in this study, Dolutegravir (DTG), is relatively
      new to the market only having been approved in 2014. DTG is now being used on a large scale
      to treat HIV-1 positive patients, therefore robust drug-drug interaction data is required for
      medications that are prescribed with DTG.

      Tuberculosis is biggest killer of patients that are co-infected with the HIV-1 virus, killing
      over 25% of the population. There is an unmet need for data concerning DTG once daily dosing
      in the presence of rifampicin (RIF), the widely used anti-tuberculosis antibiotic. This is
      the main purpose of this investigative study.

      The design of the study is an open label, single site pharmacokinetic (PK) study to measure
      the blood plasma concentration of DTG in the presence of RIF.

      The study will recruit 18-63 years old healthy volunteers, either male or non-pregnant
      females. Subjects will be recruited at the single study site. A site in the United Kingdom
      will be selected based on its past experience in the HIV field, and its ability to recruit 16
      subjects from their healthy volunteer database.

      The study period is expected to be 43 days, excluding screening and follow-up. The most
      significant procedures in terms of study data will be pharmacokinetic (PK) sampling days 7,
      14, 35 and 42. On these days PK sampling will occur over a 24 hour period, mapping out the
      blood concentrations of DTG in the presence of RIF.

      There will also be a pharmacogenomic sub-study included in the study design. Researchers have
      included this because the HIV investigator community agrees that a pharmacogenomic approach
      to HIV treatment is important to understand why patients show different degrees of
      virological responses or drug toxicity.

      This research is funded by Wits Health Consortium, and sponsored by St Stephens Clinical
      Research.
    
  