
    
      Two thirds of female HIV/AIDS cases occur in Black women and an estimated 76% of these are
      attributed to heterosexual contact. HIV is the third-leading killer of Black women ages
      25-44, and STI associated morbidity may contribute to racial disparities in cervical cancer,
      adverse pregnancy outcomes, and infant mortality.

      The investigators propose to test the efficacy of the FemAALES of African American Legacy
      Empowering Self Intervention in a population of adult Black/African American women who have
      either no health insurance or a public/subsidized form of health insurance against a Control
      or "Standard of Care" arm involving family planning and STI counseling.

      In addition, the investigators will explore the impact of the FemAALES intervention on the
      use of new media for social support and networking, obtaining health information, and
      identifying resources and services. FemAALES incorporates cultural contextual, and
      partnership issues and promotes access to resources not readily available to this population.
      FemAALES curriculum is guided by the Theory of Reasoned Action and Planning and Critical
      Thinking and Cultural Affirmation Model developed by a collaborating community-based
      organization.

      The primary specific aims are to:

        1. Determine the impact of the FemAALES of African American Legacy Empowering Self
           (FemAALES II) on HIV risk factors including:

             1. number of sex partners

             2. unprotected anal/vaginal sex

             3. incidence of bacterial STIs

        2. Determine the impact of the FemAALES interventions on psychosocial outcomes, including
           self-efficacy for safer sex negotiation and discussions with partners regarding HIV/STI
           testing and risk

             -  Hypothesis 1: Compared to the control, FemAALES will reduce the number of
                vaginal/anal sex partners and number of episodes of unprotected intercourse at
                3months and 9 months post intervention

             -  Hypothesis 2: Compared to the control, FemAALES will reduce the incidence of
                gonorrhea and chlamydia

             -  Hypothesis 3: Compared to the control, FemAALES will improve self-efficacy for
                condom negotiation

             -  Hypothesis 4: Compared to the control. FemAALES will increase the proportion of
                women who have discussions regarding sexual and drug use risk factors with their
                sexual partners.

      A third, exploratory aim, is to assess the impact of the FemAALES intervention on the use of
      new social media for social support and networking, obtaining health information and
      identifying resources and services.
    
  