
    
      The prevalence of Heart Failure (HF) is rising, primarily among the elderly. HF has been
      diagnosed in 15 and 30% of elderly residents of long-term care facilities (LTCF). HF is
      associated with a high mortality rate and is the most common reason elderly persons are
      hospitalized. The economic impact of HF is substantial. Despite advances in the management of
      HF, the elderly are less likely to receive recommended therapies. This may reflect
      under-representation of the frail elderly in clinical trials of HF treatment. The elderly are
      more likely to experience adverse effects. In addition, HF trials have focused on mortality
      and hospitalization as outcome measures, which may be less relevant to the frail elderly who
      may be more concerned about preventing disability and preserving cognition.

      Recent studies have demonstrated an association between functional decline, cognitive
      impairment and HF. Functional decline is defined as a loss in the ability to independently
      perform basic activities of self-care. In addition, patients with HF may be more likely to
      suffer from behavioural and psychological difficulties those without HF. The primary
      hypothesis of this study is that elderly residents of LTCF with a history of HF experience a
      more rapid rate of functional decline than residents without such a history. The secondary
      hypotheses are that elderly residents of LTCF with HF also experience a more rapid rate of
      cognitive decline and a greater burden of associated behavioural and psychological symptoms.

      We propose to conduct a prospective cohort study in 25 LTCF in Hamilton, 9 LTCF in
      Kitchener-Waterloo, and 7 LTCF in Cambridge, all in Ontario. All newly admitted residents to
      these facilities will be considered for inclusion. Residents for whom consent cannot be
      obtained or who are not expected to survive more than eight weeks due to an underlying
      malignancy, end-stage neurological illness or other palliative diagnosis will be excluded.
      Approximately 600 patients will be recruited, 20% of which are expected to have a history of
      HF.

      Residents for whom consent is obtained will be assessed by a research nurse. The assessment
      consists of a standardized history and physical examination, review of pertinent medical
      records, and an assessment of function (Barthel Index), cognition (MDS-COGS), and
      neuropsychiatric symptoms (Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory and Neuropsychiatric
      Inventory). These measurements will be obtained at baseline and every three months thereafter
      for up to a year. The diagnosis of HF will be confirmed by two specialists using standard
      criteria. Residents with a history of HF will be compared to those without this history.
      Mortality, emergency room visits, acute hospitalizations, and falls will be measured.

      Thus far, no studies have prospectively examined functional and cognitive decline in LTCF
      residents with HF. No studies have examined the relationship between HF and psychological and
      behavioural symptoms in these patients. As elderly residents of LTCF represent the frailest
      of the frail elderly, the results of this study are likely to be generalizable to the frail
      elderly in the community. We hope to apply the results of this study to future research
      aiming to determine whether treatment of HF can be optimized to reduce functional and
      cognitive decline in LTCF residents with HF, in order to preserve their independence and
      current level of disability as long as possible.
    
  