
    
      Objective: Evaluate and compare the effects of different types of training (balance training,
      strength training, cardiorespiratory endurance training); in the older people in the
      variables of physical fitness (dynamic balance, static balance, rate of strength production,
      flexibility and cardiorespiratory endurance), physiomechanics of gait (length and frequency
      of stride, time of contact and balance, energy conversion, mechanical work , transport cost,
      dynamic stability and mechanical efficiency of walking at different speeds), indicators
      associated with quality of life (depressive symptoms, health-related quality of life, fear of
      falling). Experimental Design: study experimental randomized. Search Location: Exercise
      Research Laboratory at the School of Physical Education, Physiotherapy and Dance, Federal
      University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Participants: older
      people from the community of both sexes, aged 60 or over, sedentary. Interventions: In this
      research, three groups of older people will receive intervention during 4 months of different
      types of training (balance training, strength training, cardiorespiratory endurance
      training); and a control group, who will receive educational lectures on health, walking and
      aging. The training programs will have a duration of 4 months and will be periodized so that
      the duration of the sessions is same between them. The intensity of the interval training
      will be manipulated by the subjective effort scale (Borg) and by exercise time. The training
      programs will have a frequency of two sessions per week and a duration of 45 minutes. In
      order to evaluate the effects of the training, evaluations will be performed before and after
      the training period. Outcomes: the results will be related to the variables physical fitness,
      physiomechanics of gait, and indicators associated with quality of live. Data Analysis: Data
      will be described by average values and standard deviation values. The comparisons between
      and within groups will be performed using a Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) analysis,
      adopting a level of significance (α) of 0.05, and Bonferroni post-hoc to identify the
      differences between the means in all variables. Expected Results: The investigators believe
      that the better the level of physical fitness, the less likely it is that the elderly will
      enter into a frame of disability or fragility, especially improving physical fitness when
      compared to the control group. In addition, strategies to protect the elderly can be
      formulated through physical programs aimed at preventing the functional capacity and quality
      of life of the elderly. It is expected that the results of the research will be expandable
      and the possibility of future developments in the scientific, technological, economic, social
      and environmental.
    
  