
    
      AIM Early detection of pancreas cancer and precursors lesions improves survival. The
      investigators aim is to gauge whether quantitative contrast endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)
      improves the evaluation of pancreas tumors and precursors lesions including cysts.

      DESIGN The study will be a prospective tandem contrast EUS trial. All EUS will be performed
      as part of standard clinical care.

      Conventional EUS Standard EUS will first be performed using the 180 series linear array
      echoendoscope (Olympus, Center Valley, PA). The alpha-10 image processor (Aloka America,
      Wallingford, CT) in B mode will be used to acquire images. A research coordinator will help
      to record key parameters. Thirty second cine clips of conventional EUS images will be
      captured to compare with contrast EUS clips and enable intra and interobserver variability
      comparison.

      Contrast Administration Definity contrast will be activated by 45 seconds of agitation
      (VialMix, Lantheus, North Billerica, MA) and injected through the intravenous peripheral line
      which is placed to administer fluids. The investigators will administer a bolus dose of
      10microliter (microL)/kg within 30-60 seconds followed by 10ml of saline flush. Up to 2 bolus
      injections will be administered during each case and doppler sonography will be used between
      them to induce microbubble destruction.

      Contrast EUS: Following contrast administration prospective assessment will be performed
      using the Olympus endoscope and images processed using the Alpha 10 system. Harmonic
      detection conversion software installed on the alpha 10 processor to enable detection. Core
      parameters for comparison to conventional EUS will be captured prospectively.

      Quantitative Processing: For each bolus 30 seconds of cine imaging will be captured for post
      processing and for comparison with conventional EUS imaging (intra and interobserver
      variability). Images of the lesion (5mm x 5mm region) and adjacent normal tissue (5mm x 5mm)
      regions will be captured to facilitate quantitative assessment. Quantitative analytic
      software will then be used to generate time intensity curves and associated values including
      peak intensity (PI), time to peak (TTP), wash-in-slope (WIS), rise time (RT), mean transit
      time (MTT), and time from peak to one-half (TPH).

      DRUG/DEVICE INFORMATION

      Definity: Definity is an intravenous contrast agent. It is comprised of 1.1-3.3um micropheres
      containing perflutren (octafluoropropane) which is cleared by respiration.

      The gas is encapsulated lipid shells which are metabolized to free fatty acids and
      hepatically cleared.

      The Olympus 180 linear echoendoscope will be used in all procedures which are being done for
      standard clinical indications. The Aloka SSD-Alpha 10-Processor will be used for image
      capture. Post EUS quantitative processing will be performed using QLAB quantification
      software (Philips Healthcare, Bothel, WA).
    
  