
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, flexible dosage, multicenter study to
      evaluate the effectiveness and safety of galantamine tablet in the treatment of mild to
      moderate AD. The comparator is Donepezil tablet. At least 206 patients were to be randomized
      in the study. The study consisted of 3 phases: a screening phase, a single-blind run-in phase
      and a double-blind treatment phase. Screening phase is less than 2 week for eligible
      assessment; If the patient was taking any anti-dementia drug at screening, he/she had to stop
      these drugs and enter into the single-blind run-in phase. The patient who did not take any
      anti-dementia drug can enter into baseline directly. During the single-blind run-in phase,
      all eligible patients will take placebo twice daily for 4 weeks. Double-blind treatment phase
      is 16 weeks. At baseline, all patients who are still eligible for inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be randomized to either galantamine group or donepezil group at 1:1 ratio,
      drugs will be taken twice daily by a flexible dose for 16 weeks. Dose will be titrated during
      the first 9-12 weeks. Dose will be fixed to 16mg/day or 24mg/day based on tolerability of the
      patient judged by the investigator. The primary effectiveness endpoint is changes in
      ADAS-cog/11 at week 16 from baseline, secondary endpoint is responder rate in term of
      ADAS-cog/11. Safety evaluation included adverse events, physical examination, ECG, and safety
      laboratory tests. Study drug are taken orally twice a day. The treatment duration was 16
      weeks. Initial galantamine dose is 8 mg/day, dose was increased to 16mg/day at week 5 and to
      24 mg/day at week 9. At week 12, dose was fixed to either 16mg/day or 24mg/day at the
      discretion of investigators. Initial donepezil dose is 5mg/day, dose was then increased to
      10mg/day at week 9. At week 12, dose was fixed to either 5mg/day or 10mg/day at the
      discretion of investigators.
    
  