
    
      Cervical cancer is the commonest cancer among women aged less than 35 years. A change to the
      age range and frequency for cervical screening was implemented on the 6th June 2016. This
      increased the younger eligible age for screening from 20 to 25. Uptake of cervical screening
      among women in the youngest eligible age range has historically been low. Research by Scott
      Porter has shown that cervical screening is not on young women's radar and additionally there
      is scope for confusion amongst women in this cohort about the requirement to attend for
      cervical screening if they have been previously immunised against HPV (human papilloma virus)
      generally in secondary school in year 2, some 12 years earlier.

      The HPV vaccine was introduced in 2008 and is designed to protect against the two types of
      high risk HPV which cause approximately 75% of all cervical cancer. Advice to all eligible
      women who have been vaccinated remains that participation in cervical screening is necessary
      to provide the most comprehensive protection against cervical cancer, as the current vaccine
      does not provide protection against all high risk cancer causing strains of HPV.

      Research from other screening programmes has also shown that where individuals engage with a
      screening programme from the start, they are more likely to continue to participate in
      screening for as long as they are eligible.

      "Intending to, but not getting round to it", is the reason most associated with non-response
      to cervical cancer screening invitations.

      GGC serves approximately 40% of the total Scottish population and therefore testing the
      reminder in the GGC population provides an opportunity to compare the impact of the SMS text
      reminder in this cohort with management as usual within the remainder of the Scottish
      eligible population. This should enable us to identify whether use of a reminder SMS text
      message is in fact likely to add value and increase participation in cervical screening.
    
  