
    
      This is a pilot project for a pragmatic multisite, 6-month, two arm RCT of an MBSR
      intervention in RA patients expressing depressive symptoms despite controlled joint
      inflammation, on measures of depressive symptoms (Primary outcome). The investigators will
      also explore the impact of MBSR on significant PROs (e.g. fatigue, pain, Pt-VAS, anxiety)
      further translating into lower SDAI scores post-MBSR, and the feasibility of determining if
      improvement may be mediated though better adherence to treatment and/or through a
      modification of inflammation-related biomarkers.

      During the present 1-year pilot study, the investigators propose to randomize 50 patients,
      and offer 2 MBSR groups of ≈13 patients each. Due to the bidirectional relationship between
      RA and depression, MBSR will be studied in patients receiving stable doses of arthritis
      medications during remission or low disease activity. To avoid recruitment based on
      thresholds of composite scores (e.g. SDAI) that are strongly impacted by depression-sensitive
      variables, such as Patient global evaluation of disease activity (PtVAS) and tender joint
      counts (TJC), the investigators will use a Swollen Joint Count (SJC) ≤2 out of 66 joints and
      C-Reactive Protein (CRP) ≤8 mg/L ('objective' measures) to define controlled disease. As SJC
      is the major determinant for RA treatment change in clinical practice, short-term RA
      treatment changes are unlikely in the recruited patients.

      Controlled RA patients reporting Pt-VAS superior to MD-VAS by at least 20/100 units will be
      recruited. Blinded clinical assessors will determine the joint counts and the Examiner global
      evaluation of disease activity (EVAS) to determine SDAI scores at baseline and at 6 months.
      The French Canadian version of the CES-D and the Beck Depression Inventory to assess the
      importance of depressive symptoms, as well as 0-100 VAS scales (fatigue; sleep; pain; PtVAS)
      and Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) will be obtained at both visits. Reporting will
      conform to the CONSORT recommendations for pilot studies.

      This study reflects clinical practice, where there is heterogeneity in duration of disease,
      gender, age, type and dose of RA drugs used, as well as type and dose of antidepressants
      (when used). While the investigators suggest that RA drugs remain constant over the 6-month
      intervention period, treating physicians will be free to modify treatment if clinically
      indicated. Antidepressant use will not be an exclusion criterion.

      For pragmatic reasons (e.g. uneven availability and expertise of primary care physician's
      (PCP), unknown effect size of the intervention), the investigators will not include a second
      active treatment arm with optimization of antidepressants. Instead, the investigators will
      inform in writing treating PCPs of their patient participation to the study and of the
      disconnect between Pt-VAS and MD-VAS. Changes to arthritis and depression drugs will be
      tracked and controlled for in analyses. For patients' safety, psychological contraindications
      to MBSR will be screened at baseline during a phone interview by Dr Françoise Gendron who
      will direct the MBSR sessions, and patients with contraindications excluded.
    
  