
    
      Patients with unresectable metastatic melanoma have a dismal prognosis. The disease responds
      poorly to currently available chemotherapies and biological agents. The median survival in
      this patient population is 6 - 10 months and has not improved significantly in decades. The
      FDA approved DTIC in 1975 and high dose intravenous bolus rIL-2 in 1998 and these are the
      only agents approved for therapy of patients with metastatic melanoma.

      In a Phase III trial reported in 2000, temozolomide (Temodar, Schering-Plough) demonstrated
      equivalent overall survival to DTIC in patients with metastatic melanoma, and had the
      advantages of providing improved progression-free survival, ease of administration (oral),
      and crossing the blood-brain barrier. Temozolomide and DTIC are both precursors of an active
      metabolite, monomethyl triazenoimidazole carboxamide (MTIC). SU11248 (Sutent, Pfizer) is a
      multi-targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor which targets 3 distinct vascular
      endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR-1, -2, and -3), platelet-derived growth factor
      receptor alpha and beta (PDGFR-α and -β), KIT receptor tyrosine kinases, and fms-related
      tyrosine kinase 3/Flk2 (FLT3). Although other angiogenic factors have been identified, VEGF
      is the most potent and specific regulator of angiogenesis and SU11248 targets not just one,
      but all 3 VEGF signaling pathways. Dacarbazine (DTIC) causes transcriptional up-regulation of
      VEGF in melanoma cells and this has been postulated as a possible mechanism of escape from
      chemotherapy efficacy. Temozolomide, which acts through the same metabolite, MTIC, would be
      expected to have the same activity. PDGFR-α and -β are important new targets in tumor cell
      proliferation and angiogenesis. PDGF signaling pathways have been implicated in the
      development and growth of solid tumors. Inhibition of PDGF receptors has been shown to
      inhibit angiogenesis, tumor vascular maturation and maintenance, and tumor cell proliferation
      - inducing tumor regression. In a murine model, the combination of chemotherapy with VEGF and
      PDFG receptor inhibitors resulted in a remarkable survival advantage.

      The study is an open-label, single arm trial. The patient sample will be approximately 56-62
      individuals, males and females 18 years of age or older with measurable metastatic melanoma.
      Study participants must meet a number of laboratory criteria in order to be admitted into the
      study. The study duration is expected to be approximately 2 years. Patients will be offered
      treatment for up to 1 year and are expected to complete a median of 6 cycles of treatment.

      An interim analysis of safety will be conducted after completion of treatment of 6 patients
      in each cohort and a determination will be made as to whether or not to continue to the next
      cohort according to the specifications in the protocol. If an acceptable dosing regimen is
      found, the study will proceed to a Phase II portion. Progression-free survival will be
      determined for the 6 month time point when all patients have completed the study. The study
      has ≥90% power to detect an increase in the 6-month progression-free survival rate from ≤15%,
      the result expected for patients receiving available first-line therapy, to ≥35% for patients
      receiving the combination of temozolomide and SU11248, based on a one group chi-square test
      with a 0.05 two-sided significance level.
    
  