
    
      Rationale and Background :

      Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and other WHO grade IV malignant gliomas of the brain are among
      the most lethal of human cancers. Despite current intensive multimodal regimen including the
      use of temozolomide (TMZ) for combined chemo-radiotherapy (CCRT) and for subsequent adjuvant
      chemotherapy, the medium survival period of GBM patients is still 8-16 months after diagnosis
      and surgery, with prognosis varied according to demographic features such as age,
      radiotherapy types and chemotherapy measures.These fatal brain cancers in general contain
      cancer cells with mutation in certain genes. Also, the mutated GBM cancer cells are usually
      heterogenous; and different GBM patients may have individual sets of heterogenous glioma
      cancer cells in which the mutant genes would generate altered antigens that can be recognized
      by the patient's adaptive immune system to mount immuno-targeting responses to reject or kill
      the GBM tumor cells. However, GBM is still fatal because it is highly immunosuppressive, i.e.
      able to anergize the immune effector cells in the body. Although surgical resection of
      rapidly expanding tumor bulk will prevent further physical damages to the brain and curtail
      the immunosuppression, the already anergized effector T lymphocytes still require functional
      restoration. On the other hand, post-surgical TMZ CCRT and adjuvant chemotherapy may weaken
      the residual tumor cells, but TMZ will also impair if not kill the active T lymphocytes in
      general, including anti-GBM lymphocytes. It is therefore important to exploit the adaptive
      immunity system for effective therapy of GBM. To apply the adaptive immunotherapy, it is best
      to use each patient's surgical tumor specimen to prepare the own individual "tumor regression
      antigens" for loading onto the patient's own dendritic cells (the "professional" antigen
      processing and presenting cells of the immune system). Dendritic cells loaded with
      tumor-specific antigens, upon maturation and inoculation ("vaccination"), would migrate/home
      to the T cell area of lymph nodes and stimulate proliferation of tumor-specific cytotoxic T
      lymphocyte that would move out of lymph node to find the brain tumor lesion to attack and
      eradicate the residual GBM tumor cells, resulting in prevention of GBM recurrence.

      With fore-mentioned working hypotheses, the investigators carried out translational research
      from 1997 to 2002. A special method has been developed for production of an
      immunotherapeutic, which is named "autologous dendritic cell/autologous tumor cell antigens
      of GBM" (ADCTA-G). For clinical trial purpose, the investigators have established standard
      operational procedures (SOP) of the method with the use of clinical Good Manufacturing
      Practice (cGMP)-grade cytokines and pharmaceutical reagents. Individual ADCTA-G lots of all
      participant GBM patients are manufactured in high efficiency particle arresting (HEPA)
      air-filtered, germ-free bio-safety barrier clinical Good Laboratory Practice (cGLP)
      facilities. The phase I/II clinical trial was officially approved by Taiwan Department of
      Health and performed in a clinical center to demonstrate that ADCTA-G adjuvant immunotherapy
      was safe and apparently could prolong the survival for GBM patients.
    
  