
    
      With the introduction of effective antiretroviral therapy (ART), HIV-infected persons can now
      survive for decades, but this success has been accompanied by an increased risk of developing
      metabolic disease compared HIV-negative persons. In the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study,
      HIV-infected men had a greater than 4-fold increased incidence of a new diabetes diagnosis
      compared to HIV-negative men after adjusting for age and body mass index (BMI). Prevalence
      studies of diabetes in HIV-infected individuals on ART have reported incidence rates of 3.1
      to 14 per 1000 patient-years. Furthermore, treated HIV infection appears to act
      synergistically with other risk factors, and diabetes prevalence is especially high among
      HIV-infected individuals with high BMI and advanced age.

      Recent studies from HIV-negative subjects identified several associations between adaptive
      immune cell populations and impaired glucose tolerance. Peripheral T regulatory (Treg) cells
      are significantly lower in patients with type-2 diabetes , while the numbers activated T
      cells, CD4+ TH1 (pro-inflammatory) cells, and memory CD4+ T cells are higher in diabetics.

      Immune cells translocate from the circulation into adipose tissue in a dynamic process, and T
      cells are present in the stromal fraction of adipose tissue and affect adipocyte function.
      The striking increase in adipose tissue CD4+ TH1 cells and CD8+ T cells, and a decrease in
      Treg cells, observed in obesity may have an important role in the development of insulin
      resistance. Secretion of the proinflammatory cytokines interferon-γ and interleukin (IL)-17
      by TH1 and TH17 cells are implicated in the induction of proinflammatory M1 macrophages,
      which express IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha, and inhibit adipocyte insulin signaling
      by promoting phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1. The investigators hypothesize
      that the chronic, HIV-related activation of circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells may be
      accompanied by the accumulation of activated T cells in adipose tissue with adverse effects
      on metabolic activity.

      In this study, the investigators will test the hypothesis that the oligoclonal expansion of
      chronically activated peripheral T cells in adipose tissue is a primary driver of macrophage
      inflammation and reduced adipocyte insulin sensitivity. Furthermore, the investigators
      propose that this represents a central mechanistic linkage underlying the association between
      circulating T cell activation and incident diabetes risk observed in HIV-infected and
      HIV-negative individuals.
    
  