
    
      This is a randomized study with intervention and control arms of sixty kidney transplant
      recipients age 60 and older. Demographic information will be collected during the screening
      phone call and will include: gender, race, marital status, income, education, transplant
      date, prescribed medications, type of diet, smoking status, and co-morbidities. All study
      data will be entered directly into electronic research forms using REDCap.

      Overview of Intervention and Control Groups:

      Intervention and control groups will be enrolled in the study in the same manner, receive the
      same instruction on use of the Fitbit and have the same number of study contacts. Group
      sessions will be held at the OSU Transplant Clinic with 10-12 participants for 6 months and a
      6-month maintenance phase without contact from study personnel until month 12.

      Intervention Group Active Phase, Group Session 1 (1 hour, 20 minutes): Research staff will
      demonstrate proper Fitbit activity tracker use, set up the smartphone application, and assist
      entry of daily step goals into the smartphone application. Fitbits will be set up with Gmail
      accounts with unique unidentifiable codes. Participants will be taught how to sync to their
      smartphone and retrieve data from their Fitbit. One week following this session, participants
      will be called to troubleshoot problems and be encourage to increase their step goal 5% each
      month (total phone time 15 minutes).

      Intervention/Control Group Timeline:

      Intervention Active Phase, Group Session 2 (1 hour): Fitbit activity tracker reports will be
      reviewed by research staff with participants. SystemCHANGE concepts will be discussed such as
      "opportunities for improvement" and "possibilities for doing better."

      A SystemCHANGE powerpoint will outline components and participants will be placed in groups
      of 5 where researchers will guide participants through the 4 steps of SystemCHANGE.

      Participants will be asked to identify important people that influence their physical
      activity, which habits or activity occur daily, weekly, or monthly, and how these habits and
      people impact physical activity. Participants will also include things that influence their
      participation in physical activity (e.g., availability of facilities as a walking path
      getting home from work late, or sleeping late on a weekend). Social activities and any
      rituals associated with physical activity such as gardening, housecleaning, shopping, and
      hobbies will also be noted. Research staff will place the routines (daily, weekly, monthly)
      into a graphic format that helps participants understand how routines are related to each
      other and can work for, or against, changing physical activity behavior. These cycles will be
      discussed to help understanding of how a routine involving family demands, for example, may
      influence participation in physical activity. Goals for increasing steps will be made,
      (generally, a 5% increase) and use of their activity tracker reports for monitoring progress
      toward improvement will be discussed and demonstrated. In this session and throughout,
      participants will be encouraged to look beyond personal motivation and explore their life
      routines and the people who shape those routines.

      Intervention Active Phase, Group Sessions 3-7 (1 hour/session): Prior to each session, the
      participants' activity tracker reports will be given to them and reviewed during the group
      session. Participants will be asked what they are learning about their physical activity and
      what changes they want to make. Participants will be asked to describe their improvements and
      be encouraged to continue using the activity tracker for the next 6 months during the
      maintenance phase.

      Intervention Maintenance (6 months): At the final monthly session, participants will be
      instructed to continue until month 12.

      Control Group Session 1 for the control group will be identical to the Intervention with the
      only exception being that participants in the control group will NOT be asked to increase
      their step goal 5% each month based on the step-data received from baseline to week 1.

      Session 2 will be used to troubleshoot and discuss any problems with the Fitbit activity
      trackers. In later sessions, educational information about healthy living as a transplant
      recipient will be presented, including topics such as diet, taking medication, risk for skin
      cancer, gastrointestinal side effects, dental care, and new onset post-transplant diabetes.
      The meeting time will be equivalent to those of the intervention group

      The maintenance phase will last 6 months. At month 7, just as the intervention group,
      participants will be reminded to continue their use of the Fitbit activity tracker and that
      the research team will not be in contact with them for 6 months. There will be a final
      meeting at month 12.

      Study staff will provide assistance as needed by reading questions to participants. Outcome
      data from both study groups will be collected at the appropriate sessions.

      Retention: Text messages will be sent to participants during months when they are not
      attending a face-to-face session to provide encouragement and reinforcement for their
      participation in the study. In addition, phone calls will be made by research staff during
      each month to each participant to provide updates on their progress in the study as well as
      encouragement and support. Participants who complete the study will be allowed to keep their
      activity tracker.
    
  