
    
      The advent of ultrasound made possible greater safety and the creation of new peripheral
      blocks that aim to reduce the morbidity of the anesthetic technique on the cancer patient.
      Pectoral nerve block (PEC Block) is technically simple and easily reproducible. Inspired by
      the infraclavicular approach, it aims at the anesthesia of the pectoral, intercostobrachial,
      intercostal III-IV-V-VI nerves and the long thoracic nerve 8 being a safe, reproducible
      technique with little discomfort for the patients, with few complications and allowing a good
      control of acute pain.

      The hypothesis is that the realization of pectoral nerve block provides a good alternative to
      epidural or paravertebral block with a lower risk for the patient and that is shown as an
      optimal anesthetic option with reduction in postoperative pain, anesthetic and opioid
      consumption. Main objective is the evaluation of postoperative pain through opioid
      consumption in the first 24 hours postoperatively.

      Patients will undergo a prospective, randomized, single blind, placebo controlled study in
      which the examiners responsible for the postoperative evaluation will not know which of the
      two groups were randomly assigned: 40 patients in the Control and 40 patients in the PECS
      Group . Patients will be randomized through a list generated by www.randomizer.org into two
      groups.

      Patients will receive standard monitoring, pre-anesthetic medication with midazolam 0.05 mg /
      kg EV. All patients will receive balanced general anesthesia with fentanyl 2 mcg / kg,
      lidocaine 2 mg / kg, propofol 1-2 mg / kg, cisatracurium 0.15 mg / kg or Rocuronium 0.6 mg /
      kg. The PECS II group will receive an injection of 20mL of 0.5% Ropivacaine between the
      serratus and the smaller pectoralis and 10mL of 0.5% ropivacaine between the pectoralis major
      and minor muscles with the aid of ultrasonography. Maintenance of anesthesia in the two
      groups: general anesthesia balanced with sevoflurane (with and fraction expired from 1 to 3%,
      to maintain BIS between 40 and 60). Prophylaxis for postoperative nausea and vomiting will be
      performed with slow intravenous administration following the anesthetic induction of
      Dexamethasone 4 mg, and at the end of the surgery slow intravenous administration of
      Ondansetron 4 mg. At the end of surgery, patients in both groups will receive Dipyrone 2 g
      and Parecoxib 40 mg. Patients will be evaluated in the postoperative times: T1: arrival at
      the PACU, T2: 3 hours postoperatively or discharge from the PACU), T3: 12 hours
      postoperative, T4: 24 hours postoperative.
    
  