
    
      Summary

      Introduction and Rationale:

      Over the past 30 years, major advances in adjuvant therapy and surgical techniques have
      markedly improved cure rates for patients with locoregionally advanced rectal cancer such
      that pelvic tumor control is over 90%. Preoperative chemoradiation consisting of 5 ½ weeks of
      external beam radiotherapy combined with radiosensitizing 5-fluorouracil followed by total
      mesorectal excision (TME) then adjuvant chemotherapy represents the current standard of care.
      Despite improved survival and locoregional control, disease-free survival have plateaued at
      rates of 70% because of the high incidence of distant metastasis in about 1/3 of patients.

      Clearly, development of more effective systemic therapy approaches to eliminate
      micrometastatic disease are needed to further improve survival outcomes. The incorporation of
      oxaliplatin, combined with 5-fluorouracil (FOLFOX), as adjuvant treatment of resected stage
      II-III colon cancer has led to clinically and statistically significant improvements in
      disease-free and overall survival in colon cancer. In rectal cancer, FOLFOX has been used
      primarily after TME but with compliance rates of typically 70%.

      One approach to address systemic disease and improve compliance is to treat patients with
      FOLFOX chemotherapy upfront prior to locoregional therapy. Moreover, incorporating an
      effective radiation regimen with lower incidence of short and long-term side effects may
      further enhance compliance to systemic therapy. External beam radiation therapy (EBRT) can
      increase side effects both acute and chronic toxicity by exposing normal tissue nearby the
      tumor such as the bladder, bowel, and sexual organs. An appealing technical alternative to
      EBRT is a brachytherapy (BT) approach using a rectal applicator placed intraluminally in
      direct contact with the tumor to deliver radiation while sparing adjacent normal organs and
      decreasing exposure to the pelvic bone marrow. A rectal brachytherapy approach treating over
      300 patients has been reported by the McGill group showing equivalent pelvic control, higher
      pathologic complete response rates and lower short and long-term toxicity. The rectal
      brachytherapy regimen consists of 4 daily treatments over one week given without chemotherapy
      which significantly shortens treatment time and cost compared to a standard course of
      fractionated external beam pelvic radiotherapy. One concern of the rectal brachytherapy
      approach is that pelvic nodes typically covered in the external beam technique may result in
      suboptimal outcomes. However, careful patterns of failure studies from a large Dutch
      preoperative external beam randomized study have shown very low rates of isolated pelvic
      nodal relapse and minimal benefit of external beam radiotherapy to decrease such failure.

      Proposal investigator propose combining pre-operative FOLFOX chemotherapy with high dose rate
      endorectal brachytherapy followed by surgery and then additional FOLFOX chemotherapy to
      further improve compliance.

      Primary Endpoint The purpose of this study is to find out whether giving chemotherapy and a
      new technique for delivering radiation therapy before surgery can improve compliance to
      systemic therapy by 10% from a baseline of 70%.

      Secondary Endpoints

        1. Locoregional failure

        2. Distant Metastasis

        3. Bladder, Bowel, Sexual function and Bone Marrow Toxicity

        4. Quality of Life

        5. Pathologic complete response rates

        6. Molecular changes on pre- and post-treatment tumor specimens

      Study Design The treatment regimen would consist of 6 cycles of FOLFOX and HDR-ERBT (4
      consecutive daily treatments to deliver 26Gy) followed in 6-8 weeks by TME surgery then an
      additional 6 cycles of FOLFOX chemotherapy after recovery from surgery. HDR-ERBT will be
      given after 4 cycles of FOLFOX.

      *Brachytherapy will be given to subjects at Beth Israel Medical Center only.
    
  