
    
      Prospective prevalence and validation study of pediatric intensive care delirium.

      Aim: To investigate the prevalence and duration of delirium in children aged 3 months-18
      years of age using parent involvement in assessment of the child.

        1. Translation of the SOS-PD tool according to principles of good practice for the
           translation and cultural adaptation process for patient-reported outcomes

        2. Training healthcare professionals to use SOS-PD at five hospital units. To ensure the
           understanding of SOS-PD short interviews will be performed in a random sampling.

        3. Validation of SOS-PD bedside assessments comparing the Danish SOS-PD scale with a Child
           Psychiatrist using DSM-V as the reference standard (n=140)

        4. Training parents in delirium screening using the SOS-PD at three hospital units (5021,
           5061, 4144). To ensure the understanding of SOS-PD short interviews will be performed.

      Data analysis and power calculation: With 140 patients, the accuracy estimate in this study
      will have a 95% confidence interval of +/- 5%. Accuracy defined as (true positive + true
      negative) / all x 100 is expected to be 90%. The validity of the SOS-PD assessment tool is
      calculated from standard definitions of sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value
      and negative predictive value. Interrater reliability between the nurse / parent, the nurse /
      reference standard, and the parents / reference standard's SOS-PD score will be calculated
      with linearly weighted Cohen kappa value. Cohen's kappa value> 0.65 is considered
      satisfactory. To compare the mean values of the SOS-PD score between parents and nurses, the
      student's t-test is used. P. value of <0.05 is considered statistically significant. The
      prevalence is calculated in percent. All data will be entered and encoded in RedCap and
      exported to SPSS for statistical analysis of data.
    
  