
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether, in men with post-prostatectomy PSA recurrences, salvage radiation
      (SRT) with enhanced anti-androgen therapy with apalutamide will improve biochemical
      progression-free survival (bPFS) compared to SRT alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether molecular stratification by the PAM50 gene expression clustering will
      identify subsets of prostate cancer (luminal A or basal, luminal B) which derive the greatest
      benefit from anti-androgen therapy.

      II. To assess overall survival. III. To assess cancer-specific mortality. IV. To assess
      metastasis-free survival. V. To assess distant metastasis. VI. To assess local-regional
      progression. VII. To assess PSA nadir during first year of treatment and prior to initiation
      of any hormonal salvage therapy.

      VIII. To assess initiation of salvage hormonal therapy. IX. To assess PSA with a non-castrate
      testosterone at 1 and 3 years post randomization: PSA < 0.1 ng/ml and testosterone >= 50
      ng/dl.

      X. To assess acute and late physician-reported morbidity (per the Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 5) after SRT +/- apalutamide.

      XI. To assess acute and late patient-reported morbidity (per the patient reported outcomes
      [PRO]-CTCAE) after SRT +/- apalutamide.

      XII. To assess testosterone levels at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 36 months post randomization.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM 1: Patients undergo external beam radiation therapy on Day 1 for 7.5 weeks. Beginning on
      Day 1 of radiation therapy, patients receive placebo orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days
      1-30. Treatment repeats every 30 days for up to 6 courses (6 months) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 2: Patients undergo external beam radiation therapy on Day 1 for 7.5 weeks. Beginning on
      Day 1 of radiation therapy, patients receive apalutamide PO QD on Days 1-30. Treatment
      repeats every 30 days for up to 6 courses (6 months) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for 3 years, and then yearly thereafter.
    
  