
    
      150 patients will be prospectively consented/screened. Over the course of the study, 30
      patients are expected to develop abnormal strain with a normal EF > 53%. They will be
      randomized in 1:1 fashion to open label carvedilol vs. no treatment.

      All consenting patients will receive a baseline echocardiogram and blood draw for biomarkers
      and genetic testing. Patients will be followed with echocardiograms at 3 month intervals for
      12 months, until completion of trastuzumab/pertuzumab therapy.

      Based on echocardiogram findings, patient will fall into four study arms (A, B, C, D).
      Patients in Arm A (normal EF and normal strain) and Arm D (decrease in EF > 10%, to a value
      <53%) will receive current standard of care treatment and will be followed in a registry arm.
      Arms B and C will comprise of 30 patients with normal EF who develop preclinical cardiac
      dysfunction, as defined as a change in global longitudinal strain of > 15% from baseline
      strain) or < -15% absolute longitudinal strain will be prospectively assigned 1:1 to receive
      prophylactic carvedilol (Arm B) vs. no treatment (Arm C). Prophylactic carvedilol will be
      initiated at the starting dose of 3.125 mg PO BID and titrated based on blood pressure and
      heart rate.

      Patients will be seen every 3 weeks during the titration phase at their chemotherapy
      appointments. At each visit, vitals and symptoms will be assessed for dizziness and
      side-effects from carvedilol. If patient complains of dizziness or HR < 50 bpm, or SBP < 100
      mmHg, then the dose titration should stop and the dose should be reduced to the dose at the
      last increased increment. If there is a > 10% decrease in EF to a value < 53% on the next
      echocardiogram, then standard heart failure therapy will be initiated (beta-blocker and/or
      ace-inhibitors) and chemotherapy will be held as per standard of care. If patients require
      other standard of care treatments for heart failure, such as diuretic therapy or aldosterone
      antagonists, then this will also be initiated. At this point, these patients will be
      considered to have met the study endpoint. However, if there is an improvement or no change
      in strain and EF, then patients will continue with cardiac surveillance with an echo at 3
      month intervals. Patients who have been assigned to receive prophylactic carvedilol will
      continue treatment for duration of chemotherapy up to 1 year. Prophylactic carvedilol will be
      stopped at the completion of study.

      A biomarker substudy will be conducted on 100 patients. These patients will have labs drawn
      every at ten time points, baseline and every 6 weeks for 12 months, and 1 year
      post-chemotherapy. A separate blood draw for generation of hiPSC and DNA testing would be
      done for 100 patients. The blood collection will coincide with the patient's chemotherapy
      infusions with trastuzumab. These biomarkers will allow for further characterization of
      patients at risk for developing CTRCD.

      A "cardio-oncology" echocardiogram will include standard 2D M-mode and Doppler
      echocardiography, 2D strain imaging, and 3D LV volume. This data will be processed on-line or
      off-line within 24 hours of completion of the echocardiogram to determine randomization.
    
  