
    
      The research aims to test the role of self-incentivising implementation intentions in smoking
      cessation among prisoners aged 18 and over, enrolling on a stop smoking programme provided by
      Livewire within Risley Prison. The effectiveness of self-incentives has been successfully
      seen previously within health behaviour change, but not within smoking cessation (ongoing
      randomised controlled trial in alongside community stop smoking services, and local
      workplaces). This research will build on this by testing the effectiveness of self-incentives
      in prisoners' stop smoking attempts.

      This study is a randomised controlled trial with the between participants factor of condition
      which has four levels:

      1. Control (plan) 2 Self-generated implementation intention (if-then plan) 3. Weekly
      self-incentivising implementation intention 4. Monthly self-incentivising implementation
      intention

      The within participants' factor will be time which has three levels:

        1. Baseline (T1)

        2. Follow-up (T2) (end of stop smoking programme)

        3. Follow-up (T3) (six months post quit date)

      An ethical concern is that participants in the control condition may struggle more to quit
      smoking as they will not have the additional benefits of being within an experimental
      condition which uses self-incentives to aid their quit attempt. A control condition is needed
      to monitor if quitting smoking is due to the use of self-incentives or another behaviour
      change technique.

      The recruitment process will involve the researcher (Emma Brown) administering study packs to
      the potential participants. The participant information sheet will be read to each
      participant and time will be provided to ask any questions. If the participant agrees to take
      part in the research and complete the questionnaire, then this will be completed with the
      help of the researcher (Emma Brown) if required. Questionnaires will be placed in a sealed
      envelope and returned to the University of Manchester by the researcher (Emma Brown).

      All participants who are able to provide informed consent and are over the age of 18 years
      old are eligible to take part in the study. Unfortunately, the study does not cater for
      people who cannot understand English at the present time, although this will be monitored for
      amendments in future studies. The study will use a paper format as not to exclude those
      participants who have limited or no access to the internet.

      The participant information sheet included within the study pack alongside the questionnaire
      includes details about the study, costs and benefits of taking part in the study, and the
      right to consent and withdraw at any point throughout the study. There are no risks involved
      in taking part in the study. There is a minimal burden in time taken to complete the baseline
      questionnaire to take no longer than 15 minutes and the further two follow-up questionnaires
      to take no longer than 10 minutes.

      In terms of confidentiality, participants are asked to form a personal identification code to
      match baseline and follow-up questionnaires once completed.

      There are no conflicts of interest. Results will be fed back to all participating services
      and participants involved in the study, should they indicate for a summary of the results.
    
  