
    
      OBJECTIVES

      The main objective of this study is to assess the long term influence of NUMEN
      cobalt-chromium balloon-expandable coronary stent on neointimal hyperplasia in de novo native
      coronary lesions of patients with Stable Angina Pectoris or Acute Coronary Syndrom (ACS) -
      except STEMI.

      ENDPOINTS

      The primary endpoint is the assessment of the development of neointimal hyperplasia by OCT in
      the stented segment at 6-month follow-up.

      Breakdown of secondary endpoints:

      Degree of endothelialization of the stent internal wall by OCT at 6 months after stent
      implantation; Composite of Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) defined as cardiac death,
      non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) (Q wave and non-Q wave), emergent bypass surgery, stent
      thrombosis, or repeat target lesion revascularization at 30 days, 6 months and 12 months
      post-procedure.

      Angiographic binary restenosis (>50% diameter stenosis) 6 months post-procedure.

      Target vessel failure at 6 months post-procedure. Device success defined as achievement of a
      final residual diameter stenosis of <30% (by Quantitative Coronary Angiography (QCA)), using
      the assigned device only. If QCA is not available, the visual estimate of diameter stenosis
      is used.

      Lesion success defined as the attainment of <30% residual stenosis (by QCA) using any
      percutaneous method.

      Procedure success defined as achievement of a final diameter stenosis of <30% (by QCA) using
      any percutaneous method, without the occurrence of death, MI, or repeat revascularization of
      the target lesion during the hospital stay.

      Acute (24 hrs post procedure), subacute (up to 30days post procedure) and late (>30days post
      procedure) thrombosis.

      OVERVIEW OF THE STUDY

      This is a prospective single centre Study designed to assess by OCT the effect of NUMEN
      cobalt-chromium balloon-expandable stent in inducing neointimal hyperplasia in de novo native
      coronary lesions of patients with Stable Angina Pectoris or ACS (except STEMI).

      A total of 60 consecutive patients will be enrolled in the study. Patients with de novo
      native coronary artery lesions >10mm and < 24mm in length and >2.50mm to <3.50mm in diameter
      by QCA estimate who meet all eligibility criteria will be enrolled and undergone stent
      implantation. After stent deployment an OCT imaging will be performed within the treated
      segment. Patients will be followed at 30 days, 6 months and 12 months post-procedure, with
      all patients having repeat angiography and OCT at 6 months.

      It is anticipated that the total length of the study will be 18 months: 6 months to complete
      patient enrolment and 12 months for follow-up.
    
  