
    
      Rationale: Radical prostatectomy (RP) is currently the most common treatment for
      non-metastatic prostate cancer (PCa). Two frequent side effects of this procedure are urinary
      incontinence and erectile dysfunction, both having a significant negative impact on quality
      of life.

      Additionally, it is known that with age the testosterone level in men declines. This does not
      lead to symptoms in all men (asymptomatic testosterone deficiency). Both testosterone
      deficiency (TD) and radical prostatectomy are well-established to have a significant negative
      impact on sexual performance and are likely to add up in patients with a low testosterone
      following RP.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to assess the effect of testosterone replacement therapy
      (TRT) on functional and oncological outcomes in testosterone deficient men following RP for
      PCa.

      Study design: This study is a phase 3 prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled,
      single-blind clinical trial. Study population: All men over 18 years old diagnosed with
      non-metastatic prostate cancer who are scheduled for RP within three months as primary
      treatment, can be prescreened for inclusion. Prior to the RP, serum testosterone will be
      determined. Subsequently, within six weeks after the RP, serum testosterone will be
      determined again and patients will be screened for inclusion. If necessary, a third
      measurement of testosterone will be done. Eligible patients meet the criteria for TD and
      other inclusion criteria. Intervention: Patients will be randomized for testosterone
      replacement therapy (TRT) or placebo as a daily administered topical gel starting within 8
      weeks after RP. Patients will receive TRT or placebo for one year following RP and will be
      monitored for another year for functional outcomes and for four more years to establish
      5-year biochemical recurrence (BCR) free survival.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary study endpoint is a clinically relevant (12 points or more) difference in the
      EPIC-26 domain for sexual functioning 12 months after RP in favor of testosterone deficient
      men receiving TRT compared with testosterone deficient men receiving placebo. Secondary
      endpoints include: urinary incontinence score, hormonal functioning score and BCR-free
      survival. Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit
      and group relatedness: The number of visits and blood drawings are equal to standard of care
      follow-up after RP, with the exception of two or three extra blood samples at the first
      prescreening visit and within six weeks following RP. We ask patients to remain with their
      hospital for 24 months after RP for follow-up and to complete online questionnaires for the
      given visits. The five-year biochemical recurrence (BCR) free survival will be obtained
      through patient's medical records and if insufficient, through the Dutch Cancer Registry
      (NKR). Patients who receive TRT or placebo can experience local side-effects such as itching,
      rash and/or irritation at the site of application. In addition, patients who receive TRT can
      experience systemic sideeffects are gain of weight, hot flashes, acne and an increase in red
      blood count level. Furthermore, TRT might improve sexual functioning, urinary continence,
      hormonal functioning and BCR-free survival, but this is not certain and is subject of
      research in this study.
    
  