
    
      Objective:

      The investigators' immediate objective is to test a system intervention to evaluate which
      aspects of the intervention are critical to improving the quality of care for veterans with
      PSD, and to refine it to prepare for the investigators' long-term objective: a multi-site
      study across multiple facilities and Veteran Integrated Service Networks (VISNs). To address
      the immediate objective, the investigators will evaluate two specific study aims using a
      quasi-experimental design comparing improvement in depression screening and treatment in
      veteran stroke survivors receiving care at two facilities receiving the intervention.

      The primary aim of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a system intervention to
      improve the proportion of Veterans screened and treated for PSD. The system intervention is
      based on extending the use of the current depression performance measure that mandates yearly
      depression screening in VA primary care clinics to target veteran stroke survivors
      following-up in Veterans Administration (VA) Primary Care or Neurology clinics within six
      months of stroke. The primary outcome is the effect of the intervention on depression
      screening and treatment rates. The secondary aim of the study is to evaluate whether a
      patient-based self-management intervention provides additional benefit beyond the system
      intervention alone in improving patient depression symptoms, quality of life, and
      self-efficacy compared to usual post-stroke care. Subjects for the secondary aim will be
      recruited from the two intervention sites and will be randomized, stratified by site, to the
      patient intervention or usual care.

      Hypotheses/Key Research Questions:

      Specific Aim 1: To determine whether the system implementation intervention improves a)
      detection, and b) guideline-adherent treatment of PSD. Aim 1 Hypotheses: Compared to the base
      rate of PSD screening and treatment at the two intervention facilities, the system
      intervention will result in at least a 25% increase in: a) The proportion of Veterans
      screened for PSD in the first six months after stroke, and b) The proportion of Veterans with
      PSD that receive guideline-adherent depression treatment.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine the effect of a patient self-management intervention in
      improving a) guideline-adherent treatment of PSD, and b) patient-centered outcomes after
      stroke. Aim 2 Hypotheses: Compared to Veterans receiving usual post-stroke care, Veterans
      receiving the self-management intervention will have: a) fewer depression symptoms, and b)
      improved quality of life and reduced health-related fears.

      Research Plan:

      Specific Aim 1: The investigators developed clinical teams at the two intervention
      facilities, and worked with these front-line providers to develop two depression reminders: a
      screening reminder used by clinic intake personnel, and a provider reminder triggered by any
      positive screen. The reminders were tailored to the clinical system at each site. The
      investigators are gathering administrative and chart review data on Veterans with ischemic
      stroke hospitalized at any of the VISN 8 or 11 VA Medical Center (VAMC) facilities during the
      18-month cohort enrollment period. These data allow us to identify patients who follow up in
      either Primary Care or Neurology, identify whether they were screened and the screening
      result, and identify actions taken in response to a positive screen. Chart review allows us
      to examine depression screening and treatment that takes place even if the screening reminder
      is not used. The investigators will compare these data during the study period to chart
      review data for the 12 months prior to study initiation in both Primary Care and Neurology
      clinics at each site and to administrative data for all VISN 8 and 11 facilities (estimated
      number of patients in both VISNs is 822). For Specific Aim 2, the investigators are
      recruiting hospitalized Veterans for ischemic stroke at the Indianapolis or Gainesville VAMC,
      age 18 or older, able to speak and understand English, no severe cognitive impairments,
      access to a telephone, willing to follow-up at VA outpatient care, willing to participate in
      interviews, and life expectancy of at least six months. For Aim 2, the investigators plan to
      recruit 75 stroke patients into the Aim 2 self-management cohort.

      Methodology:

      Aim 1: All data will be obtained from chart review and from the VA administrative databases
      that are part of the usual clinic care of the patients. These data include International
      Classification of Diseases (ICD)-9 codes extracted from Patient Treatment File main as well
      as basic demographics (i.e., age, gender, race, ethnicity, depression screening results,
      antidepressants prescribed, and number and type of outpatient follow-up appointments in the
      six months after stroke). All outcome data for this aim will be collected from electronic
      medical records

      Aim 2: Data for the self-management program will be collected via patient interviews during
      the course of the study. The baseline interview will take place prior to hospital discharge
      or within two weeks of discharge. Two other interviews for outcome assessment will be done by
      phone at three and six months post-stroke.

      Intervention patients will also receive a self-management program over the first six months
      post-stroke. The program consists of six sessions delivered either in person or by phone and
      four additional follow-up calls to assess goal-setting, behaviors, and study outcomes. Based
      upon the investigators' earlier work, patients have expressed an interest in the following
      topics: expectations after stroke, negative/positive thinking, fears, creating a daily
      schedule, follow-up care, communication with providers, adapting/coping with disabilities,
      community resources and communication with caregivers. These topics will be addressed in the
      six sessions.

      Control patients will get baseline, three, and six-month interviews with the same outcome
      assessments. They will be provided American Stroke Association printed literature about
      stroke risk factors, warning signs, and community resources. They will receive one individual
      session prior to discharge or within two weeks of discharge focusing on stroke symptoms and
      risk factor education. They will receive the same number of calls at similar frequency to the
      intervention patients but the calls will generically cover how they are doing since their
      stroke and will not address goal setting, post-stroke behaviors, or self-management
      strategies.

      The primary outcome for the patient self-management intervention is depression symptoms
      (Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) score). Secondary outcomes include depression
      treatment, quality of life (measured by the Stroke-specific Quality of Life (SS-QOL) scale),
      self-efficacy, fear of injury, and stroke outcomes (patient-reported modified Rankin scale).
    
  