
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess anti-tumor activity of the combination treatment of metformin hydrochloride
      (metformin) with nivolumab in patients with non-small cell lung cancer with and without prior
      exposure to PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of the combination treatment of metformin with nivolumab according
      to depth, duration, and persistence of response, disease control rate (DCR; complete response
      [CR], partial response [PR], and stable disease [SD] at 24 weeks), progression-free survival
      (PFS), and overall survival (OS) in patients with non-small cell lung cancer with and without
      prior exposure to PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) criteria version (v)1.1.

      II. To assess the efficacy of the combination treatment of metformin with nivolumab according
      to depth, duration, and persistence of response, objective response rate (ORR), DCR, PFS, and
      OS in the above population using immune-related RECIST (irRECIST) criteria.

      III. To assess the safety and tolerability profile of the combination treatment of metformin
      with nivolumab in the above population using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) version 4.03.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the immune-related tumor and blood biomarkers including T cell markers and their
      association with treatment response in the above population.

      II. To assess the dynamic change in both immune and genomic biomarkers in blood that may
      correlate with response to metformin.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive metformin hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -7 to -1 and
      1-28. Patients also receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15 of
      courses 1-4, then over 60 minutes on day 1 beginning course 5. Courses repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  