
    
      Ovarian cancer is the sixth most common malignancy in women, with estimated 2500 cases
      diagnosed in 2001, and 1500 deaths. Despite maximal cytoreductive therapy, followed normally
      by a taxane and carboplatin (or cisplatin) chemotherapy, most patients will relapse, and
      require chemotherapy in a palliative setting. The goal of this second line therapy is to
      prolong survival and to improve quality of life. This disease has been characterized as
      chronic, as many patients may eventually go on to respond to additional lines of therapy.

      Response to second line therapy has been correlated to length of time since the end of the
      first line treatment (treatment free interval, TFI). Patients relapsing or progressing while
      on therapy are defined as platinum-refractory. In North America the norm is to label patients
      with a TFI of 6 months or less as platinum-resistant. A TFI of greater than 6 months would
      make a patient platinum-sensitive.

      These platinum-sensitive patients are generally treated with single agent carboplatin or
      carboplatin and taxol by 3-weekly administration. The ICON-4 trial published in June 2003
      compared single agent platinum to combination of platinum-taxol. Patients could have received
      one or both of these agents in the adjuvant setting. At a median follow-up of 42 months the
      absolute difference in 2-year survival was 7% [P=0.0004} in favor of the combination arm.
      Thus combination platinum-taxol is the present standard of care in platinum-sensitive
      relapsed ovarian cancer. Use of taxol is limited by persistent neuropathy in 20%.

      Presently there is growing evidence in support of giving chemotherapy at shorter intervals at
      low-doses. Hypothetically, this allows less advancement of cancer cells through the cell
      cycle. Moreover weekly taxanes are associated with an anti-angiogenic effect- more so with
      taxotere than taxol in cell-lines.

      Several randomized trials in breast cancer have shown the improved efficacy of weekly taxol
      over 3-weekly taxol. The neoadjuvant study showed an increase in pCR [complete response on
      pathologic evaluation] of 10%with weekly taxol. The adjuvant study with 2-weekly chemotherapy
      showed a 7% improvement in time-to-progression over 3-weekly chemotherapy.

      In ovarian cancer- a Phase II study of weekly carboplatin (AUC-2) with taxol (80mg/m2/week)
      given on day 1,8,15 of 28 day cycles has shown a response rate of 100% [80% CR, 20% PR] in 21
      platinum-sensitive patients- with either measurable or evaluable disease. Median duration of
      response was 11.7 months (95% CI- 8.0-18.5 months). 46% reported Grade I neuropathy, 1
      patient had febrile neutropenia, and 32% had Grade 3 neutropenia.

      Weekly administration of taxotere with carboplatin has been studied in a Phase I study.
      Maximum tolerated dose was Taxotere 35mg/m2 with carboplatin AUC-2. At this dose no Grade 3
      or 4 cytopenias were seen. Nor were there significant neuropathies.

      Our study plans to evaluate Taxotere 35mg/m2 with Carboplatin at AUC-2 given weekly. 3 weekly
      treatments will constitute one cycle. We expect to see equivalent response rates and
      equivalent or higher duration of responses with better toxicity profile.
    
  