
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the analgesic effect of fascia iliaca compartment block
      (FIC) block and pericapsular nerve group (PENG) block in hip fracture pain control before
      operation.

      Methods This will be a randomized, assessor and participant-blinded study. After the patients
      give his /her informed consents, his/her baseline demographic data (gender, age, height, and
      body weight) and types of hip fracture will be recorded. Participants will be randomly
      allocated into either FIC block or PENG block by using the website RESEARCH RANDOMIZER
      (https://www.randomizer.org). One of the two anesthesiologists experienced in performed the
      FIC and PENG blocks will perform the nerve blocks. Only the anesthesiologist performing the
      nerve block and his assistant will be aware of which nerve block the participant receives
      immediately before performing nerve block by opening a sealed envelope. The assessors,
      in-charge anesthesiologists and nurse anesthetists, operation room personnel, surgeons and
      study participants will be all blinded to the randomization.

      On arrival of the operating theater, all participants will be sent to the nerve block area,
      where continuous electrocardiogram, pulse oximetry, and non-invasive intermittent blood
      pressure monitoring will be applied and an intravenous line will be established. Before any
      intervention, pain at rest and during the fractured lower limb being passively internal
      rotated in extension to neutral position from its usual externally rotated deformity by
      assessors will assessed using NRS. If the participant cannot tolerate passive internal
      rotation of his/her fractured limb due to pain, impossibility to perform the test will be
      recorded as well as the worst NRS score during these attempts. The same assessment will be
      performed every 10 mins for until 30 mins after completion of the nerve block. Then the
      patient will be sent to the operation room, where spinal anesthesia will be performed for the
      surgery.
    
  