
    
      Background:

        -  Cancer-testis (CT) antigens have emerged as attractive targets for cancer immunotherapy.
           Whereas lung and esophageal cancers, thymic Neoplasms, primary thoracic sarcomas, as
           well as malignant pleural mesotheliomas express a variety of CT antigens, primary or
           vaccine-induced immune responses to these antigens appear uncommon in patients with
           these malignancies, possibly due to low-level, heterogeneous antigen expression, and
           inadequate vaccination strategies.

        -  Because numerous CT antigens can be induced in tumor cells by DNA demethylating agents
           and HDAC inhibitors, it is conceivable that vaccination of cancer patients with
           autologous tumor cells exposed to chromatin remodeling agents will enhance anti-tumor
           immunity in these individuals.

        -  In order to examine this issue, patients with resectable primary neoplasms involving the
           lungs, esophagus, or pleura will be vaccinated with autologous tumor cells exposed
           exvivo to decitabine and radiation following completion of appropriate combined modality
           therapy. Vaccine will be administered in conjunction with ISCOMATRIX adjuvant and oral
           celecoxib.

      Primary Objective:

      - To assess the safety of an epigenetically modified autologous tumor cell vaccine in
      conjunction with celecoxib.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically or cytologically proven or clinically evident primary
           pulmonary carcinoma or sarcoma, esophageal cancer, thymic carcinoma or malignant pleural
           mesothelioma undergoing resection of their neoplasms.

        -  Patients must be 18 years or older with an ECOG performance status of 0 2, with adequate
           pulmonary and cardiac function and laboratory values within normal limits.

      Design:

        -  Patients with operable lung and esophageal carcinoma/sarcoma, thymoma, thymic carcinoma
           or malignant pleural mesothelioma will undergo resection of their malignancies at the
           NCI.

        -  Portions of the resected tumors will be transferred to the Thoracic Oncology Laboratory
           and cells will be processed to establish a cancer cell line.

        -  Following recovery from surgery and appropriate adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiation,
           patients will be vaccinated with epigenetically-modified autologous tumor cells
           periodically over 6 months in conjunction with oral celecoxib.

        -  Systemic toxicities and delayed type hypersensitivity responses to autologous tumor
           cells and serologic responses to a variety of CT antigens will be assessed before and
           after vaccination.

        -  Patients will be followed with routine staging scans until disease recurrence.

        -  As the exact set of comparisons and analyses to be performed will be determined
           following completion of the trial, and will be based on limited numbers of patients, the
           analyses will be considered exploratory and hypothesis generating rather than
           definitive.

        -  Approximately 120 patients will be accrued to this trial in order to obtain up to 30
           evaluable patients.
    
  