
    
      The study design is an investigator-initiated pilot, prospective cohort study (Canadian Task
      Force, II-3). Patients will not be randomized.

      Consecutive subjects from age 14-55 will be recruited and included in the study if they are
      seeking treatment of pain and with suspected or known endometriosis. Patients who are
      menopausal (either chemically-induced, natural or surgical) will not be included in the
      study. Patients who are pregnant are not eligible for surgery, and not eligible to be in the
      study. Subjects will be excluded if they are found not to have endometriosis confirmed by
      histology. All surgeries are performed at a single institution, St. Mary's Hospital.

      An ad hoc sample size calculation is not possible for this pilot study, since we have no
      historic data on which to base such a calculation. The goal is to acquire 45 panel results,
      as a reasonable amount of data for a pilot study, and given the funding available.

      Quality of life (measured by the 100-point scale and by the EHP-5) and pain indices (measured
      by the VAS scale) will be measured at up to six different time points: before surgery, six
      months after surgery, and one year after each surgery. At each time point you will compare
      quality of life and each pain index across the four aggressivity groups of low, moderate,
      medium, and high using analysis of variance (ANOVA) or the non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis test
      depending on the normality of the distributions. Pairwise comparisons will also be made using
      independent students t test or the non-parametric Kolmogorov-Smirnov test depending on the
      normality of the distributions.

      The follow-up time frame for each surgery will be 1 year. Patients will receive
      questionnaires pre op and at 6-months and 1 year for both the first surgery and the second
      surgery( if needed). The entire study will take about 4 years, including data analysis and
      publication. .

      This study is related to IRB #20900. Subjects who consent to participate in this study may
      also be consented to participate in 20900. The pre-operative and follow-up questionnaires,
      and the standardized tools relating to QOL and depression are the same as in IRB#20900.
    
  