
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS) in participants with metastatic urothelial carcinoma
      (mUC) who are randomized to standard treatment versus eribulin mesylate (eribulin) alone.

      II. To compare overall survival in participants with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC)
      who are randomized to standard treatment versus eribulin plus gemcitabine hydrochloride
      (gemcitabine).

      III. To compare overall survival in participants with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC)
      who are randomized to eribulin alone versus eribulin plus gemcitabine.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) in the standard treatment arm to the two
      experimental treatment arms in this population.

      II. To compare Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 overall response
      rate (ORR), both confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses (CR and PR), in
      the standard treatment arm to the two experimental treatment arms in the subset of
      participants with measurable disease in this population.

      III. To compare duration of response (DOR) in the standard treatment arm to the two
      experimental treatment arms in the subset of participants with measurable disease in this
      population.

      IV. To compare disease control rate (DCR) in the standard treatment arm to the two
      experimental treatment arms in the subset of participants with measurable disease in this
      population.

      BANKING OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive 1 of the 3 standard of care chemotherapy regimens based on treating
      investigator's choice: Choice A: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) on day 1.
      Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Choice B: Patients receive gemcitabine IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Choice C: Patients receive
      paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive eribulin IV over 2-5 minutes on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeat every 21
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive eribulin IV over 2-5 minutes and gemcitabine IV on days 1 and 8.
      Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years from
      the date of registration, then every 12 months until death or 3 years from the date of
      registration
    
  