
    
      Rectal cancer is the 8th leading cause of cancer in the world with more than 300,000 deaths
      in 2018. In addition to surgery, neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy has proven its value in
      reducing local recurrences. Evaluation of the response to neoadjuvant treatment (essential
      for the subsequent therapeutic decision but also for the oncological prognosis. It is based
      on rectal magnetic resonance imaging, completed after surgery by anatomopathology. A
      personalised treatment with therapeutic de-escalation or intensification for aggressive
      tumours can be decided depending on the response to Neoadjuvant treatment. Thus, knowledge of
      the predictive factors of response to neoadjuvant treatment would permit to anticipate and
      adapt care.

      The intestinal microbiota is a true microbial organ, playing a major role in maintaining
      intestinal homeostasis. Some bacterial species have been identified and suspected of playing
      a role in colorectal carcinogenesis. Among these species, genotoxin-producing Escherichia
      coli (CPEC) strains such as colibactin (cyclomodulin encoded by the genomic islet pks) are
      preferentially detected in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC), especially the most
      aggressive forms. Recent studies show that the intestinal microbiota is a prognostic factor
      in the response to certain chemotherapies or immunotherapies, but little work has been done
      on its potential influence on the effectiveness of radiotherapy. This suggests the
      possibility of using these biomarkers associated with response to neoadjuvant treatment.

      The objective of this project is to determine in a non-invasive manner (fecal samples) the
      predictive value of the intestinal microbiota and the presence of genotoxin-producing
      bacteria on the response to neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy in rectal cancer. This could lead
      to a better understanding and selection of patients for tailored treatment in rectal cancer.
    
  