
    
      Participants This study was performed with 71 patients diagnosed as tension type headache.
      The study was conducted with patients at the Florence Nightingale Hospital between the ages
      of 30-45 who applied to the Neurology clinic. Patients were randomly divided into 2 groups. A
      randomized list is prepared in a computer environment by a statistician for randomization. In
      this list, the odd numbers for the control group and the KT group were given double numbers.
      The group identification is printed on sequentially numbered cards placed in sealed
      envelopes. After enrollment, the numbered envelope was opened by the patient and the blind
      investigator. Patients were included in the study, between 30 and 45 years of age, who had a
      tension headache diagnosis, presence of a tender points on the upper part of the trapezoid,
      voluntary or written volunteers to participate in the study. Exclusion criteria include
      cervical area surgery and / or surgery, cervical trauma history, systemic disease targeting
      this area, moderate or excessive nausea and vomiting with headache, headache due to other
      causes (e.g., subarachnoid hemorrhage, cerebral hemorrhage, cerebral embolism, cerebral
      thrombosis, vascular malformation, arthritis, hypertension, or arteriosclerosis), have used
      prophylactic headache medications in the last 3 months, neurological, mental, hemorrhagic
      disease, allergy, serious heart, liver, kidney and other organ deficiencies.

      Interventions Upper trapezius muscle stretching exercise with KT was applied to the study
      group, and upper trapezius muscle stretching exercise was applied to the control group. KT
      was applied 8 times in total for 4 weeks with 2 sessions per week. Stretching exercise was
      done in the morning, afternoon and evening 3 times (repeated 10 times per set) every day for
      4 weeks and 5 days of the week.

      KT application: 50-mm wide and 0.5-mm thick KT was applied to the upper trapezius muscle with
      one I-shaped tape. The tape was measured from the acromion to the hairline at the back, and
      the upper trapezius fibers were extended in the extended position, ie the cervical vertebrae
      were flexed to the opposite side and applied to the same side in the flexion and rotation
      position. The band was fixed to the insertion site of the acromion in the initial resting
      position. The muscle was lengthened and the band was fixed with the initial skin shift, then
      the band was fixed to the origin of the hairline from the muscle fixed with 10% stretch. The
      tape was rubbed together with the muscle in the extended position.

      Outcome measurements After recording the demographic data of all the patients participating
      in the study, the sensitivity of the right and left upper parts of the trapezius assessed
      with algometer, pain intensity with visual analog scale (VAS), Beck depression and anxiety
      scale for emotional status before and after treatment.

      The algometer is a mechanical pressure device with a minimum diameter of 100 g and a pressure
      of 10 kg / cm2, with a spring-loaded cylinder with a rubber tip, a circle and a pressure
      surface of 1 cm2 in diameter, obtained in kg / cm2. Before measuring with the algo- rithm, a
      pressure of approximately 4 kg was applied to the midpoint of the upper part of the trapezius
      muscle, which is the control point, with the pulp of the thumb of the hand. Then the force
      was applied to the same point, causing pain to separate the patient's sense of pressure and
      pain sensation. This process has been repeated several times. Measurements with an algometer
      were made at a rate of 1 kg per second. The measurements were interrupted for at least 15-20
      seconds. Three measurements were made at these 2 sensitive points and the average of the
      measurements was recorded.

      Visual Analog Scale (VAS) is used to convert some numerical values, such as pain, to numeric
      values. The two extremes of a 100 mm line are to be assessed on two extremes and the patient
      is asked to indicate on the line where the severity of the pain is appropriate by drawing a
      line or placing a point or pointing. The length of the distance from where the pain has never
      occurred to the point the patient has marked indicates the pain of the patient.

      Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) developed by Aron T. Beck in
      1961, Turkish validity and reliability were done by Hisli N. Emotional state assessment scale
      that measures the characteristic attitude and depression symptoms. The application takes
      about 10-15 minutes to complete. It is designed for people aged 13 and over. Scoring and
      evaluation of scales is easy. The total number of points counted from each four-sentence
      sentence group is found. For depression scale; 0-9: Normal level, 10-16: Mild depression,
      17-29: Moderate depression, 30-63: Indicates severe depression. For anxiety scale; Normal
      range between 0-7 points, mild anxiety between 8-15 points, middle anxiety between 16-25
      points, and severe anxiety between 26-63 points.
    
  