
    
      There are many risk factors of stress for a patient during a stay in Intensive care unit.
      This stress can be responsible for psychiatric symptoms hindering seriously the quality of
      life of the patient in the months following discharge from ICU. Survivors of ICU suffer from
      traumatic memories (nightmares, acute anxiety), who can be associated to post traumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) or of anxious and depressive symptoms. Prevalence of PTSD in the
      months following ICU stay is estimated between 14 and 41 %, that of the symptoms of anxiety
      between 12 % and 47 %, and that of the symptoms of depression between 10 % and 30 %. Recent
      studies showed that these symptoms could concern several thousand patients every year in
      France.

      We propose an interventional multicentric (23 ICUs) study measuring the impact of a
      consultation at the end of ICU stay for the patients and his/her families on the prevalence
      of symptoms of PTSD and anxiety or depression 3 months and one year after discharge.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to a intervention or control group. In the intervention
      group, the patient and his/her family will benefit from an conference by the intensivist at
      the end of the ICU stay, regarding information about the progress of his stay in ICU, his
      orientation after discharge, the possibility of consulting a general practitioner (GP), etc.
      The family, if present, will be invited to attend the conference. In the control group,
      patients will be cared in a usual way (without end of stay conference) as it is made in all
      the intensive care units in France. Inclusion criteria are 1) patient alive at the end of ICU
      stay, 2) Age > 18 years, 3) more than 48 hours of mechanical ventilation 4) accepting to be
      called back 3-month and on one year after discharge of ICU. Exclusion criteria are 1) Chronic
      cognitive deterioration before ICU admission, 2) inclusion in another interventional
      randomized essay 3) non French-speaking patients, 4) impossibility to agree 5) End of life
      situation (survival at 3 months very improbable), 6) deaf-dumb patients. Patients and proxies
      will be interviewed by phone three months and one year after discharge from ICU. Main
      instruments are Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, and Impact of Events Scale Revised.
      Number of patients to include takes into account an estimated prevalence of PTSD of 20 %, and
      the impact expected from the intervention is to obtain 10 % of PTSD in the intervention
      group. With a beta power of 90 % and a risk of 5 %, number of patients needed three months
      after discharge is 438 (219 in every group), i.e 525 patients (263 in every arm because of
      the late deaths and lost sight). This study should supply updated and relevant data on
      prevalence and risk factors of symptoms of PTSD and Anxiety-depression three months and one
      year after discharge from ICU. Furthermore, we propose an intervention that could demonstrate
      that a brief and easily reproducible communication strategy could significantly reduce
      prevalence of PTSD and anxiety-depression for patients and their families after discharge
      from ICU
    
  