
    
      A multiple baseline "A-B-A" single case experimental design will be adopted with baseline,
      intervention, and return to baseline phases.

      Participants will wear the portable monitoring device with heart rate monitor, pedometer and
      global positioning system (GPS) functions. A pre-calculated algorithm, developed using
      machine learning software will be used to predict challenging behaviour episodes 2-4 hours in
      advance of the event. Recent research has developed a best predictor model with a sensitivity
      of 82% and specificity of 42%, when averaged across two participants (in press). The device
      will communicate with a smart phone, via Bluetooth connectivity, when an event has been
      predicted.

      Following enrolment in the study, participants will be randomly assigned to a treatment start
      time, which will follow from an initial baseline phase. During the baseline phase,
      participants will wear a commercially available smart watch with physiological monitoring
      capability, for at least one month in order to gather behaviour frequency data, and
      associated physiological data; no prompts will be provided. During this period, behavioural
      and physiological data will be sent to a secure server where a machine learning algorithm
      will examine the relationships between data streams and 'self-tune' to improve its prediction
      of challenging behaviour episodes. In the treatment phase, participants and staff will
      receive a biofeedback prompt in text, or graphic form (e.g. mood light), on the smart
      watch/connected mobile phone, when an event has been predicted. This will prompt participants
      to implement a proactive anxiety management strategy, and will prompt staff to support the
      participant in completing this, if required. The strategy used will be predetermined in the
      participant's standard care plan e.g. breathing relaxation, reframing the problem,
      behavioural redirection. Details will be recorded using an adapted version of the Overt
      Aggression Scale-Modified for Neurorehabilitation (OAS-MNR), describing the situation in
      which the biofeedback prompt occurred, participant and staff responses to the biofeedback
      prompt, and any resulting behaviours, including the occurrence of challenging behaviour.
      Following the intervention phase, participants will return to a baseline phase for one month,
      in which no prompts will be provided. Again, details of any challenging behaviour will be
      recorded via the OAS-MNR.
    
  