
    
      The Inter-Venture Trial is a cluster-randomised controlled trial of three intervention
      modalities developed involving active youth, family and community engagement in the Montreal
      area: (i) Systematic school-based screening and early personality-targeted interventions for
      students most at risk of mental health problems and substance misuse (Preventure program);
      (ii) Community-based parent training program and (iii) Timely and integrated services
      provided by a multidisciplinary team of professionals (Inter-Action).

      The trial will assess the potential effects of some of the components of the intervention
      model in 45 secondary schools that will be randomly assigned to two intervention conditions
      (receiving Inter-Action services and the parent training program in addition to Preventure or
      receiving the Preventure program and the parent training program) and a control arm that will
      receive treatment as usual. Schools will be matched on their baseline socio-economic status.
      Approximately 4000 students in participating schools will be invited to complete annual
      assessments for 5 consecutive years from grade 7 to grade 11.

      Based on their scores on the Substance Use Risk Profile Scale, at-risk students will be
      identified and invited to participate in the Preventure program in the first year of the
      trial. Parents of grade 7 students reporting discord at home on the Alabama parenting
      questionnaire will be invited to participate to the parent program. Participating students
      with clinically significant internalizing and externalizing problems will be invited to
      receive Inter-Action services. Internalizing and externalizing problems will be assessed
      using self-report measures such as the Patient Health Questionnaire for Adolescents, the
      Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire, the screening tool for the detection of alcohol and
      drug problems in adolescents (DEP-ADO) and the development and well-being assessment (DAWBA).

      Primary outcomes will be the likelihood of reporting a significant level of mental health
      problems, behavioral problems, substance misuse and poor quality of life among participating
      youth.

      Secondary outcomes will include the severity of the symptoms of mental health and substance
      use problems, school performance, time to received treatment, time in treatment, quality of
      care, cognitive functioning and other psychosocial outcomes.
    
  