
    
      Ta1 is a naturally occurring peptide that has been evaluated for its immunomodulatory
      activities and related therapeutic potential in several conditions and diseases, including
      infectious disease and cancer. ZADAXIN® brand Ta1 is a synthetic version currently approved
      for use in 37 countries; in particular it is approved in China for treatment of hepatitis B
      and to enhance vaccine response. Notably, Ta1 has been used clinically in pilot studies for
      treatment of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and other lung infections including
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD),
      as well as infections after bone marrow transplant. Larger clinical trials have shown
      significant efficacy for treatment of severe sepsis and hepatitis B, along with certain
      cancers such as melanoma, hepatocellular, and lung cancer. Ta1 has also demonstrated
      improvement in response to vaccines in the elderly and in patients immunocompromised by renal
      disease.

      Ta1 restores immune system homeostasis, by acting as multi-tasking protein depending on the
      host state of inflammation or immune dysfunction (such as infectious disease and cancer). Ta1
      is believed to directly enhance the immune systems' recognition of infected cells and tumors
      cells, while also possibly modulating T cell activity and stimulating both innate and
      adaptive immunity to clear bacteria, virus, fungi and tumor cells. Ta1 serves a unique
      function in balancing pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine production through the
      regulation of distinct Toll-like receptors (TLRs) on different dendritic cell subsets. Data
      from other coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome (MERS)-CoV
      indicate that infection relies on their ability to impair both innate and adaptive immunity.
      During the 2003 pandemic, Ta1 was used as a prophylactic agent against SARS. Some published
      reports suggest that timely administration of immune-enhancers such as Ta1 to SARS patients
      was efficacious to a certain extent in controlling the development of the disease. Another
      study investigated the clinical manifestations, pharmacotherapy and prognosis of 46 patients
      with SARS and divided the severe cases (22 cases) into 2 groups according to administration
      of Ta1 and showed that the incidence rate of pulmonary fibrosis was lower in the group with
      Ta1 (2 of 14 cases) than the group without (6 out of 8 cases), i.e., 14.3% and 75.0%,
      respectively.

      A recent study presented a retrospective analysis of hospitalized COVID-19 patients in China,
      in which those treated with Ta1 showed an improvement in lymphocyte subsets as well as a
      significant reduction in mortality (from 30 to 11%, p = 0.04).

      Based on post-marketing treatment experience of more than 600,000 patients, Ta1 has been well
      tolerated. Ta1 has been administered to elderly subjects (up to 101 years old), children (as
      young as 13 months), and immunocompromised patients. The most common adverse events (AEs) in
      previous clinical trials include injection-site pain (such as burning and itching) which was
      mild and lasted for less than 30 minutes, as well as fever, nausea, and flu-like symptoms
      which were mild to moderate in severity. Thus, while Ta1 is one of only a few
      immunomodulatory agents that have been approved for human use, it does not appear to induce
      most of the side effects and toxicities commonly associated with other biological response
      modifiers (BRMs) in this class, such as interferon and interleukin (IL)-2.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine whether Ta1 administered daily for one
      week to hospitalized COVID-19 patients with lymphocytopenia will improve time to recovery
      (free of respiratory failure) compared with a similar population of patients who do not
      receive Ta1. The secondary objectives are to determine whether hospitalized COVID-19 patients
      with lymphocytopenia treated with Ta1 will have a milder course of infection in terms of
      length of hospitalization stay, requirement (and length) for ICU stay, and requirement for
      supplemental oxygen or mechanical ventilation than patients not treated with Ta1, as well as
      higher chances of survival.

      After screening, hospitalized patients with COVID-19 and lymphocytopenia who meet the
      inclusion criteria will receive Ta1 (1.6 mg) administered subcutaneously (SC) daily for 1
      week. Individuals in the control arm will be followed on the identical protocol but will not
      receive daily Ta1. After the treatment period, all subjects will be followed and evaluated
      for efficacy outcomes at Day 14, with follow-up visits at Days 28, 42, and 60 (by phone, if
      the subject has been discharged from the hospital) to determine any AE/serious adverse event
      (SAE) and mortality.
    
  