
    
      Regular resistance training can lead to a variety of health benefits including increases in
      muscle size and strength, reductions on body fat, increased metabolic rate, glycaemic
      control, decreased blood pressure and improved blood lipid profiles. Because of this, current
      physical activity guidelines recommend undertaking muscle strengthening activities involving
      major muscle groups two days a week or more, alongside at least 150 minutes per week of
      moderate intensity physical activity (or 75 minutes per week of vigorous intensity physical
      activity). However, only small portion of the population achieves the muscle strengthening
      aspect of the guidelines.

      Why participation in muscle-strengthening exercise is low is not clear but people identify
      several barriers including the lack of time, the effort involved, lack of purpose, pain due
      to injury, negative experiences of prescriptive exercise, apathy, illness, injury inclement
      weather and work commitment. In addition, some women have expressed a worry of looking
      'manly' or 'bulking up' if they undertake resistance exercise. A further potential barrier is
      lack of access to a gym with appropriate equipment to perform resistance exercise, or dislike
      of a gym setting. Thus, identifying approaches to find a safe, enjoyable and accessible
      programme that minimises the burden of performing resistance exercise, and identifying a
      minimal amount of resistance training which can provide benefits is a key issue which could
      help more people to undertake muscle strengthening exercises.

      Meta-analyses indicate that while performing resistance exercise two or more times per week
      of resistance exercise per muscle group appears to be optimal to maximise strength gains, a
      single set of resistance exercise per muscle group per week, if performed to failure is
      sufficient to induce substantial strength changes.

      The main aim of this study is to compare the effects of an app-based home-based resistance
      exercise programme vs a home-based flexibility programme on muscular endurance (number of
      press-ups, time achieved in half-squat test, and time achieved in plank test, assessed online
      during a zoom call) and flexibility (sit and reach, assessed online during a zoom call) in
      healthy adults. Secondary aims are a) to determine participants' adherence to both exercise
      programmes, b) to determine participants' choice of weekly exercise volume (compared to
      minimum prescription) in both exercise programmes c) to determine participants' distribution
      of exercise throughout the week in both exercise programmes d) to determine the effects of a
      exercise programmes on well-being, and finally e) to determine participants' perceptions,
      feelings, thoughts, enjoyment, tolerance and acceptability of both exercise programmes.

      The study is a randomized control trial in which the flexibility exercise group will undergo
      a 12-week home-based flexibility exercise programme. The resistance exercise group will
      undergo a 12-week home-based resistance exercise programme. Participants will be asked to
      perform a minimum amount of resistance or flexibility exercise of 1 set/week for each of six
      exercises and will have the opportunity to increase their volume of exercise to 2 sets or 3
      sets/week per exercise if it is their choice. In addition, participants will be able to
      distribute the exercises during the week according to their preference (all in one day or
      spread over several days of the week, etc.). Participants will be encouraged to have a
      minimum of one day of rest per week.
    
  