
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common condition throughout Canada and the
      rest of the world. Patients with COPD often describe of breathlessness that makes it
      difficult for them to participate in physical activity. Specifically, patients often report
      shortness of breath when they use their arms for simple activities of daily living such as
      dressing, lifting and bathing. Exercise training has been shown to reduce breathlessness in
      people with COPD. Compared with studies that have looked at the effects of exercise using the
      leg muscles, studies that focus on training the arm muscles in people with COPD are sparse.
      Although earlier work shows that arm training increases arm exercise capacity, the effects on
      other measures such as breathlessness are not clear. Therefore, the objectives of this study
      are; (i) to develop a feasible and safe arm training program (ATP) for patients with COPD
      based on the best available evidence, (ii) to examine the effectiveness of this ATP on
      breathlessness during activities of daily living, health-related quality of life, arm
      function and arm exercise capacity, (iii) to examine the physiological mechanisms
      underpinning any change in these outcomes in response to the ATP.

      Patients with COPD will be assigned by chance to either a treatment or control group. All
      patients in both groups will complete the 6-week pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) program that
      is well-established at our centre (West Park). During this program all patients will complete
      leg exercises, such as walking or cycling, and receive education about how to best manage
      their disease. In addition to this PR program, the treatment group will complete a specific
      ATP involving overhead arm exercises and free weights. The control group will undergo a
      "sham" ATP consisting of finger exercises. Before and after the ATP we will collect measures
      of; (i) breathlessness during activities of daily living, fatigue and quality of life, (ii)
      arm exercise capacity, (iii) arm function and, (iv) arm muscle force. During the tests of arm
      exercise capacity a special machine (breathing-gas analysis system) will be worn.
      Measurements will be compared between the treatment and control groups before, immediately
      after the ATP and also 3 months after completing the ATP.
    
  