
    
      -  Treatment with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy results in a median survival of 7 to
           10 months in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  In a randomized clinical trial of patients with non-squamous cell lung cancer, treatment
           with carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab resulted in an objective response rate of
           35%, overall survival of 12.3 months compared to objective response rate of 15%, overall
           survival of 10.3 months in patients treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel alone.

        -  Mesothelin is a cell surface glycoprotein present on normal mesothelial cells that is
           highly expressed in many human cancers including lung adenocarcinoma.

        -  SS1 (dsFv) PE38 is a recombinant anti-mesothelin immunotoxin that has undergone phase I
           testing and is currently in clinical trials in combination with pemetrexed and cisplatin
           for treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma.

        -  Pre-clinical studies demonstrate increased anti-tumor activity of SS1 (dsFv) PE38 in
           combination with chemotherapy and bevacizumab against mesothelin-expressing tumors.

      Primary Objectives:

      - This is a phase I study to determine a safe and tolerable phase II dose for the combination
      of SS1 (dsFv) PE38 with paclitaxel, carboplatin and bevacizumab in patients with advanced
      mesothelin-expressing lung adenocarcinoma.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To assess response rate, duration of response, and progression-free survival (PFS).

        -  To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of SS1 (dsFv) PE38 in combination with
           chemotherapy and bevacizumab.

        -  Monitor serum mesothelin levels prior to and during chemotherapy.

        -  To identify T-cell epitopes responsible for neutralizing SS1 (dsFv) PE38 activity using
           mononuclear cells obtained by apheresis.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed stage IIIB (malignant pleural effusion) or IV or recurrent
           NSCLC (non-squamous cell, with mesothelin expression greater than or equal to 10% of
           tumor cells by IHC).

        -  Adequate organ and bone marrow function.

        -  ECOG performance status of 0-1.

      Design:

      - Open label phase I trial.
    
  