
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess non-relapse or progression-related mortality at 1 year in patients over 55
           with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
           transplantation from a matched related, filgrastim (G-CSF)-mobilized donor and treated
           with conditioning comprising fludarabine phosphate, busulfan, and anti-lymphocyte
           globulin.

        -  To assess the incidence of graft-versus-host disease in these patients.

        -  To assess the incidence of relapse in these patients.

        -  To assess cellular recovery in these patients.

        -  To assess myeloid and lymphocyte chimerism in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To study the usual clinical and biological aspects of the transplantation in these
           patients.

        -  To study the impact of the Charlson score and the suitability for allogeneic
           transplantation score on mortality and 1-year survival.

        -  To assess the quality of life (QLQ-C30) of these patients.

        -  To study the economic cost of transplantation from conditioning to 1 year
           post-transplant.

        -  To study the mobilization and collection of progenitor stem cells in the donors.

        -  To study the psychological impact of donating stem cells on the donors.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Conditioning: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -5
           through -1, busulphan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours on days -4 and -3, and
           anti-lymphocyte globulin IV over 4 hours on days -2 and -1.

        -  Transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem call transplantation on
           day 0.

      Patients complete a quality of life survey (QLQ-C30). After completion of study treatment,
      patients are followed every month for 6 months and then every 3 months for 6 months.
    
  