
    
      -  Antibiotics are important medicines for fighting infections caused by bacteria. Their
           widespread use has caused a worrying rise in antibiotic resistant bacteria, which are
           bacteria that are harder to control or kill with antibiotics. Patients with infections
           caused by antibiotic resistant bacteria are often ill for longer and have an increased
           risk of serious harm, including death. The spread of resistant bacteria can be slowed
           down by using antibiotics more carefully. Penicillins are an important group of
           antibiotics that are recommended treatment for many infections. Doctors will avoid
           prescribing penicillin for their patients who have a "penicillin allergy label" in their
           health records. These patients are usually prescribed different types of antibiotics for
           their infections. There is concern that these non-penicillin antibiotics may not work as
           well as penicillins, may cause more side-effects (including killing more of the body's
           "helpful" bacteria), and may be more expensive.

        -  About 9 out of 10 people who have a record of penicillin-allergy are found to be not
           truly allergic to penicillin when thoroughly tested. This means they could safely take
           penicillins. The aim of ALABAMA is to find out if people with a penicillin-allergy
           record in their GP health records really do have an allergy by carrying out specialist
           testing, and to see if it is possible to reduce the number of patients wrongly labelled
           as penicillin allergic. The investigators will find out if this results in better use of
           antibiotics and fewer days of symptoms, when patients are prescribed antibiotics for
           infection.

        -  The investigators are asking GPs in West Yorkshire to help with this research, which
           plans to include 96 people in the initial feasibility study and 1994 people in the main
           study.
    
  