
    
      Current studies on salvage radiotherapy (sRT) for biochemically recurrent prostate cancer
      after radical prostatectomy investigate timing, dose-escalation and androgen deprivation
      therapy (ADT) for recurrent prostate cancer. These approaches could either be limited by
      radiation-related susceptibility of the anastomosis or by suspected side-effects of ADT. A
      phase II protocol was developed to investigate the benefit and tolerability of regional
      hyperthermia with moderately dose-escalated sRT. The study hypothesis is that hyperthermic
      sRT is a safe and feasible salvage treatment modality. The primary endpoint is safety
      measured by frequency of grade 3+ genitourinary (GU) and gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events
      (AE) according to Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 4. Feasibility is defined by number
      of hyperthermia treatments (n ≥ 7) and feasibility of sRT according to protocol. Target
      volume delineation is performed according to the EORTC guidelines. sRT is administered with
      single doses of 2 Gy 5×/week to a total dose of 70 Gy to the prostate bed, or alternatively
      the total dose only to the area of highest risk and a lower dose to the remaining prostate
      bed using a simultaneous boost (SIB) technique. Regional hyperthermia is given 2×/week to a
      total of 10 treatments. German centres participate in the phase II trial using intensity
      modulated RT (IMRT), volumetric modulated arc technique (VMAT) or tomotherapy. The initiating
      centres were participants of the SAKK 09/10 study, where the same patient criteria and target
      volume definition (mandatory successful performed dummy run) were applied insuring a high
      standardisation of the study procedures.

      The introduced phase II study implements modern sRT and regional hyperthermia. If the phase
      II study is found to be safe and feasible, a multicenter phase III study might be performed
      to test whether the addition of regional hyperthermia to dose-intensified sRT improves
      biochemical control.
    
  