
    
      PROJECT SUMMARY OVERVIEW: The purpose of this study is to determine if botulinum toxin type A
      (Btx-A) is an effective treatment for painful neuromas. The ideal therapy for painful
      neuromas would be effective, non-addictive, safe, localized, and cost-effective, but would
      also address the complex peripheral and central mechanisms. Btx-A is a potential treatment
      that addresses each of these requirements while preserving the existing sensation and
      function. The investigators believe that Btx-A will be effective in eliminating both the
      exaggerated local pain response and centralization while maintaining an exceptional safety
      profile and potential for long-term effects without addictive properties.

      STUDY AIMS: The aims of this proposal are to 1) examine the short-term efficacy of Btx-A
      injection compared to placebo in treating pain due to nerve damage, and 2) describe the
      long-term efficacy of Btx-A injection in treating pain due to nerve damage by measuring
      patient satisfaction and quality of life changes over time.

      APPROACH: Forty patients will be enrolled; twenty to receive active treatment (Btx-A) and
      twenty to receive placebo (saline). Comparisons between treatment and placebo will occur
      during the first 28 days to determine Btx-A's short-term efficacy. Telephone follow-up visits
      will occur on Day 2 and Week 1. On Day 28, a telephone follow-up visit will occur, except in
      patients who are experiencing complications. Patients with complications or recurrent pain
      will return for a clinic visit. Post-assessment on Day 28 marks the beginning of the
      longitudinal observational study of patient outcomes. Placebo will no longer be used and
      patients still suffering from pain will be eligible for additional Btx-A injections. Patients
      may receive up to 4 injections of Btx-A during the 1-year study period if pain recurs. During
      the study period participants will be followed to collect data on pain-free intervals,
      subsequent treatment choices, patient satisfaction, and changes in quality of life and
      function. Group comparisons will be made to analyze results. Further stratifications for data
      analysis will be made as enrollment numbers allow to control for additional demographic and
      disease variables. Quality-adjusted life-years will be calculated to help determine the
      societal and individual cost of this treatment.

      HYPOTHESIS: The investigators hypothesize that 1) Btx-A injection relieves neuroma pain
      better than a placebo within 28 days of injection, and 2) Btx-A injection relieves neuroma
      pain for longer than 28 days, improving patient quality of life. Through this study the
      investigators intend to further elucidate the efficacy of injected Btx-A on relieving chronic
      pain from nerve damage while characterizing the patients for whom this treatment is most
      effective.
    
  