
    
      Background The use of intravitreal injections (IVIs) has been steadily increasing for several
      years, because this method of drug delivery minimizes systemic exposure and allows for
      intraocular drug levels not achievable through systemic or topical drug administration.
      Intravitreal injection (IVI) of agents such as anti-vascular endothelial growth factor
      (anti-VEGF) or corticosteroids are efficacious for several retinal diseases, including
      age-related macular degeneration, macular edema due to retinal vein occlusion or diabetic
      macular edema, and uveitis, among others. But IVIs are not without their risk of
      complications and the most feared of which is infectious endophthalmitis. Although
      endophthalmitis´s incidence ranges from 0-0.2% per infection, the cumulative risk for
      patients under sequential treatment may equate to more than 1% after 2 years of treatment.
      Endophthalmitis management following IVIs generally consists of a vitreous tap and inject
      (TAI) and/or a pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with intravitreal injection of antibiotics.
      However, there is no consensus on the optimal treatment of IVI-related endophthalmitis. Thus,
      an established treatment protocol for IVI-related endophthalmitis is warranted to optimize
      patient outcomes.

      Objectives and Innovation The aim of this study is to determine whether PPV or TAI is
      superior for the treatment of IVI-related endophthalmitis. The primary objective is to
      compare final visual acuity (VA) between treatment regimens at 12-months post-treatment.
      Secondary objectives include subgroup analysis between patients of varying VAs and
      demographic variables, aqueous humor analysis, comparison of complications and/or need for
      retreatment, and comparison of anatomic outcomes by autofluorescence, optical coherence
      tomography (OCT), and OCT angiography (OCTA) imaging.

      Methods Consenting patients 18 years and older with presumed infectious endophthalmitis after
      non-steroid intravitreal injections will undergo stratified block randomized into the PPV or
      TAI intervention group based on their baseline VA in the study eye. Patient demographics will
      be collected and a standard ocular examination at baseline will be performed.

      Randomization Stratified block randomization (block size = 4) will be used to randomize
      patients into one of the two interventions according to baseline visual acuity in the study
      eye (worse than or equal to hand motions and counting fingers or worse) A computer-generated
      block randomization design will be used to create the randomization list, which will be
      uploaded to the randomization system (RedCap). Once a patient has consented and been enrolled
      in the study, the local study coordinator will access the randomization system to enter the
      patient's assigned study ID and visual acuity status. The treatment group assignment will
      then be displayed by randomization system to the study coordinator who will inform the
      recruiting physician.

      Masking Study personnel involved in visual acuity assessments and imaging will be masked to
      group assignment.

      Screening Procedures

      Patients will be screened by the investigator in the same manner as standard patients. The
      tests to be performed are typically used for diagnosis and follow-up of endophthalmitis. At
      each visit (unless indicated otherwise), patients will undergo:

        -  Best-corrected Snellen visual acuity assessment

        -  Slip-lamp examination

        -  Tonometry

        -  Fundoscopy

        -  B-scan ultrasound (US) at baseline if the fundus cannot be visualized

      Assessment and Procedures

      In addition to the above screening procedures, a baseline patient evaluation will be
      performed that will include thorough documentation of the patient's medical and ocular
      history. The following will also be performed for each enrolled participant (note that study
      procedures that are in addition to standard of care have been marked with an asterisk*):

        -  *ETDRS visual acuity measured at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months: the Early
           Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) defined a method of visual acuity
           assessment that has become the gold standard for use in eye research studies. No
           additional risk is associated with performing ETDRS VA measurements.

             -  If no letters can be read at 4 m with an ETDRS chart, the ability to count fingers
                will be tested at 1 m

             -  If unable to count fingers, vision will be tested for the ability to recognize hand
                motions in which the opposite eye will be occluded and a light source will be
                directed from behind the patient to the examiner's hand that will be stationary or
                moved at one motion per second in a horizontal or vertical direction at a distance
                of 60 cm from the eye. The patient will then identify the direction of the
                examiner's hand. This procedure will be repeated five times and hand-motion VA will
                be considered present if the patient is able to identify the examiner's action on
                at least four of the presentations.

             -  Light perception (LP) will be tested at 0.9 m with an indirect ophthalmoscope at
                maximum intensity

        -  *Visual Function Questionnaire 25 (VFQ-25) administered at baseline, 3 months, 6 months,
           and 12 months: a questionnaire developed by the National Eye Institute29-31 to measure
           visual function in 11 domains encompasses areas of general vision, ocular pain, near
           activities, distance activities, vision-specific social functioning, vision-specific
           mental health, vision-specific role difficulties, vision-specific dependency, driving,
           color vision, and peripheral vision. No additional risk is associated with administering
           the VFQ-25 Questionnaire.

        -  *The 36-Item Short-Form Survey (SF-36) administered at baseline, 1 month and 1 year: It
           is a patient-reported survey of patient health. No additional risk is associated with
           administering the 36-Item Short-Form Questionnaire.

        -  Fundus autofluorescence at 3 months (mandatory)

        -  Optos photographs at 3 months and 12 months (mandatory)

        -  OCT 5 HD-line images at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months (mandatory)

        -  OCT-A images at 3 months and 12 months (optional)

        -  Anterior chamber paracentesis to obtain a 0.1 mL aqueous humour sample prior to
           treatment: this sample will be sent for standard cultures, Gram stain, and
           sensitivities.

        -  Vitreous samples to obtain a 0.2mL vitreous sample prior to treatment: this sample will
           be sent for standard cultures, Gram stain, and sensitivities.

        -  Cataract surgery: may be considered for patients who subsequently develop visually
           significant cataracts as a result of the intervention (likely needed for those in the
           PPV group)

             -  this will be assessed at 6 months and cataract surgery will be offered if the
                cataract is visually significant

             -  if the patient declines, cataracts will be re-assessed at 9 months and cataract
                surgery will be re-offered

      Pars Plana Vitrectomy Group Patients randomized to the PPV group will undergo a three-port
      PPV. The patient should be added to the OR list as an A-case (maximum 6 hours wait) and no
      intravitreal injection should be performed prior to the surgery. A 0.1 mL aqueous humor
      simple immediately before the surgery. A 0.2 mL vitreous specimen will be obtained after the
      sclerotomies are placed. The PPV procedure should be limited to core vitrectomy, air fluid
      exchange and intravitreal injections (antibiotics and dexamethasone). Other tamponades such
      as silicone oil should be avoided if possible. The PPV will then be completed by the surgeon
      and the vitreous specimen will be sent for standard cultures, Gram stain, and sensitivities.

      Tap and Inject Group Patients randomized to the TAI group will have a 0.2 mL vitreous
      specimen collected and a 0.1 mL anterior chamber paracentesis performed to be sent for
      standard cultures, Gram stain, and sensitivities.

      Medications

      Following the PPV or tap, each patient will receive the following empirical therapy:

        -  Intravitreal injection of antibiotics

             -  Vancomycin 1.0 mg/0.1 mL

             -  Ceftazidime 2.25 mg/0.1 mL

             -  Amikacin 400 mcg/0.1 mL instead of Ceftazidime if severe penicillin allergy

        -  Intravitreal injection of dexamethasone 400 mcg/0.1 mL

        -  Oral moxifloxacin 400 mg OD for 10 days. (start as soon as possible)

        -  Topical moxifloxacin q1h x 48 hours post-treatment, then tapered according to treating
           physician's standard regimen

        -  Topical Prednisolone 1%: q1h x 48 hours post-treatment, then tapered according to
           treating physician's standard regimen

        -  Any mydriatic agent typically used by the treating physician and according to their
           standard regimen

      Rescue Treatment and Risk Management For patients in the TAI group, PPV and reinjection of
      intravitreal antibiotics can be considered if the infection worsens after the initial
      intervention. Patients in the PPV group can be considered for repeat PPV and reinjection of
      intravitreal antibiotics if the infection worsens after the initial intervention as well. The
      final decision for retreatment will be at the physician's discretion and what they judge to
      be in the patient's best interest.

      Safety Monitoring Plan A Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will meet annually. Voting
      members of the DSMB will be independent of the trial. A written report containing the current
      status of the trial, performance and data quality, interim outcome data will be sent to DSMB
      members by the Coordinating Center to allow sufficient time for the DSMB members to review
      the report prior to the meeting. This report will address any specific concerns about the
      conduct of the trial.

      Also, the local principal investigator (LPI) at each site will meet weekly with study team
      members to review the progress of the study. Furthermore, to ensure all members are
      performing their roles in accordance with required Research Ethics Board requirements, the
      LPI will randomly check on the study coordinators and participants.

      The TAI and PPV interventions will be performed or supervised by qualified ophthalmologists.
      Patients will be made fully aware of the risk and benefits of the procedures. Patients will
      be assessed pre- and post-intervention for any adverse events, and will be closely monitored
      throughout the study. Complications will be managed by the staff ophthalmologist and other
      necessary eye clinic staff.

      Statistical Analysis

      Data will be upload on electronic case report form, provided by the Applied Health Research
      Centre ("AHRC") of St. Michael's Hospital.

      Continuous variables will be reported as means with standard deviations or median with
      minimum and maximum values, and will be compared using T-tests or Mann-Whitney U tests.
      Categorical measures will be reported as counts and percentages, and will be compared using
      Chi-squared tests or Fisher's Exact test.

      ETDRS visual acuity and VFQ-25 scores at 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months, will be compared
      between groups using an independent t-test. Linear regression models will be used to
      determine the relationship between various patient-related baseline factors and final ETRDS
      VA at 12 months within each group.

      Coefficients with 95% confidence intervals will be reported. A p-value of 0.05 will be
      considered for statistical significance. Data will be analyzed using SPSS (SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, IL).

      Sample Size A sample size calculation was performed in relation to the primary outcome to
      detect a difference in ETDRS VA of 10 letters (2-line difference) between groups. With a
      study powered to 90%, an alpha of 0.05, and standard deviation of 25 letters, this results in
      a sample size of 278 patients. Assuming a 10% drop out rate, 310 patients are required in
      total (155 patients in each group).
    
  