
    
      Radial artery cannulation is a well-established procedure in the ICU, especially in
      critically ill hemodynamically unstable patients. The first description of arterial
      cannulation in humans dates back to 1856, when the blood pressure was measured int the
      femoral artery. It can be used for continuous blood pressure monitoring, obtaining
      func¬tional hemodynamic parameters derived from the arterial waveform, to predict the
      physiologic response to fluid resuscitation and also for blood sampling.

      The most common complications for the procedure are temporary radial artery occlusion
      (19.7%), in addition to hematoma (14.4%), infection at the arterial site (0.72%), hemorrhage
      (0.53%) or bacteremia (0.13%), pseudoaneurysm (0.09%) and finally ischemic damage (0.09%).
      Larger catheter diameter, presence of vasospasm, female sex (probably related to smaller
      vessel diameter) increase the risk of ischemic complications. Inadequate experience (high
      number of attempts, multiple arterial sticks and hematoma formation) can also increase the
      complication rate.

      In a recent study by Numaguchi et al, they found that radial artery cannulation decreases the
      distal arterial blood flow measured by power Doppler ultrasound. In another study by Kim et
      al, they found that after radial artery cannulation ulnar artery diameters were significantly
      increased (compensatory) and radial artery diameters were decreased after cannulation
      compared with pre-cannulation values, then returned to pre-cannulation values 5 min after
      cannulation. They detected radial artery vasospasm in 12 patients with 20-G cannulas used
      (31.5%) and in 2 patients with 22-G cannulas used (5.3%) (p < 0.05), which was observed
      immediately after cannulation, and had mostly disappeared after 5 min. There was no data
      regarding the follow up of the patients afterwards. In both studies the subjects were not
      critically ill patients (and not on vasopressors).

      Peripheral limb ischemia in ICU patients can be the result of iatrogenic injury, thrombotic
      complications or hypoperfusion related to the underlying disease state. The patients at
      greatest risk for acute ischemia are those with underlying peripheral artery disease (PAD),
      but limb ischemia can also be the consequence of embolism, injury, dissection, or severe
      vasoconstriction, even in the absence of preexisting occlusive disease. Repeated arterial
      punctures may result in extensive hematoma formation and arterial spasm, The thick muscular
      coat and abundance of alpha adrenoreceptors make it prone to develop spasm when traumatized.
      Attempts to control bleeding following cannulation through local hemostasis only complicate
      matters. While, normally, the likelihood of serious ischemia is minimized by the presence of
      the palmar arterial arch.

      The use of vasopressors especially nor-epinephrine with its potent α1-adrenergic receptor
      agonist activity can aggravate the condition more. We didn't find in the literature any
      reliable data regarding the effect of using vasopressors (particularly nor-epinephrine) in
      any dosage on the incidence of peripheral arterial vasospasm or ischemic complications
      following arterial cannulation. But there were mixed case reports linking both or one of
      them: high dose vasopressors and arterial cannulation, to ischemic complications. Such as
      developing peripheral gangrene after starting high dose vasopressors, or developing complex
      regional pain syndrome (CRPS) following radial artery cannulation.

      It is believed that blocking the Stellate ganglion with Local anesthetics can interfere with
      the sympathetic out flow to the upper limb resulting in abolishing its vasoconstrictor action
      on the arteries thus decreasing arterial spasm and promoting better blood flow in the
      peripheral circulation.
    
  