
    
      Postoperative ileus is defined as a disturbance in bowel motility, clinically
      indistinguishable from bowel obstruction, and resulting from noxious or injurious bowel
      insult. During abdominal surgery, this could be due to bowel manipulation or its exposure to
      irritants like blood or pus. This contributes to post-operative morbidity resulting in
      significant patient discomfort and prolonged hospital stay. The clinical picture can be
      variable in presentation and severity. Patients can be asymptomatic or complain of anorexia,
      cramping, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and bloating. Severe cases can have bilious
      vomiting. No diagnostic test can exclude the diagnosis with certainty and presence or absence
      of bowel sounds on exam is unreliable. Therefore, symptoms are primarily relied on for
      clinical management to promote patient comfort. Postoperative ileus can increase
      postoperative morbidity and lengthen hospital stay.

      Traditionally, patients are given nothing-by-mouth (NPO) after major abdominal or pelvic
      surgery to allow rest for the dysfunctional bowel because of the concern of precipitating
      postoperative ileus. Patients are started on a clear liquid diet and advanced accordingly
      when there is documentation of bowel function such as passing flatus, presence of bowel
      sounds, or no obvious evidence of bowel obstruction such as nausea and vomiting. This was
      based on the fact that colonic motility is the last to recover after abdominal surgery
      (usually 3-5 days) and this is less precise in patients who develop constipation. However,
      the small bowel returns to normal peristaltic activity within 12-24 hours and the stomach
      within 24-48 hours. In addition, large body of evidence indicates that early feedings and
      early ambulation stimulates gastrointestinal motility, reduces overall complication rates as
      well as improves patient comfort and satisfaction. Laxatives also increase GI motility, will
      permit passage of flatus and/or stool, making the surgeon more comfortable in permitting
      early oral feeds. This will increase patient satisfaction, increase comfort by decreasing
      bloating and allow faster recovery. Bisacodyl is a mild laxative and so greatly suited for
      study in the post-operative period. However, laxative use can itself cause cramping,
      abdominal pain, and bloating.

      There are several studies found in the literature about the effect of early bowel stimulation
      in postoperative care. However, there are only three studies related to the benefit of using
      laxatives during postoperative care to improve bowel function and decrease incidence of
      postoperative ileus. The Department of OB/GYN at Ohio showed earlier return to bowel function
      and a decrease in hospital stay while using Fleets Phosphorate Soda (66% sodium phosphate) in
      patients having a radical hysterectomy. Another study was done at Hvidovre University
      (Demark) to identify the benefit of using Magnesium Oxide and Disodium Phosphate immediately
      postoperatively in patients undergoing a hysterectomy. This study showed no difference on
      postoperative nausea, vomiting, or pain, but decreased the length of hospitalization by one
      day (N = 20). In July 2007, the Department of Surgery at Mahidol University (Thailand) used
      Bisacodyl suppositories on the third postoperative day in patients who underwent a colectomy
      for colon cancer. This study showed an increase incidence of postoperative ileus. All these
      studies are limited by their small number of patient enrollment, and none were blinded.

      Bisacodyl (Dulcolax) is an over-the-counter laxative. It is coated with a protective coating
      so that it will not be digested in the stomach and small intestine. Therefore, Dulcolax only
      takes effect in the large intestine, where the coating is dissolved. Dulcolax is metabolized
      by the liver with CYP450 mechanism and excreted by stool and urine. Dulcolax works in the
      large intestine by stimulating the nerve endings, causing muscles to contract and the
      contents of the bowel to empty. Dulcolax is not used as the first treatment of bowel
      stimulation due to the concern about imbalance of electrolytes as well as dependency. There
      are few studies that document any adverse effect of Dulcolax. There are several studies
      showing Dulcolax as one the best choices of bowel prep agents without significant discomfort
      or imbalance of electrolytes.
    
  