
    
      This study will be prospective, randomized, paired eye trial. Twenty patients with
      symptomatic anterior blepharitis with or without meibomian gland dysfunction who have a lash
      contamination score >1 and the Standard Patient Evaluation of Eye Dryness Questionnaire score
      (SPEED score) >= 1 will be included in the study. The criteria for grading of lashes
      contamination is defined as: 0= Clear lashes, 1=Slight contamination (involvement of lashes
      >0 but <25%), 2=Mild (>=25% but < 50%), 3=Moderate (>=50% but < 75%), and 4=Severe (>=75%).
      Patients will be recruited from the Dry Eye Clinic, Jules Stein Eye Institute, UCLA. The
      informed consent will be obtained from each patient. Patients who have been given a topical
      corticosteroid within 6 weeks before entering the study or need a topical corticosteroid or
      topical antibiotics as an adjunct to lid cleansing will be excluded from the study. Patients
      with concurrent conjunctivitis or keratopathy will also be excluded. Previous topical
      medications before patients enter the study such as anti-glaucoma medications and artificial
      tears will be continued.

      One of the patients' eyes will be simply randomized into the interventional group in which
      the BlephExTM device(1) will be used to perform eyelid margin and lash cleansing. The other
      eye will be entered into the control group in which eyelid cleansing in a conventional way
      will be done using Optase wipes. In the screening visit, the Standardized Patient Evaluation
      of Eye Dryness (SPEED) questionnaire score and eyelid contamination will be assessed to
      recruit eligible patients. Before eyelid cleansing, images of the eyelid margin will be
      obtained by Oculus Keratograph 5M, Wetzlar, Germany and will be used to grade lashes
      contamination and lid margin redness by two independent observers. Parameters of interest of
      each eye will be evaluated separately. The primary outcomes are symptoms which will be scored
      using the Standard Patient Evaluation of Eye Dryness Questionnaire (SPEED)(2) and lashes
      contamination which will be graded as described above. Other outcomes of interest are lid
      margin redness, and the number of preservative free artificial tears used per day. The lid
      margin redness is graded as 0=Clear/white 1=Slight redness 2=Mild redness 3=Moderate redness
      4=Severe redness. Patients will also be evaluated for concurrent meibomian gland dysfunction
      by evaluating meibum quality and expressibility of meibomian glands according to the
      International Workshop on Meibomian Gland dysfunction 2011(3). Meibum quality is assessed in
      each of eight glands of the central third of the lower lid on a scale of 0 to 3 for each
      gland: 0, clear; 1, cloudy; 2, cloudy with debris (granular); and 3, thick, like toothpaste
      (total score range, 0-24). Expressibility is assessed on a scale of 0 to 3 in five glands in
      the lower or upper lid, according to the number of glands expressible: 0, all glands; 1,
      three to four glands; 2, one to two glands; and 3, no glands. Patients who have minimally
      altered secretion grade ≥ 2-4 and expressibility ≥ 1 will be diagnosed with MGD. The images
      of eyelids will be taken again immediately after eyelid cleansing and eyelid contamination
      scores will be evaluated. The patient will then be instructed to perform lid cleansing at
      home once a day with eyelid cleansing wipes (Optase) for 21 days. The technique will be
      demonstrated to the patient in clinic. The follow-up visits will be at 21 days. At the
      follow-up visit, all of the data obtained in the screening visit will be repeated.
    
  