
    
      Vulvar pain affects the psychological and sexual health of more than one in five Canadian
      women, yet its pathophysiology is poorly understood. Provoked vestibulodynia (PVD) is one
      major subtype of vulvodynia, affecting close one in ten women and resulting in sharp, burning
      pain during attempts at vaginal intercourse and/or attempts to insert a digit, device or
      tampon into the vagina. Hypersensitivity of the vulvar vestibule is one of the key defining
      characteristics of PVD and, while its pathogenesis is unknown, it has been primarily
      attributed to inflammatory processes and hyperinnervation. Pelvic floor muscle (PFM)
      dysfunction has also been implicated in many forms of dyspareunia, yet the nature of this
      involvement also remains largely unknown.

      Low Level Laser Therapy (LLLT), or photobiomodulation, is a therapeutic resource involving
      irradiation of injured or diseased tissue with a combination of red and infrared light. This
      laser is thought to initiate a series of physiological reactions within the cells exposed to
      light at these wavelengths, leading to the restoration of normal cell structure and function.

      The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to assess the feasibility of using a
      comprehensive LLLT intervention for the management of PVD in women with PVD alone (PVD) or
      with concurrent vaginismus (PVD+VAG). True and sham LLLT will be delivered by the BioFlexTM
      laser system (Health Canada License No. 7931). The aim is to determine whether there is
      evidence of a positive effect of LLLT delivered using a semi-standardized protocol delivered
      by the BioFlexTM laser in terms of primary outcomes including pain, sexual functioning and
      overall symptoms and secondary outcomes including changes in physiological responses to
      pressure applied at the vulvar vestibule, corticomotor excitability to the PFMs, and tonic
      activation and motor control of the PFMs.

      Women will be recruited from among eighty women participating in a cross sectional study
      investigating pelvic floor muscle involvement in PVD. Women will therefore already have been
      recruited through local physiotherapists and gynecologists who have specific expertise in
      genital pain disorders and a diagnosis of PVD and PVD+VAG will have been confirmed through
      screening (Friedrich's Criteria as well as digital palpation assessment) by a gynaecologist,
      gynaecology resident or pelvic health physiotherapist, all with specific training on the
      assessment of vulvar pain. Other causes of vulvar pain, including generalized vulvodynia,
      infection, lichen sclerosis etc. will have been ruled out. Potential participants will be
      approached by the study protocol officer after they have participated in the cross sectional
      study and asked if they are interested in participating in this intervention study. If so,
      they will be asked to consent to having their data from the cross sectional study passed on
      to the current study.

      Women will be evaluated before and after the 12-week intervention on all outcome measures,
      while primary outcome measures will be also evaluated after 3 weeks of intervention in both
      groups.

      The physical assessment will be conducted by an experienced pelvic floor physiotherapist.

      The evaluations will include the completion of five online questionnaires (The Vulvar Pain
      Assessment Questionnaire (VPAQ), Female Sexual Functioning Index, Pain Catastrophising Scale,
      Depression Anxiety Stress Scales, the Central Sensitization Index) and the physical
      assessment.

      The physical assessment will involve:

        1. Tampon test: participants will be provided with Original Regular Tampax Tampon and will
           be instructed to insert and then remove it. The participant will be instructed to report
           the level of pain induced through the entire insertion/removal experience on a 0-10
           numeric rating scale for pain (0 meaning no pain and 10 meaning the worst pain
           imaginable).

        2. Pressure pain threshold (PPT) will be determined involving three trials using a custom
           vulvalgesiometer, and will be defined as the median pressure at which women first report
           pain when a cotton swab tip is applied at the posterior fourchette of the vaginal
           introitus.

        3. Temporal summation (TS) of pain: The vulvalgesiometer will again be used. A consistent
           pressure equivalent to the pressure that induced a pain rating of 4/10 will be applied
           to the posterior vaginal fourchette ten times at a rate of approximately one per second.
           Participants will rate their pain level on the initial and final application of this
           pressure using the numeric rating scale (0-10). TS will be defined as the difference in
           pain rating between the final and first application of the pressure.

        4. Responses of the pelvic floor muscles to pressure applied at the vulvar vestibule: Women
           will be instrumented with electromyography (EMG) electrodes over four muscles. The
           superficial (bulbocavernosus and external anal sphincter) layer will be instrumented
           with rectangular self-adhesive gelled electrodes placed in a differential configuration
           on the participant's right side. The deep (pubovisceralis) PFMs will be instrumented
           using one custom differential suction electrode (DSE) configuration with one electrode
           (pole) placed on the vaginal wall overlying the muscle on the right side and the other
           electrode (pole) located on the anterior vaginal wall superficial to the PFMs (i.e.
           approx. 1.5 cm from the introitus). A common reference gelled electrode will be adhered
           to the skin overlying the anterior superior iliac spine on the right side. Additionally,
           Delsys D.E. 2.1 differential electrodes will be located over the upper trapezius muscle
           and over the adductor longus muscle on the right side. All EMG electrodes will be
           interfaced with Delsys Bagnoli-16 amplifiers (overall gain X1000, common mode rejection
           ratio -120dB at 60Hz; bandpass 20Hz-450Hz) and all EMG data will be sampled at 2000Hz
           through a 32-bit National Instruments Analog to Digital Converter (NIDAQ USB3086) and
           stored on a PC using Powerlab Labchart 8 Pro software. Two separate, custom
           vulvalgesiometers will be instrumented such that a switch that is activated when a low
           (25 g) or moderate (232 g) pressure is delivered. The switch (on-off) data will be
           recorded alongside the EMG data through the PowerLab™ software in order to separate out
           anticipatory activation (i.e. the EMG signal onset is before the switch is activated)
           from response activation (i.e. the EMG signal onset is after the switch is activated).

           The vulvalgesiometers will be used at the posterior vaginal fourchette and at the
           posterior aspect of the thigh. The order of the pressure application sites (vaginal
           fourchette vs posterior thigh) and the intensity of the pressure stimulus (low vs
           moderate) will be randomized using a computer generated randomization scheme. Five
           repetitions will be performed for each location/pressure intensity combination using a
           consistent inter-stimulus interval of 120 seconds. For each pressure level and site, an
           anticipatory response will be considered to be present on an EMG channel if, at that
           site, EMG activity rises two standard deviations above the noise before the pressure is
           applied on at least two of ten trials; while a behavioral response will be considered to
           be present on any EMG channel if, at that site, the EMG activity rises two standard
           deviations above the noise after the pressure is applied on all ten trials. For each
           pressure level and site, EMG response amplitudes will be recorded based on smoothed
           (full-wave rectified and low pass filtered using a 4th order dual-pass Butterworth
           filter with 3dB cut-off of 5Hz).

        5. Tonic, phasic and reflex activation of the PFMs: After five minutes of rest, tonic EMG
           activation will be recorded from all EMG channels for a period of one minute while women
           are instructed to relax their PFMs as much as possible, then EMG data will be recorded
           throughout three trials of maximum effort PFM contractions. Next, women will be
           instructed on a bearing down maneuver (Valsalva) whereby they will use their diaphragm
           and abdominal muscles to generate an increase in intra-abdominal pressure. EMG data will
           be recorded from one second before the command to inhale and until 20 seconds after the
           command to bear down is given; three separate trials will be performed. A rest of two
           minutes will be given between trials and tasks to minimize the effect of fatigue,
           activation induced by the tasks, and/or vasovagal symptoms. Raw EMG data will be
           smoothed (full-wave rectified and low pass filtered using a 4th order dual-pass
           Butterworth filter with 3dB cut-off of 5Hz) before EMG amplitudes are determined. For
           tonic activation and activation during the Valsalva, mean smoothed EMG amplitude will be
           computed across the length over which the task is sustained. For voluntary activation,
           the peak smoothed EMG amplitude will be retained.

        6. Corticomotor excitability of the projections to the PFMs - A Magstim® 200 system coupled
           with a double cone coil (96 mm loops, P/N 9902) will be used to probe the corticospinal
           projections to PFMs using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Participants will be
           fitted with a Waveguard TMS compatible cap (ANT North America Inc, WI 53719) and the
           vertex location will be marked at the intersection between the sagittal and coronal
           bisections of the head. An additional EMG channel will be added to the others already
           instrumented; a D.E. 2.1 electrode will be placed over the tibialis anterior muscle on
           the right side. With the coil at a point 2cm ventral to the vertex, magnetic stimulation
           intensity will be systematically increased until MEPs (50µv) are reliably evoked from
           the tibialis anterior muscle. The resting motor threshold (rMT) will be established
           using a software tool (Motor Threshold Assessment Tool 2.0) which allows fast and
           reliable estimation with 14 to 17 stimulations. After rMT determination, 12-20 MEPs will
           be recorded with participants at rest and using an intensity equivalent to 1.3 rMT. The
           intensity will be set at 100% maximum stimulator output in cases where the 1.3 rMT is
           greater than 90 % maximum stimulator output. Next the cortical silent period (cSP) will
           be assessed by asking participants to perform 5-10 moderate contractions of their PFMs
           while the TMS pulse is delivered at the same intensity (1.3 rMT) as above during the
           contraction. During this contraction. This will conclude the pre-intervention
           assessment.

      After the initial assessment is complete, using concealed allocation, women will be
      randomized to receive either the LLLT protocol or a sham protocol, for a twelve- week
      intervention period using a permuted block computer-generated randomization scheme (block
      size 4) stratified by condition (PVD vs PVD+VAG). The participant, the protocol officer, the
      physiotherapists delivering the treatment and the PI will remain blinded to participant group
      assignment throughout the treatments and the follow-up assessment.

      The intervention protocol will consist of 15 sessions provided over a 12- week period,
      applied by two experienced pelvic floor physiotherapists (>5 years) who have received
      specialized training on the application of LLLT using the Bioflex Laser system. The
      intervention protocol was developed in collaboration with the Clinical Director of Meditech
      International Rehabilitation Centers, who is also a scientific advisor to BioFlexTM Laser.
      Each treatment will last approximately 45 minutes and will be scheduled at the participant's
      convenience. During the 12- week treatment period, each participant will progress through 5
      stages of treatment parameters at their own rate. The sham group will follow the same
      treatment steps, but the output of the laser will be at a sub-clinical intensity of 1% power.
      All of the steps will first include laser arrays (red and infrared light) applied to the skin
      overlying the sacral spine in both a horizontal and oblique placement bilaterally and the
      laser probe applied over the base of the spine (red and infrared light). Next, the array will
      be applied to the surface of the perineum (red and infrared light) followed by red light
      delivered by the probe at specific sites along the perineum, including the vulvar vestibule.
      Finally, infrared light will be applied using the probe applied to the skin overlying the
      branches of the pudendal nerve. Women will progress through treatment stages whereby at each
      stage, the same array positions and probe placement will be used but the dosage of light will
      be increased according to the BioFlex protocol. The laser arrays and probes will be protected
      with a low density polyethylene plastic cover that is compliant with the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) and United States Department of Health and Human Services (USDA)
      regulations. Each cover will be discarded after a single use. A mindfulness-based meditation
      will be provided during each assessment through noise cancelling headphones interfaced to a
      PC playing an audio CD. To ensure that the physiotherapists delivering the treatment remain
      blinded to the treatment being delivered, the real and sham (A and B) protocols have been
      entered into the Bioflex Laser system by the supplier and verified by a physiotherapist who
      is not involved in the study to ensure that they are correct. In this way none of the
      investigators will know which protocol (A or B) is the real treatment, and black towels will
      be used to cover the arrays while the treatment is delivered such that any differences in
      light intensity will not be visible.

      Three weeks after initiating the intervention, women will repeat the five on-line
      questionnaires, the tampon test, PPT testing, TS testing as well as Global Perception of
      Improvement and Global satisfaction with treatment questionnaires, reporting to a research
      assistant who will remain blinded to treatment assignment. After the final treatment session
      (12 weeks), women will repeat these on-line questionnaires as well as the tampon test, PPT
      testing, TS testing, tonic and voluntary activation, anticipatory and behavioural responses,
      and the TMS protocol, administered by the same, blinded physiotherapist who performed the
      initial assessment.

      After all follow-up visits are complete, women, and the research assistants, will learn
      whether they received the real or sham LLLT therapy, and those who received sham therapy will
      be invited to begin the real intervention. If follow-on funding becomes available, all women
      will be re-evaluated at 12 weeks following the initial therapy on all outcomes.

      All outcomes will first be tested for normality using the Shapiro-Wilks test. If all outcomes
      are normally distributed, they will be compared between the using repeated measures (RM)
      ANOVA models. The Global perception of improvement will be compared between group
      (intervention vs control) and time (3 weeks after beginning the intervention, 12 weeks after
      beginning the intervention, 12 weeks after completing the intervention if available) using a
      three-way RM ANOVA and including condition (PVD, PVD+VAG) as a nested effect. The other
      outcomes will be compared between groups using three-way RM ANOVAs including group
      (intervention, control) and time (pre-intervention, post-intervention, 12 weeks later if
      available) as main effects, and including condition (PVD, PVD+VAG) as a nested effect.
      Alpha=0.05 will be used for all tests and effect sizes will be computed based on group means
      and standard deviations. Adherence rates will be recorded and intent to treat analyses are
      planned for participants who drop out or are lost to follow-up. For outcomes that are not
      normally distributed, equivalent non-parametric tests will be used wherever possible.

      The sample size is based on the only pilot study that tested the therapeutic effect of LLLT
      on women with PVD, conducted by Lev-Sagie et al. (2017), who reported a significant, positive
      effect on pain reported during attempts at sexual intercourse among women with PVD (n=18)
      treated using LLLT when compared to controls (n=16) who received sham LLLT. They found that
      participants who received the treatment were more likely than controls to report significant
      or complete improvement in their pain (p=0.042) on verbal report at follow-up, a scale
      similar to the "Global Perception of Improvement" scale as described in this proposal. Using
      this result, a post-hoc power analysis (Minitab, V. 18) suggested that a sample size of 16
      per group will be adequate to see a significant difference in treatment outcomes between
      women who receive the LLLT intervention and those who receive the sham intervention. The
      results of Lev Sagie et al. (2017) did not demonstrate a significant treatment effect in any
      of their objective parameters. For example, post-hoc power analysis (MinitabTM v. 18)
      estimates that 154 participants per group would be required to detect a difference between
      treatment and control using the tampon test as the primary outcome. Given that the LLLT
      intervention proposed here is far more comprehensive than that used in Lev Sagie et al
      (2017), there may be a greater effect associated with the proposed protocol as compared to
      the effect seen in Lev Sagie et al. (2017).
    
  