
    
      Perimenopause-related mood disorders cause significant distress to a potentially large number
      of women. The demand for effective therapeutic alternatives to estrogen for treating these
      mood disorders is considerable, as is the need to define clinical or biologic markers that
      may predict successful response of mood disturbances to phytoestrogens or selective estrogen
      receptor modulators (SERMs). Further, the study of potential biological mechanisms underlying
      both perimenopause-related mood disorders and their response to treatment may offer the
      possibility of uncovering some etiopathogenic mechanisms involved in these and related mood
      disorders.

      Results of protocol # 90-M-0077 demonstrated the therapeutic efficacy of estradiol therapy
      (ET) in perimenopausal depression, independent of its effects on vasomotor symptoms.
      Nevertheless, the long term risks of ET to endometrial and breast tissues continue to deter
      many women from its use. Recently, selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) and
      phytoestrogens (plant-derived estrogen-like compounds) have become available and are reported
      to display both tissue-specific profiles of estrogen agonist and antagonist actions and
      differential affinities for the two forms of estrogen receptor. For many women, these novel
      compounds would represent a safer alternative to ET for the prevention of osteoporosis and
      the treatment of menopausal symptoms. However, the effects of SERMs and phytoestrogens on
      mood and cognitive function in perimenopausal women remain undetermined.

      In this protocol we wish both to investigate the effects of SERMs and phytoestrogens on mood
      and cognition under placebo controlled conditions and to compare these effects with estradiol
      therapy. This protocol will address the following questions: 1) Do selective estrogen
      receptor modulators or phytoestrogens improve mood and cognition in perimenopausal depressed
      women? 2) Are the mood and cognitive effects of SERMs and phytoestrogens comparable to those
      of ET? and 3) Do selective estrogen receptor modulators and phytoestrogens improve measures
      of bone metabolism in perimenopausal depressed women?
    
  