
    
      Within the field of Psychology and Contemplative Sciences, the relationship and
      interdependence between the brain and body have been one of the most prevalent questions when
      it comes to understanding the psychobiological mechanisms underlying human behavior. It is
      proposed that the brain should be seen as a dynamic, complex, and self-organized system,
      which is closely coupled and integrated with whole-body signals, establishing a two-way
      communication axis. This has been evidenced through an increase in scientific research
      adopting an embodied perspective that considers both diverse brain measurements as well as
      signals from other parts of the body, such as the heart and the gastrointestinal system.
      Recent pieces of evidence have furthermore begun to reveal the different ways in which
      psychological processes can influence the body, and how this could be trained in order to
      improve wellness.

      Interoception is a cognitive process developed to monitor the internal state of the body and
      it involves the continuous and dynamic integration of information from different (internal)
      origins, including respiratory, cardiac, and gastrointestinal systems. New research agendas
      have started to link interoception to wellbeing, and with the psychopathology of psychiatric
      conditions, from depression and autism to eating disorders. Interestingly, it has been shown
      that this ability can be trained through contemplative practices designed to improve body
      awareness, socio-affective and socio-cognitive capacity. Moreover, some interoceptive
      dimensions like thirst interoception might be affected by lifestyle and habits such as diet.
      Altogether, this evidence suggests that understanding the mechanism of brain-body integration
      represents a promising alternative to improve wellbeing and mental health.

      One example of psychophysical integration that has taken much importance in recent years, due
      to its implications on wellbeing and mental health, is the one established between the brain
      and the gastrointestinal system. In particular, gut-microbiota research is acquiring special
      importance because of its implications in psychological states such as stress and anxiety,
      and psychiatric conditions like depression and autism. It has been shown that microbiota
      affects brain functioning through different pathways including neural, humoral, and
      endocrine. However, the mechanism of brain-gut-microbiota integration and its relationship to
      wellbeing is still unknown. The integration of information through large-scale oscillation
      coupling has been one of the most validated proposals regarding signal processing and
      communication. An oscillatory coupling between the brain and the gastrointestinal system was
      recently described, shedding light on a possible mechanism via which the gastrointestinal
      system constantly and instantaneously sends information to the brain, which in turn
      integrates this information either consciously or unconsciously, thus affecting mental
      processes.

      This research proposal aims to study how the brain integrates information from the gut
      (regulated by the microbiota) and the relevance of this coupling on wellbeing. To do this,
      the oscillatory coupling between the electroencephalogram (EEG) and electrogastrogram (EGG)
      signals will be recorded and evaluated. EEGs and EGGs will be recorded under different
      interventions including training designed to increase interoceptive gastric awareness and
      treatment with probiotics to modify some microorganisms that have already been associated
      with mental health. The oscillatory coupling will be compared to the well-being observed
      after each of the interventions. In this investigation, wellbeing will be defined as optimal
      psychological functioning, integrating physical and subjective factors, and will be evaluated
      through different self-reported questionnaires.

      Interventions related to improving body awareness and contemplative practices, in general,
      are helping to improve the levels of wellness around the world and in Chile, representing an
      accessible and cheap way to manage psychological conditions regardless of socioeconomic and
      demographic aspects, contributing to the development of new therapeutic strategies.
      Additionally, a strong relationship between diet, microbiota, and health has now been
      demonstrated. Thus, understanding the mechanism via which the microbiota communicates with
      the brain, the susceptibility of this communication to microbiota changes, and the
      relationship of this process with participants' diet could provide relevant information when
      making decisions related to eating habits and lifestyles.
    
  