
    
      We aim to investigate these separate cell types in the blood of subjects with asthma and
      identify which genes are more highly expressed when compared to cells obtained from patients
      without asthma. We will investigate corticosteroid sensitivity on gene expression in asthma
      (corticoid naive to corticosteroid resistant asthma). We will also investigate the lung cells
      (macrophages) from these subjects to identify whether the same or different genes are
      expressed in these cells.

      We will isolate different leukocyte populations from the blood and extract ribonucleic acid
      (RNA) from these samples. The type and quantity of RNA in these samples is a reflection of
      the specific genes expressed in these cells. Gene expression is also evaluated by ELISA.This
      RNA will be sent to Gene Logic in the USA and this company will test these samples to
      identify which genes have been expressed using Gene Arrays. This technique will examine the
      expression of all 33,000 human genes in each sample to examine activation of interacting
      pathways rather than individual genes at a time. Samples will be analysed in the USA and
      preliminary data shows that there are no problems involving sample transportation or
      degradation.

      Similar experiments will be performed using cells (macrophages) obtained following
      bronchoalveolar lavage of these subjects. We would aim to examine the responses of cells from
      two groups of subjects, namely (i) non-asthmatics controls and (ii) asthmatic subjects. The
      isolated cells will either be immediately solubilized in solutions to purify RNA or we will
      then use these isolated cells in vitro and following stimulation investigate whether
      different genes are expressed or at a differential rate in the disease state. We will examine
      both cells derived from peripheral blood and cells (macrophages) obtained from
      bronchoalveolar lavage with the aim to determine whether differences attributable to disease
      can be identified in both circulating cells and those at the site of disease.

      This is a preliminary study to determine the profile of inflammatory mediator expression from
      leukocytes and as such power calculations to determine the number of subjects is not
      appropriate.

      The objective of the study is to identify which genes are specifically expressed in important
      cells in patients with asthma with a view to identify novel targets for drug therapy.
    
  