
    
      1. Purpose:

           The focus of the study is to determine if supplementing vitamin D in patients diagnosed
           with HHT will reduce the frequency and severity of epistaxis episodes.

        2. Hypothesis:

           For patients diagnosed with HHT, daily vitamin D supplementation will reduce the
           frequency and severity of epistaxis. Additionally, there will be a greater reduction in
           epistaxis frequency and severity the larger the dose of daily vitamin D supplemented

        3. Justification:

           Hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is a rare autosomal dominant inherited
           disorder of the fibrovascular tissue that causes malformation of capillaries (called
           "telangiectases") and/or larger blood vessels (called "arteriovenous malformations")
           throughout the body. The formation of these lesions ultimately result in patients
           experiencing increased tendency for bleeding. These lesions may present in varying
           locations systemically, however recurrent and severe epistaxis is the most common
           presentation of HHT.

           Various medical and surgical treatments exist for management of HHT patients which are
           aimed at decreasing the frequency and severity of epistaxis episodes. These therapies
           include: humidification, nasal lubrication, nasal hot saline irrigation, intranasal
           packing, oestrogen ointment, tranexamic acid, bevacizumab systemic/topically applied,
           use of propranolol to lower blood pressure, electrocautery and YAG laser. Although all
           these various options are available, there currently is no consensus toward an optimal
           solution. Treatment can become especially difficult due to progressive anaemia or when
           anticoagulant or anti-thrombotic therapy becomes necessary. Therefore, there is a need
           for establishment of a safe and effective therapy.

           It has been suggested that vitamin D plays a role in cardiovascular health. Vitamin D
           plays a key role in establishing the integrity of blood vessels as it has been shown to
           provide protection of the vascular wall as well has having minor anticoagulation
           effects. As well, observational retrospective studies have found an association between
           vitamin D levels and epistaxis bleeding time and severity in HHT patients, with higher
           serum vitamin D levels being associated with decrease epistaxis bleeding time and
           severity. Despite evidence of positive effect of vitamin D on HHT, currently no
           prospective study has been done.

        4. Objectives:

           Primary Objective To determine if vitamin D supplementation with 1000 IU or 4000 IU will
           reduce the frequency and severity of epistaxis in HHT patients.

           Secondary Objective To determine the adequate dosage of vitamin D supplementation
           required to reduce frequency and severity of epistaxis in HHT patients.

        5. Research Method

      The proposed study is a prospective double-blinded, placebo controlled, randomized control
      trial.

      All the St. Paul's Sinus Centre patients willing to participate in the study will be invited
      for screening. Currently, the clinic has ~60 patients with HHT; therefore the investigators
      hope to enrol ~20 patients in each of the three study arms.

      Consenting patient will be randomized to ensure equal number of experimental and control
      patients are in each arm. A closed envelop system will be used to randomize participants
      within each arm. Patients diagnosed with HHT who are not taking vitamin D supplementation at
      the time of recruitment will be randomized into one of the following three groups:

        1. 1000 IU/day vitamin D,

        2. 4000 IU/day vitamin D, or

        3. Placebo control Patients who are already taking vitamin D at the time of recruitment
           will be asked to stop taking the current dose of vitamin D and will be randomized into
           either the 1000 IU or 4000 IU arm of the study. Patients previously taking Vitamin D
           will not participate as placebo controls.

      Upon enrolment in the study, demographic data will be obtained, including age, gender, and
      ethnicity. Patient's will also have baseline blood work drawn, standard of care, (full
      hematological profile, ferritin, aPTT, INR, serum vitamin D, IgE) and be asked to fill out a
      questionnaire to provide a baseline Epistaxis Severity Score (ESS). This questionnaire is
      routinely used to assess quality of life in HHT patients and includes six independent
      predictors of self-described epistaxis severity. Baseline nasal endoscopic scoring will also
      be performed by endoscopic imaging of the nasal cavity.

      The patients will be instructed on dosing of vitamin D supplementation. Patients will
      continue daily supplementation for three months until the first follow up visit. At the first
      follow-up visit patients will again have blood work drawn, be asked to fill out the ESS
      questionnaire, and receive nasal endoscopic scoring.

      The last follow-up visit will be at six months and a repeat of the same procedures/tests will
      be carried out.

      6. Statistical Analysis:

      The primary outcome of this study will be the Epistaxis Severity Score (ESS), which is
      obtained from patient questionnaires. The secondary outcome will be the Nasal Endoscopic
      Score. The difference in the ESS and endoscopic score before and after supplementation within
      and between groups will be analyzed using paired and unpaired students t-tests based on the
      variance results.

      Descriptive statistics (mean, median, SD) will be used to describe demographic and
      hematological data collected.
    
  