
    
      160 patients will be enrolled in 4 different hospitals. One of those, ICS Maugeri, will
      contribute with 5 different Institutes [Brescia, Pavia, Tradate (VA),Veruno (NO) and Cassano
      delle Murge (BA)]. Thus the total recruiting centers will be eight.

      During the whole rehabilitation period, the patients will perform one training session/day.

      The patients will use medications and oxygen therapy at rest as prescribed. The patients will
      perform no less than 20 training sessions within a period of one month. The rehabilitative
      intervention will be constantly supervised by a respiratory therapist.

      The cycle load started from the 50% of the theoretical maximum watt (evaluated by 6 minutes
      walking test [6MWT] through the Luxton's equation) (Luxton,2008) and increased by Maltais's
      protocol (Maltais,1997). Run-in training session: all patients will be submitted to a
      preliminary 30 minute training under a Venturi mask to set the FiO2 able to maintain SpO2
      constantly up to 93%. Usual nocturnal ventilation and nocturnal oxygen therapy under nasal
      cannula will be allowed.

      Patients will be randomized to 2 groups:

        -  OXYGEN (Control Group, n = 80): the training will be performed using the Venturi mask
           with the FiO2 set during the run -in session.

        -  HFO (TREATMENT Group, n = 80): the training will be performed using the HFO device.
           Air-flow will be set at the highest value tolerated by the patient, until a maximum
           value of 60 l/min and with the same FiO2 set of the Control Group (iso-FiO2) during the
           run-in session.

      The HFO will be administered using the AIRVO2® (Fisher&Paykel- NewZealand, CE0123 -
      93/42/CEE). Afterwards, the oxygen flow provided into the system will be progressively
      increased until the pre-fixed FiO2 will be reached, as displayed by the AIRVO2 monitor.

      the investigators will expect an enrollmnet rate of at least 23 patients/center. An
      enrollment rate less than 12 patients/center will not guarantee 1 author name on the possible
      Scientific publication. All the centers will be named in a possible congress/poster
      presentation. The possible publication will consider that a) the study is under the
      endorsement of AIPO and ARIR societies and b) Authors acknowledge the Industry contribution.

      Measures

      At baseline (T0), for both groups the following clinical evaluations will be performed:

        -  Anthropometric (age, BMI, diagnosis)

        -  Scale of comorbidity (CIRS)

        -  Spirometry (FEV1 %prd, FVC %prd, FEV1/FVC)

      At baseline (T0) and at the end of rehabilitative program (T1), an operator, unblinded to the
      study, will perform the following outcome measures:

        -  Constant load cycle-ergometer endurance [at work load of 80% of maximal load predicted
           by Luxon's equation (Luxton,2008)] under usual oxygen supply with nasal cannula

        -  Arterial blood gas analysis (ABG) under room air

        -  6-min walking test (6MWT) under usual oxygen supply with nasal cannula

        -  Scale of the MRC dyspnea

        -  Quality of Life (MRF26 scale)

        -  Respiratory muscle strength (MIP and MEP)

        -  Biceps and Quadriceps muscle strength tested by manual dynamometer and MRC muscle scale

        -  Disability (Barthel index, Barthel dispnea)

        -  Impact of the disease (CAT scale)

      During each training session the investigators will evaluate:

        -  Side effects (discomfort, severe dyspnea, dryness of mucosa , etc)

        -  delta increase in training prescription (% of variation in watts compared with the
           previous session)

      Only at the end of the program (T1) the investigators will evaluate :

        1. patient satisfaction for training sessions with a Likert scale (0= no discomfort; 1
           minimum discomfort; 2= moderate discomfort; 3 = high discomfort; 4= maximum discomfort)

        2. drops out (number and reasons: exacerbation, intolerance of treatment, refuse, early
           discharge, etc)

      Statistical analysis will be performed using STATA 12. Descriptive data will be shown as mean
      ± SD.

      The analyses will be conducted on a intention-to-treat (all randomized patients) or
      per-protocol (all completers) basis. A two-sample t test was used to explore differences in:
      1. baseline characteristics intervention and control groups, 2. between improvers and non
      improvers, 3.between completers and 4. dropouts and to assess differences in changes of
      parameters following the rehabilitation program between intervention and control groups.
      Wilcoxon matched-paired tests and Mann-Whitney U test will be employed for nonparametric
      data. Frequency distributions will be analyzed with χ2 test. Data will be considered
      significant for p<0.05.

      The sample estimated size for two sample comparison of means on primary outcome (endurance
      time evaluated by cicloergometer at costant load) (alpha error 0.05, beta error=0.90
      considering mean control group=150 s, mean treatment group=280s, standard deviation for both
      groups 250s ) is 156 patients
    
  