
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CA IX) is a hypoxia-inducible enzyme regulated by the Von Hippel
           Lindau (VHL) protein that is commonly overexpressed in certain malignancies including
           renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and may have prognostic significance.

        -  The VHL gene is commonly mutated or inactivated in RCC tumors and VHL activity regulated
           the expression and activity of not only CAIX but also CAXII as well as other genes
           critical for tumor angiogenesis such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
           glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), glucose transporter 3 (GLUT 3) and platelet derived
           growth factor (PDGF).

        -  18F-VM4-037 is an imaging drug product formulation which binds to the active site ligand
           of CA-IX and also binds to CAXII. We propose to evaluate 18F-VM4-037 as a positron
           emission imaging (PET) radiopharmaceutical for the in vivo detection of CA-IX and CAXII
           in renal tumors.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

        -  To evaluate the biodistribution of 18F-VM4-037 within tumor and non-tumor tissues.

        -  To assess safety of 18F-VM4-037 in patients with primary or metastatic RCC.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Subject is greater than or equal to 18 years old, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
           (ECOG) 0-2.

        -  Subject must have confirmed primary RCC (greater than or equal to 2.5cm) in diameter on
           conventional imaging modality or extrarenal/extrahepatic RCC lesion (greater than or
           equal to 1cm).

      DESIGN:

      - Twenty subjects with primary RCC greater than or equal to 2.5cm in diameter or
      extrarenal/extrahepatic lesion suspicious for metastatic RCC (greater than or equal to 1cm in
      diameter) scheduled for clinically indicated surgery or biopsy will undergo dynamic
      18F-VM4-037 PET/CT imaging. Results will be compared with pathology.
    
  