
    
      Premature Ejaculation (PE) is characterized as the most common sexual dysfunction in men with
      a prevalence of 21-33%. Based on the main theories about the pathophysiology of Premature
      Ejaculation (PE), the most commonly prescribed medications are topical anesthetics and
      serotonin-specific reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It has been reported that the abnormal
      ejaculation of semen is a typical but rather infrequent side effect of some α1-adrenoceptor
      antagonists. Silodosin had the highest selectivity for the vas deferens compared with other
      α1-adrenoceptor antagonists.

      Patients suitable for inclusion in the baseline period were those who (as part of the
      Premature Ejaculation Diagnostic Tool (PEDT) questionnaire) rated their perceived control
      over ejaculation as 'moderately difficult', 'very difficult' or 'extremely difficult', and
      the other four items as 'about half the time', 'more than half the time' or 'almost always or
      always'. Patients completed the Index of Premature Ejaculation (IPE) and Premature
      Ejaculation Profile (PEP) questionnaires, and rated the quality of their orgasm in response
      to the question: 'In general, how do you rate the orgasm you experience during sexual
      intercourse?' on a 5-point scale ('very poor', 'poor', 'satisfactory', 'good', 'very good').
      Patients with a baseline Intravaginal Ejaculation Latency Time (IELT) of 2 minutes or less,
      as measured by a partner-held stopwatch, for at least two of the first three sexual
      encounters were eligible for randomization into the double-blind phase. In total of 40
      eligible patients were randomized to receive double-blind treatment with 4 mg Silodosin or
      matched placebo for 3 months. One dose was to be taken 2 hours before anticipated sexual
      intercourse, and only one dose was allowed per 24-h period. Ejaculation-delaying techniques
      and behavioural therapy were to be avoided. Couples were instructed to attempt sexual
      intercourse four or more times per month during the 12-week treatment period (minimum of 24 h
      between doses of medication). During each sexual encounter, the Intravaginal Ejaculation
      Latency Time (IELT) was measured and recorded, together with efficacy and tolerability data.
      Ejaculation occurring before penetration was assigned an Intravaginal Ejaculation Latency
      Time (IELT) of 0 minute. The time noted on the stopwatch at this point was recorded as the
      duration of sexual intercourse until ejaculation or withdrawal. Patients returned to the
      clinic at 14-21 days intervals (visits 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6) at which the Index of Premature
      Ejaculation (IPE) and Premature Ejaculation Profile (PEP) questionnaires were completed.
      Also, at visit 3 and 6 patients had a safety evaluation and rated the quality of their
      orgasms. Patients' satisfaction for the treatment was evaluated by Clinical Global Impression
      of Change (CGIC) in Premature Ejaculation (PE).
    
  