
    
      Small fiber neuropathies, and mixed small and large fiber neuropathies, have many potential
      causes including diabetes, vitamin deficiencies, environmental and toxic exposures, HIV,
      autoimmune and paraproteinemias.

      However, despite this broad differential at least 30% of cases of small fiber neuropathies
      remain idiopathic. There is therefore a growing interest in the potential for using IVIG in
      small fiber neuropathy without direct proof that the disorder is caused by immune reactions.
      We have recently uncovered two novel autoantibodies, TS-HDS and FGFR-3, that are targeted
      again peripheral neural structure. TS-HDS is a disaccharide component of glycosylation of
      heparin and heparin sulfate.

      Patients with elevated levels of IgM against TS-HDS display clear small fiber loss with IgM
      deposits around the outside of medium- & larger-sized capillaries with C5b-9 complement
      deposits. FGFR-3 is a secreted cell surface receptor; genetic defects of FGFR-3 are linked to
      achrondroplasia and other bony abnormalities.

      The antibodies to TS-HDS and FGFR-3 are detected in up to 20% of patients with otherwise
      idiopathic small fiber neuropathy, but are rare in patients without small fiber neuropathy.

      Dr. Levine (a co-investigator on this project) recently presented 3 cases of small fiber
      associated with elevated levels of auto-antibodies to TS-HDS or FGFR-3 who were treated with
      IVIG at 2 gm/kg/month for 6 months. He examined skin biopsies for intra-epidermal nerve fiber
      density and patient self-reported pain scores at baseline and after six months of therapy.
      All 3 cases showed marked improvement in pain scores. The average reduction in pain was 54%.
      In addition there was a clear increase in the intra-epidermal nerve fiber density (IENFD)
      after 6 months of therapy. Pre-treatment IENFD was 1.6, 1.7, and 2.4 at the calf. After 6
      months of therapy the IENFD was 8.4, 5.7, 3.3 respectively (these are clinically significant
      improvement in nerve fiber density.

      The investigators believe these anecdotal cases suggest that TS-HDS and FGFR-3 antibodies may
      be a marker for a group of SFN patients that are immune mediated and may respond to IVIG.
      (This case series was presented as a poster at the American Academy of Neurology meeting in
      2017)
    
  