
    
      This project aims to characterize the markers of frailty in a population of MM patients in a
      "real world" setting. The clinical approach to the patients (i.e. treatment schedule, number
      of appointments in the hospital, invasive procedures) will not be changed compared to
      patients not enrolling in the study.

      In particular, the primary objective of the study is:

      To explore measures of frailty in MM patients: the aim is to assess if any of the proposed
      parameters and markers of frailty (e.g. biomarkers of cellular senescence and organ damage,
      inflammatory markers, physical tests such as gait speed and hand grip test) are associated
      with frailty status, defined according to the GA, at baseline.

      The secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  To monitor frailty (defined by GA) and those markers of frailty (MoF) over time and
           evaluate treatment effects on frailty and MoF: this will explore the relationship
           between the markers of frailty and the tumor. Moreover, this will allow the study to
           assess if the frailty score at baseline is static or can be modified, in particular to
           observe whether frailty is improved in patients responding well to the treatment without
           toxicity.

        -  To explore the relationship of parameters and biomarkers of frailty with:
           treatment-related toxicity, treatment discontinuation, response to treatment, PFS and OS

        -  To investigate the predictive role of GA in the "real world" setting: the GA has been
           assessed in 3 clinical trials in more than 800 patients, but no data are available on
           the "real world" population where frail patients are more frequently encountered.

        -  To compare the MoF in patients with MM with the healthy subjects.

        -  To assess the relation of frailty and quality of life (QoL): in elderly and frail MM
           patients the QoL is one of the most important (if not the most important) objective for
           treatment. Investigators will investigate if the QoL perceived by the patient relates to
           the frailty assessment and how this varies over time.

      Biological samples collected at baseline and throughout the study will also be stored for
      future studies to allow a prompt evaluation of novel biomarkers identified in the future, and
      therefore to accelerate the validation of these biomarkers.
    
  