
    
      Population- Our study population will include all adult diabetic patients undergoing deceased
      donor renal transplantation or living donor transplantation in which a swap requires
      transportation and resulting cold storage time. This will ensure a reasonable incidence of
      our primary outcome (poor short term graft function) and eliminate the potential risk of
      treating non-diabetic patients with insulin infusions. Patients already enrolled in a drug
      trial designed to study the impact of the drug on graft function will be excluded.

      Study Design- This will be a randomized control trial. Recipients will be randomized to
      either tight peri-operative glucose control or standard management.

      Methods

      Randomization Protocol- In order to ensure that patients are equally distributed between
      groups, we will use block randomization. Blocks of 4 patients will be created with the total
      number of experimental versus control assignments being equal across blocks. Patients will
      then be randomly assigned to a block.

      Interventions- The study group will be treated with an insulin infusion to achieve tight
      glycemic control (100-140mg/dL). Each study patient will be started on an insulin infusion
      prior to their operation. This infusion will continue throughout the operation and for 24
      hours after completion of the transplant. Glucose control will then be left to the discretion
      of the primary team.

      The control group will be treated with bolus insulin based on a standard insulin sliding
      scale.

      Outcomes

      Aim 1-

      Primary endpoint- Our primary endpoint will be poor initial graft function defined by the
      occurrence of DGF (defined by a decrease in serum creatinine of <10%/day for 3 consecutive
      days after transplant) or slow graft function (serum creatinine >3 mg/dL 5 days after
      transplant without dialysis)

      Secondary endpoint- Secondary endpoints will include wound infection, length of hospital
      stay, 30 day mortality, hypoglycemic episodes(glucose <70 mg/dL) and stroke.

      Aim 2-

      Primary endpoint- Our primary endpoints will be acute rejection at 90 days and graft
      survival/renal function at 3months, 6months and then yearly.

      Statistical Analysis- Data will be described as means with standard deviations or percentages
      with ranges based on whether the data represent continuous or categorical variables. The
      t-test and chi-squared test will be used to test hypotheses.
    
  