
    
      It is well acknowledged that the main mechanism by which cocoa and DC polyphenols improve
      fasting glucose levels, insulin sensitivity, BP and lipid profile in healthy individuals and
      those with hypertension and/or impaired glucose-tolerance, involves increased nitric oxide
      (NO) bioavailability. NO is essential for the regulation of blood pressure, glucose and lipid
      balance. This is evident in that e-NOsynthase knockout mice exhibit insulin resistance,
      hypertension and hyperlipidemia, a cluster of diseases that is also observed in the metabolic
      syndrome. Recently, it was shown that adiponectin regulates eNOsynthase activity through the
      phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-dependent pathway wherein eNOsynthase is phosphorylated by
      5'-AMP-activated protein kinase at Ser1179 and that plasma adiponectin levels are inversely
      correlated with BMI, waist-to-hip ratio, fasting plasma glucose, insulin, triglyceride,
      hyperinsulinemia, and glucose intolerance and positively with HDL-cholesterol, but not BP.
      This suggests a strong link between impaired NO bioavailability, adiponectin levels and
      obesity. Indeed, apart from exhibiting impaired NO bioavailability, obese individuals also
      have decreased plasma adiponectin levels. Since cocoa and DC are known to modulate NO
      activity, investigating the impact of cocoa or DC polyphenols on adiponectin levels and
      observing a correlation between its levels and improved fasting glucose levels, insulin
      resistance, BP and lipid profile is essential in improving our understanding of the
      relationship between diet and health, particularly that polyphenols in apples, oolong and
      green tea polyphenols have been previously shown to influence adiponectin levels.

      This study uses a randomised single-blind, placebo-controlled design. Following a 1-week
      run-in phase, each group will be randomised to one of the two groups: placebo-polyphenol-rich
      DC, polyphenol-rich DC-placebo. Subjects will follow each diet for 4weeks, after which they
      will cross-over to the next diet separated by a 2-week washout period and until each subject
      completes both interventions.
    
  