
    
      A randomised controlled prospective study is designed with 80 patients over 3-month period
      (January 2017 to March 2017). Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is planned for all patients.
      Two groups are designed depending on retractor. Liver retraction will be provided with
      Nathanson retractor in first group (Nathanson group, 40 patients), and with Reveel retractor
      in second group (Reveel group, 40 patients). Preoperative serum levels of transaminases,
      total bilirubin and C-reactive protein will be measured in all patients. The same biochemical
      markers will be measured on days 1 and 2 postoperatively. The patients with body mass index
      (BMI) ≥35kg/m2 are enrolled to study. The parameters of demographic characteristics (age,
      gender, BMI, weight, and body fat percentage), and clinical outcomes (postoperative
      complications, mortality, readmissions) are planned to record.

      Operative Technique

      All patients will be operated by same surgeons. and anesthetist. Peroperatively intravenous
      paracetamol 10 mg, tramadol 50 mg and fentanyl 150 mcg will be used for analgesia.
      Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy will be performed with 5 trocars, in reverse trendelenburg
      position by creating pneumoperitoneum with 14 mmHg carbon dioxide insufflation. Trocar
      replacements are one 10-mm trocar in the midline above umbilicus for the endoscope, one 12-mm
      trocar to right midclavicular line linage to the 10-mm trocar. One 5-mm trocar to the left
      midclavicular line linage to the 10-mm trocar, one 5-mm trocar to the front axillary line
      below the left costal margin. Both liver retractors will be placed from 2 cm below the
      xiphoid process for liver retractor. In nathanson group; after placing the blade of Nathanson
      retractor below the left lobe of the liver, it will be fixed to the operating table by the
      other instruments of retractor. In reveel group; the retractor will be placed below the left
      lobe of the liver and then it will be fixed to the skin with a towel clamp. 38 F orogastric
      tube will be used. No use of nasogastric tubes and urinary catheters routinely is planned.
      Drain replacement is planned for all patients.

      Preoperative and postoperative values of the markers will be analysed and compared between
      two groups.
    
  