
    
      More than 400,000 individuals with chronic kidney disease undergo hemodialysis each year in
      the United States. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality
      in these patients. Conventional risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) do not
      adequately explain this increased mortality, whereas biomarker of oxidative stress and
      inflammation correlate with clinical outcomes. Even with the use of biocompatible membranes,
      hemodialysis induces a systemic inflammatory reaction characterized by complement activation,
      leukocyte activation and the generation of reactive oxygen species and cytokines. Oxidative
      stress and inflammation promote endothelial dysfunction, a predictor of atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular events.

      The purpose of the study is to test the hypothesis that angiotensin-converting enzyme
      inhibition and angiotensin receptor blockade differ in their long term effects on biomarkers
      of fibrinolysis, oxidative stress,inflammation and on carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), a
      predictor of cardiovascular events, in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing
      maintenance hemodialysis.

      Endogenous Bradykinin (BK) contributes to the hypotensive and pro-fibrinolytic effects of ACE
      inhibitors. It has been determined that endogenous BK contributes to the vasodilator effects
      of acute and chronic ACE inhibition. Studies have found that BK stimulates vascular tissue
      plasminogen activator (t-PA) release through a BK B2 receptor-dependent, nitric oxide (NO)
      and cyclooxygenase-independent pathway. Hemodialysis patients demonstrates endothelial
      dysfunction. Data suggests that t-PA release may be attenuated during stimulation of the
      endogenous kallikrein-kinin system by hemodialysis.

      Intra-arterial infusion of BK increases vascular release of F2- isoprostanes, markers of
      oxidative stress, BK infusions also increase net release of the inflammatory cytokine
      interleukin-6 (IL-6). Preliminary data raise the possibility that activation of the
      endogenous kallikrein-kinin system during dialysis could promote inflammation in individuals
      with chronic kidney disease who are treated with an ACE inhibitor.

      Cardiopulmonary bypass activates the endogenous kallikrein-kinin system and causes a systemic
      inflammatory response. Like hemodialysis, cardiopulmonary bypass activates the endogenous
      kallikrein-kinin system, increasing BK concentrations. In smokers, who like hemodialysis
      patients exhibit endothelial dysfunction, the t-PA response to BK was attenuated during
      cardiopulmonary bypass.

      ACE inhibition enhances fibrinolysis and decreases inflammation following cardiopulmonary
      bypass. The short-term effect of both ACE inhibition and angiotensin II type 1 (AT1)
      receptors on markers of fibrinolysis and inflammation during dialysis are currently being
      studied.

      Circulating BK concentrations are increased during hemodialysis in individuals treated with
      an ACE inhibitors compared to those treated with an AT1 receptor blocker.

      Bradykinin receptor blockade and the fibrinolytic and inflammatory response to hemodialysis.
      It is hypothesized that subjects with CAD, the t-PA response to hemodialysis will be blunted
      compared to that measured in subjects without evidence of CAD, whereas the inflammatory
      response wil be similar or enhanced.
    
  