
    
      Patients undergoing flexible bronchoscopy (FB) experience procedure-related symptoms. Current
      guidelines of FB recommend sedation to all patients undergoing FB, except when there are
      contraindications. Propofol or benzodiazepines plus an opioid are the common combination used
      to improve patient tolerance and satisfaction during FB. However, controversy about combining
      propofol and opioids persists because of the risk of over-sedation and cardiopulmonary
      depression.

      While transition from alert into sedation during induction, like sleep, the respiratory drive
      and muscle tone of respiratory muscle and upper airway attenuate, which contribute
      hypoventilation and upper airway collapse, and further hypoxemia. Detection of
      cardiopulmonary depression traditionally has relied on continuous monitoring of heart rate,
      respiratory rate, and oxygen saturation. However, it has been shown that these monitors could
      not recognize hypoventilation early. Similar with other published data, around 40% of
      hypoxemia event occurred during FB sedation in our hospital. Further analysis of our data
      revealed around 15% event occurred during sedative induction.

      Capnography is the noninvasive measurement of the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (CO2)
      from the airway during ventilation. The maximum partial pressure of CO2 obtained at the end
      of an exhaled breath is referred to as end-tidal CO2 (EtCO2). Studies have revealed the
      waveform analysis of capnography can provide early warning for prehypoxic respiratory
      depression in patients undergoing procedure sedation in emergency department and
      gastrointestinal endoscopy. Therefore, capnography can serve as a real-time measure of
      ventilatory status of sedative patients and the physicians could intervene before the
      occurrence of hypoxemia. Based on the advantage of non-invasive and real-time property of
      EtCO2 monitored by capnography, the investigators plan to conduct a clinical trial to
      evaluate if hypoxemia could be reduced by capnography of EtCO2 monitor during induction of FB
      sedation.
    
  