
    
      Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is a neurohormone that is endogenously produced and
      secreted by the pineal gland in the brain following a circadian rhythm, with a plasma
      concentration highest at night and lowest during the day.

      The normal physiological roles of melatonin in the human body are to regulate diurnal rhythm,
      sleep, mood, immunity, reproduction, intestinal motility, and metabolism. Oral supplemental
      melatonin has been used in the management of jetlag and other sleep disorders. Recently,
      melatonin's analgesic, antioxidative, and neuroprotective properties have been highlighted in
      a number of animal models and a few human trials, although the exact cellular mechanism is
      still not yet clearly established. In surgical human trials, some conflicting data have been
      presented regarding the analgesic properties of exogenous melatonin supplement. Whilst the
      large proportion of studies showed that perioperative administration of melatonin yielded
      significantly positive effects in the reduction of postsurgical pain, and the reduction of
      overall morphine consumption, others demonstrated the opposite with no significant effects in
      pain experience. The reason for this could be related to the dosage, route of administration,
      and/or time of administration. To date, there is still no consensus on a standardized dosing
      regimen for melatonin. In non-surgical trials, melatonin has shown promising benefits in many
      degenerative diseases and conditions related to chronic inflammation and oxidative stress.
      Amongst many, the reported positive effects of melatonin ranged from the reduction of
      radiation dermatitis, control of signs and symptoms of ulcerative colitis, management of
      chronic retinopathy, and reduction of lung oxidative stress in chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease patients.

      Hypothesis:

      Melatonin can significantly reduce postoperative pain after orthognathic surgery.
      Antioxidative enzyme activity and level will be elevated and the level of inflammatory
      markers are reduced. Melatonin has a synergistic effect with dexamethasone.

      This is a double-blinded randomized controlled trial. We will recruit 87 patients who are
      scheduled for double-jaw orthognathic surgery to participate in this three-year study. The
      study lasts for 2 weeks. Participant will be randomly allocated by computer to one of the
      three groups. (1) Group D will receive dexamethasone only; (2) Group M will receive melatonin
      only; and (3) Group DM both melatonin and dexamethasone.

      Postoperative pain level and perioperative plasma levels of inflammatory markers and
      anti-oxidizing enzymes will be recorded and compared among the study groups.
    
  