
    
      The investigators recruited 13 truckers based in Utah's Wasatch Front (population 2.2
      Million) who expressed interest in participating in a weight loss intervention when they
      participated in the cross-sectional truck driver study (current enrollment, n= 817 truckers).
      Other options the investigators may pursue to maintain enrollment include enrolling
      participants directly through local trucking companies. Participants will be screened for
      eligibility based on

        -  Age > 21

        -  BMI > 30 kg/m2

        -  No reported unstable chronic disease

      Interstate truckers are required to be at least 21 years old. Participants will not be
      enrolled in the intervention until they complete the physical assessment component of the
      baseline visit that includes blood pressure, lipids, and HbA1c. Individuals who do not meet
      the established medical guidelines and regulations of the FMCSA will be excluded. Those
      individuals will be advised to follow-up for care with their personal physicians, and/or will
      be referred to a primary care clinic.

      Health coaches will have at least weekly contact with participants to discuss individual
      goals and behavior change. Motivational messages will be delivered in addition to weekly
      content via text messages and/or emails. Research suggests that individuals who begin losing
      weight quickly are more successful at weight loss and maintaining loss, therefore, after 3
      weeks individuals who have not lost at least 3 pounds will receive additional contacts with
      health coaches to address slow rate of weight loss. Individual Competitions surrounding
      successful healthy behaviors of Truckers will be conducted every other week. Winning
      behaviors will be shared with other participants by email, text, phone calls, blogs and/or
      other distance friendly format to both engage drivers and model successful peer behaviors.

      This is a study of weight loss intervention for long-haul commercial truck drivers who face
      unusual challenges to a healthy lifestyle while working. Participants (n=13) will be
      long-haul commercial truck drivers with a BMI over 30 kg/m2. Due to licensing issues, all
      interstate truck drivers are required to be at least 21 years old (US DOT, FMCSA), and thus
      proposed study participants will be at least 21 years old.

      The investigators are aware that there are some intrastate truck drivers who may be under age
      21, however they are a much smaller and different population. By definition they are not
      long-haul drivers, tend to have more job instability, have a different occupational
      environment that is relevant to this study (e.g., sleep at home), and thus are a different
      population that this research does not target. Thus, this study has sound rationale for not
      including children ages 18-20.

      The sampling will be convenient. Participants will be recruited using email, postal mail and
      opportunities for personal contact that are identified through the Utah Trucking Association
      website, newsletter, at truck stops, and at Commercial Truck Driver meetings. The
      investigators will inquire for current interest among subjects from our current cross
      sectional study who indicated interest in a follow-up study.

      Participants will be screened for approximate BMI, and medical history prior to recruitment.
      Participants under current treatment for cancer will be excluded. Participants with
      significant medical issues (such as unstable blood pressure, diabetes mellitus) will be asked
      to provide a medical release from their physician prior to participation. Participants
      currently in treatment for cancer will be excluded. In addition participants will not be
      enrolled until they have completed the physical assessment component of the study with blood
      pressure below 159/99 mm Hg (stage 2 hypertension), HbA1c below 10.0%, and total cholesterol
      below 300 mg/dL. If participants do not meet these standards a letter of permission to
      participate from a physician will be required. Participants will be referred to their
      personal physician or the primary care clinic at the University of Utah Redwood Health Center
      if they do not have a personal physician to obtain such permission.

      Study visits will take place in the Occupational Medicine conference room at the University
      of Utah Redwood Health Center where Drs. Eric Wood practice, to gather demographic data,
      medical history, reported physical activity, occupational health outcomes (slips trips and
      falls) and psychosocial factors, self-efficacy, sleepiness scale, job satisfaction and
      measure blood lipids, hemoglobin A1c and HsCRP, and body weight and circumferences at
      baseline and 12 weeks for all participants t. Participants will weigh themselves weekly using
      a scale provided by the study and will report weekly weight to health coaches using a scale
      provided via telephone, text, or email. Participants will have at least weekly contact with
      research staff (health coaches) regarding the intervention in the first 12 weeks of WHEEL.
      Contact will continue bi-weekly after the first 12 weeks of WHEEL with a goal of continued
      weight loss or weight loss maintenance.

      All participants will receive the weight loss intervention. Participants will be monitored
      closely for weight loss success in the first 3 weeks of the intervention. If weight loss is
      not at least 3 pounds, then health coaches will double their efforts with these participants
      as it is known that early success is associated with better long-term success.

      The investigators will obtain information on questionnaires, asking a person's birth date,
      but only record a person's age in tenths of a year. The investigators will measure height,
      weight, waist, hip, chest, neck circumferences, blood pressure, heart rate, take a
      finger-stick to measure fasting glucose, hemoglobin A1c, highly sensitive C-Reactive Protein,
      and blood lipids using point of service analysis and perform a urinalysis. No blood specimens
      will be stored.

      Measurements and questionnaires will be completed in the Occupational Medicine conference
      room at the University of Utah Redwood Health Center in Salt Lake City. This clinic is
      conveniently located around the corner from a large truck stop, and close to both I-80 and
      I-15, the two main interstates in Salt Lake City. The clinic has ample truck-friendly
      parking. The investigators have obtained letters of support from The Utah Trucking
      Association. Data will be recorded on laptop computers that are encrypted. Consent forms will
      be transported to the University of Utah for storage in locked cabinets.
    
  