
    
      Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) , has revolutionised the treatment for severe
      aortic stenosis (AS) over the past decade. The use of TAVI is growing exponentially, and the
      current trend of treating younger and lower risk patients is expected to continue [1], with
      TAVI eventually becoming the treatment of choice for the majority of severe AS patients. When
      treating younger, lower risk patients, whose life expectancy is longer than that of current
      typical TAVI patients, long term prognosis with good functional status is as significant as
      periprocedural morbidity when selecting the preferred treatment strategy. Consequently,
      treatment of comorbidities, especially cardiac comorbidities is of paramount importance.

      Significant mitral regurgitation (MR) is present in approximately 25% of patients with severe
      AS [2], there are several pathophysiological mechanisms linking the two entities [3,4].
      Significant MR is associated with worse prognosis in patients undergoing either surgical
      aortic valve replacement (SAVR) [5] or TAVI [6,7] . Using a surgical intervention, both AS
      and MR can be treated (albeit at a cost of increased perioperative mortality) [8], while
      treating both valves using a transcatheter technique in a single procedure is not customary.
      A sizeable fraction of patients from AS+MR will have some reduction in MR following TAVI [2],
      but unlike the case of surgical double valve replacement [6], the prognostic benefit of MR
      reduction following TAVI has not yet been shown [9].This issue may be of utmost importance in
      patients who are viable surgical candidates, in whom the feasibility of total surgical
      valvular treatment may be a "tiebreaker" when contemplating the pros and cons of
      transcatheter vs. surgical intervention.

      The percutaneous treatment options for MR with either transcatheter mitral valve replacement
      (TMVR) or repair (TMVr) are expanding and clinical experience is growing [1], raising the
      option for a combined percutaneous treatment for patients with AS+MR - either a combined TAVI
      + TMVR/r procedure, or performing TAVI first followed by a TMVR/r for those patients whose MR
      does not improve sufficiently following an isolated TAVI. One multicentre study from Spain
      dedicated to patients with significant MR undergoing TAVI found two predictors for
      persistence of MR following TAVI (mitral annular diameter of >35.5 mm and the degree of
      calcification of the mitral apparatus by multidetector computed tomography), and also
      suggested that only a small fraction of such patients will be suitable for TMVR/r, but this
      was based on a small number of patients (n=177) [10].

      To examine whether such approach is appropriate, several evidence gaps will need to be
      addressed:

        1. describing the characteristics and outcomes of current patients undergoing aortic +
           mitral transcatheter heart valve procedures.

        2. Better understanding of the predictors for MR regression following isolated TAVI and
           consequently estimating the fraction of patients who will be suitable for TMVR/r post
           TAVI

        3. Examining the clinical outcomes of patients with significant MR post TAVI who
           subsequently underwent TMVR/r compared to those left for medical management.

      To try and address these questions we propose to compile an international multicentre
      registry focusing on patients with significant MR undergoing TAVI - the AMTRAC registry.

      Methods

      A multicentre registry of interventional cardiology centres experienced in transcatheter
      valvular interventions. This registry will be established in 2 phases (each centre will
      choose whether it wishes to participate in both phases or just the initial phase):

      Phase 1:

      Collecting data on patients who underwent TAVI+TMVR/r (either as a single or staged
      procedure).

      This phase will focus on assessing the feasibility and safety of performing TAVI+TMVR/r
      procedures and will adress 2 clinical question:

        1. Describing the demographic, clinical and imaging characteristics of patients undergoing
           TAVI+TMVR/r in current clinical practice

        2. Describing the clinical outcomes (with focus on 30 day outcomes) of patients undergoing
           TAVI+TMVR/r in current clinical practice

      Phase 2:

      Adding data on the overall TAVI population of the participating centres.

      This phase will be directed at assessing the prevalence, clinical significance, and optimal
      treatment strategies of TAVI patients who also suffer from significant MR and will address 5
      clinical questions:

        1. The prevalence of significant MR in patients undergoing TAVI

        2. The effect of isolated TAVI on MR in these patients

        3. The prognostic effect of significant MR persistence following isolated TAVI

        4. The characteristics of patients with persistence of significant MR following isolated
           TAVI (regarding pre-TAVI predictors of MR persistence and post TAVI suitability for
           TMVR/r)

        5. The outcomes of patients undergoing TMVR/r following isolated TAVI

      Patient population

      Inclusion criteria:

      For phase 1:

      TAVI+TMVR/r (either as a single or staged procedure). Follow up of at least 30 days post
      TMVR/r (unless deceased) Available TTE and/or TOE data pre and post TAVI + TMVR/r

      For phase 2:

      Patients undergoing successful isolated TAVI Assessment of MR grade prior and post TAVI

      Exclusion criteria:

      Death within 30 days post TAVI

      Patient's data will be collected through the TAVI registries of each participating centre and
      after anonymization of patient personal details will be sent to the coordinating centre
      (Rabin Medical Centre) using a streamlined uniform CRF sheet that will be circulated to the
      participating centres, this will include basic clinical, demographic, echocardiographic and
      procedural data as well as post procedural clinical outcomes and echocardiographic
      assessment.

      For patients who have subsequently undergone TMVR/r - data on the availability of
      pre-procedural imaging assessment (TOE, MDCT) and follow up TTE data will be collected as
      well. When possible (according to the decision of each centre), we would request for the
      imaging files for patients with significant MR post isolated TAVI to be sent to the
      coordinating centre to be assessed by an imaging CoreLab

      Study endpoints

      Phase 1:

      30 day mortality (from the date of TMVR/r) Periprocedural outcomes (according to the VARC II
      criteria) NYHA class 30 days post TMVR/r Grade of MR 30 days post TMVR/r

      Phase 2:

      For all patients:

      Grade of MR prior and following isolated TAVI (at least 30 days post TAVI) Periprocedural
      outcomes (according to the VARC II criteria) Overall mortality at 1,6,12 months and longest
      available follow up post TAVI NYHA class at 1,6,12, months and longest available follow up
      (when available)

      For patients with significant MR pre-TAVI:

      Regression of MR grade post isolated TAVI Suitability for TMVR/r

      For patients undergoing TMVR/r:

      Grade of MR following TMVR/r

      Definitions

      Significant MR:

      MR grade 3/4 (moderate+) as defined by each participating centre

      TMVR/r:

      Transcatheter procedure for the treatment of MR using any available percutaneous device.

      Statistical methods

      Phase 1:

      Summary statistics of the baseline characteristics using mean +/- SD / median + IQR as
      appropriate for continuous variables and counts (%) for categorical variables.

      Graphic display of the cumulative risk for 30 day mortality using Kaplan-Meier curves Graphic
      display of change in MR grade from baseline to 30 day using bar charts (using the Chi-square
      test to determine statistical significance).

      Identifying factors associated with 30 day mortality and 30 day persistence of MR using a
      multivariate adjusted logistic regression model.

      Phase 2:

      Baseline characteristics will be compared between patients with/without significant MR prior
      to TAVI. categorical variables will be reported as counts or percentages, continuous data as
      means ±SD or median (interquartile range) as appropriate and compared using t-test or the
      Wilcoxon sum rank test for continuous variables and Chi Square test for categorical variables
      as appropriate. The probabilities 1 year and long term mortality according to MR category
      will be plotted by Kaplan-Meier curves, with comparison of cumulative events by the log-rank
      test. A multivariate adjusted cox regression model will be fitted to examine the association
      of post TAVI mortality with baseline MR category.

      The same analysis, restricted to patients with significant MR at baseline will be repeated to
      compare the characteristics and post TAVI mortality between those with significant MR at
      baseline whose MR has/has not post isolated TAVI.

      To identify independent predictors of MR persistence post TAVI we shall fit a multivariate
      logistic regression model with MR persistence as the outcome variable and all relevant
      baseline clinical and imaging characteristics as covariates.

      For all patients who remained with significant MR post TAVI, suitability for TMVR/r will be
      assessed after CoreLab review of all available imaging data (TTE/TOE/MDCT).

      Baseline characteristics of patients with significant MR post TAVI will be compared between
      those suitable/unsuitable for TMVR/r as described above.

      The preprocedural outcomes (in hospital complications and 30 day mortality) will be presented
      for those patients undergoing TMVR/r.

      Finally, the long term survival (starting from the date of TAVI) will be compared between 5
      groups of patients stratified according to their baseline MR, it's response to TAVI and their
      subsequent treatment strategy (see Figure 1):

        1. No significant MR at baseline

        2. Significant MR at baseline with regression post isolated TAVR

        3. Persistence of significant MR post TAVI, unsuitable for TMVR/r

        4. Persistence of significant MR post TAVI, suitable for TMVR/r, treated medically

        5. Persistence of significant MR post TAVI, suitable for TMVR/r, treated with TMVR/r

      Sample size For phase 1, our goal is to collect data on 50-100 patients who underwent TAVI +
      TMVR/r (either as a single or staged procedure).

      Based on the data by Cortes et al [10], assuming a baseline prevalence of 20% for severe MR,
      with 40% persistence post TAVI and 13% of those cases suitable for TMVR/r - we would need a
      sample size of just under 10,000 TAVI cases. We aim to include at least 15-20 high volume
      TAVI centres in this registry.
    
  