
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of obtaining a pre-treatment determination of intratumoral
           molecular markers (TS, DPD, and ERCC-1) for use in selection of the appropriate regimen
           for induction cytotoxic combination chemotherapy in patients with cT3-4 rectal
           adenocarcinoma.

        -  Determine the response probability (unconfirmed, complete and partial) in patients
           treated with targeted induction cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the toxicity of targeted induction cytotoxic chemotherapy and
           chemoradiotherapy in these patients.

        -  Determine the response probability in these patients treated with chemoradiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction chemotherapy: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups based on
           molecular analysis of the pretreatment tumor specimen.

             -  Group I (lower likelihood of resistance to a fluorouracil-based regimen): Patients
                receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day
                1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1.

             -  Group II (higher likelihood of resistance to a fluorouracil-based regimen):
                Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on
                day 1.

             -  Group III (high likelihood of sensitivity to oxaliplatin and fluorouracil therapy):
                Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 90 minutes and leucovorin calcium IV over 2
                hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1.

      Treatment in all groups repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are evaluated for response approximately 2 weeks after the completion of induction
      chemotherapy. Patients with stable disease or better receive chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Beginning approximately 3 weeks after the completion of induction
           chemotherapy, patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily continuously for 5 weeks
           and concurrent radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 5 weeks.

      After chemoradiotherapy, patients may undergo attempted surgical resection at the discretion
      of the treating physician.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10-65 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  