
    
      Recent advances in Virtual Reality (VR) technology have made it possible for researchers to
      develop interventions for a wide variety of disease states, including obesity, pain, impaired
      motor functioning, and anxiety. Over the last decade, improvements in software and hardware
      design, as well as associated cost reductions, have made VR a practical tool for widespread
      use, rather than an expensive novelty. Interventions that would not be possible or practical
      in the real world have been developed in the virtual world, resulting in immersive
      multi-sensory (primarily audio-visual) experiences that can distract patients from painful
      experiences and motivate them to achieve personal goals.

      VR environments allow patients to visualize non-disease states, and practice living more
      healthily, whether the focus is stroke rehabilitation, exposure therapy for social anxiety,
      or simply interacting with the world with reduced pain levels. A number of studies have
      demonstrated the efficacy of VR interventions, and all of them are built around this basic
      premise. For example, a meta-analysis of diagnosis-specific exposure therapies for anxiety
      disorders - PTSD, agoraphobia/panic disorder, social anxiety, and animal phobias) reports
      large effects (Cohen's Q-statistic >0.80) for VR interventions on symptom reports at therapy
      termination.1 Similarly, a meta-analysis of post-stroke motor rehabilitation VR interventions
      reports that, in observational studies, patients experience significantly reduced impairment
      (14.7%) and improved motor functioning (20.1%).

      Hospital inpatients will most likely benefit from VR as a distraction from acute pain during
      procedures, painful drug infusions, adverse side effects of treatments, or from boredom and
      inactivity, which could lead to increased reports of distress and reduced satisfaction with
      care. Several areas of research may provide a useful model for bringing VR distraction
      interventions to all types of hospital inpatients. A recent review by Li and colleagues
      (2012) highlighted advances in these treatment areas.

      To date, the most widely studied form of VR interventions is the reduction of pain and
      anxiety associated with burn care. Compared to use of analgesic medication alone, patients
      who use VR distraction interventions in combination with analgesic drugs have reported
      reduced pain and distress during burn wound care across most studies, and both lower pain
      ratings and increased range of motion during physical therapy in some studies. Use of a VR
      distraction environment called SnowWorld - developed by H.G. Hoffman and colleagues, and
      employed across many of these studies - allows burn patients to move through ice canyon and
      play with snow. Additions of VR hypnosis and relaxation modules to SnowWorld have also been
      tested in burn patients, with mixed results; patients undergoing hypnosis reported lower pain
      and anxiety levels, but those undergoing relaxation while receiving morphine reported higher
      pain levels.

      Studies of cancer patients have demonstrated some efficacy for use of VR in patients
      receiving chemotherapy and lumbar punctures. Although pain scores are often reduced in a
      direction favoring the use of VR, studies to date have not demonstrated conclusive, long term
      benefits for symptom reduction. However, patients do report short perceived time in
      treatment, reduced physiological arousal during treatment, and lower perceived pain during
      treatment.

      During routine medical procedures, VR delivered via a head-mounted display demonstrated some
      promising effects. In a study of outpatients having blood drawn, those receiving the most
      immersive VR reported lower levels of moderate to severe pain. In a similar study of patients
      having an IV placed for CT scan contrast, those receiving VR reported no change in pain
      level, compared to standard care patients who reported a four-fold increase in pain.

      VR has also been used for the treatment of chronic pain. In a sample of adults with chronic
      neck pain, use of a VR mirror visual feedback environment resulted in promising but
      non-significant reported pain reductions. In another study of patients with chronic neck
      pain, a single session of VR that encouraged increased range of motion (by spraying at
      flies).

      Notably, many of these studies (except for chronic neck pain patients) were conducted using
      child and adolescent populations. This group may be more receptive to VR, given common
      exposure to video games and screen-based entertainment. Nevertheless, the use of VR for all
      patients should be studied further, as the intervention may present a novel and
      cost-effective method of improving patient experiences and satisfaction.

      VR interventions have been used as distractions or diversions during medical procedures. This
      study will be one of the first to test the feasibility of deploying low-cost VR interventions
      in a nonsurgical inpatient hospital setting. The VR hardware configuration and all software
      is currently being developed by AppliedVR, a leader in the development of medical
      applications for virtual reality technology, including interventions for weight loss and
      health, safety training, education, and personal development.
    
  